Google

This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project

to make the world's books discoverable online.

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover.

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the

publisher to a library and finally to you.

Usage guidelines

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
personal, non-commercial purposes.

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe.

About Google Book Search

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web

at|http: //books .google .com/I

I

*

■^^•atii

1^

GENERAL LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN.

THE

Ha^erman Collection

OF BOOKS NSLATINO TO

HISTORY AND POLITICAL SCIENCE

JAMES J. HAGERMAN OF CLASS OF '61

IN

OF

Professor Charles Kendall Adams

IN THB VBAN

18^.

v«

WORKS /^i^

THE HONOURABLE

JAMES WILSON, L. L. D.

LATE ONE OF THE ASSOCIATE JUSTICES or THE SUFREHE

COURT or THE UKITED STATES, AKD PROFESSOR OF LAW

IN THE COLLEGE OF FRILADELFHIA.

PUBLISHED UNDER THE DmECTION ^- .

BIRD WILSON, ESQUIRE.

. ritMDAKBHTDH EST LIBEBTATIS, ^UA FRVIMUS. LICDU

PHILADEIJ^DA :

AT THB LORENZO PllESS. PRINTED FtiKBRONSOMANO CHAU

J

DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA:- TO WIT.

(L. S.) "D E IT REMEMBERED, That on the fifth day of July
■^ in the twenty ninth year of the independence of tho
United States of America, Bird Wilson, Esquire, of the said
district) hath deposited in this office the title of a book, the right
whereof he claims as proprietor, in the words following, to wit:

« The Works of the Honourable James Wilson, L. L. D.
<< late one of the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of
<< the United States, and Professor of Law in the College of
<< Philadelphia. Published under the directionof Bird Wuson,
'^ Esquire. Lex fundamentum est libertatis, qua fruimur.
<< Legum omnes servi sumus, ut liberi esse possimus." —

Cic-
In conformity to the act of the Congress of the United States en*
titled '^ An act for the encouragement of learning by securing, the
copies of maps, charts and books to the authors and proprietors of
such copies during the times therein mentioned ;*' and also to the act
entitled « An act supplementary to an act entitled « An act ^r the
encouragement of learning, by securing the copieaof maps, charts,
and books to the authors and proprietors of such copies during the
times therein mentioned," and extending the benefits thereof to the
arts of designing, engraving, and etching historical and other
prints."

D. CALDWELL, Clerk of the
District of Pennsylvania.

%y-

'Yo-.^pC/V'vvt-ta^VU ^t^JL^Zc^

^CL^vC/V'vvfc-ea^vu

CONTENTS

OF THE

SECOND VOLUME.

PAGE.

LECTURES ON LAW.

PART I.

CHAPTER XII.
Of the common law, ^

CHAPTER Xin.
Of the nature and philosophy of evidence^ 6di

PART 11.

CHAPTER L

Of the constitutions of the United States and of Pennsylvaniap—
Of the legislative department, , 1X7

CHAPTER n.

Of the executive department^ 133

CHAPTER in
Of the judicial department, 201

"vi

CONTENTS OF fHE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAPTER IV.

Of the nature of courts,

CHAPTER V.

Of the constituent parts of courts. — Of the judges,

CHAPTER VL

The subject continued.— Of juries,

CHAPTER VII.

The subject continued. — Of sheriffs and coroners,

CHAPTER . VIII.

The subject continued. — Of counsellors and attomies,

CHAPTER IX.

The subject continued.^ — Of constables,

CHAPTER X.

Of corporations,

CHAPTER XI.

Of citizens and aliens.

CHAPTER XIL

Of the natural rights of individuals,
299

sds
399
425
453

LECTURES ON LAW,

DELIVERED IN THE

COLLEGE OF PHILADELPHIA,

IN THE TEARS ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY,
AND ONE THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED AND NINETY ONE*

VOL. IL

PART I.

CHAPTER XIl.

asase

OF THE COMMON LAMT.

«

u SaPIENTISSIMA redtempus," sajrs the profouad
Lord Bacon, ^ in one of his aphorisms concerning the
«agmentatioii of the sciences*— Time is the wisest of
tilings* If the qualities of the parent may, in any
instance^ be expected in the ofispring ; the common law,
xme of the noblest births of time, may be pronounced
&e wisest of laws. -^

This law has, at different times, and for different
reasons, been denominated by different appellations* It
is sometimes called, by way of eminence, the law of the
tttnd, ^^ lex terrs." At odier times, it is called the law
tt £m]gland. At other times again, it is called the law

"^ 1. Ld. Bacsn. 353. Aph. 32^

4 LECTURES OH. LAW.

/and custom of the kingdom. But its most general and
best known appellation is, the common law. Various
are the reasons, which have been assigned for this appel-
lation : the best seems to be this*-^hat it is the common
municipal law or rule of justice ; ^ the law which is
described in the code of king Edward the elder, a«
expressing the same equal right, law, or justice, due to

\ persons of all degrees, c

^ The term common law is not confined to the law of
England : It is not, says Sir Henry Finch^ a vr^d
new and strange, or barbarous, and proper to ourselves,
and the law, which we profess, as some mtleamedljr
would have it: it is the proper term for odier law»
also. Euripides mentions the common laws of Greece i^

f and Plato defines common law in this manner: that
which, being taken up by the common consent of a
country, is called law. In another place, he names it,
the golden and sacred rule of reason, which we call com-

^mon law.

^ This place, continues the same author, in his di^f-
course of law,"* is very notable : it opens the original
and first beginning of4he common law: it shows the
antiquity of the name ; it teaches common law to be
nothing else but common reason*-— that refined reason,

^ which is geiierally received by the consent of all^

The antiquity of the common law of England is un#
questionably very high. It is worth while to list^i to *
what may be deemed the prejadices-^ertainly die par-
donable ones—of its fond admirers, upon a point so
interesting to their partiality.

^ Hale. Hist 55. « EL Jur. (4to.) 94. « Finch, fi. 75.

X£GTURE» ON LAW. f

The redm of England, says Lord Chancellor For-
tescue,® was first inhabited by the Britons ; it was after-
wards ruled and civilized under the government of the
Romans : theii the Britons prevailed again : next it was
possessed by the Saxons : afterwai|ds the Danes lorded
it over us : the Saxons were successful a second time :
at last, the Norman conquest took place. But, du-
ing all that time, England has been constantly govern-
ed by the same customs, by which it is governed at
present. Neither the laws of the Romans, which are
celeiH^ted beyond all others for their antiquity; nor
yet the laws of the Venetians ; nor, in short, the laws
of any other kingdom in the world are so venerable for
their antiquity. So that there is no pretence to. insinuate
to the contrary, but that the laws and customs of England
are not only good, but the very best. — Thus far from
the predilection of the chancellor.

But, in truth, it is extremely difficult, if not altoge^
ther impracticable, to trace the common law of England
to the era of its commencement, or to the several springs,
from which it has originally flowed. For this difficulty
or impossibility, several reasons may be assigned. One
may be drawn from the very nature of a system of com*
iikon law* As it is accommodated to the situation and
circumstances of the people, by whom it is appointed ;
and as that situation and those .circumstances insensibly
change ; so, especially in a long series of time, a pro-
porticmed variation of the laws insensibly takes place ;
and it is often impossible to ascertain the precise period,
when the change began, or /to mark the different steps
of Its progress. ^ Another reason may be drawn from
the great number of different nations, which, at different

»DeLaud.c.l7.

6 tECl'IIJlES ON LAW.

successive periods, and somedmes even at the same
period, possessed the govemmeilt, or the divided goven^
ments of England. These added, undoubtedly, t6 the
richness and variety of the common law; but they Added
likewise to the difficulty of investigating the origin of its
different parts.

If this investigation is difficult, there is one ccmsola*
tion, that it is not of essential importance. For at what-
ever time the laws of £«igland w^e introduced, fronat
whatever person or country they were derived ; their
obligatory force arises not from any consideration of tfiat
kiQd, but from their free and volumary reception in the
kingdom.

Several writers, some of them very ingenious and
learned, think they can discover, in the. common law^
features, which strongly .indicate, that it i3 of a Grecian
cxUaction. Without adopting implicitly the authenticity
of this high descent, it may be well worth our while to
exsunine the particulars, on which the opinion is founded*
If they lead us not to this conclusion, they may, pexfiaps.,
lead us to something ebe, which will be, at leUst^ equsiUy
valuable and instructive.

The similarity between the idiom of our language and
that of the Grecians has persuaded some very sensible
men to believe, that the inhabitants of Great Britain
were, in a vbiy remote age, connected^ in some manner^
with tihe inhabitants of Greece^ This similarity is, in-
deed. Very strikisig. No one, I believe^ who is acquainted
ipth the (^eek, die Latin, and th^ Eng^iish languages,
will hesitate to declare, tbat there id a closer a£nity o£.
idiom between the Greek and the English, than between

LEGTITRXS ON LAW. 7

the English and the Latin, or between the Latin and the
Greek,

The very idea of a traditionary law, transmitted from
generatioa to generation merely by custom and memory,
may be considered as derived, in part at least, from the
practice of the Druids, who considered it as unlawful to
commit their religious inslructions to writing. But we
are informed by the penetrating and inteUigent Caesar,
that, in other business, whether of a publick or of a
prUrate nature, they used the Grecian letters—" Greecia
Uteris utuntur,^^ ^

Pliny conjectures that the name of Druid was derived
from the Greek word ?(vr, quercus, an oak, because they
performed their solemn ceremonies in the deep recesses
of groves formed by oaks ; and because, in their sacrifi*
ces, they used the leaves of those trees. > The missletoe,
it is well known, was of sacred import in their religious
mysteries.

Nathaniel Bacon, a gentleman of Gray's inn, wrote a
historical and political discourse of the laws and govern*
m^nt of England, particularly during the early periods of
its history. This discourse, we are informed, was col-
lected from^manuscript notes of Mr. Selden, so famed
for his various and extensive erudition. To the notes
of an antiquarian, so celebrated and so profound, atten*
tion will be expected in an investigation of the present
kind.

In that discourse we are told, that, though it be both
needless and fruitless to enter the lists concerning the

^ Debel.GaLL6.c.l3. s 3.Rep.Pref.9U

N

S LECTURES ON LAW*

original of the Saxons ; yet, about the time of Tiberius,
their government was, in general, so suitable to that of
the Grecians, as if not by the remains of Alexander's
army, which was supposed to emigrate into die north,
nevertheless, by the neighbourhood of Greece, much of
the Grecian wisdom was disseminated among them, be«
fore the Roman glory was mounted up to the full pitch;
and because this wisdom could never be thus imported,
but in vessels of men's flesh, rigged accorditig to the Gre-
ciian guise, it may well be supposed that there is some>.
consanguinity between the Saxons and the Greciai^
although the degrees be not known. ^

Their country, continues he, they divided into coun-*
ties or circuits, all under the government of twelve lords,
like the Athenian territory under the arcfaontes* Thesd
had the judicial power of distributive justice committed
to them, together with one hundred of the commons out
of each division. The election of these princes with
their commission was concluded inter majora^ by the
general assembly, and they executed their commission
in circuits, like unto the Athenian, h'eliastick or subdial
court, which was rural, and for the most part kept in the
ppen air. In brief, their judicial proceedings were very
suitable to the Athenian, but their military more like the
Lacedaemonian, whom, above all others, in their manners^
they most resembled. *

Austin is generally considered as the apostle of the
Saxons, who converted them to Christianity; but our
author suggests, that he was an apostle of another kind —
to reconcile them to the see of Rome. To prove this, he

k Bac. on Gov. 9. ' Id. 10.

tECTUAES ON LAW. 9

adduces a remarkable fact, that the Saxons lept Easter
^^ more Asiatico ;" and, against Austin's .will, retained
that custom fiftj years after Austin began his mission
among them J

In enumerating the different manners of trial among
the Saxons, he says, that the last and most usual one was
by witnesses, before the jurors, and their votes there-
upon: this made the verdict, and it determined the
matter in fact. In former time, questionless, it was a
confused manner of trial, by votes of the whole multi-
tude ; which made the votes hard to be discerned. But
time taught them better advice, to bring the voters to a
certain number, according to the Grecian way, who
determined controversies by the suffrages of four and
thirty, or the major part of them." ^

Speaking of a certain regulation concerning dower,
which was derived from the Latins, he says ; ^^ but the
Germans learned from the Greeks otherwise : for the
laws both of Solon and Lycurgus forbade it, lest mar-
riages should be made for reward, and not grounded on
affection." i

After having described, in detail, a number of parti-
culars relative to the Saxon government and laws, he
makes this general remark : ^' Nor did the fundamentals
alter, either by the diversity and mixture of people of
several nations in the first entrance, nor from the Danes
or Normans in their survenue ; not only because in their
original they all breathed one air of the laws and govern-
ment of Greece ; but also they were no other than the

i Bac. on Gov. 13. ^ Id. 56. i Id. 64.

VOL, II. c

V

iO LSCTURE8 ON LAW.

common dictates of nature, refined by wise m^n, which
challenge a kind of awe, in the sense of the mtost
barbarous/' "
He concludes his observations concerning the Saxon
commonwealth in this expressive manner. ^^ It was 9,
beautiful composure ; mutually dependent in ever); part
fFOii& the crown to the clown ; the magistrates being all
choice men ; and the king the choicest of the chosen ^
election being the birth of esteem, and that of merit:
this bred love and mutual trust ; which made thelaa as
comer stones, pointed forward to break the wave e£

danger.

-A

>^ Lastly, it was a regular frame in every party si|uare4
and made even by laws, which, in the people, ruled as
lex loquensy and, in the magistrate, as lex intelli^ens ^ all
of them being grounded on the wisdom of the Greeks,
and the judicials of Moses." ^

The history, says an inqui^tive writiei?^ of the coMti*
tutions of the different European nations may he nftucb
elucidated by institutions, ascertained to have existed hi
Aeir sister countries, during the corresponding periods
of their progress. The rise of the constitutions of the
Greek and Italian states wiU derive light from what ia
known of the Gaulick, German, aiiid Sc^^nkdinavisM^i tr^ibes* ^

Dr« Pettingal, in his very leaimed inquiry cpnq^imiag

the use and practice of juries, difiers from Mr. Bacoiat

with regard to the channel, through whic|i th« ^ecisn^

^ customis Qowfed into the Saxon comjaa^nwealths : h\k% him

» Bac. o» Gov. 68» >^ H^O. <> a £d«|. ^hi), Tnms. la

LSCTITRSS ON LAW. II

admits iIm those customs were origiDaUy derived from
Greece. .^^ The likeness^" says he, ^^ of the Greek and
SiPEon government, supposed to be owing to the neigh*
faourhood of Greece and Saxony, proceeded from a dif-^
ferent cause. For, as the Romans took then* laws and
iastitations from Greece, and particularly in the instance
of the heliastick court, which was a couat of trial by
jury, and on which the Romans formed their judicium
or jury ; so when they sent their colonies into Germany,
tltey sent also their laws and usages along witli them,
and by these means the wisdom of Greece and the prac*
tice of ^e beHastick court got among the Saxons in the
6ha]>e of the Roman judicia; and the plan of the Greek
government, through the channel of the Roman juris-
prudence, laid the foundation of many customs that had
a resemblance to the Greek, but in fact were no other
ihan an iii»tation of the Roman polity, which originally
was derived from Athens : so that the jui-y among the
Saxons and northern nations was derived .from the Ro-
naan jtuUda^ as the causa proocima; but both of them
drew their origin from the court of )<»#c«#, or jury,
among. <he Ck*eeks. This was the manner, in which the
resemUaace between the Saxons and Greeks, spoken of
by Bacon, was phnlttced." ^

With regard to the institution of juries, he afterwards
.observes ; ^* where shall we go, with so much propriety,
to look for its origin, as among those, who, of all man*,
kind^ Were/dte depositsu"ies and patrons of equal law and
J^erty, smd which they themselves had learned from the
wisdom and good government established in Athens by
Solon ? For nothing can be so absurd as to imagine, that

» P^t. sn Jur. 1$^ U$.

12 LXCTUESB Om LAW«

wch £. noble p<^tical structure, as had diatingBJahed the
xndy two civilized nations of Europe, and w^ose legal
limitations of power and obedience had done honour
even to human nature, shouldy in times future, be the
fi»tuitous result of a tumultuous deliberation, and tha^t
of Scythians and barbarians, rather than an indtation of
the wisdom #f those customs, whidi had been introduced
among thefn by their conquerors/' ^

The particular history of juries will find its proper
place elsewhere. Suffice \t to mention them now among
the group of institutions said to be derived from the
Grecians to the Saxons either immediately, or through
the intermediate channel of the Romans.

The laws and institutions of Greece flowed into Italy,
and were conveyed to the many different . states there*
through a va^t variety of channels.

The first inhabitants of this " terra potens vironim**
were composed of Grecian tribes, the overflowings of
their native habitations, who migrated, in early days,
into the southern parts of the Italian continent; from
this circumstance, it was denominated Magna Graecia.
These colonists brought with them their own laws and
customs. ^ These laws and customs were incorporated
into one general body, and made a part of the i^nwritten
» or customary law of Rome. " The law of the ancient
Romans," says Dr. Bum, in the preface to his book on
ecclesiastical law, ' ^^ had its foundation in the Grecian
republicks."

% Pelt, on Jar. 1S9. ^ Bever. 2. • P. 1,

LSCTUK£« OK LAW. 13

It is well known, that the Roman system of jarispru*
d^ice was much indebted to the wise and peacefvd insti*
ttttions of Noma. There was one, which produced
strong, and extensive, and lasting consequences in the
Roman republick ; and which seems to have furnished
an example for later times— the establishment of pagi or
villages^ The conquered and vacant lands he distributed
among the citizens. These he divided into districts, and
placed over each a superintendant, in order to induce
them to improve in the arts of agriculture. The conse-
quence of this wise regulation was, that the functions of
w^ and peace were frequently discharged by one and the
same person. The farmer, the soldier, and the magis-
trate were often united in the same character ; and re*
fleeted on each other reciprocal ornament. The respect-
ed citizen stepped from the plough to the consulship
without being elated ; and, without being mortified, re-
turned from the consulship to the plough. Thus the
Cincinnati were formed.

Towards the latter end of the third ccnturj' of Rome,
a solemn deputation, consisting of three commissioners,
was despatched to Athens, with instructions to obtain a
transcript of the celebrated laws of Solon, and to make
themselves fully acquamted with the regulations, the
manners, and the institutions of the other states of
Greece.'

The constitution of Athens had lately received great
improvements under the administration of some of her
most illustrious citizens, Aristides, Themistocles, and

« Livy.L3.c«31«

14 ucnnuift 09 z*Air*

CmoB; andt at tku ▼cr^ time, the ^louiid Pcfklei^
Wftt at the bead of her govenumeat*

After an<abience of about two ycai% die comma*
•ioners returned, with eopiea of the AdieaiaA lawa*
The decemvirs, of whom the commimoiiexa were
three, were then aj^inted, with lull powers to fSoonBa
and propose a digest of lawa for Roma. WHh much
alacrity and zeal they entered upon the execution of the
very important trust, with which they were invested by
their confiding country. In the arduous business, they
received the most valuable assistance from a wise Cphe-
aian, who had been driven, by the hand of envy, from
his native country ; and who, during bi» exile, had op*
portunities of personally observing the principles and
characters of men, and the establishments and forms of
society. His accumulated treasures of observation and
ireflecticm were imparted liberally to the decemvirs. The
name of Hermodorus was gratefully transmitted to poflh
terity, by a statue erected to his honour in the forum*

The code, which the decemvirs, composed, consisted
partly of entire laws tnuucribed from the Grecian odgi-
nals ; partly of such as were altered and accommodated
to the constitution and manners of the Romans; and
partly of the former laWs received and approved in
Rome. It was engraved on ten tables, and fixed up in
the'most conspicuous part of the forum ; that the whole
people might have an opportunity of perusing and ex-
amining it at their conveniency and leisure. When auf*
ficient time had been allowed for those purposes, an as*
sembly of the people was convened. In that assembly,
after invocations that what might be done should prove
happy and auspiciouato the commonwealth, the proposed

LECTURES dH LAW. 15

t
\ <

laws were read. The decemrirs declared, thtt the7had
provided, as far as their abilities could provide, that the
laws should be equal and impartial to the high and to the
low; but that on the coimsels and deliberations of the
citizens at large, more reliance could be placed ; for that
the Roman people should hare no laws, but such as
were ratified as well as ordered by the consent of all. «
The ten tables received the solemn ratification of the
people. Two more were afterwards added in a second
decemvirate. All diese formed the celebrated code of
the twelve tables ; the fountain, as Livy honourably de-
nominates them, of all puUick and private law. They
constituted the foundation of diat immense fabrick of
jurisprudence, which has extended the influence and the
glory of Rome, far beyond the limits and existence of
the Ronum power.

To the twelve tables, after some time, the resfhtua
pruAUum began to be superadded. These were the
commentaries of lawyers, who accommodated them to
the successive practice and proceedings of the courts of s
justice. ' This part of the law was denominated, iii con*
tradistinction to the laws of ^ twelve tables, the ju8 nan
9criptum^ or unwritten law ; and having no other name^
began then to be called the (mU law. By Justinian, it is
stykd the jurisprudentia media; because it intervened
between the laws of the twelve tabtea, and the imperial *

constitutions. «

In the free and happy periods of the Roman common-
wealth, great regard was paid to customary law. We

/

16 LECTURES OV LAlT*

have already seen^^ on another occasion, that it was
thought immaterial whether a hiw received the sanction
of the people by their formal suffrage, or by the uniforni
course of their conduct and manners. Thus did Jfto*
mans speak and reason while they enjoyed the blessings
of liberty. Nor did the spirit of their law change im-
mediately with the spirit of their government. Long^
after the impure air of despotism tainted the latter, the
vital principles of freedom continued the former in a to*
lerable state of internal health and soundness. Even
under the emperours, the opinions of die Roman law-
yers, and the decisions of the Roman courts, with re-
gard to property, and to the rights of private persons,
seem not to have been vitiated by the principles of their
government. The rules of justice among individual
could not prejudice, in the most remote degree, the
power or the interest of the emperouf , placed above the '
reach of all private regards ; their rights were, there-
fore, investigated and enforced with a balanced inipar-
tiality. *

I have observed, that, in the free and happy periods
of the Roman commonwealth, great regard was paid to
customary law. Even so late as the time of Justinian,
the unwritten law constituted one of the two great divi-
sions, into which the system of Roman jurisprudence
was thrown. " Constat,*'^ says the emperour, " autem
jus nostrum, quo utimur, aut scripto, aut sine scripto ;

^ Ante. vol. 1. p. 63. 64w

^ Consult Gibbon's Rom. £mp. c 44. voL 8. p. 19. and the
authorities cited in his notes.

7 Just.Int.Ll.t3.s.3ii

LECTURES ON LAW, 17'

lit apud Grsecos rvf ufuif «« ^%t fyy«^«i, U }i my^m^^i*** ^^ Our
law, which we use, consists,- like the law of the Grecians,
of what is written, and of what is unwritten." This
passage, by the by, strongly intimates, in the Institutes,
a principle of attachment and imitation operating in
favour of the Grecian system. This principle appears,
in the nokost explicit manner, from what we find in the
next section of the Institutes. ^V£t non ineleganter in
doas species jus civile distributum essevidetur; namorigo
ejus ab institutis duarum civitatum, Athenarum scilicet
et Ltacedaemoniorum, fluxisse videtur. In his enim civi-
tatibus ita agi solitvim erat, ut Lacedaemonii quidem
ea, quse pro legibus observabant, memoriae mandarent :
Athenienses vero ea quae in legibus scripta comprehen-
dissent, custodirent." " The civil or municipal law is
divided, with some degree of elegance, into two kinds.
For its origin seems to be derived from the institutions
of two states-^hat of the Athenians, and that of the
Lacedaemonians. In those states, the manner of trans-
acting their legislative business was such, that the Lace*
daemonians trus^edto memory for the preservation of their
laws ; whereas the laws of the Atheni^s were commit*'
ted to writing.'*

Concerning imwritten or customary law, Justinian
thus expresses himself. " Sine scripto jus venit, quod
usus approbavit ; nam diuturni mores, consensu utentium
comprobati, legem imitantur." ** The unwritten law
supervenes upon the approbation of usage ; for long cus-
toms, approved by the consent of those who use them
acquire the qualities of a law.'' By the way, it deserves
to be remarked here, that the expression, which, on a
former occasion, 7 I cited from an act of parliament as

^ Ants, vol 1. p. 308.
TOL. II. D ,

18 LEGTURfS ON LAW. '-

characteristick of the common law of Bngland, is the lite-
ral translation of the expression used by Justinian to
characterize the unwritten law of the Roman empire — .
diutumus-^long. The epithet immemorial is used by
neither of those very high authorities.

J

If unwritten law possessed such a dignified rank in
the system of Roman jurisprudence so late as even the.
reigpi of Justinian; we may be well justified in supposing,
that this species of law was entitled to a still greater pro-
portion of regard, four or five centuries before that time.
Four or five centuries before that time, it was extended
to the island of Great Britain.

The jurisprudence, which had been grossly adapted
to the wants of the first Romans, was polished and im-
proved, towards the latter years of the comnK>nwealth9
by the infusion and operation of the Grecian philosophy*.
The Scaevolas had been taught by precedents and expe-
rience. But Servius Sulpicius was the first civilian, who
established his art. on. certain and general principles*.
For the discernment of truth and falsehood,, he applied^
as an infallible rule, the logick of Aristotle and the
Stoicks, reduced particular cases to general principles,
and diffused, over the dark and shapeless mass, the
light of order, and the graces of eloquence.

The jurisprudence of Rome was adorned and enriched
by the exquisite gepius of Cicero, which, like the touch
of Midas, converts every object into gold. In ii^ita-
tion of PlatOj he composed arepublick : and for the usa.
af bis republick, formed a system of laws. In thift

LECTURES OV LAW« 19

^ystemr, he expatiates on the wisdom and excellency of
the Roman constitution. *

Julias Ciesar was the fitst Roman who visited the
nland of Great Britain ; and, perhaps, he had no great
reason to exult in the success of his visit. His own
account of his retreat is unitimished with a decent apo«>
logy. The poet, whose republican spirit was unbroke '
to the pliant arts of flattery, says in explicit tefms,

Territa qae^itis ostendit terga Britannis

The first foundations of an effective conquest and a
permanent settlement, which were laid in Britain under
the auspices of Rome, were those, which were begun
in the reign of the emperour Claudius. .

- The character of his administration may be thus
described. From the general tenour of his conduct it is
plain, that he contemplated the senate as the sovereign
power of the whole empire. He made many attempts
to introduce an*^ improvement of the constitution, by
reviving or reforming antiquated laws, and by enacting
salutary new ones: but these attempts he meditated and
prosecuted by the advice and with the concurrence of
the senate. So far, therefore, as the establishments in
Britain were carried on during the administration of
Claudius, it is not likely that they were marked by
circumstances of uncommon rigour or oppression. In-
deed, the acquisitions made in the island during that

* * Consult Gib. Rom. Emp. c. 44. toI. S. p. 26. 3^. and the attth<K
rities cited. .

20 l^ECTTTRKS OK lAW.: i

and some succeeding teigns were both very liimted axul-

very precarious.

* <

Julius Agricola^ who governed it in the reign of Vcs-
, l^asian, Titus, and Domitian, was the first who formed
a , regular plan for conlipleting the conquest, and render*
ing the acquisition useful to> the conquerors. Among;
the Britons be introduced the Roman civility and laws ;
be reconciled them to th^ Roman manners and language ;
he instructed them in learning and the arts ; he taught
them to know and to covet aH the conveniences and deli-*
cacies of life ; he employed every soothing contrivance
to render their fetters easy, andseveafashioiUibile. The
inhabitants, taught, by direful experience, how dispro^
portioned their military strength and military skill were
to the military strength and military skill of the Romans^
and lulled by the flattering scenes of ease and elegancet
which were exhibited to their views and wishes, acquies-
\ ced in the splendid dominion of their masters, and were
gradually incorporated as a portion of the mightyi em-*
pire of Rome. ^

Agricola disseminated the modes of Roman ^'duca*
tion among the sons of the British nobility; and impro*
ved them so well, that, in a short time, those who had
most despised the Roman language, applied with ardour,
to the study and the profession of Roman eloquence*
An affectation of the Roman dress was the natural con*
sequence ; and the gown was considered in Britain as a
splendid distinction. Luxury succeeded splendour and
refinement ; and the Britons were Romanised, without
reflecting that tb^ arts and accomplishments which were

^ 1. Giith. Eng. 40.

LSCTURSB ON LAW. 21

I. in. a Romanf were, in a Briton, servile ; and
thstt wtiat they viewed as the accompaniments of polite*
ness, were, in reality, nothii^ better or nobler than the
instruments ^ subjection. ^

The Romans held the possession and the government
of the most considerable part of Britain near four hundred
years. During that long period, a very frequent and
intimate intercommunication of marriages, manners, cus-
toms, and laws must have taken place.
•

In the whole province there are said to have been
about one hundred and fifty Roman stations.^ These
mrere connected by inferiour fortresses, erected at proper
distances, and garrisoned by regular troops. £ach of
those garrisons attracted the neighbouring inhabitants ; ^
a town or village was begun ; and a settlement was formed
indiscriminately by Roman and by native families. As
military service was often rewarded with possessions in
land, the example of the Roman officers and soldiers
must have spread the knowledge and practice of agricul-
ture, while their industry in the management of their
estates contributed to beautify and improve the face of
the country.

The connexion with Britain, which the soldiers of the
Romaniu:my formed by living in the country, was seU
dom dissolved, even when they were discharged from
the service. They had gradually acquired an attachment
to the places where they had long resided, and chose to
continue that residence where their attachment was now
formed. Their offspring became natural inhabitants;

h Tac. Agric c 21.— Millar. 16. 17. « Millar, la

\

!3d LKCTURES ON LAW.

and Britain, m this manner, received fresh*acc«8sionf oF
Romans^ to supply the place of such natives as were drawer
from it, in order to recruit the army in other provinces of
the empire.

'»

It was the policy of Rome to extend her jurisprudence
wherever she had extended hel- dominion* This policy
promoted her influence and her interest among the
vanqui^ed pirople ; and, at the same time, established
anoong them tranquillity and order. This policy was
peculiarly necessary in Britain, to prevent the private
wars, and restrain the mutual acts of violence and out-
rage, to which the inhabitants were remarkably addicted*
The introduction and establishment of the Roman laws
was unavoidably, however, a work of time. For a con-
siderable period, the Roman magistrates confined their
operations to the publick administration of the province }
while the British chiefs were permitted tb retain their
ancient jurisdiction in matters of private property, and
to determine the controversies of their tenants and
dependents.

Some writers are of opinion, that this jurisdiction was
gradually circumscribed, and, at last, entirely annihila-
ted ; and that, during the long government of the Romans,
the oi^ginal laws and customs of the Britons were disused
and forgotten. Perhaps the more probable opinion is,
that, during this extended succession of time, the two
nations became blended together in their laws and cus-
toms, as well as by their intermarriages ; so as to be
neither wholly Roman, nor wholly British. Those laws,
indeed, which related to government and the adminis-
tration of publick affairs, were^ it maybe presumed^ alto-
grether Roman.

LECTURES ON LAW. 23^

Accordingly, when the exhausted empire was obliged
to collect her last expiring efforts around the immediate
seat of Ufa and existence ; the departure of the Romans
from Britain was fatal to all the institutions of govern- ^
ment which had been formed, ripened, and established
during the long lapse of time, which we have already
mentioned. The officers, who directed and managed the
administration of the province, and the judges, who, at
least in matters relating to publick law, had acquired a
complete jurisdiction, retired froni a country, abandoned
by its master. The courts of justice were shut : govern-
ment, and the order attendant on government, were dis-
solved. The rudder of the state knew no hand, which
had a right to hold it : the vessel was, therefore, tossed
at the pleasure of the winds ai^d waves.

Time, however, and necessity gradually introduced
some form of government, though a very simple one*
The country was broken into districts, and placed under
chiefs. A general of their united forces was appointed.
Voltigem was the last, who was promoted to that high
dignity.

From the foregoing (deduction, it is highly probable,
that, at the period to which we have now brought our
remarks, the system of law in Britain, if, at that period,
any kind of law deserved the name of a system, was a
motley ndixture of iloman and British institutions. The
lang^ge, at that time used in Britain, was, as we have
every>reason to believe, a composition of the Roman and
British tongues. '

Sir William Bliackstone mentions three instances,"^ in
which the British jurisprudence bears a great resemblance

^4.BLCom.401.

24 LECTtJRES^ON LAW.

to some of tfie modern doctrines of the English law. One
is, the very notion itself of an oral unwrittenlaw, deliver-
ed down from age to age, by custom and tradition merely.
This seems derived from the practice of the Druids, who
never committed any of their instructions to writing.
This observation suggests a claim, unquestionably, to the
notion of a common law subsisting among the Britons.
But it, by no means, authorizes an exclusive claim- We
have seen that, in the pure times of the Roman common-
wealth, a customary law was known and highly respected
at Rome. At the time when the Roman law was trans-
lated to Britain, it retained its customary qualities in their
full vigour and extent.

The second instance mentioned by Sir William Black-
stone is, the partible quality of lands by the custom of
gavelkind, which still obtains in many parts of England^
and, till the reign of Henry the eighth, prevailed univer-*
sally over Wales. This, says he, is undoubtedly of Bri-
tish original. But the partible quality of lands, if not
entirely, yet nearly on the same principles, prevailed
among the Romans, as well as among the Britons. Nor
was it confined even to those two nations. The Greeks,
the Romans, as we are informed in the Comtnentaries,
the Britons, the Saxons, and even originally the feudists
divided the lands equally ; some among all the children at
large, some among the males only. ^

The third instance, mentioned by Sir William Black-
stone as of British original, is, the ancient division of the
goods of an intestate between his widow and children,
or next of kin ; which has since been revived by the sta-

* 3. BL Com. 215.

LECTURES ON LAW. 85

tute of distributions. But it is well known, that the
Matute of distributions is moulded in the form of Rojnan
well as of ancient British jurisprudence.^

^ell known is the event of the invitation, which
Voltigem ga^ve to a body of the Saxons to aid him
against his northern enemies- ^ As it has happened on
other occasions, the allies became the masters of those
w^hom they engaged to assist*

We have no complete account of the circums tances
iv^hich attended the settlement of the Saxons in Britain.
From the doleful, representations of some early and
passionate annalists, our historians, in general, have been
led to suppose, that all the Britons, who were not reduced
to captivity, were massacred by their barbarous, enemies,
or, disdaining submission, retreated among the moun-
tains of Wales, or withdrew into the country of Armo-
rica in France ; to which country, the name of Bretagne
is said to have been derived from those unfortunate
refugees. A bold and industrious antiquarian has lately
shown, however, that this extraordinary supposition is
without any solid foundation. It is, indeed, highly pro«^
bable, that many of the Britons were subjected to very
great hardship?, and were obliged even to abandon their
native soil. But it appears hard to believe, that the
Saxons should be stimulated by barbarity to proceed so
far as, contrary to their own interests, to exterminate the
ancient inhabitants. There is even complete evidence,
that, in some parts of the island, the Britons were so far
from being destroyed or obliged to fly their country, that
they were permitted to retain a certain proportion of

f 3. BL Com. 516. 517. Bever. 483. s 3. WhiUk. 545.
TOL. II. S

S6 LECTURSIS ON LAW.

their landed property. This proportion, a third part of
the whole, was the same with that allotted to the ancient
inhabitants, in some of those provinces on the continent
of Europe, which were conquered by the other German
tribes.

The language, which spread itself among the Saxons
after their settlement in Britain, contained a great pro<-
portion of the Latin and British tongues. This large
infusion of those different ingredients into the same lan-
guage, is, of itself, a strong proof, that the inhabitants
were compounded of the different nations, by whom
Ao^e tongues were originally spoken. ^

The victorious Saxons were less civilized than the
conquered Britons. The latter gradually communica-
ted to the formet a portion of that refinement, which had
not been entirely effaced from thetaiselves. At last, after a
lapse of near two centuries, the two nations, by habits,
treaties, commerce, and intermarriages, were entirely
blended together ; and their union produced such a com-
pound system of manners and customs, as might be ex-
pected totirise from the declining state of one, and the
improving state of the other. This blending principle
would have its effect upon the law^, as well as upon the
manners and habits of both nations. The conquerors
and the conquered would be incorporated into one peo-
ple, and compose, as the antiquarian ^ before mentioned
expresses himself, a mingled mass of Saxon Britons and
British Saxons.

We are told of three kinds of. laws uscid in England
during the government of the Saxons : the Mercian law,

^ 3. Whitak. 235. 230. i 2. Whitak. lit

tCCTURES ON LAW*' tf

whleh contained the local constitutions of the kingdom
of Mercia; the Dane law, which comprised the cus*
tosas introduced by those, whose name it bore ; and the
^We^t Sasoti law, a system compiled by Alfred the
Great; whose elevated and extensive talents were em*
ployed, in the most vigorous manner, for the improve-
ment of the \aLWh and constitution of his country.

These three systems of law were diiferent, rather in
unessential forms, than in important principles. For
this we have the authority of the very learned Spelman*
^' Our Saxons, though divided into many kingdoms, yet
wore th^ all one, in effect, in manners, laws, and km-
guage: so that the breaking of their government. into
many kingdoms, or the reuniting of their kingdoms int^
a monarchy, wrou^t little or no change among them,
touchixig laws. For though we talk of the West Saxon
law, the Mercian law, and the Dane law, whei:eby the
west parts of England, the middle parts, and those
of Suffolk, Norfolk, and the north were severally go-
verned; yet held. they all a uniformity of substance,
differing rather in their mulcts, than in their canon, that
is, in the quantity of fines and amerciaments, than in
the course and frame of justice.^'^

These distinct codes were afterwards reduced into
one uniform digest, for the use and observance of the
whole kingdom. This digest was undertaken and com«
sikCJiced by King Edgar : ft was completed by his grand*
3on, King Edward ; and has been since well known and
. distinguished by the appellation of the Confessor's laws*
It is conjectured to have been chiefly a revival of the

3 3. Henry. STSr. 278. eitcs Spel ReL p. 49.

3S LEOTXTBKS ON XAtf# >• »

^*r

code of the great Alfred, accompanied with suetai im-
provements as were suggested by subsequent experience*

^ We have now brought tfie hisfory of the comi6o<i
law down to the period of the Norman conquest.* W^
have seen its rise taking place, by skrw degrees; in ages;
very remote, and in nations very diflFefent ^m one ano-
ther. ^ We have seen it, in its converging progress, run
intp one uniform system, mellowed by time and improvetl
by experience. In every period of its existence, we
find imprinted on it the most distinct and legible charac-
ters of a customary law— a law; produced, extended,
translated, adopted, and moulded by practice and *j0a^

. sent.

The period through which we have gone is, indeed^
peculiaiiy interesting. ^^ The whole period of our na«
donal history before the conquest,'' says an English wri-
ter, ^^is the most important an^ momentous in our
annals. It most forcibly lays hold upon the passions by
the quick succession and active variety of incidents, and
by the decisive greatness of its revolutions. And, what
is much more, it is that period of our history, which
gives the body and the form to all the succeeding cen-
turies of iu It contains the actual commencement of
every part of our publick and private economy." ^

Here we make a pause in the history of the common
law. To pursue it minutely from the Norman conquest
to the accession of the Stuart line would be a tedious,:
a disagreeable, but, fortunately, it is an unnecessarjr
task.

^ 1. Whitak. f»ref. r.

lirCTU&fB ON hAW4 29

Th« comtiion law, as now received in America, bears,
hi lt9 principles, and in many of! its more minute parti*
culars, a stronger and a fairer resemblance to the com-
mon law 39 it was improved under the Saxon, than to
that lawy as it was disfigured under the Norman govern-
ment. How much it was disfigured, and why we should
not reoeive it in its disfigured state, will appear from the
Showing very interesting part of Sir William Black-
stone'» Commentaries.

^^ The liAt and most impoituit alteration, introduced
by the Norman conquest, both in our civil and military
poUty, was the ingrafting on all landed estates, a few
only excepted, the fiction of feodal tenure ; which drew
after it a numerous and oppressive train of servile fruits
and appendages ; aids, reliefs, primer seisins, wardships,
marriages, escheats, and fines for alienation; the ge-
nuine consequences of the maxim then, adopted, thatali
the lands in England were derived from, and holden,
mediately or immediately, of the crown.

^^The nation, at this period, seems to have groaned
iibder as absolute a slavery, as it was in the power of a
warlike, an ambitious, and a politick prince to create.
The consciences of men were enslaved by sour ecclesi-
asticks, devoted to a foreign power, and unconnected
with the civil state under which they lived ; who now
imported from Rome, for the first time, the whole farra-
go of superstitious novelties, which had been engendered
by the blindness and corruption of the times, between
die first mission of Augustin, the monk, and the Nor-
man conquest.

** The ancient trial by jury gave way to the impious
decision by beetle. The forest laws totally restrained all

so LECTURES ON LAW.

rural pleasures and manly recreations. And in cities
and towns, the case was no better; all eompany being
obliged to disperse, and fire and candle to be extingitish-
ed, by eight at night, at the sound of the melancholy
curfew.

^' The ultimate property of all lands, and a considera-
ble share of the present profits, were vested in the Is^ing^
or by him granted out to his Normal^ fayourites i who^
by a gradual progression of slavery, were absolute vas*
sals to the crown, and as absolute tyrants to the com-
mons. Unheard of forfeitures, talliages, aids, and fines
were arbitrarily extracted from the pillaged landholders^
in pursuance of the new system of tenure. And, to
crowh all, as a consequence ot the tenure by knight ser*
vice, the king had always ready at his command an
army of sixty thousand knights, or milites; who were
bound, upon pain of confiscating their estates, to attend
him in time of invasion, or to quell any domestick in-
surrection.

*^ Trade, or foreign merchandise, such as it then was^
was carried on by the Jews and Lombards ; and the very
name of an English fleet, which king Edgar had rendered
so formidable, was utterly unknown to Europe : the na-
tion consisting wholly of the clergy, who were also the
lawyers ; the barons, or great lords of the land ; the
knights or soldiery, who were the subordinate landhold-
ers; and the burghers, or inferiour tradesmen, who,
from their insignificancy, happily retained, in their so-
cage and burgage tenure, some points of their ancient
freedom. All the rest were villains or bond men.

*^ Fr<Hn ^o complete and well concerted a scheme of
^rvili<y, it has been the wprk of generaticms for ouf

LECTURES ON LAW. 31

$mcestors, to redeem themselves and their posterity into
that state of liberty, which we now enjoy ^ and which,
therefore, is not to be looked upon as consisting of mere
encroachments on the crown, and infringements of the
prerogative, as some slavish and narrow minded writers
in the last century endeavoured to maintain ; but as, in
general, a gradual restoration of that ancient constitu-
fion, whereof our Saxon forefathers had been unjustly
deprived, partly by the^iolicy, and partly by the force,
of the Norman," *

From the deduction, which we have made, it appears,
I think, in a satis&ctory manner, that the rich composi-
tion of the common law is formed from all the different
ingre£ent8, which have been enumerated; yet, when
we descend to particular principles and rules, it is very
difficult, it is often impossible, to ascertain the particular
source, from which such rules and principles have been
drawn. That some of our customs have been derived
from the Grecians, though pobably th.rough the inter-
mediate cbamiel of the Romans ; that others of them
have been derived immediately from the Romans, others
from the Britons, others from the Saxons, and others,
in fine, from the Normans, seems to be evinced by the
reasonable rules of historical credibility. But to say that
such or such a particular custom has descended to us
from such and such a particular origin, would be often
to hazard too much upon imcertain conjecture. It may,
however, be done sometimes, upon facts and arguments,
which are clear and convincing : and whenever it can be
done, it will amply repay all the care and trouble of the
investigation. As has been already mentioned, the most

1 4.Bl.Com,4U-413.

32 LECTURES ON LAW*

proper way to teach and to study the common law, is t»
teach and tb study it as a historical science. -> Under
many titles, we shall have an opportunity of pursuing tiiis
method.

Besides those particular instances ; of which notice
will be taken afterwards; there is one pretty general
distribution of the common law, according to whtchl^
different parts of it may be referred to different
nations, by whom, in all probability, they were intro-
duced.

The original fi^me of the British constitution, dif-
ferent, indeed, in many important points, from what-
it now is, and bearing, to some of the constitutions
which have lately been formed, and established in Ame-
rica, a degree of resemblsmce, which will strike and
surprise those who compare them together— -this vene-
rable frame may be considered as of Saxon architecture.
To a Saxon origin may also be ascribed much of that part
of the common law^ which relates to crimes and puxiirit-
ments. One lovely feature, in particular, we have the
pleasure to recognise. The ancient Germans, of whom
the Saxons composed a part, discriminated punishments,
as we are informed by Tacitus, *" according to the kind,
and proportioned them according to the measure of the
crime. " Liberty,** says the celebrated Montesquieu, **
^^ is in its highest perfection, when criminal laws derive
each punishment from the particular nature of the crime.'*
With regard to this very interesting part of the law, very
wide deviations from Saxon principles have been made

'^ De mor. Germ. c 19. & Spir.Lawi.l». 1% g.4.

I.E1CTURES «|» LAW. ,33

_ «

ixk the English criminal code ^^ 9inee.-.lhe period of the

«

N'ortnan conquest.

The common law, as it respects contracts and per«>
soxial propertjr, discovers evident traces' of the Roman
Jci»fa:udesLce. It has b#)en the opinion of some, that
those parts of the common law have been borrowed from
th« dnril law, subsequent to the grea( legislative era,a
"whenthe pandetis of Justinian were discovered at Amalfi:
I suggest, merely for consideration at present, a conjec-
ture, that many of those parts were incorporated into
the .common law, during the loog period of near four
centuries, when th&JlomaA jmrisprudence predominated
in England.

Much of the common law respecting real estates, as
it has been received in England since the time of William
the Conqueror; and a considerable part of it, as it is
still received Iq. that kingdom, particularly the feudal
principles and policy, should be -referred to a Norman
extraction.

Concerning, the period, at which the feudal system
was introduced into England, there has been long and
learned controversy among lawyers and antiquarians.
" At the close of the first century^," says Whitaker in his
History of Manchester, " our tenures in Britain appear
undeniably to have been purely military in their design,
and absolutely feudal in their essence. The primary
institution of feuds is unanimously deduced, by our his-
torical and legal antiquarians, from the northern invaders
of the Roman empire ; and the primary introduction of

« About the year 1130.
VOL, II. r

34 UteTUMi^ON LAW.

thcon into this irfhir* i^ ^In^oa^ -^ unanimously referred
to the much more recent epochs oC the, NorpsaA caoquest*
But tbey certainly existed among us before, and even
formed th^ primitive establiakn^ent oi the Britons*"
^' They mitslJiKve existed -^peval with the fini^jplanta<»
tion of the islandi^ Tliiy* vfem plainly th^ joint rfHilt af
a colonizing audita mJiit^Ty spirit. The fornoier pi^gviden-
tially animated tile ^rst.4age4 of the; J^oichid% iras
constantly prosecuted under the-idisciplhie of regular or-
der, and the control of fegal fiMharj^ty^ and had whole
regions to partition amo^ • tha QMNcnbeni of the colony.
The latter wis excita^ bjF Ihf fre^^fit u^girations of,
colonists and the numerous tavaaWMtS'ofiaeedtinenta ia
the same ages, and naturally provided for tbt s^curit^
of the colony, by the institution of a military «stablis)K
ment.*' ** . ;

• • ... ' •'

From Mr. Whitaker's own account^ it afKpeaers tbatkie
is singular in his sentimenli^ with regard«jto the antiqiMty
of the feudal aystem. Indeed, if his senlimema .are
well /bunded, that system must have been coeval and
coextensive with* society itself. But from the account
which we have already*^ given of the ^origMa and first
principles of society, the inference, we apprehend, may
be fairly made, that its first ages were ages nSi equality^
perhaps of some culpable degree of license. The opi-
nion is indeed singular^-that rule and subordination in
the extreme, in other words, tyranny and slavery, sboiiikl
be necessarily extended with the extension of thehumaa
race.

It i& remaikable^ however, that this very writer
tnakes, with regard to the Saxons, a peculiar exception

P 1. Wbitak.262. 364. "i Ante. vol. 1. p. 306^
LEtmnMi ow iTAJir. 35

horn thi» gvaerat and ahiMtt univeryal sfttem. ^^ No
traces," says he, ^^ of the ^limitive feuds appear visible
kmoDg^^M Saxons; and tbey ifdem to have been the only
naticKii of Germany that did not plastt^them in their con-
^etfU*^' ** His conjecture^ therefore, is, tbat the Saxons
had adopted this improvement from the BfitlPns. He
^Ii|>re8ents the whole' Saxot^ system, in consequence of
this adoption, as infornied /mtA one strong pdnciple of
stibdVdinatibB, w'^ich diiFased itslMcwiiceVhroiigh every
part^ and formed a scale of diej^elidencfc * from the sove-
rvignrto'the villain/ Thus,* one emtinued chain of
subordination was carried regularly from thft villain to
the monarch ; the higher ftak tiCAe wfiole being fastened
to the foot of the throne^ and keeping the whole machine
of Hftlional power steiklily depend:ent from'ic.*

Others inform lis, and afij^rentty on better grounds,
that in the early ages of society, estates in land were
f§ee; dntt^-th^^^Were bilA.inr. ptdpllety, and not by
tenure; *that tliijrwere btfreditary as^dl as free; that
such "vl^rt ^mM^iAtmamoii^ Grea§9,^tT!o Romans,
mAytiriJkltbatl^ dm 9m^m 1 4bMH Mtlmg tW latter,
Aey #err rii|<MWi 4ttii iltii at ftp Utami a of the own-
er, *lLnd deiMtUs hy Will. Ttic Saxoss were absolutely
niast«4s«if th4#MlH andAirere n0b obliged to transmit
it to lAm blood which ^he donor • Intended to favour,
it waa stUl, tiowever, tonsidered as the property of a
ciftizWt .and}"' therefore, '-subjected its owner to the
general obligation ^of taking arms in defence of his
coitHitrfi

The (Kfferences between, estates in land under the
Saxon government, and those which were held under

r 2. Whitak. 153. ■ Id. 157. 158.

36 LECTURES 4>lf^LAHKr.

that of the conqueror, will htt phi^n and striking by a short
enumeration and contrast; Before the conquest, lands
were the absolute -proprieties of the owners ; ih&f could
be devised and transferred at pleasure. No wardship or
marriage was due or exacted. In all these things, ^n
alteratidn was made on the introduftion of the feudal
tenures. Lands could not be alienated without the coqr
sent of the superiour : they could i^ot be devised by wifl..
The heir had notrigbt to enter into the inheritance of
his ancestor, utitil he ]|ad paid a relief, and had beea
adniitted by his lord. As to landed estates, therefore,
the law introduced by the conqueror might well be deno-
minated a new, ^ Norman law.

At common law, too, all inheritances were estates in
fee simple ; of diiFerent kinds indeed, qualified and con*
ditional, as well as absoluto^'

ft

^^ When all etftates wer« fee simple^". 69.3F8 my Lord
Coke, >^thei^ were purchasers sure*o£itheir purchases,
farmers of titeir liases, caeditgpt •£ tbtticdebts : «nd for
4hese, and otbir like cdbsesf bp^e wisdomof ^ common
law, all estates of ioJiflritanaMpere fee^sin^yle: and what
contentions and mischieft have crept ji^^the quiet of
the law by these fettered inlieritancas^ . dUtly ez^rience
teacheth us." * ^».

mr*

^' Out of all the books and reports of the common
law," says the same very experienced judge, ^^ I have
observed, that though sometimes by acts of parliament,
and sometimes by invention and contrivance of men,
some points of the ancient common law have been divert**

* 3. Ins. 333. » l.Ins. 19 b.

lECDURES ON LAW. 3/

ed from its proper channel ; y^t, in the revolutions <^
time, it has been, with much publick satisfaction, and to
avoid many great inconveniences, been restored to its
proper and aftciant course. For example ^ the wisdom
of the common law was, that all estates of inheritance
should be fee sijyiple, so that one man might safely alien,
demise, and! contract to and with another. But the
statute of Westminster the second created an estate tail,
aftd made a perpetuity by act of parliament, restraining
tenant in tail from aliening or demising, but only for*^his
own life. This, in process of time, introduced such
trouble and mischief, that, after two hundred years,
ivecessity discovered a method, by law, for a tenant in
taU to alien.

^^ In like manner, by the ancient common law, free-
holds could not pass from one to another but by matter
of record, or solemn livery of seisin. Against this, how-
ever, uses were invented, and grew coinmon and almost
universal, in destruction of the ancient common law in
that point. But, in time, the numerous inconveniences
of this being found by experience, the statute of 27. H.
VIII. c. 10. was made to restore the ancient commonlaw,
in this particular, as expressly appears by the preamble of
the statute itself. Of the same truth,, an infinity of other
examples might be produced ; but these shall, at present,
suffice."^

We have mentioned the common law, as a law which
is unwritten. When we assign to it this character, we
nieannot that it is merely oral, and transmitted from age
to age merely by tradition. It has its monuments in

r

V S. Rep. Pref, 18.

tt lliCTITRCS X)X LAir;

writing; imd its written tnonufnetits ^« aecutate ^axid
suthentickk But though, in many cases, its evidence rests^
yet, in all cases, its authority rests not, on thpse written
monuments. Its authority rests tm receptimi, apprcrfsa^
tiofi, custom, long and estaiUished. The same princf{ddS,
which establish.it, ehmige, efnlarge, improve, and repeal
it* These operations, however, *!ie, for the most part,
gradual smd imperceptible, partial and successive in a
kmg tract of time.

It is die characteristick of a system of common law,
that it be accommodated to the circumstances, the exi-
gencies, and the conveniencies of the people^ by whom it
is appointed. Now^ as these circumstances, and exigen-
cies, and conveniencies insensibly change j a proportion-
ed change, in time and in degree, must take.{dace in the
accommodated system. But though'-the s;^stem siiffist
these partial and successive alteraticms, yet k continujst
materially and snbstantially the same. The ship of the
Argonauts became not another vessel, though 'ahnost
every payt of her materials had blten altered during the
course of her voyage. •' • > • . ' . ^

Agaunrwe ?re taught both by observa£itmnaiid'lp^
experience, that tkc^&rthar laws rtach frdtniliielr Qr%!fl^
institutions, the more bttensi^ and^tke more nuteeroiis
they become. In the first association of a community^
their prospect is not enlarged, their wants are compara-
tively fsw: but as tiae society iacyeasee, their views
expand, smd their wishes multiply i wlAt is the conse-
quence ? New laws and provisions^ miied to the growing
multitude of successive exigencies, must beinade« Tbe
system, of course, becomes larger and more complex.

HCCTURES OK LAW* d§

The. same principle of accommodation in a system of
common lawy will adjust its improvement to eyeiy grade
and species of, improvement made by the people, in con*
sequjene^ of practice, commerce, observation, study, and
refinement. As the science of legislation is the most
noble, so it is the most slow and difficult of sciences. The
jurisprudence of a state, willing to avail itself of expe«
rience, receives additional improvement from evxry new
situation, to which it arrives -, and, in this manner, attains,
iu.the progress of time, higher and higher degrees of per*
fection, resulting fropi the accumulated wisdom of agesi
The illustrious legislators, who have illuminated the poli-
tical world, such as Solon, Numa, Lycurgus, collected
the customs which they fou2id already adopted, and dis«
posed them regularly, with the necessary amendments
and illustrations.

The same principle of accommodation, which we have
already traced in so many directions, may be traced in
still one direction more. It silently and gradually intro*
duces ; it silently and gradually withdraws its customary
laws. Disuse may be justly considered as the repeal of
custom. Laws, which are long imobserved in practice,
become^ laws, which are antiquated in theory. " On
strong grounds this rule is received, that laws may be
abrogated, ,not only by the express declaration of the
legislature, but, through desuetude, by the tacit consent
of all." ^ A law ought not, indeed, to be presumed
obsolete; upon slight pretences ; but, on the other hand,
a total disuse, for a long period of time, may be justly
considered as a sufficient reason for not carrying into
«ffi&ct a disrespected and neglected ordinance.

^ D.l.l.t.3.L3S.p.l.

40 UCTURES ON LAlr. '

^^ It has happeiied to the law^ as to other productions
jof human invention, particularly those which are closeljr
connected with the transactions of mankind, that the
, changes wrought by a series of years have been gradu-
ally rendering many parts of it obsolete; so that the
systems of one age have bepome the objects of mere
historick remembrance in the next. Of the numerous
volumes that compose a lawyer's library, how many arc
consigned to oblivion by the revolutions in opiniqps. and
practice ; and what a small part of those, which are. still
considered as in use, is necessary for the purposes of
common business 1" *

There are some great eras, when important and very
perceptible alterations take place in the situation of men
and things : at such eras, the accommodating principle^
which we have so often mentioned, will introduce simi-
lar and adequate alterations in the rules and practice of
the common law. Such considerable changes, together
with their extensive influences, diffuse, over many parts
of the system, a new air and appearance. At some of
:^ose eras, the improvement is as rapid as the change is
gfe^w. Why should not the present age in America,
form onetsC those happy eras \

During many — ^very many revolving ceiituries, the
common law has been the peculiar and the deserved fa-
vourite of the people of England. It suffered much, as
we have seen, from the violence of the Norman con-
quest i but it still continued the theme of their warmest
praise, and the object of their fondest hopes. Its com-
plete restoration was the burthen, of every memorial, and

^ !• Reeve. Pre£ 1. Roll. Prtt 3— 5,

I.ECTURES OK LAW. 41

the prayer of every petition. The knowledge of this
law formed a considerable part of the little learning of
the early and unenlightened ages.

Those, who had received the best education, says
Selden^ in his disiertation on Fleta, ^ applied themselves
assidsB^usly to the study of the ancient £ngli$h laws and
mamaers, which related to government and t{ie adminis-
traction of civil affairs. From such characters judges
and licensed advocates were selected. These liArs and
manners were taught in the private families of the most
iflustrioos cbaittcterB of the kingdom, in monasteries, in
colleges^ in universities. They had no acquaintance
with ihe Theodosian or Justinian codes. They taught
only the manners of our ancestors, and that law, which,
even before the period of which we speak, and down to
our own times, is kown by the name of the common
law of England.

•

The affectionate manner, in which the great and good
LtOrd Chief Justice Hale speaks of this law, recom-
mends it and him with equal warmth. He introduces
it — as the common municipal law of the kingdom — as
the superintendent of all the particular laws known in
any of the courts of justice— as the common rule for the
administration of publick affairs in that gr^at kingdom—-
as the object, of which that great kingdom had been al«
ways tender ; and with great reason ; not only because it
is a very just and excellent law in itself ; but also be-
cause it is singularly accommodated to the frame of the
English government, and to the disposition of the Eng-
lidi nation. As such, it is by a long ejcperience, iacor-

y c 7. s. T»

vox,* II. G

^

451 rECTURES OH LAW.

«

porated into their very temperament, and has become
the constitution of the English commonwealth. ^

In the natural body, diseases will happen ; but a due
temperament and a sound constitution will, by degrees,
work out those adventitious and accidental diseases, and
will restore the body to its just state and situation* So
is it in the body politick, whose constitution is animated
and invigorated by the common law. When, through
the «nburs, or distempers, or iniquities of men or times,
the peace of the nation, or the right order of govern*
ment have received interruption ; .the common law has
wrought out those errours, distempers^ and iniquities i
and has reinstated the nation in its natural and peaceful
state and temperament.

The best kings of England have been, always jealous
and vigilant to reform what has, at any time, beeh found
defective in that law; to remove all obstacles, which
could obstruct its free course ; and to support, counte-
nance, and encourage it, as the best, the safest, and the
truest rule of justice in all matters, criminal as well as
civil. •

We have seen bow much the common law has been
loved and revered by individuals, by families, and by
the diiferent seminaries of education throughout £ng.
land : let us now see how much it has been respected by
even the legislative power of the kingdom.

On a petition to parliament .for redress,, in the thir*
teenth year of Richard the second, the following re*

> Hale. WmL 44. » Hale-Hist 44. 45.

LECTURES ON LAW. 4^

ttiarkable judgment of parliament is entered-— It appeara
to the lords of parliament, that the petition is not a pro-
per petition to parliament ; since the matter contained in
k ought to he deterawaed by the common law: and*
therefore, < it vr^ .awarded, that the party petitioning
should take nothing by his suit in parliament ; because he
might sue at common-law, if he thought proper. ^

We tiave viewed, in a number of instances^ the aew
commodatiag spirit of the common law. In' other in-
stances its temper is decided and firm. The means are
varied according to times and circumstances; but the
^eat ends of liberty are kept steadily and constantly in
view, ; ■ • ' •

Its foundations, laid in the most remote, antiquity,
4iave mot been overtomed by the successive invasions, or
migrations, or revolutions which have taken place. The
reason has been already hinted at : it contains the com-
mon dictates of nature, refinecT by wisdom and experi-
ence, as occasions offer, and cases arise.

In all sciences, says my Lord Bacon, ^ they are the
soundest, that keep close to particulars. Indeed a sci-
ence appears to be best formed into a system, by a num-
ber of instance^ drawn from observation and experience,
and reduced gradually into general rules ; still subject,
however, to the^ successive im*provements, which future
observation or experience may suggest to be proper.
The natural progress of the human mind, in the acqui- '
sition of knowledge, is from particular facts to general
principles. This progress is familiar to all in the busi-
ness of life ; it is the only one, by which real discoveries

b Hale. Hist. 46. 47. "^ 4. Ld. Bac 5.

44 LECTURES ©N !« Air. »

kav^ been made in philosophy ; an^ kis the one, -whieh
has directed and superkitesded the ii^smration of the
common law. In this view, cottmion law, Hk^ natutfid
philosophy, when propei^ly sl^idMl, b a sdenoe faiuido41
<m experiment. The latter mt in^Hrov«ii"and establifiheii
by carefully and wisely attending^ to ttie phenometia ef
the material world ; the former, by aKtendiag, in the stolid
manner, to those of man and socie€y. Hence, in both^
the most regular aond unikviating principles will befeund,
on accurate investigation, to guide and x^^atpci the modt
diversified and disjointed appelMnces.

( f • •

* t

How steadily and how effectually has the spirit c^
Fiberty animated the common law, in all the vicissitudcfs,
revolutions, and dangers, to which that system has been
exposed ! In matters of a civil naturen, tieat^ystrar w^rictr
Jisetf pure by rules drawu from the'^omntaUl of justice f
m matters of a political natdre,' it '^worki itself pure \yf
rides drawn from the fountain of freedom.

It was this spirit, Vrfiich dictated the frequent atid
formidable demands on the Norman princes, for the
complete restoration of the Saxon jurifiprudaiee : it
was this spirit, which,* in magna charta, manifested a
strict regard to the rights of the commons, as well as to
those of the peerage : it was this spirit, which extracted
sweetness from all the bitter contentions between the
rival houses of Lancaster and York : it was this'spirit,
which preserved England from the haughtiness of the
Tudors, and from the tyranny of the Stuarts: it was
this spirit, which rescued the States of America from
the ojqiressive claims, and from all the mighty eSorts:
made to enforce the oppressive claims, of a British
parliament.

LECTURES ON LAW. 4S

Tlie common law of England, says my Lord Coke^i
is a social system of jurisprudence ; she receives other
laws and systems into a friendly correspondence: she
associates to herself those, who can comnmnicate to her
information, or ^ive her advice and assistance. Does a
question arise before her, which properly ought to bo
resolved by the law of nations? By the information
received fk'Otil that law, th^ question will be decided:
for the law of liatidhs, is, in its full extent, adopted by the
Common law, and deemed and treated as a part of the
law of the Ismd. Does a mercantile question occur?
It is det^mined by the law of merchants. By that law^
controversies oencetning bills of exchange, freight, bot-
tomry, and eilsurtmces receive their decision* That law
is indeed a ^rt of the law of nations ; but it is peculiarly
iq>propriated to the sifbjeets before mentioned. Disputes
concerning pri^^es, shipwrecks, hostages, and ransom-
bills, are, under the auspices of the common law, settled
and adjudged by the s£Kme . universal rule of decision*
Does a cotitract, in litigation, bear a peculiar reference
to the local laws of any particular foreign country ? By
llie local laws of that foreign country, the common law
will direct the contract to be interpreted and adjusted*
Does a cause arise within th^ jurisdiction of the admi-
ralty ? Within that jurisdiction the civil law is allowed
its proper energy and extent,

But^ while At {knows and performs what is due to
dbets, the common law knows also and demands what
is due to herself. She receives her guests with hospitality;
but she receives them with dignity. She liberally dis-
pexfses her kindness and indulgence ;-^but, at the same

^ Rep, 28. Calvin's Case..
46 LECTyllES OK LAW.

time, she sustains, with becoming and unabating firm-
ness, the preeminent character of ;f rawer /tf^f.

There is much truth and good sense, though there is
some quaintness of expression, in the following encomium
of the common law, which I take from my Lord Coke* *
^^ If all the reason, that is dispersed into so many several
heads, were united into one, yet could he not make such
a law as the law of England is ; because by nnany sucoes*
sions of ages it has been fined and refined by an infinite
number of grave and learned men, and by long«xperience
grown to such a perfection for the. government of this
realm, as the old rule may be justly verified of it, nemi-
nem oportet esse sapientiorem legibus: no man ought
to be wiser than the law, which is the« perfection of rea-
son." Indeed, yhat we call human reason, in general^
is not so much the knowledge, or experience, or infor*
mation of any one man, as the knowledge, and experience^
and' information of many, arising from lights mutually
and successively communicated and improved.

To those, who enjoy the advantages of such a law
as has been described, I may weU, address myself in the
words of Cicero, ^> Believe me, a more ineatimaUe

« 1. Ins. 97. b.

f Mihi credite: major faxreditas venit, unicuique vestrum, a
jure et a legibus, quam ab lis, a quibus bona relicta sunt Kain, ut
perveniat ad me fimdus, testamento alkujiu £gn potiest : ut retir
neam quod meum fieu:tum sit^ sbe jare civili.non potest Quaproptor
non minus diligenter ea, qus a majoribus accepistis, publica patri-
monia juris, quam privatse rei vestrs, retinere debetis ; non solum
quod hsc jure civili septa sunt; sed etiam quod patrimoniumi
unius incommodo demittitur; jus amitti non potest sine magna
incommodo civitatis. Cic pro Ccec. c. 26*

LECTURES ON LAW. 47

inheritance descends to you from the law, than from
those who have left, or may leave you fortunes. A farm
may be transmitted to me by the will of any one : but
kt is by the law alone that I can peacefully hold what is
already my own* You ought, therefore, to retain the
publick patrimotiy of the law, which you have received
from your ancestors, with no less assiduity than you
retain your private estates ; not only because these are
fenced and protected by the law ; but for this further
reason, because the loss of a private fortune affects
only an individual, whereas the loss of the law would
be deeply detrimental to the whole commonwealth.''

Does this inestimable inheritance fol&w the, person of
the citizen; or is it fixed to the spot, on which the
citizen first happened to draw the breath df \i(^ ? On this
great question, it will be proper to consider what the
}aw of England, and, also, what the law of reason
says. Perhaps both will speak substantially the same
language.

By the common law, every man may go out of the
realm to carry on trade, or on any other occasion, which
be thinks a proper one, without the leave of the king;
and for so doing no man shall be punished. ^

We are told, however, that if the king, by a writ of
ne exeat regnunit under his great or privy seal, thinks
proper to. prohibit any one from going abroad ; or sends
a writ to any man, when abroad, commanding his return;
and, in either case, the subject disobeys; it is a high
contempt of the king's prerogative, for which the oSen*

■ *, ' ' ' ■ . ^

9 F.N,B.a5. Jenk.88.

48 LECTURES ON LAW.

der's lands shall be seized, till he return ; and then he
is liable to fine and imprisonment* ^

The discussion of this prerogative, and the cases^
in which it may be justly and usefully exerted, it is
unnecessary, for my present purpose, to undertake, or
enumerate f because if this prerogative was admitted in
the fullest extent, in which it has ever been claimed, it
would weaken neither the principles nor the facts, 01$
which my observations shall be grounded.

A citizen may leave the kingdom : . atir ali«n may enter
it. Does the former lose ? — does the latter acquire! the
Fights of citizenfhip i No. Neither dimate, nor jspil, nor
time entitle one to those rights : neither climat^ nor soiI>
nor time can deprive him of them. Citizens^ who esnl-
grate, carry with them, in their emigraJpion, their best
and noblest birthright. ^

It is remarkable, however, that, in the charters of
several of the American colonies, there is this declara-
tion, *^ that the emigrants Bind their posterity shall still
be considered as English subjects." Whether the solici*
tude of the colmiists obtained, or the distrust of the reigiw
ing sovereigns in^posed this clause, it would be super/-
fluous to inquire ; for the clause itself was equally
unnecessary and inefficient. It was imnecessary, because,
by the common law, they carried with them the rights
of Englishmen ; it was inefficient ; because, if such h^
not been the opera^iion of the common law, the KiigHit of

h 1. BL Com. 366. ChaL26.2r.

» The law is the birthright of every subject; so wherever sub-
Jecjts go, they carry thdr taws with tl«m. S.P.Wms.T'S.J

LECTURES ON LAW. 49

citizenship could not have resulted from any declaration
from the crown. A king of England can neither'confer
nor take away the rights of his subjects. Accordingly,
the charter of Pennsylvania, perhaps the most accurate
of all the charters, contains no such declaration. When
the charter of Massachusetts, soon after the revolution
of 1688, was renewed by king William, he was advised
by his law, council, that such a declaration would be
nugatory..^

As citizens, who emigrate, carry with them their
laws, their best birthright; so, as might be expected,
they transmit this best birthright to their posterity. . By
the statute 25- Edw. Ill- says my lord Bacon, which, if you
believe Hussey, is but a declaration of the common law,
all children, bom in any part of the world, if they be of
English parents, continuing, at that time, as liege sub-
jects to the king, and having done no act to forfeit the
benefit of their allegiance, are, ipso facto, naturalized- If
divers families of English men and women plant them-
selves at Lisbon, and have issue, and their descendants
intermarry among themselves, without any intermixture
of foreign blood ; such descendants are naturalized to
all generations ; for every generation is still of liege
parents, and therefore naturalized ; so as you may have
whole tribes and lineages of English in foreign countries.
Andtherefore it is utterly untrue that the law of England
cannot operate, but only within the bounds of the domi-
nions of England. ^

This great man, whose keen and comprehensive genius
wfLW and understood so much, seems to have viewed the

^ ChaL 14. 15. 1 4. Ld. Bac 192-

VOL, II, H

50 L£CTURi:S ON LAW.

principles of colonization and the situation • of colonists,
with his usual penetration and sagacity. It was his sen*
timent, that the American colonies should be guided and
governed by the common law of England. "^

It has been already observed, that there are some great
eras, when important and very perceptible alterationa
take place in the situation of men and things ; and that,
at such eras, the accommodating spirit of the common
law will introduce, into its practice and rules, corres-
ponding and adequate alterations. To the situation of
the American colonists, this observation may be applied
with singular propriety and force. The situation, in
which they found themselves in America, was, in many
important particulars, very different from that, in which
they had been before their departure from England.. The
principles of that law, under whose guidance the emigra-
tion was made, taught them, that the system, in its parti-
cular parts, must undergo changes proportioned to the
changes in their situation. This sentiment was under-
stood clearly and in its full extent. By alterations,
which, after their emigration, might be made in England,*
the obligatory principle of the common law dictated, that
they shoxild in no manner be affected ; because to such
alterations they had now no means of giving their consent. -
Hence the rule, that acts of parliament, made after the.
settlement of a colony, have, in that colony, no binding
operation.

It is highly requisite, that these great trulihs should
be stated, and supported, and illustrated in all their force
and extent.

m 3.Ld.Bac«if8t

lECTURES ON LAW. 51

The emigrants, who in the year 1620 landed near
Cape Cod, at a place, which they afterwards called New
Plymouth, had the honour of planting the first permanent
colony in New England. Before they landed, they entered
into a political association, which, on many accounts, de-
serves to be noticed in the most particular manner. It is
in these worda. " In the name of God. Amen. . We,
whose Barnes are hereunder written, the loyal subjects of
our dread sovereign lord king James, by the grace of God,
of Great Britain, France, and Ireland king, defender of
the faith, Sec having undertaken, for the glory of God and
advancement of the Christian faith, and honour of our
king and country, a voyage, to plant the first colony in
the northern parts of Virginia^ do by these presents,
soleomly and mutually, in the presence of God and of
one another, covenant and combine ourselves together
into a civil body politick, for our better ordering and
preservation, and furtherance of the ends aforesaid ; and
by virtue hereof, do enact, constitute, and frame such just
and equal laws and ordinances, from time to time, as
shall be thought most meet for the general good of the
colony, unto which we promise all due subjection and
obedience. In witness whereof, we have subscribed our
names at Cape Cod, 11th November, 1620.""

In this manner was a civil society formed^ by an ori-
ginal compact, to which every one consented, and, of
consequence, by which every one was bound. During
the infancy of the colony, we are told, the legislature con-
sisted of tlie whole body of the male inhabitants. In the
year 1639 they established a house of representatives,
composed of deputies from the several towns. These

n ChaL102.

F-^

52 LECTURES ON LAW.

representatives, in the true spirit of the principles, which
we have been delineating, determined to make the laws
of England the general rule of their government, " To
these laws," says their ancient historian, Hubbardi " they
were willing to be subject, though in a foreign land;
adding some municipal laws of their own, in such cases,
where the common and statute laws of ^England could
not well reach, and aiFord them help in emergent cases."**.
Under the foregoing compact and the principles of legis-
lation, which have been mentioned, this colony long
enjoyed all the blessings of a government, in which pru*
dence and vigour went hand in hand.^

In Virginia we see the same principles adopted and
ratified by practice. In the month of March 1662, the
assembly of that ancient dominion met : with the most
laudable intentions, it reviewed the whole body of
the laws of the colony. In this review, dieir object was,
^^ to adhere. to the excellent and often refined customs,
of England, as nearly as the capacity of the country
would admit." "*

In Maryland we behold a repetition of the same scene.
' In the month of April of the same year, the legislature
of this colony, with a spirit congenial to that of the
common law, declared, that, in all cases where the
usages of the province were silent, justice should be
administered according to the customs and statutes of
England ; ^^ so far as the court shall judge them not
inconsistent with the condition of the colony.

5> r

o Chal. 87. 88. p JA 89.

•* Id. i4S. ' Id. 360.

LECTURES ON LAW* 53

The foregoing principles were recognised even under
the arbitrary government of James the second. When
he passed a commission— ^the legality of which is not
the present subject, to carry on a temporary administra-
tion in Massachussetts, New Hampshire, Maine, Narra^
ghanset^ the commissioners were created a court of
record for administering affairs civil and criminal, so
that the forms of proceedings and judgments be conso-
nant to the English t)aws, as near as the circumstances of

the colony will admit."

>

It has been already remarked, that as the rules of the
common law are introduced by experience and custom ;
so they may be withdrawn by discontinuance and disuse.
Nuntierous instances of the conduct of the colonies set-
tled in America evince the force and ^tent of this
remark. Many parts of the common law as received in
England, a kingdom populous, ancient, and cultivated,
could receive no useful application in the new settle-
ments, inconsiderable in respect both of numbers and
improvement.

This principle is fully recognised by the learned Author
of the Commentaries on the laws of England. ^^ It hath
been held," says he, " that if an uninhabited country be
discovered and planted by English subjects ; all the
English laws then in being,, which are the birthright of
every subject, are immediately there in force. But this
must be understood with very many and very great
restrictions. Such colonists carry with them only so
much of the English law, as is applicable to their own
situation and the conditibn of an infant colony. The

8 ChaL 417.

54 I.ECTURSS ON LAW,

artificial refinements and distinctions incident to the
property of a great and commercial people, the laws of
police and revenue (such especially as are enforced by-
penalties) the mode of maintenance for the established
clergy, the jurisdiction of spiritual courts, and a multi*
tude of other provisions, arc neither necessary nor
convenient for them ; and, therefore, are not in force." '

It has been often a matter of some difficulty to
determine what parts of the law of England extended to
the colonies, and what parts were so inapplicable to
their situation as not to be entitled to reception. Ou
this, as on many other subjects, those who felt had a
right to judge. The municipal tribunals in the diflPer-
ent colonies decided the question in the controverted
instances, which were brought before them ; and their
decisions and practice were deemed authoritative evi-
dence on the points, to which they related.

ff

The advocates for the legislative power of the British
parliament over the American colonies remind us, that
the colonists were liable to the duties as well as entitled
to the rights of Englishmen ; and that, as Englishmen,
they owed obedience to their ancient legislature ; accord-
ing, as it is said, to a principle of universal equity ; that
he who enjoys the benefit shall submit patiently to aD its
inconveniences. *

It is always proper to guard against verbal equivoca-
tion J the source of the grossest errours both in opinion
and practice. That it is the duty oif some Englishmen
to pay obedience to the legislature of England, is admit*

^ 1. Bl. Com. lOr. * Chal. 15. 28.

LECTURES ON LAW. SS

ted very readily. The principles, on which this obedience
is due, have been amply illustrated in a former part of
our lectures. ^ Acts of parliament have been shown to
be binding, because they are made with the consent or
by the authority of those, whom they bind. Such English-
men, therefore, as have had an opportunity of expressing
this consent, or of exercising this authority, arc certainly
bound to pay obedience to those acts of parliament.
But is this the case with all Englishmen ? Let us know
what is meant by the term. Is it confined to those,
who are represented in parliament? In that cotifined
sense, it is conceded that they owe obedience to that
legislature. Is it extended to all those, who are entitled
to the benefits of the common law of England ? In that
extended sense, no such concession will or ought to be
made : such a concession would destroy the vital princi-
ple of all their rights— »that of being bound by no human
laws, except such as are made with their own consent.
It never is the duty of an Englishman, of one entitled
to the common law as his inheritance-— it never is the
duty of such a one to surrender the animating principle
of all his rights.

He who enjoys the benefit, it is said, shall submit
patiently to all its inconveniences. True : but do Eng-
lishmen who are not and cannot be represented in parlia-
iment, enjoy the benefit i Unquestionably, they do not.
To the inconveniences, then, they are under no obliga-
tion of submitting. This is the true inference. The
opposite inference burthens the colonists with the incon-
veniences separated from the benefit : it does more— at
burthens the colonists with the inconveniences, augment-

▼ Ante.

56 I/ECTUREft ON LAW.

ed in consequence of this very separation. When the
benefit of representation is lost ; the inconveniences will
be increased in a dreadful proportion. This reasonixig
seems to be just in theory. Let us apply to it the touch-
stone of fact.

In the journals of the house of comnsons, we find
some short notes taken of a parliamentary debate, in thp
year i621, concerning tobacco. The result of this de-
bate was a bill, which was afterwards passed into a law,
for preventing the inordinate use of tobacco. Among
other short notes on this subject, is the following 'one,
very instructive and interesting-^^" Mr. Solicitor-*-4oveth
England better than Virginia."^ To every claim of
obedience to the parliament without representation there,
the standing answer and objection ought to be, in refer*
ence to the spirit of Mr. Solicitor's honest, and, indeed,
natural declaration— ^the members' of parliament love
England better than America.

This important subject deserves to be pursued futr-
ther. Citizens, who emigrate, carry with them their
rights and liberties. When to these rights and liberties,
duties and obligations are inseparably annexed, the IslU
ter should be performed wherever the former can be
enjoyed. But, in some instances, the enjoyment of the
former becomes, from the nature and circumstances of
things, altogether impracticable. The question, which
we now consider, presents to us^ one of those instances.
Obedience to acts of parliament is, as we have seen at
large, founded on the principle of consent. Tfaat4;on-
sent isexpressed eidier personally or throu^tte m4«r

^ Chal. 72.

LBCTURES OlSf LAW. 57

diVLVti of representation. That it cannot be given per-
sonally 18 evident from the case supposed : the citizen
has emigrated to another country. - The same reason
shows, that it cannot be given through the medium of
representation. The right of representing is conferred
by the act of electing : elections for members of parlia*
Hient are held within the kingdom : at those elections,
the citizen, who has emigrated into, another country,
cannot vote. The result, then, is unavoidably this : if,
by the emigration of the citizen, the enjoyment of his
right of representatioil is necessarily lost ; the duty of
obedience, the consequence of enjoying that right, can-
not possibly arise. When the cause is removed, the ef-
fect must cease to operate.

In this plain and simple manner, from the principles,
which we have traced and established ^s the foundation
of the obligatory force of law, we prove incontestably,
that the colonists, after their emigration, were under no
obligations of obedience to the acts of the English or
British parliament. Principles, properly and surely laid,
ftre eminently useful both for detecting and confuting
errour, and for elucidating and confirming truth.

The history as well as the principles of this momen-^
tous question ought to be fully developed and known.
Il is an in^ructive, and it is- an interesting one. It has
engaged the attemion of the civilized world. It has
employed the treasures and the force of the most >e«
spectable nations. America, both North and South
ttbnost ail the £uit>pean powers, either as parties or as
neutrab, acted or waited in arms for the important and
final decisicm. On one side, it W9s worth all that it has
cost. The auspicious event we have seen and ezperien-

VOL. II. 1 ^

58 LECTU!IES ON LAW.

«

ccd. Its rise, its progress, and its merits, every citizeo,
certainly every lawyer and statesbian, in the United
States, should accurately ^now.

The dependence of the colonies in America on the
parliament of England seems to have been a doctrine
altogether unknown and even unsuspected , by the colo-
nist9 who emigrated, and by the princes with whose
consent their emigrations were made. It seems not, for
a long time, to have been a doctrine known to the par-
liament itself.

Those, who launched into the unknown deep, in
search of new countries and habitations, stiH considered
themselves, it is true, as subjects of the English mo-
harchs, and behaved suitably and unexceptioimbly in
that character ; but it no where appears, that they still
considered themselves as represented in an English par-
liameht, or that they thought the authority of the En*
glish parliament extended over them. They took pos-
session of the country in the king's name : they treated,
or made war with the Indians by his authority : they es-
tablished governments under his prerogative, as it was
then understood, or,' as it was also then understood, by
virtue of his charters. No application, for those pur-
poses, was made to the parliament : no ratification of the
charters or letters patent was solicited from that assem-
bly, as is usual in England, with regard to grants and
franchises of much less importance.

My Lord Bacon's sentiments on this subject ought t6
have great weight' with us. . His immense genius, his
universal learning, his deep insight into the laws and
constitution of England, are well known and much adr

LECTURES ON LAW. 59

mired. Besides ; he lived at that very time when the
^settlement.and the improvement of the American plan-
tations began to be seriously pursued, and successfully
to be carried into execution. Plans for the government
and regulation of the colonies were then forming ; and
it is from the first general idea of those plans that we
can best unfold, with precision and accuracy, all the
more minute and intricate parts of which they after-
wards consisted. ^^The settlement of colonies," says
he, " must proceed from the option of those who will
settle them, else it sounds like an exile : they must be
raised by the leave and not by the command of the king.
At their setting out, they must have their commission
or letters patent from the king, that so they may ac«
knowledge their dependency upon the crown of England,
and under his protection." ^^ They must still be subr
jects of the realm." ^^ In order to regulate all the in-
conveniences, which ' will insensibly grow upon them,"
he proposes, that the king should erect a subordinate
council in England, whose care and charge shall be, to
advise and put in execution all things, which shall be
fppnd fit for the good of these new plantations ; who,
upon all occasions, shall give an account of their pro-
ceedings to the king or to the council board, and from
them receive such directions as may best agree with the
government of that place. ^ It is evident from these
quotations, that my Lord Bacon had no conception, that
the parliament would or ought to interpose, either in the
settlement or in the government of the colonies.

We have seen the original association of the society,
who made the first settlement in New England. In that

» 1. Ld. Bac. 725. 726.

60 LECTURES ON LAW« ^

instrument, they acknowledge tliemselves(,tbe loyal sfib-
jects of the kingj and promise all due subjection said
obedience to the colony : but we hear nothing concerning,
the parliament. Silence is sometimes, expressive : k
seems to be strongly so in this instance.

About sixty years afterwards, and during the reign of{
Charles the second, the general court of that colony exhi-
bit the following natural account of the principles, on
which the first settlement was made. ^^ The fii*st corner^
here," say they, "having first obtained leave of Wng
James, of happy memory, did adventure, at their own
proper costs and charges, through many foreseen and
diterwards felt sufferings, to break the ice^ and settle^the
first English plantation in this then uncultivated remote
part of your dominions. We have had now near abaa|
sixty years lively experience of the good consistency of
the order of these churches with civil goyeniment smd
order, together with loyalty to kingly government and
authority, and the tranquillity of this colony. May it
therefore please your most excellent majesty to favour us
with your gracious letters patent for our incorporation
into a body politick, with singular the privileges as your
majesty has been accustomed to grant to other cplonies,
so to your majesty's colony of Connecticut." ^ Still no
inention is made of parliament : still no application is
made to that body. These omissions could not have been
owing to accident : they must have been intentional. Be<p
fore this time, the pretensions of parliament, during the
existence of the commonwealth, had been both known
and felt ; and, at this time, must have been remembered.

r Chal. 106. lor.

LECTURES ON LAW.^ 61

By tlie charter of Rhode Island, granted in the four^
teenth year of Charles the second, the king grants and
confirms all that part of his dominions in New England
in America, containing the Narraghanset Bay, and coun*
tries aQ«l parts adjacent, &c. Here, also, no notice if
taken of the parliament.

The following transactions relating to Virginia, exhi«
bit, in a very striking point of view, the sentiments both
of the king and of the colonists, concerning the interfe*
rence of parliament with the business of colonial adnunis*
tration. Sir William Berkely, who, in the year 1639,
was appointed govemour of that colony, was, among other
things, directed to summon the burgesses of all the plan-
tations, who, with the goveroour and council, should con*
stitute the grand assembly, with power to ^ake acts for
the government of the colony, as near as may be to the
laws of England.

A discontented party in Virginia contrived, in what
particular manner is not mentioned, to have a petitioa
presented, in the name of the assembly to the house of
commons, praying a restoration of the ancient patents and
corporation government. .The govemour, the council
and the burgesses no sooner heard of a transaction so
contrary to truth and their wishes, than they transmitted
an explicit disavowal of it to England ; and, at the sam«
time, sent an address to the king, acknowledging his
bounty and favour towards them, and earnestly desiring
to continue under his immediate protection. In that
address, they desired that the king would, under his royal
signet, confirm their declaration and protestation against
the petition presented, in their names, to the house of
commons, and transmit that confirmation to Virginia.
LECTURES ON LAW.

The king expresses strong satisfaction with this address ;
declares that their so earnest desire to continue under hii
immediate protection is very acceptable to him ; and in-
forms them, that he had not before the least intention to
consent to the introduction of any company over the
colony J but that he was much confirmed in his former
resolutions by the address ; since he would think it very
iniproper to change a form of government, under which
his subjects there received so much content and satisfac-
tion. He transmits to them, under his royal signet, his
Approbation of their petition and protestation. *

In the colony of Massachussetts, the famous navigation
act, made by the English parliament, met with a strong
and steady opposition. It was not enforced by the
govemour annually chosen by the people, whose interest
it was that it should not be observed. Of consequence, no
custom house was established. The colony carried on the
greater part of the trade of the plantations to every quarter
of the globe : and vessels from* every European coun-
try, from Frahce, from Spain, from Italy, from Hol-
land, were crowded together in the harbour of Boston.
This prosperous situation excited the envy and the
jealousy of the mercantile and manufacturing interests
in England. These principles produced, from the mer-'
chants and manufacturers, a representation to Charles
the second; in which they prayed, that the colonies
might receive no supplies but from England; and that the
subjects of New England might be compelled to trade
according to law. When information of these measures
was transmitted to Massachussetts by her agents in En-
gland ; the general court avowed the conduct of the

> Chal. 121. 122. 133. 134.

X£CTtrit£B ON JLAW. 63

colony; justified that conduct in point of legality; and
stated the sacrifice which it was willing to make of its
interests, though not of its rights. It acknowledged
that no regard had been paid to the laws of navigation*
It urged that those laws were an invasion of the rights
and privileges of the subjects of his majesty in that colony,
they not being represented in the parliament ; because^
according to the usual sayings of the learned in the law,
the laws of England were bounded within the four seas,
and did not reach Amerioa; but that, as his majesty
had signified his pleasure, that those laws should be observ-
ed, it had made provision, by an ordinance of the colony,
which obliged masters of vessels to yield faithful obe-
dience, and commanded officers to see them stricdy
observed*

A letter written in the year 1698 from govemour
Nicholson of Maryland to the board of trade shows that
the sentiments of the colony of Massachussetts, with
regard to the authority of acts of parliament, had, when
the letter was written, become general in the colonies.
*^ I have observed that a great many people in all these
provinces and colonies, especially in those under propri-
etaries, and the two others under Connecticut and
Rhode Island, think that no law of England ought to be
in force and binding to them without their own consent :
for they foolishly say they have no representatives sent
from themselves to the parliament of England : and they
look upon all laws made in England, that put any restraint
upon them, to be great hardships,'^

» Cbal. 40a 407. 408* ^ ChaL 443. 443.

CHAPTER XIII.

OF THE MATURE AND PHILOSOPHY OF EVIDEK.d^

11« VIDENCE is a subject of vast and extensive impor-
tance in the study and practice of the law : it is of vast and
extensive importance, likewise, in the business and gene-
ral management of human aflfairs.

*' Experience,'' says Sir William Blackstone, " will
abundantly show, that above a hundred of our law suits
arise from disputed facts" — and facts are the objects of
evidence — ^^ for one where the law is doubted of. About
twenty days in the year are sufficient, in Westminster
Hall, to settle, upon solemn argument, every demurrer
or other special point of law, that arises throughout the
nation. But two months are annually spent in deciding
the truth of facts, before six distinct tribunals, in the
several circuits of England, exclusive of Middlesex and
London, which afibrd a supply of causes much more than
equivalent to any two of the largest circuits*"*

• 3. Bl. Com. 330.

vol.. lU K

66 LECTURES OH LAW. '

But evidence is not confined^ in its operation and im*
portance, to the courts of justice* Its influence on the
human mind, human manners, and human business is
great and universal. In perception^ in consciousness, in
remembrance, belief always forms one ingredient* Bvit
belief is governed by evidence. In every action which
is performed with an intention to accomplish a particular
purpose, there must be a belief that the action is fit^d for
the accomplishment of the purpose intended. So large a
share has belief in our reasonings, in our resolutions^ and
in our conduct, that it may well be considered as the
main spring, which produces and regulates the move-^
ments of human life;*

In a subject of so great use and extent, it is highly
necessary that our first principles be accurate and weK
founded. It is, however, matter of just and deep regret,
that very, little has been said, and that still less has been
satisfactorily said, concerning the sound and genuine
sources and principles of evidence. *' An inquiry," says
Eden, in his Principles of penal law, ^ into the general
rules and maxims of evidence, is a field still open to
investigation. For the considerations of some very in-
genious writers on this subject have been too much influ-
enced by their acquiescence in personal authority, and
we are furnished rather with sensible and useful histories
of what the law of evidence actually is, tlum with any free
and speculative disquisition of what it ought to be." ^
The truth is, I may add, that the philospphy, as well as
•the law of evidence b a field, which demands and which
is susceptible of much cultivation and improvement.

b Eden 164. 165,

LJBCTURES ON X.AW. 67

^^ Evidence^ m legal understapding,'' says my Lord
Coke, ^^ doth aot only contain matters of record, as letters
patent, fines, recoveries, enrollments, and the like ; and
writings under seal, as charters and deeds ; and other
writings without seal, as court rolls, accounts, which are
called evidences, instrumental but, in a larger sense, it
conUuneth also UtMtimonia^ the testimotiy pf witnessiss, and
either proofs to be produced and given to a jury, for the
finding of any issue joined between the parties. And it
is called evidence, because thereby the point in issue is
to be made evident to the jury. Probationes debent esse
evidentes (id est) perspicuse et faciles intelligi.'* ^

The learned Author of the Commentaries on the
Laws of England describes evidence as signifying that,
which demonstrates, makes clear, or ascertains the truth
of the very fact or point in issue, either on the one side or
on the other.

When we are informed that it is called evidence, be-
cause thereby the point in issue is to be made evident to
the jury ; we are informed of little, if any thing, more
than an identical proposition ; and, consequently, are x^ot
enabled by it to make any considerable progress in the
atlainmeait of science*

To say that evidence demonstrates, makes clear, and
ascertains the truth of a fact, is rather to describe its
effects than its nature. Its effects, too, are described in
a numner, neither very accurate nor precise ; a3 I shall
afterwards have occasion to show more particularly.

^ 1 108.383. ^ ^ 3. BL Com. 367.

6S LECTURES OK LAW.

But the truth is, that evidence is much more easily
felt than described. We experience, though it is diffi*
cult to explain, its operations and influence. A man
may have a good eye, and may make a good use of it,
though he cannot unfold the theory of vision.

•

These reflections naturally lead us to oAe illustrious
)50urce of the propriety of a jury to decide on matters
of evidence. ^^ It is much easier," says the Marquis of
Beccaria, ** to feel the moral certaintj^'of proofs, than
to define it exactly. For this reason I think it an ex.
cellent IslWj which establishes assistants to the principal
Judge, and those chosen by lot : For that ignorance
which judges by its feelings is little subject to errour.

we

Perhaps there is no more unexceptionable mode of ex«-
pressing what we feel to be evidence, than to say-^it is
that which produces belief.

Belief is a simple operation of the mind. It is an
operation, too, of its own peculiar kind. It cannot^
therefore, be defined or described. The^ appeal for its
nature and existence, must be made to the experience,
which every one has of what passes within himself. This
experience will, probably, inform him, that beKef arises
from many different sources, and admits of all possible
degrees, from absolute certainty down todotibt an'd sus-
picion.

The love of system, and of that unnatural kind of
uniformity to which systen. is so much attached, has done
immense mischief in the theory of cvidenc^. It has been

A

« Bee c. 1% p, 39.

LECTURES ON LAW. , 69

long the aim and labour of philosophers to discover some
common nature, to which all the different species of
evidence might be reduced. This was the great object
of the schools in their learned lucubrations concerning
the criterion of truth. This criterion they endeavoured
to find from a minute and artificial analysis of the se-
veral kinds of evidence ; by means of which they ex-
pected to ascertain and' estaUish some common quality,
which might be applied, with equal propriety, to all.
I>es Cartes placed this criterion of truth in clear and
distinct perception, f ftnd laid it down as a maxim, that
whatever we clearly and distinctly perceive to be true,
is true. The meaning, the truth, and the utility of
this maxim seem to be all equally problematical.

This criterion of truth was placed by Mr. Locke in a
perception of the agreement or disagreement of our
ideas. This, indeed, is the grand principle of his .phi-
losophy, and he seems to consider it as a very important
discovery. ** Knowledge," says he, " seems to me to
be nothing but the perception of the connexion and agree*
ment, or disagreement and repugnancy of any of our
ideas. In this alone it consists^ For since the mind,
in all. its thoughts and reasonings, hath no other imme-
diate object but its own ideas, which it alone does or
can contemplate ; it is evident, that our, knowledge is
only conversant about them."* " We can have no know-
ledge farther than we have ideas. We can have no
knowledge farther than we have perception of that agree-
ment or disagreement."** ^

^ We give the same of evidence to a clear and distinct view cf
things and of their relations. 1. BurL 8.

8 Locke on Und. b. 4. c. 1. ^ Id. b. 4. c. 3.

•

*

TO

lectuAes ok law.

In order to perceive whether two ideas agree or
agree, they mtist be compared together : Accordkig to
this hypothesis, therefore, all knowledge must arise iTom
the comparison of ideas.

Let us try this hypothesis by applying it minutely and
carefully to a principle of knowledge allowed by all
philosophers— and the only one allowed by all pMloso*
phers — ^to be sound and unexceptionaUe : I mean the
principle of consciousness : — I mean, fulher, the most
clear and simple appeal, which can possibly be made to
that clear and simple principle, / thini. This has always
been admitted to form a principle' and a part of know-
ledge. According to the hypodiesis of. Mr. Locke, this
knowledge must be nothing but the perception of the
agreement-^for disagreement caimot enter into the ques*
tion here—between ideas. . What are the ideas to be
compared, in order that the agreement may be disco*
vered i /and thought f Let us grant every indulgence^
and suppose, for a moment, that existence and though
are nothing more than ideas; and then let us see how
the comparison of ideas, and how their agreement in
consequence of their comparison, will stand.

How is the knowledge of this truth— ^' I think"— -drawn
frmn the perception of any agreement between the idea
at me and the idea of thought ? When I think, I am
conscious of thinking; a,nd this consciousness is the
clearest and most intimate knowledge. But does this
consciousness arise from the perception of agreement
between the idea of me and the idt^Lot th^ghtf No»
From Mr. Locke's own system, no such knowledge can
arise from the perception of any such agreement : be-
cause the agreement does not, at all times, take place*

lecture's on law* 71

^^ The mind" says he, ^^ can sensibly put on, at several
times, several degrees of thinking, and be sometimes,
even in a waking man, so remiss,' as to have thoughts
dim and obscure to that degree, that they are very little
removed from none at all ; and, at last, in the dark retire-
moits of sound sleep, loses the sight, perfectly, of all ideas
whatsoever* ^ The knowledge, then, of this truth, that
/ thinks does not arise from the perception of any agree-
ment between the idea me and the idea of thought; since,
according to Mr. Locke's own account of the matter,
ihsLt agreement does not always subsist*

Let us try this hypothesise—that knowledge is the per-
ception of the agreement or disagreement of our ideas—
by another instance ; and let us attend to the result* , I
perceive a small book in my hand. My faculty of seeing
gives me not merely a simple apprehension of the book ;
it gives me, likewise, a concomitant belief or knowledge of
its existence ; of its shape, size, and distance. By the
perception of the agreement of what ideas, is this know-
ledge or belief acquired? This belief is inseparably
connected with the perception of the book ; and does
not arise from' any perception of agreement between the
idea of the book, and the idea of myself.

I remember to have dined a few days ago with a
psurticular company of friends. This remembrance is
accompanied with clear and distinct belief or knowledge.
How does this belief or knowledge arise i Is it from the
perception of agreement between ideas ? Between what
ideas i Between the idea of mcy and die idea of my

J|[<

friends f This agreement, I presunie^ ^''V^ hw^ been

Locke on Und.hi 3.C.19.8.4

72 LECTURES ON LAW.

the same, whether we had dined together or not. Is it
from the agreement between the idea of me and the idea
of dining ? But how, from this agreement, will the
knowledge of dining with my friends arise ? On thia
state of the supposition, I might have dined with stran->
gers or with enemies.

Let us examine the future, as we have examined the
past. If a certain degree of cold freezes water noinr,
and has been known to freeze it in all times past ; we
believe, nay, we rest assured, that the same degree of
cold will continue to freeze the water while the cold
continues ; and returning, will be attended with the same
eiFect, in all times future. But whence does this belief
or assurance arise ? Does it arise from the comparison of
ideas — ^from the perception of their agreement ? When
I compare the idea of cold with that of water hardened
into a transparent solid body^ I can perceive no con-
nexion between them : no man can show the one to be
the necessary effect of the other: no one can ^ve a shadow
of reason why nature has conjoined them. But fronti
experience we learn that they have been conjoined in
times past ; and this experience of the past is attended
with a belief and assurance, that those connexions, in
nature, which we have observed in times past, will con-
tinue and operate in times to come. ^

We now see, that our knowledge, which proceeds
from consciousness, from the senses, from memory, and
from anticipation of the future occasioned by experience
of the past, ^ses not from any percepti<m of the agree-

ment or disajppement.of our ideas. These stre important

1" Reid'slnq.437.438.

LECTURES ON LAW. 73

%

parts of our knowledge : the evidence, upon which these
parts of our knowledge is founded, is an important part
of the system of evidence. All, however, rests on prin*
ciples, very different from that which is assigned by Mr.
Locke, as the sole principle of knowledge. We may
go farther still, and say, if knowledge consists solely in
the perception of the agreement or disagreement of ideas,
there can be no knowledge of any proposition, which
does not express some agreement or disagreement of
ideas ; consequently, there can be no knc^vledge of any
proposition, which expresses either the existence, or
the attributes, or the relations of things ; which are not
ideas. If, therefore, the theory of ideas be true, there
can be no knowledge of any thing else : if we have
knowledge of any thing else, the theory of ideas must be
unfounded. For the knowledge of any thing else than
ideas must^se from something eke than the perception
of the agreement or disagreement of ideas. ^

This principle, assigned by Mr. Locke, that know-
ledge is nothing but a perception of the agreement or
disagreement of pur ideas, is founded upon another—
the existence of ideas or images of things in the mind.
This theory I have already had an opportunity of consi-
dering, and I shall not now repeat what I then delivered
at some length. I then showed, I hope, satisfactorily,
that this theory has no foundation in reason, in conscious-
ness, or in the other operations of our minds ; but that,
on the contrary, it is manifestly contradicted by all these,
and would, in its necessary consequences, lead to the
destruction of all truth, and knowledge, and virtue ;
though those consequences were, by no means, foreseen

^ Reid's Ess. Int. 553.

VOL. II. L

f4 LJKCTURKS ON I«AW«

by MjT* Locke, and many aucceeding pMIosopbers, who
]»ave adopt€4t ^^ ^tiU adopt, hi& theory concerning tho
eziateaco of ideaft or imag<^ of things in the mind*

If tins theoiy has, as we have shown it to have^
BO ibundation«-«4f these ideas have, as we have shown
them to have, bo existence ; then Mr< Locke's geeat
jprinciple, which represents knowledge and belief, aod
consequendy evidence, upon which knowkdge aBd be*
lief are grounded, as consisting in the perception of the
agreement or disagreement of those ideas, must tUmblo
in ruins, like a superstructure, whose bams has been
undermjjuMi and removed*

It is nevertheless true, that, in our law books^ the
general principlea of evidence, ao far as any ]M>tice>i8
taken of generd priafiiplea on thb suliject, are referred,
for their sole support, to the theory of Mr. Loeke«
This will appear obvious to any one who is acquainted
with diat theory, and peruses the first pages of my Lord
Chief Barofi Gilb^it's Treatise ixpon Evidauie. This
unfolds the reason why I have esmployed so much paiaa
to eaqK>se a&d remove the sandy and unsound feuodatioo^
on which the principleft of the law of evidence have bees
placed*

Let us now proceed to erect a fabrick on a different
mid a surer basis^-^the basis of the human mind.

I am, by no means, attached to mmierQus and unne*^
cessary distinctions j but^ on some occasions, it iaprc^r
to recollect the rule^ ^' qui bene distinguit, bene doce)U"
It is possible to blend, as well as to distinguish^ impro-
perly* Nature should- idwaya km consulted. We are

I.fiC:T171l£S ON LAW. T5

f

«ttie> when 'Wt imitate het in her vtrtous, as well as
^rhen we imitate her in her uniform appearances. By
foQowing her as our guide, we can trace evidence to the
foUowmg fourteen distinct sources.

I. It arises frcmi the eictemal senses : and by each of.
Aese, 4fotfnct information is comney^d to ^ mind.

I

II* It arises from consciousness ; or ^tt internal view
of what passes within ourselves.

IlL It arises from ^ttte; or that powei^ of die hmnaii
mind, by which we perceive and enjoy the heauties of
nature or of art.

IV. it arises from the motei sense ; or that fisu^tdty of
the mind,, by which we have the trnginal conceptions of
right and wrong in conduct ; • and the original perceptions,
diftt eettam thii^ are right, and that others are wrong.

V« Evidence arises from natural signs : by these we
'gain our imowledge of the minds, said of the various qua*
l)lie4 and operations of die minds, of other men. Their
thoughts, and purposes^ and dispositions have their natural
signs in the features of the countenance, in the tones of
the vcnce, and in the motions and gestures of the body.

VI. Evidence arises from artificial signs; such as
have no meaning, except that, which is affixed to them
by compaet, or agreement ^ or usage : such is language,
wittcfa has been em{doyed universal^ for the purpose of
eommiMkating diought. '

VIL Evidence aritSes from human testimony inmaiiB
ters of fact.

^6 tSCTURES OK LAW.

VIII. Evidence arises from human authority in m«&«
tcrs of opinion.

IX. Evidence arises from memory, or a reference to
Eiomething whichs is past*

k

X. Evidence arises from experience ; as nrhen, from
facts already known, we make inferences to facts of the
9i2m^ kind, unknown:

XI. Evidence arises fi*om analogy ; as when, from facts
already known, we make inferences to facts of a simikir
l^nd, not known.

XII. Evidence arises from judgment; by which I
here mean that power of the mind, which decides upon
truths that are selfevident.

XIII. Evidence arises from reasoning: byTeasoning^
I here mean that power of the mind, by which, from
one truth, we deduce another, as a condition from the
first. The evid^ce, which arises from reasoning, we
shall, by and by, see divided into two species— nlemoii-
strative and moral.

XIV. Evidence arises fit>m calculations concerning
chances. This is a particular application of demonstrative
to ascertain the precise force of moral reasoning.

Even this enumeration, though very long, is, pexhaps^,
far from being complete. Amcmg ^1 those different
kinds of evidence, it 4s, I believe, impossible to find any
common nature, to which they can be reduced. They
agree, indeed, in this one quality^— which constitutes

LECTUAE8 OK LAW* 77

* '

them evideiice«-^that they are fitted by nature to produce
beUef in the human mind.

It will be proper to make some observations concern-
ing each of the enumerated kinds of evidence. In the
business of life, and, consequently, in the practice of a^
kiwyer or man of business, they all occur more frequently
than those unaccustomed to consider them are apt to
imagine. .

I. The truths conveyed by the evidence of the exter-
nal senses are the first principles, frocm which we judge
and reason with regard to the material world, and from
which all our knowledge of it is deduced.

The evidence furnished even by any of the several
external senses seems to have nothing in common with
tiiatiumished by each of the others, excepting that single
quality before mentioned. The evidence of one sense
may be corroborated, in some instances ; and, in some
instances, it may be corrected, by that of another sense,
when both seases.convey information concerning the same
object; but still the information conveyed by each ia
clearly perceived to be separate and distinct* We may
be assured that a. man is present, by hearing and by see-
ing him ; but the evidence of the eye is nevertheless dif-
ferent £rom the evidence of the ear.

In the sacred history of the resurrection, a beautiful
and empl»tical reference is had to this distinct but cor-
respondiagand reciprocally corroborating evidence of the
senses, by him, by. whom our nature was both made and
assumed. ^^ Behold^^^ says he, to his trembling and doubt-
ing disciples, who supposed they had seen a spirit, ^' Be*

TB LECTURES OK X.AW.

htfld my hands and 1117 feet, that it is I ^^telf ; kanMe
me, and see ; for a spirit has not flesh and boiies as you
see me have : And when he had thus spoken, he showed
them his hands and his feet." ^ To the unbelieving
Thomas, he is stilt more {)articular in Us appeal to the
,jeviden<^e of the senses, and in the manner, in^ which the
appeal should be made. ^^ Reach hither thy finger and
hhold my hands ; and reach hither diy hand, and thrvgt
it into my side ; and be not faithless, but believing." ^

Many philosophers of high sounding fanie, deeming
it inconsistent with their character to believe, when th^
could not furnish an argument for belief, have endeavoutw
ed, with much learned labour, to suggest proofs for the
doctrine— -tthat our senses ought to be trusted. But their
proofs are defective, and shrink &om the touch of rigid
rsamination* Other philosophers, of no 4efl» briUiant
reno#n, have clearly and unansweraUy discov^ered Kid
expose^ the fallacy of those pretended proofs: so £ie
they have done weU: but very unwisely they have a6f
tempted to do more : th^ have aittempted toovertum
our.bdief in the evidence of our senses, beeawae the n*
guments adduced on die other side to prove its tmds
were shown to be defective and fallacious. From ha«
man najtiure an e^ual depaitiure is made on both sidei* It
appeals not to reascm for any argument in siqiport of oiur
belief in the evidence of our senses : but it determintts us
to believe them.

II. Consciousness furmshes us with the mesfk ai»|faen«i
tick and the moat indubitable evidence of eveay thiiis
which 'passes within our ow9 miade. This souxce «£

•» Luke XXIV. 39. 4a •Ma XX. ST.

ItEGTURES ON LAW« 79

cvid^ftce layii open to our view aQ our ptrceptioiw and
xaental powers ; md, coiisequeQtly, forms a necessary
ingredient in all evidence arising from every other source.
Xhere csax be no evidence of the objects of the senses^
without perception of them by the mind : there can be
no evidence of the perception of them by the mind, with"
out consciousness of that perception. When we see, and
feely alid think, coosciouuiess gives us the most certain
informatics that we thus see, and feel, and think. This,
as has been observed on a former occasion, is a kind of
evidence, the force and authenticity of which has never
been called in question by those, who have been most
tBclmed to dispute every thing else^ except the evidence
of reasoning*

HI. I mentioned taste, or that power of the tnind by
mdach we perceive and enr^ the beauties of nature and
art,. a» one of the sources from which evidence arises*
This facul^, in its feeling and operations^ has something
aMdogoita t^ the impressions, and operations of our ex«
termd senses ; from one of which, it has, in onr own
and ia several other Isaiguages^ derived its metaphorical

With the stiietest propriety, taste may be catted aO/
ofigtnsd^ sense. It is a power, which fmroisfaes us with
masiy sisdple percepticma, which, to those who are desd«.
tute of it, cannot be conveyed through any other chaoneL
of information. Concerning objects of taste, it is vain
to reason or diacouise with llK>se who possess not the
first pKtneipIes oi^taste« Again ; taste is a power, wbidb^
so soon as its proper object is exhibited to it, receives ktt
perception from that object, immediately and intuttiveljr;^
it ia>Bat tarCi— Hiqaence of a chmn of argumeat, or a
LECTURES ON LAW*

deductive process of our i^easoning faculties, that ire
discover ahd relish the beauti'es of a poem or a prospect*
Both the foregoing characters belong evidently to con-
sciousness and to the external senses. All the three are,
therefore, considered, with equal propriety, as distinct
and original sources of information and evidence.
t

That it is fruitless to dispute concerning loatters of
taste has been so often said, that it has now acquired
the authority and notoriety of a proverb ; and its sug-
gestions are consequently supposed, by some, to be dic-
tated only by whim and caprice. Nothing, • however,
can be farther from the truth. The first and generid
principles of taste are not less uniform, nor less perma-
nent, ^than are the first and general principles of science
and morality. The writings of Cicero present him to
us in two very different characters — as a philosopher^
and as a man of taste. His philosophical performances
are read, and ought to be read, with very consider^le
grains of allowance ; the beauties of his oratory have
been the subjects of universal and uninterrupted admira*
tion. The fame of Homer has obtained an undisputed
establishment of near three thousand years* Has a re<^
putation equally uniform attended the philosophical,
doctriiies of Aristotle or Plato? The writings of Moses
have been admired for their subUfpnity by those, who
n^ver received them as the vehicles of sacred and eter-
nal truth. .

The first and most general principles of taste are uni*
versal as well as permanent ; it is a faulty, in some de»
gree, common to all. With youth, wHh .ig&<H'aiice^
with savageness, its rudiments arc found to dwell. It
seems not less essential to man to have some discernment

LECTURES ON LAW. 61

of the beauties both of art and nature, than it is to pos-
sesSi in some measure, the faculties of speech and rea-
fian. ^* Let no one," says Cicero, in his excellent book
de Oratore, " be surprised that the most uncultivated
mind can mark and discern these things ; since, in every
thing, the energy of nature is great and incredible.
Without education or information, every one, by a cer-
tain tacit sense, is enabled to judge and decide concern-
ing what is right or wrong in the arts. If this observa-
tion is true with regard to pictures, statues, and other
performances, in the knowledge of which they have
less assistance from nature ; it becomes much more evi-
dent and striking with regard to the judgments, which
they form concerning words, harmony, and pronuncia-
tion : for concerning these there is a common sense im-
planted in an,' of which Nature intended that no one
should be entirely devoid."**

IV. As a fourth source of evidence, I mentioned the
moral sense, or that faculty of the mind, by which we
have the original conceptions that there is a right and a
wrong in conduct ; and that some particular actions are
right, and others wrong. Without this last power of
applying our conceptions to particular actions, and of
determining concerning their moral qualities, our gene-
ral and abstract notions of moral good and evil would
be of no service to us in directing the conduct and affairs
of human life.

The moral sense is a distinct and original power c^
the humsm mind. By this power, and by this power
8<^ly^ we receive information and evidence of the first

• Ci&deOratLS. c.5Qt

VOL. II« M

82 LECTURES ON LAW.

principles of right and wrong, of merit and demerit, ^..j,*^
He, who would know the colour of any particular ^^^fiftty
must consult his eye f in vain will he consult evelry Sther
faculty upon the point. In the same manner^ he^ who
would leaxn the moral qualities of any particular action,
must xonsult his moral sense : no other faculty of the
mind can give him the necessary information.

The evidence given by our moral sense, like that
given by our external senses, is the evidence of nature ;
and, in both cases, we have the same grounds for rely-
ing on that evidence* The truths given in evidence by
the external senses are die first principles from which we
reason concerning matter, and from which all our know*
ledge of the material world is drawn. In the same
manner, the truths given in evidence by our moral facul-
ty are the first principles, from which we reason ccmcem«
ing moral subjects, and from which all our knowledge
of morality is deduced* The powers, which Nature
has kindly bestowed upon U99 are the only channels,
through which the evidence of truth and knowledge can
flow in upon our minds.

Virtuous demeanour is the duty, and should be the
aim, of every man : the knowledge and evidence of mo-
ral truth is^ therefore, placed within the reach of alL 1

Of right and wrong there are many different degrees ;
and there are also many different kinds. By the moral
faculty we distinguish those kinds and degrees. By tlie
same faculty we compare the different kinds t€>getber|
and discover numerous moral relations between them.

Our knowledge of moral philosophy, of natural ju-
risprudence, of the law of nations, must ultimately de-*

i

LECTURES ON LAW. , 83

pend, for its first principles, on the evidence and infor«
maiion of the moral sense. This power furnishes to us
the first principles of our most important knowledge.
In dignity, it is far superiour to every other power of
the human mind.

V. The fifth kind of evidence, of which I took notice,
is that, which arises from natural signs. By these, we
gain information and knowledge of the minds, and of
the thoughts, and qualities, and affections of the minds
of men. This kind of evidence is of very great and
exte^nsive importance.

We have no immediate perception of what passes in
the minds of one another. Nature has not thought it
proper to gratify the wish of the philosopher, by placing
a window in every bosom, that all interiour transactions
may become visible to every spectator. But, although
the thoughts, and dispositions, and talents of men are
not perceivable by direct and immediate inspection ;
there are certain external signs, by which those thoughts,
and dispositions, and talents are naturally and certainly
disclosed and communicated.

V
The signs, which naturally denote our thoughts, are
the different motions of the hand,^ the different modula.
tions or tones of the voice, the different gestures and
attitudes of the body, and the di£ferent looks and features
of the countenance, especially what is termed, with sin*
gular force and propriety, the expression of the eye.
By means of these natural signs, two persons, who

P To this the evidence arising from the similitude of hands may
berefinred.

84, LECTURES ON tMWk

never saw one another before, and who pomem no kiKnr*
ledge of one common artificial langimge, cim, in some
tolerable degree, communicate their thoughts and e^^en
their present dispositions to one another: they can zA
and give information : they can affirm and deny : they
can mutually supplicate and engage fidelity and protec-
tion. Of all these we have very picturesque and interest-
ing representations, in the first intervifws between
Robinson Crusoe and his man Friday; they are inte^.
resting, because we immediately perceive them to be
natural. Two dumb per^o'ns, in their intercourse toge^
ther, carry the use of these natural signs to a wonderful
degree of variety and minuteness.

We acquire information, not only c^the thoughts and
present dispositions and aifections, but also of the qimli*
ties, moral and intellectual, of the minds of others, by
the means of natural signs. The eloquence or skill of
another man cannot, themselves, become the objects of
any of our senses, either external or internal. His skill
is suggested to us by the signs of it, which appear in his
conduct : his eloquence, by those which appear in his
speech. , In the same manner, and by the s^me meanst
we receive evidence concerning his benevolence, his
fortitude, and all bis other talents and virtues*

This evidence, however^ of the thoughts, and dispo
sitions, and passions, and talents, and characters of othet
men, conveyed to us by natural signs, is neither less
satisfactory, nor less decisive upon our conduct in the
business and ailairs of life, than the evidence of external
objects, which we receive by the means of our senses.
It is no less a part, nor is it a less important p^rt^ of
our constitution, that we are enabled and determined to

LECTURES ON LAW. 85

judge of the powers and the characters of men, from the
sigtts of them, which appear in their discourse and con-
duct, than. it is that we are enabled and determined to
judge, by our external senses, concerning the various
corporeal objects, which we hfive occasion to view and
consider.

The variety, the certainty, and the extent of that
evidence, which arises from natural signs, maybe con-
ceived from what we discover in the pantomime enter-
tainments on the theatre ; in some of which, the whole
series of a dramatick tale, and all the passions and emo-
tions to which it gives birth, are represented, with
astonishing address, by natural signs. By natural signs,
likewise, the painters and statuaries infuse into their
pictures and statues the most intelligible, and, sometimes,
the most powerful expression of thought, of aifections,
mxd even of character.

Amiong tintutored nations, the want of letters is sup-
plied, though imperfectly, by the use of visible and
Jiatural signs, which fix the attention, and enliven the
remembrance of private or publick transactions. The
jurisprudence of the first Romans exhibited the pictu-
resque scenes of the pantomime entertainment. The inti-
mate imion of the marriage state was signified by the
solemnities attending the celebration of the nuptials.
The contracting parties were seated on the same sheep
skin ; they tasted of the same salted cake of far or rice.
This last ceremony is well known by the name of con*
farr^atic. A wife, divorced, resigned the keys, by the
delivery of which she had be)en installed into the govetn%
ment of domestick affairs. A slave was manumi^ed by
turning him round, and giving him a gentle stroke on the

86 LZCTURES ON LAW.

cheek. By the casting of a stone, a work was prohibited.
By the breaking of a branch, prescription was interrupted.
The clenched fist was the emblem of a pledge. The right
hand was the token of faith and confidence. A broken
straw figured an indenture of agreement. In every pay*
ment, weights and scales were a necessary formality. In
a civil action, the party touched the ear of his witness ;
the plaintiff seized his reluctant adversary by the neck,
and implored, by solemn solicitation, the assi&tance of his
fellow citizens. The two competitors grasped each other's
hand, as if they stood prepared for combat, before the
tribunal of the pretor. He commanded them to produce
the object of the dispute. They went ; they returned,
with measured steps ; and a turf was cast at his feet, to
represent the field, for which they contended, and the
property of which he was to decide. ^

In more enlightened ages, however, the use and mean*
ing of these natural and primitive signs became gradually
obliterated. But a libel may still be expressed by natural
signs, as well as by words ; and the proof of the intention
may be equally convincing and satisfactory in cases t)f the
first, as in those of the last kind.

VI. But evidence arises frequently from artificial as
-^ well as from natural signs ; from those which are settled

by agreement or custom, as well as from those which arc
derived immediately from our structure and constitution.
Of these artificial signs there are many different species,
contrived and established to answer the demands and
emergencies of human life. The signals used by flttets >

^ Consult Gib. Rom. Emp. c. 44. vol 8. p. 92. and the authorities
cited.

LECTURES ON LAW. ^7

at sea|, form a very intricate and a very intere$]ting part
of naval tacticks.

But language presents to us the most important, as
well as the most extensive, system of artificial signs, which
has been invented for the purpose of giving information
and evidence concerning the thoughts and designs of men.
I mean not that language is altogether an invention of
human art ; for*! am of opinion, that, if the first princi-
ples of language had not been natural to us, human reason
and ingenuity could never have invented and executed
its numerous artificial improvements. But of every lan-
guage, at least of every refined language now in use, the
greatest part consists of signs that are purely artificial.
The evidence of language may, therefore, with sufficient
propriety, be arranged under that kind of evidence, which
arises from artificial signs.

Natural signs, though, as we have seen, susceptible of
very considerable extent and variety, yet, when compared

I

with the almost boundless variety and combinations of
our conceptions and thoughts, have been found, in every
country, and in every period of society, altogether inade-
quate to the communication of them in such a degree, as
to accomplish, with tolerable conveniency, the necessary
ends and purposes of human life. Hence the invention
and improvement of language ; which, as has been already
observed, consists chiefly of artificial signs, contrived, at
first, in all probability, only to supply the deficiencies of
such signs as were natural ; but afterwards, as language
became refined and copious,»substituted almost entirely
in their place.

But even language, however copious and refined, is,
on ezaminatiQtn and trial, found insufficient for conveying

88 LECTURES ON LAW.

precisely and determinately all our conceptions atid dc
signs, consisting of numberless particulars, combined
into numberless forms, and related by numberless con*
nexions. • Henc€ the necessity, the use^ and the rules
of interpretation, which has been introduced into ali
languages and all laws. A most extensive field now opens
before us. But I cannot go into it. I am confined, sTt
present, to the mere outlines of the philosophy of evi-
dence. Let us therefore proceed.

VII. A seventh kind of evidence arises from human
testimony in matters of fact.

Human testimony is a source of evidence altogether
original, suggested by our constitution, and not acqui-
red, though it is sometimes corroborated, and more fire-^
quently corrected, by considerations arising from expe-
rience.

" This is very plain," says my Lord Chief Baron
Gilbert, " that when we cannot see or hear any thing
ourselves, and yet are obliged to make a judgment of it^
we must see and hear from report of others ; which is
one step farther from demonstration, which is founded
upon the view of our own senses : and yet there is that
faith and credit to be given to tlie honesty and integrity
of credible and disinterested witnesses, attesting any
fact under the solemnities and obligation of religion,
and the dangers and penalties of perjury, that the mind
equally acquiesces therein as in knowledge %• demon-
stration ; for it cannot have any more r€;ason to be doubt-
ed than if we ourselves had heard or seen it. And this
is the original of trials, and all manner of evidence." ^

^ Gilbi £v. 4.

LECTURES ON hAW^ ^9

i fihall not, at present, make any reraarks upon the
position— -that demonstration is founded on the view of
our own senses. It will be examined when I come to
consider that kind of evidence which arises from coa-
M^nmg — profaable and demonstrative. But, at present,
it is material to observe, that, in the sentiments, whidi
the very learned Judge, whose character and talents ;{
kold in the highest estimation, seems to entertain con-
cerning the source of our belief in testimony, the re-
straints which are wisely calculated, by human regula-
tions, to cheeJk^ are mistaken for the causes intended to
produce this belief. The true language of the :law, ad-
4)ressed to the native and original sentiments of the
human mind concerning testimony, is not to this purport
—If youiind a witness to be honest and upright, oredi-
•ble and disinterested : if you see him deliver hts testi-
mony under all the solemnities and obligation of reli-
gion, and aH the dangers and penalties of -perjury ; you
flftust then believe him. Belief in testimony springs, not
from the precepts of the law, but froni the propensity
x>f OUT nature. This propensity we indulge in every
moment of our lives, and in every part of our business,
without attending, in the least, to the circumspect pre-
cautions prescribed by the law.

»
Experience has found it necessary and useful, that,

at least in legal proceedings, the indulgence of this na-
tural and original propensity should be regulated and
restrained. For this purpose, the law has said, that,
unless a witness appears, as far as can be known, to be
honest and upright, credible and disinterested ; and un-
less lie delivers his testimony under all the solemnities
•and obligations of religion, and all the dangers and
penalties of perjury; you shall not— -It does not say,

vol. n. ' N

-■».,

90 XECTUMES on lAw;

ytm shall hot believe him. To pz^vont this act or ope*
ration of the mind might be impracticable on hearing
the witness: but it says«— you shall not hear him.
Aocordinglj, tvery. gentleman, in the least conversant
about law proceedings, knows very well,^ that the qualifi-
eaticms and solemnities enumerated by the learned Judge,
are requisite to the competency, not to the credibility,
of the witnes8-*--to the admission, not to the operation,
of his testimony.

The proceedings of the common law are founded oft
lo&g and sound experience ; but long and sound experi-
ence wis not be found to stand in opposition to the origi*
nal and genuine sentiments of the human mind. The
propensity to believe testimony is a natural propensity.
It is unnecessary to encourage it ; sometimes it is imprac-
ticable to restrain it. The law will not order that which
is unnecessary : it will not attempt that which is imprac-
ticable. In no case^ therefore, does it order a witness
to be believed ; for jurors are triers of the credibility
of witnesses, as well as of the truth of facts. The posi-
tive testimony of a thousand witnesses is not conclusive
-as to. the verdict* ^ The jury retain ^n indisputable,
unquestionable right to acquit the person accused, if,
in their private opinions, they disbelieve the accusers. "
In no case, likewise, does the law order a witness not
to be^ believed ; for belief might be the unavoidable
result of his testimony. To prevent that unavoidable,
but sometimes improper result, the law orders, that,
without the observance of certain precautions, which
experience. has evinced to be wise and salutary, the
witness shall not be heat^. This I apprehend to be the
true exposition and meaning of the regulations prescribed

> Eden's Pen. Law. 169. 170.

I
LECTURES OK LAW. dl

by the law, befpre a witness can be admitted to give his
testimony.

It will be pleasing and it will be instructive to trace
•und explain the harmony, which subsists between those
regulations, dius ittustrated, and the genuine sentiments of
tbe mind With regard to testimony. To discover an in*
timate connexion between the doctrines of the law and-
the just theory of human nature, is peculiarly acceptable.
Uy those, who study law as a science founded on the
science of man. ^

' In a jformer part of these lectures," I had occasion to
take notice of the quality of verafcity, and of the corre*
sponding quality of confidence; and to show the operation
and the importance of those qualities in promises, which
relate to what is to come. It is material to illustt-ate the
connexion, the importance, and the operation of the same
corresponding qualities in testimony, which relates to
what is past^

By recaHing to our remembrance what we have expe-
rienced, we find, that those, with whom we have con-
versed, were accustomed to express such and such
particular things by such and such particular words.
Biit, in strictness, experience conveys to us the know-
ledge only of what is past : can we be assured, that, in
future,, those who have it in their power to express

' Farum est jus ncMBSe, says Jostiaiatt in hils institutes (1. 1. 1 3. s.
12.) si persons, qttarum causa constitttlum est, igaorentur. Jt is
to little purpose to know the law, if we are ignorant coQcermng the
persons, for whose sake the law was constituted.

" Ante voLl.p.S98.

9% URCTURES ON LAW.

dtiferont things by the same irords, and the ^ame thing»
by diiFerent words, will, in neither manner, avail them-
selves of that power? We act, and we cannot avoid
acting, as' if we were so assured. On what foundation
do we so act i Whence proceeds this belief of the future
atid voluntary behaviour of those, with whom* we coii«-
verse ? Have they come under atiy engfige^ments to dd<
what we believe they will do i They have not; aad^ i£
they bad, what assurance could engngements convey td-
those, who pos^ssed no previous reliance on the £»sdi o£
promises I

i

There is, in the human mind, an- anticipation, an ori-
ginal conviction, that those, with whom we coavefscy wUl^
when, in future, they eatress the samp sentitnents^ whiclb
they have expressed in time past, convey those seiatisnent^
by the same language which, in- time past, thev have^
employed to convey them. There is, in the hum<tti»
mind, a farther antteipation and conviction^ that diose^
with whom we converse, will, when they express to u*
sentiments in the same language, which they have for-
merly employed Ux express them, mean, by those senti-
ments, to convey to us the truth.

The greatest and most important part oif our know*
ledge, we receive by the information of others. We are,
accordingly, endowed with the two corresponding {»:i]i-
ciples, which I have already mentiotted^ and which are
admirably fitted to accomplish the purpose, for which
they were intended. The first of them, which is » pro- .
pensity to speak the truths and to use hmguffge in sueh
a manner as to convey to others the sentiments, which
we ourselves entertain, is a principle, degenerate as W6
are apt to think humanr nature to b^, more imiformly and

I.1CTU&E8 ON LAW* 93

#

ttiofe untversally predominaQt^than is generally imagined.
To speadc as we think, and to speak as we have been ac-*
caalonied to speak, are familiar and easy to us : they
require no studied or artificial exertion: a natural impulse
is sufficient to produce them. £ven the most consummate
Bar deckores truths much more frequendy than falsehoods.
On some occasions, indeed, there may be inducements to
deceive, which will prove too powerful for the natural
principle of veracity, unassisted by honour or virtue :
but when no such inducements operate, our natural in-
stinct is, to speak the truth. Another instinct, equally
natural^ is to believe what is spoken to be true. This
principle is a proper and a usefuf counterpart to the
ibrmer.

A very different theory has been adopted by some
philosophers. No species of evidence, it is admitted by
tbem, is more common,. more useful, and even more ne*
cessary to human life, than that which is derived from
testimony. But our reliance, it is contended, on any
evidence of this kind is derived from no other principle
than our observation of the veracity of human testimony,
and of the usual conformity of facts to the reports of wit«
nesses. If it were not discovered by experience, that the
memory is tenacious to a certain degree ; that men have
commonly a principle of probity and an inclination to
truth ; and that they have . a sensibility to shame, when
detected in a falsehood^-If /it were not discovered by
experience, that these qualities are inherent inhuman
nature ; we should never repose the least confidence in
kuman testimony. ^

V 2, Hume's Ess. 119. X20.

94 I.£CTU]l£8 ON LAW.

If belief in testimony were the result only of expert*
ence ; those who have never had experience would never
" believe ; and the most experienced' would be the most
credulous of men. The fact, however, in both instances,
is precisely the reverse ; and there are wise reasons, why
it should be so. The propensity which cnildren, before
they acquire experience, discover to believe every things
that is told to them, is strong and extensive. On the
contrarj^, experience teaches those who are aged, to be*
come cautious and distrustful.

'^ Oportet discentem credere" has acquired, and just-
Jy, the force and the currency of a proverb. How many
thin'gs must children learn and believe, before they can
try them by the touchstone of experience ! The infant
mind, conscious, as it should seem, of its want of experi-
rience, relies implicitly on whatever is told it ; and re-
ceives, with assurance, the testioiony of every one, with-
cjut attempting and without being able to examine the
grounds, upon which that testimony rests. As the mind
gradually acquires experience and knowledge, it discovers
reasons for suspecting testimony, in some cases, and for
rejecting it, in others* But unless some reasons appear
for suspicion or disbelief, testimony is, through the whole
of life, considered and received as sufficient evidence to
form a foundation both of opinion and conduct.

The reasons for suspecting or- rejecting testimony
may generally be comprised under the following heads.
1. When the witness testifies to something, which ap«
pears to us to be improbable or incredible. 2. When he
shows himself to be no pompeteht judge of the matter, of
which he gives testimony. 3. When, in former instan-
ces, we have known him to deliver testimony, which has

rf

L£CtUR£S OK LAW. 9$

(

I

been false* 4. Wheti, in the present instance, we dis-
cover some strong inducement or temptation, which maj
prevail on him to deceive.

While experience and reflection, on some occasions^
diminish the force and influence of testimony, they, on
other occasions, give it assistance, and increase ^ts autho-
rity. The reputation of the witness, the manner in which
he delivers his testimony, the nature of the fact concern-
ing which his testimony is given, the peculiar situation in
which he stands with regard to that fact, the occasion on
which he is called to produce his testimony, his entire
-disintereistedness as to the matter in question— each of
these taken singly may much augment the force of his
evidence — all of these taken joindy may render that force
irresistible.

In a number ^f concurrent testimonies, there is a de-
gree of probability superadded to that, which may be
termed the ag^egate of all the probabilities of the se*
parate testimonies. This superadded probability arises
from the concurrence itself. When, concerning a great
number and variety of circumstances, there is an entire
agreement in the testimony of many witnesses, without
the possibility of a previous collusion between them, the
evidence may, in its effect, be equal to that of strict de-
monstration. That such concurrence should be the result
of chance, is as one to infinite ; or, to vary the expression,
IS a moral impossibility.

To this important kind of evidence we are indebted
for our knowledge of history, of criticism, and of many
parts of jurisprudence ; for all that acquaintance with na*
ture- and the works of nature, which is not founded on

96 LECTURES OH LAW.

our own personal observatioos and experience, but on
the attested experience and observations of others ; and
for the greatest part of that information concerning men
and things, which is necessary, if not to the mere ani->
mal support, yet certainly to the ease, comfort, improve-
ment, and hap{)iness of human life.

In the profession of the law, and in the administra-
tipn of justice, this kind of evidence acquires an import^
ance very peculiar indeed. To examine, to compare,
and to appreciate it, forms much the greatest part of the
business and duty of jurors, and a very great part of
the business and duty of counsel and judges. It is,
therefore, highly interesting to society, that the genuine
and unsophisticated principles of this kind of evidence
should be generally known and understood. From the
very cursory view which we have taken of them, it ap-
pears that the rules observed by the co^mou law, in ad-
mitting and in refusing testimony, are conformable to
the true theory of the hun^an mind, and not to the
warped hypotheses of some philosophical systems.

yill. The eighth source of evidence, which I mtn^
tioned, is human authority in matters of opinion.

" Cuilibet in suft arte perito est credendum" is one
of the maxims of the common law. Lake many other
of its maxims, it is founded in sound sense, and in hu-
man nature.

Under the former head We have aeen, th&t ttle infant
mind, inexperienced and unsuspi<:i6as, trusts itnplicid^
to testimony in matters of fact. It trusts, in the sasae
implicit manner, to auttrarity in matUfs of i9|ridion. In.

LECTURES ON LAW. 97

proportion as the knowledge of men and things is gra-*
dually obtained) the influence of authority as well as of
testimony becomes less decisive and indiscriminate* By
the most prudent, however, and the most enlightened,
it is, at no period of life, suffered to fall into desuetude
or disrepute; even in subjects and sciences, which seem
the most removed from the sphere of its operations.

Let us suppose, that, in mathematicks, the science
in which authority is justly allowed to possess the least
weight, one has made a discovery, which he thinks of
importance : let us suppose that he has ascertained the
triith of this discovery by a regular process of demon-
stration, in which, after the strictest review, he can find
no defect or mistake : will he not feel an inclination to
communicate this discovery to the inspection of a mathe-
matical friend, congenial in his studies and pursuits?
Will this inclination be prompted merely by the pride or
pleasure of making the communication? Will it not arise,
in some degree, from a very different principle — a latent
but powerful desire to know the sentiments of his friend,
not only concerning the merits, but also concerning the
certainty of the discovery ? Will not the sentiments of
his friend, favourable or unfavourable, greatly increase
or diminish his confidence in his own judgment ? A man
must possess an uncommon degree of self-sufficiency,
who feels not an increased reliance on the justness of
his discoveries, when he finds the truth of them fortified
l)y the sientiments of those, who, with regard to the
same subjects, are conspicuous for their penetration and
discernment.

The evidence arising from authority, as well as that
arising from testimony, other circumstances being equal,

VOL. II. o

§8 LECTURES ON LAW.

becomes strong in proportion to the number of those, on.
whose voice it rests. An opinion genersdly received in
all countries and all ages, acquires such an accumulation
of authority in its favour, as to. entitle it to the character
of a first principle of human knowledge.

IX. The ninth kind, into which we have disUnguished
evidence, is that, which arises from memory. The
senses and consciousness give us information of those
things only which exist at present. The memory con-
veys to us the knowledge of those things which are past*
The evidence of memory, therefore, forms a necessary-
link in every chain of proof, by which the past is notified «
This evidence is not less certain than if it was founded
on strict demonstriltion. No man hesitates concerning^
it, or will give his assent to any argument brought to in-
validate it* On it depends, in part, the testimony of
witnesses, and all the knowledge which we possess, con-
cerning every thing which is past.

The memory, aa well as other powers of the mind
which we have already n^ientioned, is an ^original facuky^
and an original source of evidence, bestowed on us by
the Author of our existence Of this faculty we can
give no other account, but that such, in this particular^
is the constitution of our nature. Concerning past
events we receive information from our memory ; but
how it gives this information, it is impossible for us to
explain.^

*^ All our other original faculties, as well as memory^
ar0 unaccountable* He only, who made them, compre-

'^Rei<J.£8S.Iiit.306.

LECTURES ON LAW. ^V^^'*> "

liends fully how they are made, and how they produce in
us not only a conception, hut a firm belief and assurance
of tlttng9, which it concerns us to know."^

Remembrance, however, is not always accompanied
with full assurance. To distinguish by language, those
lively impressions of memory, which, produce indubita-
Jble conviction, from those fainter traces, which occasion
an inferiour degree of assent, or, perhaps, diffidence and
suspense, is, we believe, an impracticable attempt. But
every one is, in fact, competent to distinguish them in
sv^ a manner, as to direct his own judgment and con-
duct.

X« Evidence arises from experience ; as when from
facts ^ready known, we make inferences to facts of the
mrneVmAy unknown.

This branch of our subject is of great extent, of much
practicsd utility, and highly susceptible of curious and
instructive investigation. But it cannot, on this occasion,
be treated as fully as it deserves to be treated.

The sources, from which experience flows, are— the
external senses^ consciousness, memory* The senses and
eonsciQusness give information to the mind of the exist-
ing facts, which are placed within the sphere of their
operation. These articles of intelligence, when received,
are committed to the charge of the memory. From all
these faculties, however, there results only the knowledge
oi such facts as have come, or now come under our notice.
B«it> in order to render this knowledge of service to us

^ Reid's Ess. Int Sia

100 LECTURES ON LAW.

in directing our own conduct, and in discovering the
nature of things, a further process of the mind becomes
necessary. From the past, or the present, or from both,
inferences must be made to the future : those inferences
form that kind of evidence, which arises from experi-
ence.

If an object is remembered to have been frequently,
still more, if it is remembered to have been constantly,
succeeded by certain particular consequences ; the con-
ception of the- object naturally associates to itself the
conception of the consequences ; and on the actual appear-
ance of the object, the mind naturally anticipates the
appearance of the consequences also. This connexion
between the object and the frequent or constant conse-
quences of the object, is the foundation of those inferences,
which, as we have observed, form the evidence airising
from experience.

If the consequences have followed the object constantly,
and the observations of this constant connexion have
been sufficiently numerous ; the evidence, produced by
experience, amounts to a moral certainty. If the con-
nexion has been frequent, but not entirely uniform ; the .
evidence amounts only to probability ; and is more or
less probable, in proportion as the connexions have been ;
more or less frequent. That cork will float on the sur-
,face of water, and that iron will sink in it, are truths,
of which we are morally certain ; because these inferences
are founded on connexions both sufficiently numerous
and sufficiently uniform. We are not morally certain
whether oak timber will float or sink in water; because,
in some circumstances, it sinks, and, in other circum-
*tances, it floats. But, if the circumstances uniformly

LECTURES ON LAW. 101

attending the contrary efFects arc specified ; then, under
that specification, we can tell, with moral certainty,
-whether the timber will sink or swim.

This evidence, by which we infer what the future
will be from what the past has been, is the effect of an
original principle, implanted in the human mind. This
principle appears in our most early infancy. The child,
who is burnt, is soon taught to dread the fire. A great
and necessary part of our knowledge is drawn from this
source, before we are able to exercise the reasoning
faculty. It is an instinctive prescience of the operations
of nature, very similar to that prescience of human
actions, by which we are made to rely upon the testi-
mony of our fellow men. Without the latter, we could
not receive information, by the means of language, con-
cerning the sentiments of those, with whom we converse :
without the former, we could not, by means of experi-
ence, acquire knowledge concerning the operations of
nature. When we arrive at the years of discretion and
are capable of exercising our reasoning power, this in-
stinctive principle retains in us all its force ; but we
become more cautious in its application. We observe ^
with more accuracy, the circumstances attending the
appearance of the object and its consequences, smd
learn to distinguish those« which are regularly, from
those which are only occasionally, to be discovered.
■»•

On this principle is built the whole stupendous fabrick
of natural' philosophy ; and if this principle were removed^
that fabrick, solid and strong as it is, iiyrould tumble in
ruins to the very foundation. " That natural effects of
the same kind are produced by the same causes," is a
first principle laid down by the great Newton, as one of
his laws of philosophizing.

100 LECTURES ON LAW.

On the same principle depends the science of pcditick^,
which draws its rules from what we know by eiq>erienjce
concerning the conduct and character of men. From this
experience we conclude, that they will bestow some care
and attention on themselves, on their families, and on
their friends ; that, without some temptation, they will
not injure one another; that, on certain occasions, they
will discover gratitude, and, on others, resentment. In
the science of politicks, we consider not so much what
man ought to be, as what he really is ; and from thence
we make inferences concerning the part which he will
probably act, in the different circumstances and situations^
in which he may be placed. From such considerations
we reason concerning the causes and consequences of
different governments, customs, and laws. H man were
either better or worse, more perfect or less perfect, than
he is, a proportioned difference ought to be adopted in
the systems formed, and the provisicHis made, for the re*
gulatxon of his conduct.

The same principle is the criterion, at least, if it is not
the foundation, of all moral reasoning whatever. It is
the basis of prudence in the management of the affairs
and business of human life. Scarcely can a plan be form-
ed, whether of a publick or evenof a more private nature,
which depends solely on die behaviour of him who forms
it : it must depend also on the behaviour of others ; and
must proceed upon the supposition, that those others will,
in certain given circumstances, act a certain given part.

XI. Evidence arises from analogy, as well as froTa
experience. The evidence of analogy is, indeed, nothing
more than a vague experience, founded on some remote
aimilitude* When the circulation of the Uood in one

LECTURES ON LAW. 103

human body was verified by experiftient, this was cer-
tainly a sufficient evidence, from experience, that, in every
other human body, the blood, in like manner, circulates.
When we reflect on the strong resemblance which, in
many particulars, the bodies of some other animals, qua-
drupeds, for instance, bear to the human body ; and
especially on that resemblance, which is discovered in
the blood vessels, in the blood itself, and in the pulsation
of the heart and arteries ; we discover evidence, from
analogy, of the circulation of the blood in those other
animals ; for instance, in quadrupeds. In this^ application
of the experiment, however, the evidence is unquestion-
ably weaker than in that, which is transferred from one
to another man. Yet, wheii the analogies are numerous,
and evidence of a closer and more direct application is
not to be obtained, the evidence from analogy is far from
being without its operation and its use.

Its use, we acknowledge, appears more in answering
objections, than in furnishing direct proofs. It may, for
this reason, be considered as the defensive rather than
the offensive armour of a speaker. It rarely refutes ; but
it repels refutations : it cannot kill the enemy ; but it
wards off his blows.

Much of the evidence in natural philosophy rises not
higher, than that which is derived from analogy. Wc
leam from experience, that there is a certain gradation
in the scale of certain animals : we conclude from ana-
logy, that this gradation extends farther than our experi-
ence reaches. Upon the foundation of analogy, the
systems of ancient philosophy concerning the material
world were entirely built. My Lord Bacon first deli-
neated, and, in some instances, applied the strict and

104 LECTURES ON LAW.

severe method of induction from experiment. Since his
time, this has been employed in natural philosophy,' with
the greatest success.

To the common lawyer, the evidence of analogy is a
jsulgect of very .great extent and importance.

In speaking of judicial decisions, my Lord Chief
Justice Hale distinguishes them into twd kinds : one con- '
sists of such as have their reasons singly in the laws and
customs of the kingdom. In these the law gives an ex*
press decision; and the judge is only the instrument,
which pronounces it. The other kind consists of deci-
sions, which are framed and deduced, as his Lordship.

says, by way of deduction and illaticm upon those laws.

< -

' A competition between opposite analogies is tlie prin-
ciple, into which a very great number of legal controver*
ides may he justly resolved. When a particular point of
law has been.once directly adjudged f the adjudication is
deemed decisive as to that question^ and to every other
which, in all its circumstsmces, corresponds completely
with that question. But questions arise^ whidh resenible
the decided question only in some parts, in certain cir-
cumstances, and in certain indirect aspects; and which^
'it is contended, bear, in other aspects, in. other circum-
stances, and in other parts, a much closer and stronger
resemblance to other cases, which have been likewise
adjudged. To stating, to comparing, and to enforcing
those x>pposite, analogies, on the opposite sides, much of
the business of the bar is appropriated. In discerning
the force and extent of the distinctions which are taken ;
in- framing an adjudication in such a manner, as to pre-
serve unimpeached the various former decisions, from

I.ECTURE& ON LAW; 105

vrkich the cont^dd^g analogies have been drawn ; or, if
all caimot be 80 preserved, yet so as that the weaker may
be given up to the stronger — in this, much of the wisdom
^ ^oA sagacity of the court are employed and dbpl^yed.

The laite celebrated dispute ccmcerning literary :pr<>-
perty will place this subject, and tke remarks which fai»re
been made concerning it, in a very striking point of
view« On one b«Bbd, the time which an aittbor empioys^
the pams which he takes, and the indu^Ury which he e»-
4Sf^^ in the prodaction 6t his litejfary perfpr;uanee,.be«r
the nearest and the most marked resea^laaee to the
industry exerted, to the paina taken, and to the time
employed, in the acquisition of property of every other
kind. This resemblance, so striking and, so strong,
between the labour bestowed in thb, and the labour' be-
stowed in any other, way, justifies the inference and the
claim, th»t he,, who b^towed the labour in tbia wagr^
should be entitled to the same, perpetual, assigBAbte^
a^d eixlusive right in die production of the Ubour tibua
bestowed; and diould receive the same protection c£
tbe law in the enjoyment of this perpetital, aaaignabley
asaden^chuive right, as; is given and decreed to thoa*
who bestow their labour in any other manner* Thia is
the analogy on one side. On the other hand, a book,
c^nsidei^d with respect to the author's right in it, has a
pecidiar resemblance to any other invention of art ; the
dkcQvery,' for instance, of a new medicine, or of anew
machine. Now, in these instances^ unless an exdusifva
right is Mcured to the iaventor hy a patent, theL.law per*
naits dlie machine or medicine to. bemused or imitated*
W!^^ slieadd not the same lil^i4y be enjoyed in the puk
lication and sale of books ? This is the analogy on the
other aide.

TOL. II, 7

106 t£CTUR£8 OH LAV.

XII. Evidence arises from judgment. By jndgment
I here mean that power of the mind, which decides upOA
selfevident truths. This is a much more extensive
power than is generally imagined. It is, itself, a distinct
and original source of evidence ; and its jurisdiction is
exercised in ^ the other kinds of evidence, which have
been already enumerated.

'^ There are conceptions, which ought to be reCeived
to the faculty of judgment as their source: because, if
we had not that faculty, they could not enter into our
minds ; and to those who have that faculty, and are ca-
pable of reflecting on its operations, they are obvious aad
familiar.

^^ Among these, we may reckon the conception of
judgment itself; the notions of a proposition, -of its sub»
ject, predicate, and copula ; of affirmation and negation ;
of true and false ; of knowledge, belief, disbelief, opi-
nion, assent, evidence. From no source could we acquiee
4hese conceptions, but from reflecting on our judgments.
Ilelations of things make one great class of our notions
or ideas; and we cannot have the idea of any relation
without some exercise of judgment."^

By our senses, we have certain sensations and ^ er«
ceptions. But to furnish us with these, is not the only,
oer is it, indeed, the principal office of our senses. They
are powers, by which we judge, as well as feeLand per*
ceive« A man, who has become blind, may, nevertbe**
less, retain very distinct conceptions of the several co.
lours; but he cannot, any longer, judge ccmceinins

y Reid. Ess. Int 500, SOt.

XEGTITKES ON ^AWt 107

oolQurs; because he h^s lost the sense, the immediate
c^ration of which is necessary in order to enable him
to fofm such judgment. By our ears, we have the ideas
of sounds of different, kinds, such as acute and grave^
soft and loud. But this sense enables us not only to. hear,
but to judge of what we hear. We perceive one sound
to be loud, another to be soft. When we hear more
sounds, than one, we perceive and judge that some are
concords, and that others are discords. These are judg*
ments of the senses.'

Judgment exercises its power concerning the evidence
^f consciousness, as well as coyceming the evidence of
the senses. The man, who is conscious of an object^
believes that it exists, and is what he is conscious it is ;
nor is it in his power to avoid such judgment. Whether
judgment ought to be called a necessary concomitant, or
-rather an ingredient, of • these operations of the mind,
it is not material to inquire; but one thing is certain •
they are accompanied with a determination that something
is true or fal^, and with a consequent belief. This de-
termination is not simple apprehension ; it is not reason^
ing ; it is a mental affirmation or negation ; it may be
expressed by a proposition aflSirmative or negative ; and
. it is accompanied with the firmest belief. These are the
characteristicks of judgment*. This name is sometimes
given to every determination of the mind conceining
,what is true or what is false.^ Under this head, I ap-
ply it, and confine it to that degree of judgment, which
is commensurate with what is sometimes called common
sense : for, in truth, common sense means common
judgmcnt.c

"^ Reid Ess. Act 33/, 238. "" Reid. Ess. Int 501, 50a

>> Id. 504, 533. 534. « Id. 533, 530^ 531.

\ I

/

iOi 11E€TI7KfiS OH lAW*

Farther ; judgment is implied in ever^ optMti^tt
of taste. When we say a statue or a poem is beauti*
ful^ we afirm something eoncieming that poem cmp
statue : but every affirmation or denial expresses judg*
me&t« Our judgment of beauty is not) inde^ed^ dry aaad
uninteresting, like that of a mathematical truth. It ift
accompanied with an agreeable feeling or emotion, for
w%ich we have no appropriated term. It is called the
sense of beauty*

Judgment is exerted also in the operations of our
mm'al sense. When we exercise our moral powers con*
eeming our own action%or those of ^hers, we judge a»
well as feel. We 4lcuse and excuse ; we aequk afi€
ccmdemin , we assent and dissent i w^ believe- md dts«
believe. These are all wts of judgaaenti*^

In short, we judge of the quali&es of bodies 1^ our
external senses $ we judge concerning what passes in our
minds by our consciousness % we judge concerning beauty
and deformity by our taste ; we judge concerning viitue
-and vice by our moral sense : but, in all these cases, we
judge ; in most of them, our judgment is «ccOmp^ied 1^
feding. Judgment accompanied by feding form® ^<tet
eomplex operaticm of the mind, which is denomitiatedi
sentiment.

This train of investigation might be canted much fieir^
ther \ bttt, at present, we 3top hey e.

judgment, In "^tit sense in which we here use it, ia
an original and an important source of knowledge," €om«

«]laidfsEi8.Act.fr4.

LXCTUKfiS OH XAW4 109

1XI0& to all men ; and, for tliis reason, is frequetitljr
denominated common sense, as has been already intima^
ted. In different persons, it prevails* indeed, with
different degrees <tf strength ; but none, except idiots,
have been found originally and totally without it.

The laws, we believ^y of every civilised nation
4itistinguitth between those who are, and those who are
not, endonred with this gift of heaven. This gift is
easily discerned by its effects, in the actions, in the dis*
course, and even in the looks of a man. When it is
niiade a question, whether one is or is not possessed of
"riiis power, the courts of justice can usually detennine
the question with much clearness and certainty.

The same degree of udderstanding, which enables one
to aict with common prudence in the business of life,
uiables hitn ilso to discover selfevident truths toncern*
sng matters, of which he has distinct apprehension.

Selfevident truths, of every kind, and in every alt
ttud science, are the objects of that faculty, which is now
under our consideration/ Such truths, or axioms, as
they are distinguished by way of excellence, are the
ibondation of all mathematical knowledge. There are
ttxioms, too, in matters of taste. The fundamental rules
of poetry, and painting, and eloquence, have riways
been, and, we may venture to add, always will be the
flame. The science of morais is ^so founded on axioms ;
maoay of which are accompanied with intuitive evi*
dence, not less strong than that which is discovered m.
the axioms of, mathematieks. Mathematical axiMst
tan never extend their influence beyond the limits of
abstract knowledge. Jiut with axioms in odi^ bnuicbei

110 LSCTUREft OK IbAW.

of science, the whole business of human life is closelj
and strongly connected.

XIII. Evidence arises from reasoning.

One observation, which I made concerning judgment,
may be made^ with the same propriety, concerning rea-
soning. It is, itself, a distinct and original source of
evidence ; and its jurisdiction is exercised also in evi-
dence of every other kind. This suggests a very
probable account why reason has been considered hy
many philosophers as the only source and criterion of
evidence : for the powers both of judgment and of rea-
soning have been frequently blended uncl^r the name of
reason.

As the conception of judgment should be referred
to the faculty of judgment ; so the conception of rear
soning should be referred to the reasoning faculty, as its
source. The ideas of demonstration, of probability,
and of all the dilRFerent modes of reasoning, take their
origin from the faculty of reason. Without this faculty^
we could not be possessed of those ideas.

The power of reasoning is somewhat allied to the
power of judging. Reasoning, as well as judgment, must
be true or false ; both are accompanied with assent or
belieL There is, however, a very material distinction
between them. Reasoning is the process, by which we
pass from oi^ truth to another as a conclusion from it*
In all reasoning, there must be a proposition inferred^
and one or more, from which the inference is drawn.
The proposjlipn infen-ed is called the conclusion: the
name of premises is given to thp proposition or propcw

LECTU&ES ON LAW. Ill

&Utoas, from which the conclusion is inferred* ^ When a
chain of reasoning consists of many links, it is easilj
distinguished from judgment. But when the conclusion
is connected with the premise^ by a single link, the dis*
tinction becomes less obvious ; and the process is some-
times called by one name ; sometimes by the other*

In a series of legitimate reasoning, the evidence
of every step should be immediately discernible to those
who have a distinct comprehension of the premises and
the conclusion.

The evidence, which arises from reasoning, is divided
into two species— demonstrative and moral. The nature,
the Uiiflference, and the uses of these twq species of
evidence, it is of great importance clearly and fully to
understand.

Demonstrative evidence has fpr its subject abstract
and necessary truths, or the unchangeable relations of
ideas. Moral evidence has for its subject the real but
contingent truths and connexions, which take place
among things actually existing. Abstract truths have no
respect to time or place ; they are universally and eter-
nsdly the same.

If these observations are just— and they are agreeable
to the sentiments of those who have written most accu*
rately on this subject— we may see the impropriety of
my \Lord phief Baron Gilbert's remark, when he says
that ^^ all demonstration is founded on the view of a
man's proper senses." From hence w*e may see likewise
the inaccuracy of Sir William Blackstone's description
Qf evidence, when h« mentions it as demonstrating the

tl3 LSCTUJUIS OM LAW.

▼erjr fact in issue. The otjects of our senseft sre olgect»
of moral, but not of demonstradve eYtdenoe.

By writers on the civil law, the scienttfick distinctioB^
^ipon this subject, is accurately obsenred* Trutfas4iloae^
say they,^ which depend on abstract principles, are 8ii9»
ceptible of demonstrative evidence : truths, that depend
on matters of fact, however conq[dete n»y be the evi'*
dence by which they are established, can never become
demonstrative..

In a series of demonstrative evidence, the inference^
is^ every step, is necessary ^ for it is inpipossible that, from
the premises, the conclusion should not flow. In a ae-
xies of moral evidence, the inference. drawn in the seve«
ral steps is not necessary ; nor is it impossible that thc^
, premises should be true, while the conclusion drawu
from them is false.

In demonstrative evidence, there are no degreea ;
one demonstration may be more easily comi^rehended^
but it cannot be stronger than another.^ Every necessary
truth leaves no possibility of its being, falsci. In moral
evidence, we rise, by an insensible gradation^ from. pQa*-^
sibility to probability, and from probability to tl^e hig^hest
degree of moral certainty.

In moral evidence, there not only may he, , but there
gtnerally is^ contrariety of proofe ; in dembastrMivQ
evidence, no such contrariety can take place. If oivc^
djemonatration cap. be refuted^ it must b& by another de*
nstfirostrMion : but to suppose that two cox^trary depoa-

t Boqrc TiJ^ Iw^xxidepQ^ vqIk^. part $. p. 7413. (Frenob^

LtCTUlLEB OK LAW. IJS

strauons can e^st, is to suppose that the same, pit>posi*
tion is both true and fabe : which is maBifestly. absurd*
With regard to moral eyidence, there is| for the moat
part, real evidence on hoih aid^s^ On both si4as> coi^trary
presumptions, contrary testimonies, contrary ^3iperienc(s^
must be balanced* The probability, on the whole, is,
eettsequendy, in the proportion, in wbiah the evidence
em, one side preponderates ov^r the evidence on th^ ptbar
aide.

Demonstrative evidence is simple : in it there. is only
one coherent series, every part of which depends on
what precedes, and suspends what follows. In demon-
strative reasoning, therefore, one demonstration is equal
to a thousand. To add a second would be a tautolog7
in this kind of evidence. A second, it is true, is some-
times employed ; but it is employed as fin exercise of
ingenuity, not as an additional proof. Moral evidence
is generally complicated : it depends not upon any one
argmnent, but upon many independent proofs, which,
however, combine their strength, and draw on the sam^
conclusion*

In point of auAority, demonstrative evidence is supe^
riour : moral evidence is superiour in point of importance.
By the former, the understanding is enlightened, and
many of the elegant and useful arts are improved. By
the latter, society ia supported ; and the usual but indis.
pensable affairs of life s«*e regulated. To the acquisi-
tions made by the latter, .we owe the )cnowle4ge of al#
^most every thing, whkh distinguishes th^ man from tbf
ehild.

VOL. II. A

114 tECTURKS oir x^w.

XIV. Evidence arises from calcuUtioiis com^trjaing
chances* This kind of evidence does not occur vexy
frequently* I take particular notice of it, because if is of
much importance in some commercial transactions ; es{ie« '
cially in those relating to ensurances*

Chance furnishes materials for calculation, only urbea
we kpow the remote cause, which will produce some <Mie
event of a given number ; but know not the immediate
cause, which will determine in favour of any one parti*
cular event of that given number, in pref^ence to any
other particular event. In calculating chances, it is ne«
cessary that a great number of instances be taken into
consideration ; that the greatest exactness and impartiali-
ty be used in collecting them on the opposite sides ; and
that there be no peculiarity in any of them, which would
render it improper for becoming apart pf the basis of a
general conclusion.

I have now finished the long, I will not say, the com-
plete enumeration of the different, sources and kinds of
evidence. Between several of them something will be
found to be analogous. But, upon the most careful re-
view, It will, I think, appear, that no one of them can be
resolved into any other. Hence the propriety of consi-
dering and treating them separately and distinctly. Much
advantage will, I believe, be reaped from acquiring and
-e:(ercising a habit of considering them in this separate
and distinct manner^ For this purpose, it will be proper,
when a trial of much variety and importance is perused
t>r heard, to digest; at leisure, those things which ape
given or which appear in evidence, and refer them to
their several sources and kinds. After this has been
done, it will be of great use carefully to arrange^ the dif*

L

' LECTURES ON XAW. llif

ferent 8<»ts and {iarts of the evidence, and compare them
together in point of solidity, clearness, and force. A
habit of analyzing, combining, methodising, and balan^
cing evidence, in this manner, will be a constant and a
valuable resoisrce in the practice of the law. Every one,
who has observed or experienced that practice, must be
sensible, that a lawyer's time and attention are more
employed, and his talents are more severely tried, by
^questions and debates on evidence, than by those on all
&e other titles of the law, various, intricate, and exten*
sive as they are.

To wield the weapons of evidence foritis an important
article in a lawyer's art. To wield them skilfully evinces
a good he£(d : to wield them honestly as well as skilfully
evinces, at once, a good head and a good heart ; and
^tfiects equal honour on the profession and on the man.

I have, on this occasion, said nothing concerning the
artilicisd rules of evidence, which are framed by the law
for convenience in courts of justice. These, unquestion-
ably, ought to be studied and knbwn. Concerning these,
much learning may be found in the several law books.
Particular rules ma^y be seen, adapted to particular cases.
Anmtimate acquaintance with those rules will be of great
practical utility in what I may call the retail business of
the law ; a kind of business by no means to be neglected ;
a kind of business, however, which should not be suffered
to usurp the place of what is far more essential — ^the study
and the practice too of the law, as a science founded ou
principle, and on the nature of man. The powers and
the operations of the human mind are the native and
original fountains of evidence. Gaudy, but scanty and
' temporary cascades may sometimes be supplied by art*

115 LfeCTtREli ON LAW.

But the natural springs alotie ean fumish ^ tomrttnt ttftd
an abundant supply. He, too, who is in full possessitm
of these, can, with the greatest facility, and to' the gi-eat*
est advantage, display their streamB, on proper occasiiMeis^
in all the forms, and with all the omaments^ suggdfrtedi
and prepared by the most artificial contrivnnces^

It is generally supposed — and, indeed, our law book^i
so far as I recollect, go upon the supposition^-^hat th0
evidence, which influences a court and jury, df&pemis
altogether upon what is said by the witnesses, or read
from the papers. This, however, is very far from beiiig
the case. Much depends oti the jfleadings of the counsel.
His pleadings depend much on a masterty knowledge and
management of the principles of evidence. Evidence is
the foundation of conviction : conviction is the founda-
tion of persuasion : to convey persuasion is th*e etid of
pleading. From the principles' of evidence, therefore,
must be drawn that train and tenour of reasoning, which
will acco!mplish the aiih of the pleader, and produce the
perfection of his art.

A rich and an immense prospect opens toi iKly vieir>
but I cannot now attempt to describe it*

THE END OF THE TOIST PART.

PART 11.

CHAPTER I.

or. THE CONSTITUTIONS OF THB: UNITED STATES AND
OF PENNBTLVANIA— OF THE LEGISLATIVE DEPART*
MENT,

XN my fhxXf I mentioned, that I would coniSider our
municipal law tmder two great divisions; that, under
the first, I would treat of the lan^, as it relates to persons;
and that, under the second, I would treat of it, as it
relates to things. I pursue those two great divisions ;
and begin with persons.

Persons are divided into two kinds— natural and arti«
£cial* Natural persons are formed by the great Author
of nature. Artificisd persons are the creatures of hu*
man sagacity and contrivance ; and are framed and in*
tended for the purposes of government and society.

When we coxH^mplate the con^dtuticni and the law*
of the United States and of the commonwealth of

lis LECTUaES ON LAW.

Pennsylvania ; the mighty object, which first arrests our
attention, is — ^the people. In the laws of England, as
they have been imposed or received during the last
seven centuries, the "people" is a title, which has scarce-
ly found a place, or, if it has found a place occastonaUyv
it has attracted but a very disproportionate degree, of
notice or regard. Of the prerogative of the king, fre-
quent and respectful mention is made : he is considered
and represented as the fountain of authority,'of honour,
of justice, and even of the most important species of
property. Of the majesty of the people, little is said in.
the books of our law. When they are introduced upon
the legal stage, they are considered as the body, of
which the king is the head, and are viewed as the sub*'
jects of his crown and government.

This has noit been the case in all countries ; it has' not-
been the case in England at all times. It hasj indeed,
been the case too often and too generally; but the pages
of literature will furnish us with a few brilliant exceptions.
Of one permit me to take a very particular notice ; for of
a very particular notice it is highly deserving;

At the mention of Athens, a thousand refined and en-
dearing associations rush immediately into the memory
of the scholar, the philosopher, the statesman, and the
patriot. When Homer, one of the most correct, as well
as the oldest and one of the most respectable, of human
authorities, enumerates the other nations of Greece,
whose forces acted in the siege of Troy ; he arranges
them under the names of their different kings : but when
he come^ to the Athenians, he distinguishes them by the
peculiar appellation of " the people" * of Athens.

* JimfUf. Pot 12. Iliad 1. 2. v. 547.

lECTURES OK LAW. 119

Let it not surprise you, that I cite Homer as a very
respectable authority. That celebrated writer was' not
more remarkable for the elegance and sublimity, than he
was for the truth and precision, of his compositions*
-The geographer, who could not relish the exquisite
t)eauties of his poetry, felt, however, uncommon satis-
faction in ascertaining, by the map, the severe accuracy
of his geographical descriptions. But let me mention
what is still more to my present purpose and justification.
From one of the orations of iEschines it appears highly
probable,** that in the Athenian courts of justice, the
poems of Homer, as well as the laws of Athens, were
always laid upon the table before the judges ; and that
the clerk wairfffequently applied to, by the orator, to read
passages from the former, as well as from the latter.
On the authority of two lines from Homer's catalogue
of the Grecian fleet, was determined a controversy
between the Athenians and the inhabitants of Salamis.
His imnlortal poems, like a meteor in the gloom of night,
jMrighten the obscure antiquities of his country ? ^

By some of the most early' accounts, which hav«
been transmitted to us concerning Britain, we are inform-
ed,^ that " the people held the helm of government in
their own power,'' ^ This spirit of independence was a
ruling principle among the Saxons likewise. Concerning
^heir original, it is both needless and fruitless— -I use the
expressions of the very learned Selden* — to enter the
lists; whether they were natives from the northern parts
of Germany, or the relicks of the army under Alexan-
jier* But their government, adds he, was, in general,
90 suitable to that of the Grecians, that it cannot be

^I.j6iil36« c l.6itt,3. ^ Bm on Gov. 3. « 14.9.

tZO LXGTUaES ON LAW.

imagined but much of the Grecian wisdom was derived
into those paits. The people were a free people, governed
hy laws which they themselves made ; and, for this reason,
they were denominated free. This, he subjoins, was
like unto the manner of the Athenians.

The Saxons were called freemen, because they were
born free from all yoke of arbitrary power, and from all
laws of compulsion, except those which were made by
their voluntary consent : for all freemen have votes in
making and executing the general laws. ^ The freedom
of a Saxon consisted in the three following particulars.
1. In the ownership of what he had. 2. In voting upon
any law, by which his person or prop#ty could be
affected. 3. In possessing a share in that judiciary
power, by which the laws were appliedt ^

By this time, we clearly perceive the exquisite pro-
priety, historical as well as political, with which the
people appear in the foreground of die national constitu^
tion and of that of Pennsylvania. " We, the people of
the United States, ordain and estaUidi this constitution
for the United States of America." " We, the people
of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania^ ordain and eata^
blish this constitution for it9 government.''

In free states, the people form an artificial penon or
body politick, the highest and noblest that can be known.
They form that moral person, which, in one of my
former lectures,^ I described as a complete body of free
natural persons, united together for their common beii#r

' Bac. on Gov. 34, f U 84

« ^ Ante. vbL 1. p. 304. 305.

lECTURES ON LAW. l^i

fit ; as having an understanding and a will ; as deliberating,
jand resolving, and acting; as possessed of interests
which it ought to manage ; as enjoying rights which it
ought to maintain ; and as lying under obligations which
it ought to perform. To this moral person, we assign,
by way of eminence, the dignified appellation of state.

In discussing the rights and duties of a state, I obsenr*
edj that it is its right, and that, generally, it is its duty,
to form a constitution, to institute civil government,
and to estaMish laws. The general principles^ on which
.constitutions should be formed, government should be
instituted, and laws should be established, were treated
at large then, and will not be repeated now. It is my
present business to trace the application of those princi-
ples, as that application has been practically made by
dte people of the United States, and, in particular, by
the people of Pennsylvania.

I mention the people of Pennsylvania in particular ;
because, in discussing this system, it is necessary that
I should select the constitution, and government, and
laws of some on^ of the states in the Union; and because
it is natural, for many reasons, that Pennsylvania should
be the state, whose constitution, and government, and
laws are selected for this discussion. The' observations,
however, which I shall have occasion to make with
regard to Pennsylvania, will, in the greatest number of
instances, apply to her sister states, with an equal degree
of propriety. Whenever any v6ry striking difference
or coincidence shall occur to me, I shall distinguish it"
by an especial noUce.

TOL. J I. ^

122 LECTURKS ON LAW.

The people of^ the United States must be considered
attentively in two very different views— as forming one
nation, great and united ; and as forming, at the same
time, a number of separate states, to that nation sabor-
dinate, but independent as to their own interiour govern-
ment. This very important distinction must be continualljr
before our eyes. If it be properly observed, every things
will appear regular and proportioned : if it be neglected,
endless confusion and intricacy will unavoidably ensue*.

The constitution of the United States is arranged, as
we have formerly seen it ought to be, under three great
divisions — the legislative department, the executive
department, and the judicial department.

The legislative power is divided between two differ-
ent bodies, a senate, and a house of representatives*
The reasons and the importance of this division were
explained in a former part (^ my lectures.^

In discoursing farther concerning the legislature of
the United States, I shall regulate myself by the follow-
ing order. I shall treat, I. of the election of its members;
II. of their number ; III. of the term, for which they
are elected ; IV. of the laws, and rules, and powers o£
the two houses ; V. of the manner of passing laws i VJ^
of the powers of congress.

i. I am first to treat concerning the election of members
of congress. Many of the remarks, which I shall make
on this subject, will be applicable to the election of
members of the general assembly of this commonwealth;

^ Ante, voL 1. p. 394 &€.

LECTURES ON LAW* ld3

«

for the assembly of Pennsylvania, like the congress of
the United States, consists of two bodies, a senate and a
house of representatives* Some important articles of
discrimination will be noticed in their proper places.

The constitution of the United States and that of
Pennsylvania rest solely, and in all their parts, on the
great democratical principle of a representation of the
people ; in other words, of the moral person, known by
the name of the state. This great principle necessarily
draws along with it the consideration of another principle
equally great — ^the principle of free and equal elections.
To maintain, in purity and in vigour, this important prin-
ciple, whose energy should pervade the most distant parts
of the government, is the first duty, and ought to be the
first c^rc, of every free.state. This is the original foun-
tain, from which all the streams of administration flow.
If this fountain is poisoned, the deleterious influence will
extend to the remotest corners of the state : if this foun-
tain continues pure and salubrious, the benign operation
ef its waters will diffuse universal health and soundness.

Let me, by the way, be indulged with repeating a
remark, which was made and fully illustrated in a former

*

lecture^ — ^that government, founded solely on represen-
tation, made its first appearance on this, and not on the
European side of the Atlantick.

Of the science of just and equal government, the pro-
gress, as we have formerly seen, has been small and slow.
Peculiarly small and slow has it been, in the discovery
and improvement of the interesting doctrines of election

J Ante,V©l.l.p.439.

124 LECTURES ON LAW.

and represcntatioD. If, with regard to other subjects^
government may be said, as it has been said, to be still in
its infancy ; we may, with regard to this subject, consider
it as only in its childhood* And yet this is the subject^
which must form the basis of every government, that is,
at once, efficient, respectable, and free.

The pyramid of government-— and a republic^ go-
vernment may well receive that beautiful and solid form
— should be raised to a dignified altitude : but its foun-
dations must, of consequence, be broad, and strong, and
deep. The authority, the interests, and the affections of
the people at large are the only foundation, on which a
superstructure, proposed to be at once durable and mag^
nificent, can be rationally erected*

Representation is the chain of communication between
the people and those, to whom they have committed the
exercise of the powers of government. If the materials,
which form this chain, are sound and strong, h is unne-
cessary to be solicitous about the very high degree,, to
which they are polished. But in order to impart to them,
the true republican lustre, I know no means mose effectual,
than to invite and admit the freemen to the right of suC*
frage, and to enhance, as much as possible, the value of
that right. Its value cannot, in truth, be enhanced too
highly. It is a right of the greatest import, and of the
most improving efficacy. It is a right to choose those,
who shaU be intrusted widi the authority and with the
confidence of the people : and who may employ that au«
thority and that confidence for the noblest interests of the
commonwealth, without the apprehension of disappoint-
ment or control.

LECTURES OK LAW, 125

This surely must have a powerful tendency to open,
to enlighten, to enlarge, and to exalt the mind. I cannot^
ipvith sufficient energy, express my own conceptions of the
value and the dignity of this right. In real majesty, an
independent and unbiassed elector stands superiour to
princes, addressed by the proudest titles, attended by the
xnost magnificent retinues, and decorated with the most
splendid regalia. Their sovereignty is only derivative,
like the pale light of the moon : his is original, like the

beaming splendour of the sun.

»

The benign influences, flowing from the possession
and exercise of this right, deserve to be clearly and fully
pointed out. I wish it was in my power to do complete
justice to the important subject. Hitherto those benign
influences have been little understood ; they have been
less valued ; they have been still less experienced. This
part of the knowledge and practice of government is yet,
as has been observed, in its childhood. Let us, however,
nurse and nourish it. In due time, it will repay our
care and our labour ; for, in due time, it will grow to the
strength and stature of a full and perfect man.

The man, who enjoys the right of suffrage, on the
extensive scale which is marked by our constitutions, will
naturally turn his thoughts to the contemplation of pub*
lick men and publiek measures. The inquiries he will
make, the information he will receive, and his own re*
flections on both. Will afford a beneficial and amusing
employment to his mind. I am far from insinuating, that
every citizen should be an enthusiast in politicks, or that
the interests of himself, his family, and those who de-
pend on him for their comfortable situation in life, should
be absorbed in Quixote specuhtions about the mana^

126 LECfURES OK I^AW.

xnent of the reformation of the state. But there is suirety
'm golden mean m things ; and there can be no real incom-
patibility between the discharge of one's publick, and that
of his private duty. Let private industry receive the
warmest encouragement , fen* it is the basis of p^ublick
happiness. But must the bow of honest industry be
always bent ? At no moment shall a little relaxation be
allowed? That relaxation, if properly directed, may
prove to be instructive as well as agreeable. It may con-
sist in reading a newspaper, or in conversing with a felr
low citizen. May not the newspaper convey dome inte-
resting intelligence, or contain some useful essay ? May
ixot the conversation take a pleasing and an improving
turn ? Many hours, I believe, are every where spent, in
talking about the unimportant occurrences of the day, ,or
in the neighbourhood ; and, perhaps, the frailties or the
imperfections of a neighbour form, too often, one of the
sweet but poisoned ingredients of the discourse. Would
it be any great detriment to society or to individuals, if
other characters, and with different views, were more^
frequently brought upon the carpet ?

Under our constitutions, a nuni^r of important ap«
pointmenta must be made at every election. To make
them is, indeed,^ the business only of a day. But it ought
to be the business of much more than a day, to be pre-
pared for making them well. When a citizen elects to
office — ^let me repeat it — ^he performs an act of the first
political consequence. He should be employed, on every
convenient occasion, in making researches after proper
persons for filling the different departments of 'power $
in discussing, with his neighbours and fellow citizens,
the qualities, which ought to be possessed by those, who
enjoy places of publick trust ; and in acquiring informs-

LECTURES ON LAW. 127

tion, with the spirit of manly candour, concerning the
manners and characters of those, who are lijcely to be
•andidates for the publick choice.

A habit of conversing and reflecting on these subjects^
and of governing his actions by the result of his delibe-
rations, would produce, ii:\ the mind of the citizen, a
uniform, a strong, and a lively sensibility to the interests
of his country. The same causes will effectuate a warm
and enlightened attachment to those, who are best fitted,
and best disposed, to support and promote those interests.
By these means and in this manner, pure and genuine
patriotism, that kind, which consists in liberal investiga-
tion and disinterested conduct, is produced, cherished,
and strengthened in the mind : by these means and in
this manner, the warm and generous emotion glows and
is reflected from breast to breast.

Investigations of this nature are useful andimprbving,
not to their authors only ; they are so to their objects
likewise. The love of honest and well earned fame is
deeply rooted in honest and susceptible minds. Can there
be a stronger incentive to the operations of this passion^
than the hope of becoming the object of well founded and
distinguishing applause i Can there be a more complete
gratification of this passion, than the satisfaction of know-
ing that this applause is given — ^that it is given upon the
most honourable principles, and acquired by the most
honourable pursuits ? To souls truly ingenuous, indiscri-
minate praise, misplaced praise, flattering praise, interest-
ed praise have no bewitching channs. But when publick
approbation is the result of publick discernment, it must
be highly pleasing to those who giv6, i^d to those who
receive it.

tZ$ l.£CT0R£ft ON LAW.

If the foregoing remarks and deductiona be just ; and
I belieTe thej are so ; the right of suffrage, properly un-
derstoot^d) properly valued, and properly exercised, in a
free and well constituted government, is an abundaiU:
source of the most rational^ the most improving, and
the most endearing connexion among the citizens.

All power is originally in the people; and shoidd be
exercised by them in person, if that could be done with
convenience, or even with Uttle difficulty. In some of
the small republicks of Greece, and in the first ages of the
conunonvealth of Rone, the people voted in their ag^
gregate capacity. Among the ancient Germans abo, this
was done upon great occasions. ^^ De minoribus consul*
tant principes," says Tacitus^.^ ^^ de msyoribus-omnes:"
From their practices, some of the finest principles pf
modem govemn^ents are drawn.

But in large states, the people cannot assemble togedier*
As they cannot, therefore, act by themselves, they most
act by their re]|resentatives» And> indeed, in point o£
right, there is no difference between that which is done
by the people in their own persons, imd that which is
done by theit deputies, acting agreeably to the powera
received ixQV^ them. In point of utility ,^ tber-e is aa little
difference ; for there is no advantage, which may not be
obtained from a free and adequate representation, m as
effectual a mattneir, as if every citizen were to deliberate
and vote in person*

To the legitimate energy and weight of tnierepreseop^
tation^ tw^ things are essentisdly necessaiy. 1* That th^

'^ De mor. Germ. Ct 11.

LECTtfUEB ON LAW. 129 -

nepredeiitatives should express the same sentiments, which
-tlfte represented, if possessed of equal informatioQ, would
eacpress. 2» That the sentiments of the representatives,
thus expressed, should have the same weight and influ-
ence, as the sentiments of the constituents would have,
if expressed personally.

To accomplish the first object, all elections ought to
be free. If a man is under no external bias, When he
votes for a representative, he will naturally choose such
as, he imagines, will, on the several subjects which mi^
come before them, speak and act in the same manner
as himself* Everyone, who is not the slave of volun-
tary errour, sapposed thathis own opinions and sentiments
are right : he must likewise suppose, that the sentiments
and opinions of those who think with him ai*e right al^o.
Every other man, equally free from bias» will vote with
similar views. When, therefore, the votes generally or
unanimously centre in the same representatives, it is a
satisfactory proof, that the sentiments of the constituents
are generally or altogether in utiison, with regard to the
matters, which, they think, will be. brought under the
consideration of their representatives ; and also, that the
4Eientiments of the representatives will be, with regard t9
those matters, in unison with those of all, or of a majori-
ty of their ccHistituents*

To accomplish the second object, all elections ought
to be equal. Elections are equal, when a given number
of citizens, in one part of the state, choose as many re-
presentatives, as are chosen by the same number of citii-
2ens, in any other part of th^ state. In this manner, the
proportion of the representatives and of the conaittiuents
will remain invariably the same.
VOL. M. s

130 LECTURES OH LAKT.

If both the requisites are estaUished and preserved^
such counsels will be given, such resolutions will be taken,
and such measures will be pursued, by the representative
body, as will receive the concurrence, the approbation,
and the support of the community at large*

In a free government, it is of essential importance to
ascertain the right of suffrage, and those inhabitants who
are entitled to the exercise of that right. To vote for
members of a legislature, is to perform an act of original
sovereignty. No person unqualified should, therefore^
be permitted to assume the exercise of such preeminent
powers We are told, that, among the Athenians, exqui-
sitely sensible to all the rights of citizenship, a stranger
who interfered in the assemblies of the people, was pu-
nished with death* Such dangerous interference was
considered as a species of treason against their rights of
sovereignty.

A momentous question now occurs— who shall be en-
titled to suffrage ? This darling privilege of freemen
should certainly be extended as far as considerations of
safety and ordel* will possibly admit. The correct theory-
and the true principles of liberty require, that every ci-
tizen, whose circumstances do not render him necessarily-
dependent on the will of another, should possess a vote
in electing those, by whose conduct his property, his
reputation, his liberty, and his life, may be all most ma-
terially affected.

By the constitution of the United States, ^ the mem-
bers of the house of representatives shall be chosen by
the people of the several states. The electors, in each

1 Art. 1. 8. 2.

f

LECTURES ON LAW. 131

State, shall have the qualifications requisite for electors
of the most numerous branch of the state legislature.

This regulation is gederous and wise. It is generous ;
for it intrusts to the constitutions or to the legislatures
of the several states, the very important power of ascer-
taining and directing the qualifications of those, who shalt
be entitled to elect the most numerous branch of the na-
tional legislature. This unsuspicious confidence evinces,
in the national constitution, the most friendly disposition
towards the governments of the several states. For how
can such a proper disposition be evinced more strc^ngly,
than by providing that its legislature, so far as respects
the most numerous branch of it, should stand upon the
same foundation with theirs ; and by providing farther,
that this foundation should be continued or altered by the
states themselves i

This regulation is wise as well as generous. An at-
tention to its genuine principle and tendency must have
9 Strong effect, in preventmg or destroying the seeds of
jeadousy, which mig^t otherwise spring up, with regard
to the genius and views of the national government. It
has embarked itself ontiie same bottom with the govern^
ments of the different states : can a stronger proof be
given of its determination to sink or swim with them i
Can proof be given of a stronger desire to live in mutual
harmony and affection i This is an object of the last im-
portance ; for, to adopt an expression used by my Lord
Bacon, " the uniting of the hearts and affections of the
people is the life and true end of this work." "^

m 4. Ld. Bac. 23a

132 LECTURES OH LAW.

»

The remarks which I have made en this subject
place, in a clear and strikmg point of view, the propriety^
and indeed the political necessity, of a regulation made
in another part of this constHution, In the fourth section
of the fourth article it is provided, that, ^^ the United
States shall guaranty to every state in this Unicm a re*
publican form of government.** Its ovm existence, as a
government of this description, depends en theirs.

As the doctrine concerning elections and the quddifi-
cations of electors is, in every free country, a doctrine
of the first magnitude ; and as the national constitutioft
has, with regard to this doctrine, rested itself on (kc
governments of the several states ; it wilt be highly pro*
per to take a survey of those provisions, which, o» si
subject so interesting, have been made by the dtfertfte
state constitutions : for every state has jus^ deemed
the subject to be of constitutional'importance.

In the constitution ot PennsyWania, the great p^ncU
pk, which animates s»d governs tbis subject, Is seeui^
by 9tv expKcit flechuration, that ^^ eloettons shatt be free
and equak*^ ■* This is enumerated among the great points^
which are ^^ excepted out ef the genef^ powers of go^
iremment, and shall fcfr ever remain kmohte.'*** The
practical €>perat}on of this great and inviokble principle
is thus ^ciRed and cKnei^tedr ** In elections by the ei-
tiaens^ every freeman of the age of twenty one year*,
having resided in the state two years next before the
deotion, and within that time paid a state or county tax,
which shall have been assessed at least six months bc*^
fore the election, shall enjoy the rights of an electon'"*

«Art.9,«.5. •Art9.s.26. p Cons. Pcnn. Art. 3. s. 1.

1 »

V

LECTURES ON XAV. 133

It well deserves, in this place, to be remarked, how
coageaial, upon this great subject, the principles of the
constitution of Pennsylvania are to those adopted by the
government of the Saxons* The Saxon freemen, as we
have already seen, had votes in making their general
laws. ^ The freemen of Pennsylvania, as we now see,
enjoy the rights of electors. This right, it has been shown,
is equivalent, and, in a stsrte of any considerable extent,
must, on every principle of order and convenience, be
substituted to the other. This is far from being the only
instance, in which we shall have the pleasure of finding
tke old Saxon maxims of government renewed in the
American constitutions. Particular attention will be paid
to them, as they present themselves.

By the constitution of New Hampshire, *' every male
inhabitant, with town privileges, of twenty one years of
age, paying for himself a poll tax, has a fight to vote, in
the town or parish wherein he dwells, in the election of
rept esentatives." ^

In Massachussetts^ this right is, under the constitution,
tajoyed by ** every male person, being twenty one years
of age, and resident in any particular town in the com-
monwesdth for the space of one year next preceding,
having a freehold estate within the same town, of the
annual income of three pounds, or any estate of the value
of sixty pounds.'' Every one so qualified may " vote in
the choice of a representative for the said town." •

The right to choose representatives in JRhode Island
is vested in ^^the freemen of the respective towns or

9 Bac. on Gov. 34. r Cons. N. H. p. 11. 14/

* Con8.Ma8S.c 1.8. 3. a. 4.

V

134 LECfyRES ON LAW.

places." This regulaticm is specified in the charter of
Charles the second. The state of Rhode Island and
Providence Plantations has not assumed a form of go-
vernment different from that, which is contained in the
abovementioned charter.'

The qualifications requisite, in the state of Connecti-
cut, to entitle a person to vote at elections, are, maturitj'
in years, quiet and peaceable behaviour, a civil conversar
tion, and forty shillings freehold, or forty pounds personal
estate : if the selectmen of the town certify a person
qualified in those respects, he is admitted a freeman, on
his taking an oath of fidelity to the state. ^ ^

It ought to be observed, by the way, that this power
to admit persons to be freemen, or to exclude them from
being freemen, according to the sentiments which other*
entertain concerning their conversation and behaviour, i^
a power of a very extraordinary nature ; and is certainly
capable of being exercised for very extraordinary pur*
poses*

The constitution of New York Ordains, ^^ that everjr
male inhabitant of full age, who shall have personally
resided within one of the counties of the state, for six
months immediately preceding the day of election, shall,
at such election, be entitled to vote for representatives of
the said county in assembly ; if during the time aforeaai4
he shall have been a freeholder, possessing a freehold of
the value of twenty pounds, within the said county, or
have rented a tenement therein of the yearly value of

« Char.R,t p. 41.Sh ^ Cow. Con.p. 54.

LECTURES OK LAW. 135

forty shillings; and been rated and actually paid taxe^
to the state-'' ""

*' All inhabitants of New Jersey, of full age, who are
worth fifty pounds, proclamation money, clear estate
within that government, and have resided within the
county, in which they shall claim a vote, for twelve
months immediately preceding^he election, shall be enti-
tled to vote for representatives in assembly." ^

The right oi suffrage is not specified in the constitu-
tion of Delaware ; but it is provided, that, in the election
of members of the legislature, it ^^ shall remain as exer-
cised by law at present,"

In Maryland, " all freemen above twenty one years of
iige, h^ing a freehold of fifty acres of land in the county,
In which they offer to vote, and residing therein ; and all
freemen having property in the state above the value of
thirty pounds current money, and having resided in the
county, in which they offer to vote, one whole year next
preceding the election, shall have a right of suffrage in
the election of delegates for such county."''

We find, in the constitution of Virginia, no specifica-
tion of the right of suffrage : it is declared, however, that
diis right shall remain as it was exercised at the time
when that constitution was made. '

It is provided by the constitution of North Carolina,
'^ that all freemen of the age of twenty one years, who

▼ Cons. N. Y. c. 7. p. 5a ^ Cons. N. I. c 4. p. 70. 71.

X Cons. Del. c. 5. p. 95. y Coos. Mar. c 2^ p. 1<09«

* Cons. Vir. p. 136.

;[36 LECTURES ON LAW.

have been inhabitants of any county within the »tate
twelve months immediately preceding the day of any elec<»
tion, and shall have paid publick taxes, shall be entitled
to vote for members of the house of commons, for the
county in which they reside.'^ * '

According to the constitution of South Carolina^
*' every free white man, ^f the age of twenty one years,
being a citizen of the state, and having re&ided in it two
years previous to the day of election, and who has a free-
hold of fifty acres of land, or a town lot, of which he
hath been legally seized and possessed at least six months
before such election, or, not having such freehold or lot^
has resided within the election district, in which he
offers to give his vote, six months before the election,
and has, the preceding year, paid a tax of three shiUings
sterling towards the support of government, shall have a
right to vote for members of the house of representatives
for the election district, in which he holds such property^
or is so resident." ^

I am not possessed of the present constitution of
Georgia, By its late constituti(»i, it was provided,
that " all male white inhabitants, of the age of twenty
one years, and possessed, in their own rights of ten
)K>unds value, and liable to pay tax in the state, or beings
of any mecbanick trade, and shaU have been a resident
six months in the state, phalli have aright to vote at all
elections for ^ representatives," ^

a CcBS. N. C c 8. p. 134. b Cea5.S.C. art. 1. s. 4.

c Cons. Oeorg. c..9. p. 158.

^ ^keratkms ha^e been made by several of the 9katea ia their
constitutional provisions on this subject. .

LECTURES ON LAW. 137

From the foregoing Enumeration — its length and its
xainuteness will be justified by its importance — from the

«
According to the present constitution of Delaware, " every white
freeman of the age of twenty one years, having resided in the state
two years next before the electionj and within that time paid a state
or county tax, which shall have been assessed at least six months
before the* election, shall enjoy the right of an elector." Art*
4. 8. L. ' • /

By an amendment of the constitution of Maryland, confirmed in
the year one thousand eight hundred and two, it is provided
that every free white male citizen of the stale, and no other, above
twenty one years of age, having resided twelve months nest prece-
ding the election in the city or county at which he offers to vote,
shall have a right of suffrage. ConstitutioBS, p. IT4. >

The present constitution of Oeorgia'directs that the electors of
members of the general assembly sh^ll be citizens and inhabitants of
the state, and shall have attained the age of twenty one years, and
have paid all publick taxes which may have been required of them,
and which they have had an opportunity of paying agreeably to law,
for the year preceding the election, and shall have resided six
months within the county. Art. 4. s. 1.

In order to complete the view taken of this subject in the text) x
it will be proper to state the provisions made by the constitutions
of the new states admitted into the Union respecting the qualifica-
tions of electors.

In Vermont, " every man of the full age of twenty one years,
having resided in the state for the space of one whole year next
before the election of representatives, and who is of a quiet and
peaceable behaviour, and will take the following oath. or affirma-
tion, shall be entitled to all the privileges of the state. — < You do ,
solemnly swear (or aflBrm) that whenever you give your vote or
suffrage, touching any matter that concerns the state of Vermont,
yon will do it so as in your conscience you shall judge will most con-

VOL. II. T

ISfii LECTURES ©N LAW. ,

foregoing enumeration of the provisions, which have
been made, in the Several states, concerning the right
of suffrage, we are weU warranted, I think, in drawing
this broad and general inference — that, in the United
States, this right is extended to every freeman, who
by his residence, has given evidence of his attachment
to. the country, who, by having property, of by being
in a situation to acquire property, possesses a coiAmou
interest with his fellow citizens ; and who is not in such
\incomfortable circumsta^nces, as to render him neces-
sarily dependent, for his subsistence, on the will of
others.

duce to th€ best good of the same, as established by the constitu-
tioD, without fear or favour of any maa." Cons. Ch. 2. s. 21.

By the constitation of Tennessee, every freeman of the age^
of twenty one years and upwards, possessing a freehold in the
county wherein he may vote, and being an inhabitant of the state,
and every freeman, being an inhabitant of any one county in ^e state
six months immediately preceding the day of election, shall be enti*
tied to vote for members of the gensral assembly, for the county in,
which he shall reade. Art. S. s. 1.

The constitution of Kentucky provides, that in all elections for
representatives, every free male atizen (negroes, mulattoes, and
Indians excepted) who at the time being hath attained to the age o£
twenty one years, aad resided in the state two years, and the.
county or town in which he offers to vote one year next preceding
the election, shall enjoy the right of an elector. Art. 2. s. 8.

In the state of Ohid, the rights of electors are enjoyed by all

white male inhabitants above the age of twenty one years, having

" resided in the state one year next preceding the election, and who

have paid or are charged with a state or county tax. Cons. Art. 4-

s.1. Ed.

LECTURES ON I«AW. 139

By the same enumeration, we are enabled, with con-
scious pleasure, to view and to display the close approxi-
mation, which, on this great subject, the constitutions of
the American States have made, to what we have
already seen to be the true principles and the correct
theory of freedom.

Again; the same enumeration places in the strongest
and most striking light, the wisdom and the generous
confidence, which rested one of the principal pillars of
the national government upon the foundation prepared
for it by the governments of the several states.

With this sentiment I began — with this sentiinent I
conclude my remarks concerning the qualifications
required from those, who elect the house of representa-
tives of the United States.

We now proceed to examine the qualifications requi-
red from those, who are elected to that dignified trust.

1. A representative must have attained the age of
twenty five years. *

It is amusing enough to consider the different ages,
at which persons have been deemed qualified or disqua*
lified for different purposes, both in private and in publick
life.

A woman, as we learn from my Lord Coke and others,
has seven ages for several purposes appointed to her by
the law. At seven years of age, her father, if a feudal
superiour^ was entitled to demand from his vassals an

« J

I
I

• Cons. U.S. art 1. s.2.

140 LECTCILES ON LAW,

aid to marry her: at nine, she may have dower: at
twelve, §he may consent to marriage : at fourteen, she
may choose a guardian : at sixteen, marriage might be
tendered to her by her lord : at seventeen, she may act as
executrix: at twenty one, she may alienate her landsf^
and goods. ^ A man, also, has different ages assigned .
to him for different purposes. At twelve, years of age,
he was formerly obliged to take the oath of allegiance :
at fourteen, he can consent to marriage : at the same
age he can choose his guardian : at twenty one, he may
convey his personal and real esta):e. ^ . •

The .foregoing are the different ages allowed for dif-
ferent purposes in private life. In publick life, there has,
with regard to age, been a similar variety of assignments ;
the reasons of some of which it is hard ta conjecture ;
for the propriety of others, it is equally hard to account*

In the government of the United States, it is sup-
posed, that no one is fit to be a member of the house
of representatives, till he is twenty five years of age ; to
be a senator, till he is thirty ;** to be a prei»dent, till he
is thirty five. *

The duration assigned by nature to human life is
often complained of as very short ; that assigned to it
by some politicians is much shorter. For some political
purposes, a man cannot breathe before he numbers
thirty five years : as to other political purposes, his
breath is extinguished the moment he reaches sixty.
By the constitution of New York, J " the chancellor, the .
judges of the supreme court, and the first judge of

f 1. Ins. T8, b. s Id. ibid.

> Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 3. ' Id art 2. s, 1. 3 C. 24. p. 63.

L£CTUR£S ON LAW. 141

the county court in every county, hold their offices —
until they shall respectively have attained the age of sixty
years."

How differently is the same object viewed at different
times and in different countries ! In New York, a man is
deemed uniit for the first offices of the state ofter he is
sixty : in Sparta, a man was deemed unfit for the first
offices of the state till he was sixty. Till that age, no
one was entitled to a. seat in the senate, the highest ho-
nour of the chiefs.^ How convenient it would be, if a
politician possessed the power, so finely exercised by the
most beautiful of poets ! Virgil could, with the greatest
ease imaginable, bring iEricas and Dido together; though,
in fact, some centuries elapsed between the times, in
. which they lived. Why cannot some politician, by the
same or some similar enchanting art, produce an ancient
and a modern government as cotemporaries ? The effect
would be admirable. The moment that a gentleman of
sixty would be disqualified from retaining his seat as a
judge of New York, he would be qualified for taking
Ills seat as a senator of Sparta.

.2. Before one can be a representative, he must have
been seven years a citizen of the United States. ^

Two reasons may be assigned for this provision.
1. That the constituents might have a full and mature
opportunity of knowing the. character and merit of their
representative. 2. That the representative might have a
full and mature opportunity of knowing the dispositions
and interests of his constituents.

* 1. Gil. c. 3. p. 107. 8. War. Bib. 29.
> Ci^DS. U. S. ai*t 1. s. %

142 LECTURES OK LAW.

3. The representative must, when elected, be an in-
habitant of that state, in which he is chosen. "*

The qualification of residence we have found to be
universally insisted on with regard to those who elect :
here the same qualiiication is insisted on with regard
to those who are elected. The same reasons, which
operated in favour of the former qualification!, operate
with equal, indeed, with greater force, in favour of this.
A provision, almost literally the same with the present
one, was made in England three centuries and a half
ago. By a statute made in the first year of Henry the
fifth, it was enacted, that ^' the knights of the shires,
which from henceforth«hall be chosen in every shire, be
not chosen, unless they be resident within the shire
where they shall be chosen, the day of the date of the
writ^f the summons of the parliament"—" And more*
over it is ordained and established, that the citizens and
burgesses of the cities and boroughs be chosen men, citi-
zens and burgesses, resiant, dwelling, and free in the
saihe cities and boroughs, and no other in any wise."^
To this moment, this statute continues unrepealed--a
melancholy proof, how far degenerate and corrupted man-
ners will overpower the wisest and most wholesome
laws. From Sir Bulstrode. Whitlocke we learn, that,
above a century ago, noncompliance with this statute
was " connived at." ° The statute itself has been long
and openly disregarded. The consequences of this dis-
regard may be seen in the present state of the represen*
tation in England.

«Cons.U. S. art. 1. s. 2. » St 1. Hen. 5. c 1. Bar. 38a

- o l.WhitL496.

LECTURES ON LAW. 143

Thus far concerning the election of the house of re-
presentatives, and the qualifications of the members and
of the electors. It remains to speak concerning the elec-
tion and the qualifications of the senators.

The senators are chosen by the legislatures of the
several states. Every senator must have attained to the
age of thirty years ; he must have been nine years a citi-
tzen of the United States ; and he must, when elected,
be an inhahitant of that state, for which he shall be
chosen, p

Some have considered the senators as immediately
representing the sovereignty, while the members of the
other house immediately represent the people, of the
several states. This opinion is founded on a doctrine
which I considered and, I believe, refuted very fully
in a former lecture :<i the doctrine is this— that the legis*
lative power is the supreme power of the state. The
supreme power I showed to reside in the people.

By the constitution of the United States, the people
have delegated to the several legislatures the choice of
senators, while they have retained in their own hands
the choice of representatives. It would be unwise,
however, to infer from this, that either the dignity or
the importance of the seni^te is inferiour to the dignity or
the importance of the house of representatives. One
may intrust to another the management of an equal or
even superiour business, while he chooses to transact
personally a business of an equal or even an inferiour
kind.

f Cons. U. S. «rt. 1. s. 3. ^ Ante. vol. 1. ch. 5.

144 LECTURES ON LAW*

Between the senate of the United States^ and that of
Pennsylvania, there is one remarkable point of difference,
of which it will be proper, in this place, to take parti-
cular notice. According to the constitution of the United
States, two senators afe chosen by the legislature of each
state: while the members of the house of representatives
are chosen by the people^ According to the constitution
of Pennsylvania, ^ the senators are chosen by the citizens
of the state, at the same time, in the same manner, and
at the same place where they shall yote for representa-
tives.

To choose the senators by the same persons, by wham
the members of the house of representatives are chosen,
is, we are told, to lose the material distinction, and, con-
sequently, all the benefits which would result from the
material distinction, between the two branches of the
legislature.

If this, indeed, should be the necessary consequence
of electing both branches by the same persons ; the ob-
jection, it is confessed, would operate with a force ir-
resistible. But many and strong reasons, we think, may
be assigned, why all the advantages, to be expected
from two branches of a legislature, may be gained and
preserved, though those two branches derive their au-
thority from precisely the same source.

A point of honour will arise between them. The
esprit du corps will soon be introduced. The principle,
and direction, and aim of this spirit will, we presume,
be of the best and purest kind in the two houses. They

r Art 1.8,5.

l/SCTVRES ON LAW. 145

frill be rivals in duty, rivals in fame, rivals for the good
l^aces of their common constituents.

£ach house wiU be cautious, and careful, and circum-
spect, in those proceedings, which, they know, must un«
dergo the strict and severe criticism of judges, whose
inclination will lead them, and whose duty will enjoin
them, not to leave a single blemish unnoticed or uncor*
rected. After all the caution, all the care, and all the
circumspection, which can be employed, strict and se-
vere criticism, led by inclination and enjoined by duty^
will find something to notice and correct. Hence a dou-
ble source of information, precision, and sagacity in
planning, digesting, composing, comparing, and finish-
ing the laws, both in form and substance. Every biU
-will, in some one or more steps of its progress, undergo
the keenest scrutiny. Its relations, whether near or more
remote, to the principles of freedom, jurisprudence, and
the constitution will be accurately examined : and its
effects upon the laws already existing will be maturely
traced. In this manner, rash measures, violent innova*
tions, crude projects, and partial contrivances will be
stifled in the attempt to bring them forth. These effects
of mutual watchfulness and mutual control between
the two houses, will redound to the honour of each, and
to the security and advantage of the state.

The very circumstance of sitting in separate houses
will be the cause of emulous and active separate exer*
tion. The era, when the commons of England met in
an apartment by themselves, is, with reason, considered,
by many writers, as a memorable era in the history of
English liberty. ^^ After the formation of the two housef
vol; II. u
LECTURES ON LAW.

of paiitament,'' says Mr. Millar, in his historical view
of the English constitution/ ^^ each of them came to be
possessed of certain peculiar privileges ; which, although
probably the objects of little attention in the begimiingy
have since risen to great political importance. The house-
of commons obtained the sole power of bringing in money
bills." This subject will, by and by, come under our
mbire immediate view.

Rivals for character, as we have seen the two houses
to be, they will be rivals in all pursuits, by which cha«
racter can be acquired, established, and exalted. To
these laudable pursuits the crown of success will best be
obtained, by vigour and alacrity in the discharge of the
business committed to their care.

A difference in the posts assigned to the two houses^
and in the number and duration of their members, will
produce a diiFerence in their sense of the duties required
and expected from them. The house of representatives^
for instance, form the grand inquest of the state. They
will diligently inquire into grievances, arising both from
men and things. Their commissions will commence or
be renewed at short distances of time. Their sentiments^
and views, and wishes, and even their passions, will have
received a deep and recent tincture from the sentiments,
and views, and wishes, and passions of their constituents.
Into their counsels, and resolutions, and measures, this
tincture will be strongly transfused. They will know the
evils which exist, and the means of removing them : they
will know the advantages already discovered, aud the
means of increasing them. As the term of their com-

• P.596<4to.)

tECtURES ON LAW. 14T

mission and trust will soon expire, they will be desirous,
while it lasts, of seeing the publick business put, at least,
in a train of accomplishment. From all these causes, a
sufficient number of overtures and propositions will origi*
na^e in the house of representatives. These overtures
and propositions will come, in their proper course, before
the senate. Those, which shall appear premature, will
be postponed till a more convenient season. Those^
which shall appear crude, will be properly digested and
formed^i Those, which shall appear to be calculated upon
•too narrow a scale, will be enlarged in their operation
and extent. Those, which shall appear to be dictated by
local views, inconsistent with the general welfare, will be
either rejected altogether, or altered in such a manner,
as that the interest of the whole shall not be sacrificed,
or rendered subservient, to the interest of a part.

Articles of information, detached and seemingly un-
connected, introduced by the house of representatives;
at different timies, from different places, with different
motives, and for different purposes, will, in the senate,
he collected, compared, methodised, and consolidated.
Under their plastick hands, those materials will be em-
ployed in forming systems and laws, for the prosperity
and happiness of the commonwealth.

If, at anytime, the passions or prejudices of the people
should be ill directed or too strong ; and the house of
representatives should meet, too highly charged with the
transfusion ; it will be the business and the duty of the
senate to allay the fervour ; and, before it shall give a
sanction to the bills or resolutions of the other house, to
introduce into them the requisite ingredients of mildness
and moderation.

148 LECTtltSS on IiAW.

Extremes,. on one hand, are often the fiM*ehintta9 wt
extremes on the other. If a benumbing torpor should
appear in the body politick, after the effects of yioleot
convulsions have subsided ; and if the contagious apiitbj
should spread itself over the house of representatives ; 'ut
will then become the business and the duty of the senat^^
to infuse into the publick councils and publick measures
the proper portion of life, activity, and vigour.

In seasons of prosperity, it will become the care of the
senate to temper the extravagance, or repress the ins^
lence, of publick joy. In seasons of adversity, the senate
WiU be employed in administering comfort and cure tir
the publick despondency*

In fine ; the senate will consider itself, and will be
considered. by the people, as the balance whedinthe
great machine of government ; calculated and designed
to retard its movements, when they shall be too raptd^
and to accelerate them, when they shall be too alow.

These reflections, which seem to arise naturally frona
the subject before us, will, we hope, be sufficient to coop-
vince you, that the most beneficial purposes may be ration*
ally expected from the senate of Pennsylvania, though
the senators, as well as the members of the house of
representatives, be elected immediately by the citizens of
the commonwealth.

Another circumstance, not yet mentioned, deservMi
to be added to this account. The districts for the electitn^
of senators, are to be formed by the legislature. In
forming those districts, the legislature are empowered
to include in them such a number of taxable inhi^itanti

LECTURES OK lAW. 140

aft thaU be entitled to elect four senators. ' An enlarged
and judicious exercise of this power will have a strong
tendency to increase the dignity and usefulness of the
Hsenate* It may, I believe, be assumed as a general
maxim, of no small importance in democratical govern-
m^its, that the more extensive the district of election
is, the choice will be the more wise and enlightened.
Intrigue and cunning are the bane of elections by the
people, who are unsuspicious, because they are undesign-
ing: but intrigue and cunning are most dangerous, be-
>cause they are most successful, in a contracted sphere.

IL I am now to consider the number of members of
which the legislature of the United States consists.

The representatives are apportioned amongthe several
states according ta their numbers. The number of repre-
sentatives shall not exceed one for every thirty thousand. *
.The senate shall be composed of two senators from each
^ *tate. ^

The Union consists now of fourteen, and will soon
consist of fifteen states. Of consequence, the senate is
composed now of twenty eight, and will be composed
soon of thirty members.

A census of the United States has been taken, agree-
ably to the constitution, and the returns of that census
are nearly completed. By these it appears, that, allow-
»g one representative for every thirty thousand returned

•

t Cons. Peon, art 1. s. 7* <^ Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 2;.
Y I^ art 1. s. ^

1^0 JLeCTURES OJff LAW*

on the census, the house of repreaentiaitives will consist of
one hundred and twelve members. ^

Every one has heard of the saying of the famous Car*
dinal de Retz-— -that evjery publick assembly, consistiBg^
of more than one hundred members, was a mere mob*
It is not improbable, that the Cardinal drew, his conclu^
sion from what he had seen and e3q)erie]i£ed. He lived
in a turbulent season ; and, in that turbulent season, wast
distinguished as a most turbulent actor. Of consequence^
he was much conversant with mere mobs. But surely
no good reason can be given, why the numbef one hun-
dred should form the precise boundary, on one side of
which, order may be preserved, and on the other side ^of
which, confusion must unavoidably prevail. The politic*
cal qualities of publick bodies, it is, in all likeUhood, im*
possible to ascertain and distinguish widi such numerical
exactness. Besides ; the publick bodies, most celebrated

V After the census mentioned in the text, the representative^
t^ere apportioned among the states, by an act of congress passed on
the fourteenih day of April, 1792, agreeably to a ratio of one member
fer every thirty three thousand persons in each state, computed ac-
tsording to the rule prescribed by the constitution. The number of
representatives, agreeably to that ratio, amounted to (me handled
and five.

A second enumeration was made in the year oiie tliousand
eight hundred ; and the representatives were, by an act of congress
passsd on the fourteenth day of January, 1803, apporticnied among
the states agreeably to the same ratio. Thmr number amounted ti>
one hundred and forty one. The state of Ohia has since been ad*
mitted into the Union, and is entitled to one member. This last
apportionment is stiU in force.

The senate of the tJnited States, at present, consists of thirfy fbitir'
members. Ed.

LSCTURE6 ON LAW. 151

for the decency and dignity, as well as for the importance,
of their proceeding, have far exceeded, in number, the
bounds prescribed by the Cardinal for the existence of
liiose respectable Qualities : witness the senate of Rome^
and the parliament of Great Britain.

There is, however, with regard to this point, an ex-
treme on one hand, as well as on the other. The num-
ber of a deliberative body may be too great, as well as too
small. In a great and a growing country, no precis^
number could, with propriety, be fixed by the constitu-
tion. A power, in some measure discretionary, was,
therefore, necessarily given to the legislature, to direct
tbat number from time to time« If the spirit of the con-
atttuticm be observed in other particulars, it will not be
▼iolatedin this.

' III. I proceed, in the third place, to treat of the term,for
Hrhich the members of the national legislature are chosen*

In the greatest part of the states, the members of the
most numerous branch of their legislature are chosen an-
nually ; in some, every half year. The members of the
least numerous branch are generally chosen for a longer
term. - By the constitution of the United States, ^ the
members of the house of representatives are chosen
** every second year."

When we consider the nature and the extent of ,the
general government, we shall be satisfied, I apprehend,
that biennial elections are as well proportioned to it, as
annual elections are proportioned to the individual, states,
^nd half yearly elections to some of the smallest of them.

» Art 1. s. 2.

158 LECTUREl^ ON LAW.

The senators of the United States are chosen for six
years ; but are so classed, that the seats of one third part
of them are vacated at the expiration of every aecend
year ; so that one third part may be chosen every second
year. ^

In Pennsylvania, the senators are chosen for four years ;
but are so classed, that the seats of one fourth part of them
are vacated at the expiration of every year ; so that oneT
fourth part may be chosen every yean "

The intention, in assigning different limitatioiis to the
terms, for which the members of the different houses are
chosen, and in establishing a rotation in the senate, ia
obviously to obtain and secure the different qualities, by
which a legislature ought to be distinguished. These
qualities are, stability, consistency, and minute informa-
tion. All these qualities may be expected, in sOBfte degree,
from each house ; but not in equal proportions. Po9
ipinute information, the principal reliance will be placed
on the house of representatives ; because that house is
the most numerous ; and because its members are most
frequently chosen. The qualities of stability and con*
sistency will be expected chiefly from the senate ; because
the senators continue longer in oflice ; and because only
a part of them can be changed at any one time.

IV. I proceed to treat concerning the laws, and rules^
and powers of the two houses of congress.

The parliament of Great Britain has Its peculiar law;
a law, says my Lord Coke, ^ with which few are ac({iiasiii^

r Cons. U. & art 1 9. 3. > Coos. Fenn. art L s. jT. 9.

"^ 1. Ins. 11 b.

r

LECTURES ON LAW. 153

td, but which deserves to be investigated by all. The
maxims, however, upon which the parliament proceeds,
are not, it seems, defined and ascertained by any parti-
cular stated law : they rest entirely in the breast of the
parliament itself. The dignity and independence of
the two houses, we are told, are preserved, in a great
measure, by keeping their privileges indefinite. ^

Very different is the case with regard to the legisla-
ture of the United States, and to that of Pennsylvania.
The great maxims, upon which our law pf parliament is
founded, are defined and ascertained in our consti-
tutions. The arcana of privilege, and the arcana of
prerogative, are equally unknown to our system of
jurisprudence*

By the constitution of the United States,^ each house
of the legislature shall be the judge of the qualifications
apd returns, and also of the elections, of its own mem-
bers. By the constitution of Pennsylvania, ** each house
shall judge of' the qualifications of its members : but
contested elections shall be determined by a committee
to be selected, formed, and regulated in such manner as
shall be directed by law. With - regard to this subject,
the constitution of Pennsylvania has, I think, improved
upon that of the United States. Contested elections,
when- agitated in the house itself, occasion much waste
of time, and, too often, a considerable degree of ani-
mosity among the members. These inconveniences
will be, in a g^eat measure, avoided by the proceedings
and decision of a committee, directed and governed by
a standing law.

ii 1. Bl Com. 163. 164. c Art. 1. s. 5. d Art. 1. s. %%

VOL. II, X

It is proper, in this place, to take liotitft, thit tlie
house of representative^ in congress have appointed a
standing committee of elections. It is the duty of thf i
committee, to examine the certificates of ^eetioft, c^
other credentials of the members returned ; to tAtitM
their consideration evety thing referred to thefm eoh^efn^
ing returns and elections ; and to report their Opinions
and proceedings to the house.*

In the United States and in Pennsylvania*, thd legi«*
lature has a right to sit upon its owti adjournments : but
neither house shall, without the consent of tbe other,
adjourn for more thandiree days, nor to any other placef
than thsit in ii^hich the two houses shall be sitting*^ Itl
England, the sole right of convening, prorbgutng^ and
dissolving th^ parliament forms a part, and, obviously,
a very important part, of the prerogative of the king. ^
Here we discover, in our new constitutions, another
, renovation of the old Saxon customs. I'he orig^id
meetings of the wittenagemote in England were held
regularly at two seasons of the year; at the end of sprinj^,
^nd at the beginning of autumn.^ Afterwards there
came to be two sorts of wittenagemote ; one held by
custom, and at the stated periods; die other called
occasionally, ' and by a special summons from the king.

e Jour. Rep. ISth April, 1789.
^ Cons. XJ. S^ art h s. 5. Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 16.

*

V I. BL Com. IBT. 1,86. ^ Bac <Mi Gov. S6. WBatt. 146. 34S.

^ A similar distincUon between stated and occasional assemblies
was observed by the Athenians. The times of the former were
appointed by law: the latter were sunmoned by those at the

.LECTURES OH LAW. 1^5

Under the princes of the Norman and Plantqgenet
lines, the ancient apd regular meetings of the national
.legislature were more and more disregarded. The
consequence was, that, in progress of time, the whole
4»£ the piirli^inentary buainesa wais transacted in extraor-
cUqary Qieqtings, which were called at the pleasure of
tJ9^ sovereign J PrincipUa ob^fa* In consequence of
squiring the power to call the parliament together, that
of putting a negative upon its meetings, ^n other words,
of proroguing or dissolving it| was, in all cases, vested
in the crown* ^

The institution of the United States provides, > that
the s^iJitars and representatives shall, in. all cases, except
treason, felony, and breach of the peace, be privileged
from arrest during their attendance at the session of their
respective houses, and in going to and returning from
l^m. The constitution of Pennsylvania"^ contains a simi-
lar provi^cm, excepting in one particular. The mem-,
bers are no^ entitled to privilege, if their conduct has
been such, as to give reasonable cause of fear that they
will break tho^peace ; in the same manner as they are not
entitled to it, if, by their conduct, the peace has been
actually broken. This necessary privilege has continued
mdstantiaUy the same, since the time of the Saxons.
The grand assembly of the wittenagemote, as we are
toM by Mr. Selden, was bolden sacred; and all the
members were under the publick faith, both in going
and coming, unless the ^^xrty vrcxt fur firobatus. This

head of the civil or of the military department «f the government ;
^8 emergencies in those different depaitments arose. 1. Pot Ant
91. 92.

j Millar. 343. 344^ ^14 311. iAit.l.s.6. mArtl.s.ir.

156 LECTURES OK LAW.

privilege of safe pass, being thus ancient and fcinda-
mental, and not by any law taken away, resteth still in
force. "

The members of the national legislature, and those
also of the legislature of Pennsylvania, shall not, for any
speech or debate in either house, be questioned in any
other place. ^ In England, the freedom of speech is,
at the opening of every new parliament, particularly;
demanded of the king ^ in person, by the speaker of the
house of commons. ^ The liberal provision, which is
made, by our constitutions, upon this subject, may be
justly viewed as a very considerable improvement in the
science and the practice of government* In order to ena-
ble and encourage a representative of the pabUck to dis-
charge his publick trust with finnness and success, it is
indispensably necessary, that he should enjoy the fullest
liberty of speech, and that he should be protected
from 'the resentment of every one, however powerful,
to wjiom the exercise of that liberty may occasion
offence*

*
When it i^ mentioned, that the meimbers sh|ill not
be questioned in any other place ; the impli^tion is
strong, that, for their speeches in either house, they
may be questioned and censured by that house, in which
they are spoken. Besides; each house. Both in the
United States and in Pennsylvania, has an express power
given it^ to *'*' punish its members for disorderly beha-

» Bacon Gov. dfi.

* Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 6. Cons. Pena art 1. & XT.

? l.]n.Cpin.lH

LECTURES ON LAW.

15?

viour."*' Under the protection of privilege, to use
indecency or licentiousness of language; in the course of
debate, is disorderly behaviour, of a kind peculiarly base
and ungentlemanly.

«

Each house niay not only punish, but, with the con-
currence of two thirds, it may expel a member. ' This
regulation is adopted by the constitution of Pennsyl-
vania : • " but," it is added, " not a second time f6r the
9ame cause." The reason for the addition evidently is
— that the member, who has offended, cannot be an
object of a second expulsion, unless, since the offence
giyen arid punished by the first expulsion, he has been
cither reelected by his former constituents, or elected by
others. In both cases, his election is a proof, that, ih
the opinion of his constituents, he either has not offended
at all, or has been already sufficiently punished for his
offence. The language of each opinion is, that he
ought not to be expelled again : and the language of
the constituents is a law to the house.

Each house may determine the rules of ^ts proceed-*
ings. This power is given, in precisely the same terms,
by the constitution of the United States, and by that
of Pennsylvania. ' Its propriety is selfevidenf.

The constitution of the United States directs, « that
each house shall keep a journal of its proceedings, and^

4 C(Mi. U. S. art. 1. 8. 5. Cons. Penn. art. 1. s. 23.

' Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 5.

% Art, 1. s. 13.

' Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 5. Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 13.
« Art. 1. s. 5.

15^ LECTURES ON lAW.

•

from time to time, publish them, except such parl^ m
may require secrecy: it directs further, that the yeas
and nays of the members of either house, on any qiies*
tion, shall, at the desire of one fifth of those preseat, ht
entered on the journal. The constitution of Pennsyl-
vania^ goes still further Upon these points: it directs,
that the journals shall be pubfished weekly ; that the
yeas and nays shall be entered on them^ at the desire
of ^any two member's ; and that the doors of each
house, and of committees of the whole, shdQ be op^
unless when the business shall be such as ought to be
kept secret.

That the conduct and proceedings of representatives
should be ^s open as possible to the inspection of dKMie
whom they represent, seems to be, in republican go«
vemment, a maxim, of whose trudi or impoHance the
smallest doubt cannot be entertained. That, by aiieces*
aary consequence, every measure, which will facilitajte
or secure this open communication of the exeretae of
delegated power, should be adopted and patronised by
the conBtitution and laws a£ every free state, seems to be
another maxim, which is the unavoidaUe result of idke
former. For these reasons, I feel myself necessarily
and unavoidably led to consider the additional regulations
made, upon this subject, by the constitution of Pennsyl-
v^ia, as improvements upon those made by the consti-
tution of the United States. The regulation'--«tbat tke
doors of each house, and of committees of the whole, shall
be open-— I view as an improvement highly beneficial both
in its nature and in its consequences— both to the repre-
sentatives and to their constituents. ^^ In the house of com-

^ Art. 1. 8. 14, 15.

LECTURES ON LAW.

1^9

mo&s,'' sajrs Sir William Blackstone, *^ the conduct of
ever)' member is 9ubject to the future ciensure of his
constituents, and therefore should be openly submitted
to theirinspection.'' ^ But I forbear to enter more large-
ly into this interesting topick.

The house of representatives in congress shall choose
their speaker and other officers. " The like provision is
made by the constitution of Pennsylvania, ^ with respect
to both houses of the general assembly.

The speaker of the house of commons cannot giv^
his opinion, nor can he argue any j[uestion in the house.*
From this view of the matter, one would be apt to ima-
gine, that SIS the Latins assigned to a grove the namex)f
htcus^ a non lucendo^ so the English distinguished the
first officer of the house of commons by the appellation
of speaker, because, by the rules of that house, he could
say neither yes nor no. But if we trace things to their
origin, we shall be led to discover the reason of this
denomination.

The first mode of passing a bill through parliament
was by a petition to the king. This petition represented
the grievance or inconvenience, concerning which com-
plaint was made, and requested that it should be removed.
"When a petition was offered by the commons, after they
sat in a separate house, it was necessary to appoint some
person to intimate their views and wishes to the king.
'This person, chosen by themselves, and approved by the
king, whom they would not address by the mouth of a

^l.BLCom.l81.
3^ Art 1.8. 11.

X Cons. U.S. Art t s. 3.
■ t BL Com. 181.

160 LEGTUREf ON LAW.

person disagreeable to him, was denominated their
speaker^

To discharge this part of his duty in the dignified,
and, at the same time, in the respectful manner, in which
it ought to be discharged, was frequently considered as
a busines3 of a very arduous nature. It will not be un-
entertaining, to learn, from one of the speakers of the
house of commons, the qualities, which, in his opinion,
were necessary for the proper performance of the speak-
er's office.

*' Whence," said Serjeant Yelvertoh, ^' your unex-
pected choice of me to be your mouth or speaker should
proceed, I am utterly ignorant. Neither from my per-
son nor nature df>th this choice arise : for he that supplieth
this place ought to be a man big and comely, stately and
well spoken, his voice great, his carriage majestical, his
nature haughty. But, contrarily, the stature of mybody
is small, myself not so well spoken, my voice low, my
carriage lawyerlike and of the common fashion, my
nature soft and bashful. If Demosthenes, being so
learned and so eloquent as he was, trembled to speak be-
^fore Phocion at Athens ; how much piore shall I, being
unlearned and unskilful, supply this place of dignity, to
speak before the unspeakable majesty and sacred per-
sonage of our dread and dear sovereign, the terrour of
whose countenance" (he speaks of Queen Elizabeth)
V will appal and abase even the stoutest heart."

All bills for reusing revenue shall originate in the house
of representatives ; but the senate may propose amend-

> Millar 414. ^ 4. Pari. Hist 411, 412. .

LECTURES ON LAW* 161

metits as in other bills. This provision is common to
the United States and Pennsylvania. ^

In a former lecture, d this subject was considered
under one aspect, under which it then made its appear-
ance. It now claims consideration in other respects t
and ought to be examined with a greater degree of mi-
nuteness. * s

In England, all grants of ^ids by parliament begin in
the houae of commons. Of that house, this is an an<?
cient,^ and, now, an indisputable privilege. With re?
gard to it, the commons are so jealous, that, over money
bills, they will not suffer the other house to exert any
powers, except.simply those of concurrence or rejection*
From the lords, no alteration or amendment will be re-
ceived on this delicate subject. The constitutions of the
United States smd Pennsylvania have, on this head,
adopted the parliamentary law of England in part ; but
they have not adopted it altogether. They have directed,
that money bills shall originate in the house of represent*
tatives; but they have directed also, that the senate
may propose amendments in these, as well as in other
bilk* It will be proper to investigate the reasons of each
part of the direction. This will best be done by tracing
the matter historically, and attending to the difference
between the institution of the house of lorcls in England^
and that of. the senates of the United States and Penn-
sylvania.

During a considerable time after the establishment of
the house of commons as a separate branch of the legist

^ Cons. U. S. art. 1. s. 7. Cons. Peim. art 1. s. 30.

^ Ante Vol 1. p. 445. ' *4.Ing,39.
VOL. IJ. Y

,162 LECTUl^ES ON XAW.

i

lature, it appears, that the members of that house were^
with regard to taxes and assessments, governed alto-
gether by the instructions, which they received from
their constituents. Each county and borough seems to
have directed its representatives, concerning the amount
of the rates to which they might give their assent. By-
adding together the sums contained in those parti-
cular directions, it was easy to ascertain, in the house
of commons, the sum total, which the commonalty of
the kingdom were willing to grant. To the extent of
this sum, the commons conceived themselves empowered
and directed to go; but no farther.

According to this mode of proceeding, the imposi-
tion of taxes produced no interchange of communieattoa
between the two houses of parliament. To introdiice
a money bill, or an amendment to a money ImQ, into the
house of lords—to deliberate upon the bill or amend-
ment in that house-rafter agreeing to it there, to submit
it to the deliberation of the house of commons--^-^ &is
would have been perfectly nugatory. Let us suppose,
that the bill or amendment had undergone the most full
and careful examination in the house of lords, who, att*-
ing only for themselves, could examine it under eveiy
aspect, unfettered by exteriour direction and control;
let us suppose it then transmitted to the house of com-
mons, for their concurrence : what could the house jof
commons do? They could not deliberate upon the bill
or the amendment: they could only compare^ it with
their instructions : if they found it consistent with them,
they could give, if inconsistent, they must refbse, their
consent. The only course, therefore, in which this
-business could be transacted, was, that the commons
fejiould begin by mentioning the sum, which they were

LECTUHES ON LAW. 163

empowered to grant, and that what they proposed should
be sent to the house of lords, who, upon all the circum-
stances^ might deliberate and judge for themselves. ^

•

In this manner, and for these reasons, the house of
commons became possessed of this important privilege,
which is now justly regarded by them, as one of the
strongest pillars of their freedom and power. Once pos-
sessed of this privilege, they w^re far*from relinquishing
it, wjtken the first reasons for its possession had ceased.
Other reasons, stronger than the first, succeeded to them«
In the flux of time and things, the revenue and influ*
ence of the crown became so great, and the property
of th^ peerage, considered with relation to the general
property of the kingdom, became comparatively so small,
that it was judged unwise to permit that body to model,
or ev^n to alter^ the general system of taxation. This
is the aspect, under which this subject was viewed in the
lecture, to which I have alluded ; and I will not repeat^
now, what was observed then.

From, this short historical deduction, it appears, that
the provision, which we now consider, is far from being
so important here, as it is in England. In the United
States and in Pennsylvania, both houses of the legislature
draw ..their authority, either immediately, or, at least,
not remotelv, fi-om the same common fountain. In En^
gland, one of the . houses acts entirely in its private
and separate right.

But though this regulation is by no means so necessary
here, as. it is in^ England ; yet it may have its use, so^ far

f Millar. 398.

164 Z.ECTU&2S ON LAW.

as it has been adopted into our constitutions. Our housea
of representatives are much more numerous than our
senates : the members of the former are chosen much
more frequently, than arcf the members of the latter.
For these reasons, an information more local and Qiinute .
may be expected m the houses of representatives, than
can be expected in the senates. This minute and local
information will be of service, in suggesting and in col*
lecting materials for the laws of revenue. After those
materials are collected and prepared, the wisdom and
the patriotism of both houses will be employed inform*^
ing them into a proper system*

The house of representatives shall have the sole pow^
er of impeaching. All impeachments shall.be tried by
the senate. These regulations are found both in the
constitution of the United States^ and in ^atof P^iii«
sylvania.^

The doctrine of impeachments is of high import in
the constitutions of free states. On one hand, the most
powerful magistrates should be amenable to the law : on
the other hand, elevated characters, should not be sacai«
iiced merely on account of their elevation. No one
should be secure while he violates the constitution and
the laws : every one should be secure while he observes
them*

Impeachments were known in Athens. They
prosecuted for great and publick offences, by which the
commonwealth was brought into danger. They were
not referred to any court of justice, but were prosecuted

« Art. 1. 8. 3, 3. hArt4. s.1.3.

^ LECTURES ON LAW. 16^

before the popular assembly, or before the senate of five
hundred* ^

Among the ancient Germans also, we discover the
traces of impeachments: for we are informed by Tacitus,
in his masterly account of the manners of that people, ^
that it was allowed to present accusations, and to prose-
cute capital offences, before the general assembly of the
nation.

An impeachment is described, by the law of England,
to be, a presentment to the most high and supreme
court of criminal jurisdiction, by the most solemn grand
inquest of the kingdom. ^ .

It is evident that, in England, impeachments, ac-
cording to this description, could not exist before the
separation of the two houses of parliament. Previous
to that era, the national council was accustomed to inquire
htto the conduct of the different executive officers, and
to punish them for malversation in office, or what
are* called high misdemeanors. The king himself was
not exempted from such inquiry and punishment : for it
hiid not yet become a maxim — ^that the king can do noi
wrong.

Prosecutions of this nature w^e not, like those of
ordinarjr crimes, intrusted to the management of an in-
dividual : they were conducted by the national council
themselves ; who acted, improperly enough, in the dou-
ble character of accusers and judges. Upon the separa-
tion of the two houses, it became an obvious improve^

» X Pol Ant 125. i Ch, 12. k 2. Hale, P. C. * 150. 4. Bl. Com. 256,

160 LECTURES ON LAW.

ment^ that the power of trying tiiose high xmsdemeanois
should belong to the house of lords^ and that the power,
of conducting the prosecution should belong to the house
of commons* In consequence of this improvement, the
inconsistent characters of judge and accuser were no
longer acted by the same body. ^ ^

We find the commons appearing as the gdoid inquest
of the nation, about the latter end of the reign, of Edward
the third. They then began to exhibit accusations for
crimes and misdemeanors, against offenders who were
thought to be out of the reach of the ordinary power of
the law. In the fiftieth year of that reign, they preferred
. impeachments against many delinque^its. These im-
peachments were tried by the lords. "

In the United States and in Pennsylvania^ impeach-
ments are confined to political characters, to political
crimes and misdemeanors, and to political punishments*
The president, vice president, and all civil officers of the
United States ; the governour and all other civil officers
under this commonwealth, are liable to impeachment,;
the officers of the United States, for treason, bribery, or
other high crimes and misdemeanors ; the officers of
X. this commonwealth, for any misdemeanor in Q%$e.
Under both constitutions, judgments, in cases of impeach*
ment, shall not extend fi^rther than to removal from office^
and disqualification to hold any office of honour, trust,
or profit* "

Thus much concerning the laws, and rules, and powei's
6f the two houses of the congress of the United State&^

1 Mmar. 403. » 2. Reeve. 85.

" Cons. U. S. art 2. s. 4. art. 1. s. 3d Cons. Peon. art. 4. s. S.

LECTURES ON LAW- Ifif

^aind concerning those of the two houses of the general
^sembly of Pennsylvania.

* V. I next consider the manner of passing laws.

To laws properly made, the following things arc of
indispensable necessity — information-^^^caution — ^perspi-
cuity— ^precision— ^agacity-^-conciscness. For obtaining
those valuable objects, different states have adopted dif-
ferent regulations. It wiH be worth while to bestow some
attention upon the most remarkable among thena.

At Athens, laws were made according to the follow-
ing very deliberate process. When any citizen had conj
ceived any plan, which, he thought, would promote the
interests of the commonwealth, he communicated it to
certain officers, whose duty it was to receive information
of every thing which concerned the publick. These officers
laid the plan before the senate. If it appeared to the
senate to be pernicious or useless, they rejected it. If
otherwise, they agreed to it ; and it then became what
we may call a bill, or overture. It was written on a white
tablet, and fixed up in a publick place, some days before
the meeting of the general assembly of the people. This
was done, that the citizens might have an opportunity of
reading and forming a deliberate judgment, concerning
what was to be proposed to them for their determination.
When the assembly met, the bill was read to them i and
every citizen had a right to speak his sentiments with
regard to it. ; If, after due consultation, it was thought
inconvenient or improper, a negative was put upon it :
if, on the contrary, the people approved of it, it was
passed into a law.
LECTURES ON X.AW.

We are informed, that no one, without mnch esutiott
and a perfect acquaintance with the constitution and
former laws, would presunie to propose a new regulation ;
because the danger was very great, if it proved unsuit-
able to the customis and inclinktions of the people. °

With all these numerous precautions, so many obsciire
and contradictory laws were gradually introduced into
the Athenian code, that a special commission was esta-
blished to make a selection among them. The labour evea
of the special commissioners was, however^ fruitless. ^

Peculiarly rigid was the constitution of the Locrians,
with regard to propositions for making a law. The citi-
zen, who proposed one, appeared in the assembly of the
people, with a cord round his neck* Encircled by that
solemn monitor^ he laid before themdie reasons, on which
his proposal was founded : if those reasons were uaba-
tisfactory, he was instantly strangled. ^

Among the Romans, legislation, as it might be expects'
ed, was considered as a science: it was cultivated with
the most assiduous industry, and was enriched with idl
the treasures of reason and philosophy. The mtatresa of
the world had laws to instruct her how to make laws. la
digesting the original plan of a biU, the magistrate, who
proposed it, used every possible precaution, that it might
come before the people in a form, the most perfect and
unexceptionable* He consulted, in private, with bis
friends, upon its form and matter. The object was, that
it migtu contain no clause contrary to the interests of the^
tommonwealth ; no provision inconsistent widi former

• J. Pot. Ant 14a P 2.Ai»cSri. « I. Pot Ant. 14a

tSGTURES ON LAW. 169

lavs, not intended to be repealed or altered ; and no
regulation, which might produce a partial advantage to
the connexions or relations of the proposer, or to the
proposer himself.

i

As unity and simplicity are essential perfections of
every good law ; every thing foreign to the bill immedi-
ately in contemplation was strictly prohibited. By in-
coherent assemblages, the people might be induced to
receive^ as law what they mig^t dislike ; or to reject what
they might desire.
A bill, after all the precautions before mentioned, was
submitted to the. examination of the senate. On being
approved there, it was fixed up publickly in some con-
spicuous part of the forum, that: every citizen might
underst^d fully what it contained. \A meeting of the
^^ comitia" was appointed by proclamation at the end of
twenty seven days. When this time was elapsed, the
people assembled. The bill proposed was proclaimed by
the publick crier ; and the person who proposed it was
expected to speak first in its support. After this, any
other member of the assembly was at liberty, to deliver
his sentiments ; and, to prevent any improper influence,
a private . citizen had always the privilege of speaking
before a magistrate, except the magistrate who was the
proposer of the law.

When the debates concerning the bill were finished,
pr4eparation was made for voting upon it. The names
of the centuries were thrown promiscuously into an urn,
smd being blended tc^etfaer by the band of the presiding
magistrate, they were drawn out, one by one. The cen-
tury first dr^wi^ was called the ^^prerogative century/'

vox.. ZK s

irt

LECTURES OH LAW.'

After these preparatory steps were taken, tke mag^traic^
who proposed the law, commaaded proclamatifm lo ,be
made for every one to repair to his respective ce&tury«
The prerogative century was called out firsts and after*
wards the others, as their lots directed.

In the eariy times of the reputdick, Ae votes were
given ^^ viva voce ;'^' but that mode beiog productive of
much confusion, and having a tendency to subject tbe
lower orders of citizens to the influence of their supe-
riours, the more secret and independent method ky ballot
was introduced. It is to be remembered, that the citizens
voted in their own right, and not by representation. To
vote by ballot, in such a situatk>n, was. unquestionably a
great improvement in a free system of government, swh
as that of Rome then was ; and accordingly we find that
Cicero '^ denominalbs the tablet, ^^ the silent assertei^ ot
Bberty."

In this solemn, deliberate, circnmspeet mAfiner, wllfst
was called ^^ lex,^ a law, in its strict a^d proper sense, wan
enacted. It was passed at the instance of a senaHM^kil
mag^trate, by the whole aggregate body of tibe people
(senators and patrici^ms, as well as plebeians) in whoiMt.
alone the majesty of the commonwealth resided* "

The general preamble to a capitulary of taws made m
the reign of Edward the first, gives us an intimation pf ,
the course, which, in England, was observed^ at that
period, in passing laws. It mentions, that, ^^ ift tbe fi»«w
sence ^f certain reverend fathers, Usbops- of Enj^ttady
and others of the council of the realm of Eng^aaid, ^e

r Be leg; agr. H. ^. Be leg. lH. IT. "^ Bever. n^TT.

.XXCTURES ON LAW. 171

widcywi'itten constitutions were recited ; and afterwards
tfaejr were heard and published before the king and his
rouncil, who all agreed, as well the justices as others,
tfiat they should be put into writing for a perpetual
memory, and that they should be stedfastly observed."'

In Great Britain, laws are now. psissed in the following
-"manner. All bills, except those of grace, originate in
one of the two houses ; and all other bilk, except those
for raising a revenue, may .originate in either house of
parliament. A bill may be brought in upon motion made
to the house ; or the house may give directions, to bring
it in* It 16 read-*^suppose in the house of commons-^a
.first, and, at a convenient distance, a seccHid time. After
each reading, the speaker opens the substande of it, and
puts the question, whether farther proceedings shall be
-had upon it. When it has had the second reading, it is
referred to a selected committee, or to a committee of
the whole house. In these committees, paragraph after
paragraph is debated, blanks are filled up, and alterations
and amendments are made. After the conimittee have
gone through it, they report it with these amendments :
the house then consider it again, and the question is put
%ipon every clause Snd amendment* When it is agreed
to by the house, it is then ordered to be engrossed for a
third reading. On being engrossed, it is read a third
titnp ; amendments are sometimes made to it ;. and a new
clause, which, in this late stage of its progress, is called
a- rider, is sometimes added. The speaker, again, opens
die contents of the bill; and, holding it up in his hand,
puts the question-T-Shall this bill pass ? If this is agreed
to, the title is then settled ; and one of the members is
directed to carry it to the lords, and desire their con-
currence*

« 4. Edw. 1. St ^.

172 LECTURES ON LAW* /

In that houie,. it passes through the same numerous
stages, as in the house of commons. If it is rejet^ted^
the rejection passes sub silentio; and no communicatioa
takes place concerning it, betfreen~the two houses* Oa
agreeing to it, the lords send a message, notifying their
agreement ; and the bill remains with them, if they have
made no amiendments. If they make amendments, they'
send them, with the bill, for the concurrence of. the
house of commons. If the two houses disagree with
regard to the amendments ; a conference usually takes
place between members deputed by them, re^ectively,
for this purpose. In this conference, the matters, con- -
cerning which the two houses differ in sentiment, a.re
generally adjusted: but if each house continue inflexible,
the bill is lost. If- the commons agree to the amend-
jnents made by the lords to the bill, it is sent back
to them with a message commtmicating their agree*
ment.

Similar forms are observed^ when a bill originates in
the house of lords***

We see, with what cautious steps, the business pro-
ceeds from its commencement to its conclusion. Each
house acts repeatedly as a court of review upon itself:
each house acts repeatedly as a court of review upon the
other also. Could one believe it ?— -Notwithstanding all
these proofs and instances of circumspection and care^
which are constantly exhibited by the legislature of
Great Britain, when it passes laws, precipitsmcy in pas-
sing them is frequently a well grounded cause of com-
plaint. *^ Perhaps," says a sensible and humane writer
upon the criminal jurisprudence of England, ^^ the great

« 1. BL Com. 181.— 184.

LECTURES ON LAW. 173

severity of our laws has been, in some <Legree, owing to
their having been made fiagrante trUy on some sudden
occasion^ -when a combination of atrocious circum-
stances, attending some particular ofFence, inflamed the
lawgivers.

J'^

In the house of representatives is^ congress, every bill
must be introduced by motion for leave, or by an order
of the house on the report of a committee : in either
case, a committee to prepare the bill shall be appointed.
When it is intended to introduce a bill of a general
nature by motion for leave, one day's notice, at least,
of the motion shall be given : every such motion may
be comnaitted.

Every bill must recefve three several readings in the
house, previous ' to its passage ; and no bill shall be
read twice on the same day, without a special order of
the house.

The first reading of a bill shall be for information ;
and, if opposition be made to it, the question shall
be, " Shall the bill be rejected?" If no opposition
be made, or if the question to reject be determined in
the negative, the bill shall go to its second reading with-
out a question*

When a bill is read the second time, the speaker
shall state it as ready for commitment or engrossment ;
if committed, a question shall be, whether to a select
committee, or to 'a committee of the whole house.
If the bill be ordered to be engrossed, a day shall be

^ 1. Dagge. 274.

IT^ XECTURES OK LA^KT.

Appointed, when it shall receive the third reading. After
commitment and report of a biD, it may, notwith-
standing, be recommitted, even at any time before its
passage.

In forming a committee of the whole hoase, the
speaker shall leave his chair ; and a chairman to preside
in the committee shall be appointed.

A bill, committed to a committee of the whole
house, shall be first read throughout by the clerk, and
shall be then read again and debated by clauses*
The body of the bill shall not be defaced or inteiiined ;
but all amendments, as they shall be agreed' to, shall
be duly entered, by the clerk, on a separate paper,
noting the page and line, to which they refer; and^
in this manner, shall be reported to the house. After
being reported, it shall again be subject to be debated
and amended by clauses, before a question to engross it
be taken. "*

In the senate of the United states, one day's notice, 9t
least, shall be given of an intended motion for leave to
bring in a bill.^

Every bill shall receive three readings previous- to
its being passed : these readings shall be on three
different days, unless the senate unanimously direct
otherwise : and the president shall give notice at each
reading, whether it be the first, or the second, or the
third.

w Joir. RjBp. rth April, 1789.

LECTUKES OK LAW. tft^

No bill shall be committed or amended until it shall
hftve been read twice i it may then be referred to a
committee.*

The senate never • go into a committee of the whdla
house* A committee of the whole house is composed
of every member ; and to form it, the speaker leaves the
chair, and may sit and debate as any other member of
the house. The vice president of the United States is^
ex offichy president of the senate ; but be has no v<^ie^
unless they be equally divided. > That this hig^ officer
might not be placed in a situation in which he could nei-
ther preside, nor vote, is, I presume, the reason, why the
senate do not resolve themselves into a committee of
the whole. It is a rule, however, in d^e senate^ thact
all bilk, on a second reading, shall, unless otherwise
<Hrdered^ be considered in the same manner, as if Ac
senate were in a committee of the whole, before they
shall be taken up and proceeded on by the senate, agree*
able to the standing rules, z

Such, so numerous, and so wise, s^e the precautions
used by our national legislature, before a bill can pass
througii \t9 two different branches. But all these precan*
tioRs, wise and numerous as they are, are far from being
^e only ones directed by the wisdom and care of our
national constitution.

After a bill has passed, in both houses, through all
the processes, which we have minutely enumerated, stiH^
before it becomes a law, it must be presented to the
president of the United States for his scrutiny and revi-

» Jour. Sen. 1789; p. 15. 7 Cons. V. & art 1. s. »..

* Iour« Sen. 17B9. p, 39.

1^6 LKCTURES ON LAW*

sion. If he approve, he sig^s it ; but if not, he retums
it, with his objections, to the house, in which it had
originated. That house enter the objections, M large,
on their journal , and proceed to reconsider the bill. If,
after sudi reconsideration, two thirds of the membeis
agree to pass it, it is sent, with the objectionp, to the
other house, by which also it is reconsidered; and if
approved by two thirds of that house, it shall become a
law. In all such cases, the votes of both houses
shall be determined by yeas and nays ; smd the names
of the persons voting for and against the bill sIkJI be
ejatered on the journal of each house respectively. «

I have already illustrated, ^ at large, the nature, the
political advantages, and the probable consequences^
of the qualified negative vested in the president of
the United States. I now consider it merely as aa
excellent regulation, to secure an additional degree cof
accuracy and circumspection in the manner of passing thfr
laws.

The observations,, which I have nuide on this subject,
have a relation to the constitution and legislature of thi»
commonwealth, as close as to those of the national goveiti-
Bient. A negative, similar to that of the president of
the United States, is lodged in the govemour of Penn-^
sylvania; ^ and the rules of proceeding, adopted by the
two houses which compose the legislature of this state,
are substantially the same with the rules framed by the
two houses which compose the legislature of |the Union*
It is, therefore, unnecessary, and it would be tedious,

a Cons. U. S. art 1. s. r. b Ante, vol 1. p. 448.

f CQiukPemi. ^rt 1. & 33.

LECTURES ON LAW. 1T7

to make, tb the former, a formal application of what has
beeu mentioned concerning the latter.

w

By both constitutions, and in both legislatures, provi-
sion has been made, as far as, by human contrivrance, it
would seem, provision can be made, in order to prevent
or to check precipitancy and intemperance, in the exer-
cise of the all-important power of legislation. And yet,
after all, there is, perhaps, too much Reason to appre-
hend that the cucoethes legisfemndi will be but too preva-
lent in both governments. This is an imperfection — ^in
the present, state of things, the very best institutionii
have their imperfections — this is an imperfection inci-
dent to governments, which are free. In such govern-
ments, the people, at once subjects and sovereigns, are
too often tempted to alleviate or to alter the restraints,
which they have imposed upon themselves.

We have already seen, that, in Athens, the number
and intricacy of the laws were productive of great incon-
veniences, and were considered and felt as a grievance
of the most uneasy and disagreeable kind. Livy, whose
eloquence is marked as conspicuously by its justness as
by its sfdendour, gives us a strong representation of the
unwieldiness of Roman laws. He ^ describes them ais
^^ immensus aliarum super alias acervatarum * legum cu-
mulus"— an immense collection of piles of laws, heaped
upon one another in endless confusion. The description
of the energetick Tacitus is still more concise and expres-
sive—" legibus laborabatur" — ^the state staggered under
the burthen of her laws. * As to Pennsylvania, I will, as
it becomes me, simply state the fact. Within the last

voi,, II. ▲ a

178 LECTURES ON LAW. !

fifteeh yeai^s, she has witnessed and she has sustained an
accumulationf of atts of legislation, in number eight
hundred and seventy one.

Far be it from me to avail myself of the abuse, and
to urge it against the enjoyment, of freedom* But while
I prize the inestimable blessing highly ad I do, I sm-ely
ought, in every character which I bear, to suggest, to
recommend, and to perform every thing in my power,
in order to guard its enjoyment trom its abude*

VI» I come now to the last head, under which I pro-
posed to treat concerning the legislative department :
this was, to consider the powers vested in congress by
the constitution of the United States.

On this subject, we discover a striking difference
between the constitution of the United States and that
of Pennsylvania. By the latter, each house of the ge-
neral assembly is vested with every power necessary for
a branch of the legislature of a free state. In the former,
no clause of such an extensive and unqualified import
is to be found. The reason ^ is plain. The latter insti-
tutes a legislature with general, the former, with enu-
merated, powexis. Those etuimerated powers ax« now
the subject' of our consideration.

One great end g of the national government is to
" provide for die common defence." Defence presup-
poses an attack. We all know the instruments by which i
an attack is made by one nation upon another. We all,
likewise, know the instruments necessary for defence

^ Art 1. & 13: 9 C<ms. U. & Pream.

LECTURES ON LAW. 1T9

«

when such an attack is made. That nation, which would
protect herself from hostilities^ or maintain peace, must
have it in her power — such is the present situation of
thiiigs-^to declare war. The. power of declaring war,
and the other powers naturally Connected withat, are
vested in congress. To provide and maintain a navy —
to make rules for its government — ^to gratit letters of
marque and reprisal-^^to make rules concerning captures
— rto raise and support armies — ^to establish rules for
their regulation — to provide for organizing, arming, and
disciplining the militia, and for calling them forth in the
service of the Union — all these are powers naturally
connected with the power of declaring war. All these
powers, therefore, are vested in congress. ^

As the law is now received in England, the king has
the sole prerogative of making war. * On this very in-
teresting power, the constitution of the United States
renews the principles of government, known in England
before the conquest. This indeed, as we are told by a
well informed writer, J may be accounted the chief differ-
ence between the Anglo-Saxon and the Anglo-Norman
government. In the former, the power of making peace
atfd war was invariably possessed by the wittenagemote ;
and was regarded as inseparable from the allodial condi-
tion of its members. In the latter, it was transferred to
the sovereign : and this branch of the feudal system,
which was accommodated, perhaps, to the depredations
and internal comnK>tions prevalent? in that rude period,
has remained in subsequent ages, when, from a total
change of manners, the circumstances, by which it was
recommended, have no longer any existence.

^ Cons. U. S. Art. 1. s. 8. i 1. Bl. Com. 257-. i Millar. 30 .

180 XECTURE5 OW LAW.

ft

There is a pleasure in reflecting on auch important
renovations of the ancient constitution of England* We
have found, and we shall find, that our national govern-
ment is recommended by the antiquity, as well as by^he
excellence,^ of some of its leading principles.

Another great end of the national government is, ^^ to
ensure domestick tranquillity." That it may be enabled
to accomplish this end, congress may call forth the mi«
litia to suppress insurrections«

Again ; the national government is instituted to ^^ es-
tablish justice." For this purpose, congress is authorized
to erect tribunals inferiour to the supreme court ; and to
define and punish offences against the law of nations,
and piracies and felonies committed on the high seas.
These points will be more fully considered under the
judicial department.

It is an object of the national government to '^ form
a more perfect union." On this principle, congress is
empowered to regulate commerce among the several
states, to establish post offices, to fix the standard of
weights ^nd measures, to coin and cegulatethe value %f
money, and to establish, throughout the United States,
a uniform rule of naturaliitation.

Once more, at this time : the national ^vemment
was intended to " promote the general welfare." For thjis
reason, congress have power to regulate commerce with
the Indians and with foreign nations, J^nd to promote the
progress of science and of useful arts, by securing, for
a time, to authors and inventors, an exclusive right to
their compositions and discoveries.

tECTURES ON LAW.
An exclusive property in places fit for forts, maga-
zines, arsenals, dock yards and other needful buildings ;
and an exclusive legislation over these places, and also,
ibr a convenient distance, over such district as may be-
come the seat of the national government— such exclu-
sive property, and such exclusive legislation, will be of
g^eat publick utility, perhaps, of evident publick neces-
sity. They are, therefore, vested in congress, i^ the
constitution of the United States.

For the exercise of the foregoing powers, and for the
accomplishment of the foregoing purposes, a revenue is
unquestionably indispensable. That congress may be
enabled to exercise and accomplish them, it has power
to lay and collect taxes, duties, imposts, and excises.

The powers of congress are, indeed, enumerated ;
but it was intended that those powers, thus enumerated,
should be effectual, and not nugatory. In conformity to
this consistent mode of thinking and acting, congress
has power to make all laws, which shall be necessary
and proper for carrying into execution every power vest-
ed by the constitution in the government of the United
States, or in any of its officers or departments.

And thus much concerning the first great division of
the national government — ^its legislative authority. I
proceed to its second grand division — its executive au-
iJiority.

it.

CHAPTER 11.

OF THE EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENT.

»

An a former part of my lectures,* it was shown, that
the powers of government, whether legislative or cxe-*
cutive, ought to be restrained. But there is, it was
observed, a remarkable contrast between the proper
modes of restraining them ; for that the legislature, in
order to be restrained, must be divided; whereas the
executive power, in order to be restrained, should be
one. The reasons of this remarkable contrast were,
on that occasion, traced particularly, and investigated
fuUy.

We have seen, in our remarks on the congress of the
United States, that it consists of two branches — that it
is formed on the principle of a divided legislature. We-
now see, that, in the executive department, the princi-
ple of unity is adopted. " The executive power shall *
be vested in a president of the United States of Ame-
rica.''»»

« Ante. vol. 1. p. 399. 400. ^ Cobs. U. S. art 3. s. 1.

184 LECTURES OM LAW.

In treating of the executive department of the United
States, I shall consider, 1. The title of the president.
2. His powers and duties. •

1« I am to consider the title of the president of the
United States. His tide is by election.

The general preference which has been given, by
statesmen and writers on government, to a hereditary
before an elective title to the first magistracy in a state,
was the subject of full discussion in a former lecture. ^ I
then, I hope, showed^ that this preference, however
general, and however favoured, is, in truth and upon
the geni^ine principles of government^ ill founded. My
remarks on this subject I will not, at this time, re*
peat.

It will probably occasion surprise, when I state the
elective tide of wr first executive magistrate as a renewal^
in thb particular, of the ancient English constitutftm.
Without hesitation, however, I state this elective title asL
such.

Well aware I am, that, with regard to this point, I
differ in my opinion from the Author of the Commen-
taries on the laws of England. He thinks it clearly
appears, from the highest authority England is acquainted
with, that its crown has ever been a hereditary crown. ^
The best historical evidence, however, speaks, I appre«»
hend, a language very different from that, which Sir
William Blackstone considers as the highest authority*

« Ante vol. 1. p. 44a ^ 1. Bl Com. 219,

LECTURES ON LAW. 185

A king among the old Saxons, says Selden, was, in
probability, a commander in the field, an officer pro
tempore* His title rested upon the good opinion of
the freemen ; and it seemeth to be one of the best
gems of his crown, for that he was thereby declared
to be most worthy of the love and service of the
peopk.e

t

I

The sheriiF, says he, in another place, was chosen
by the votes of the freeholders , and, as the king him-
self, was entided to his honour by the people s favour.
The magistrates, he tells us, in the same spirit, were
all choice men ; and the king the choicest of the cho-
sen ; election being the birth of esteem, and this of
merit, g

The dignity and oflGke of the king, says Mr. Millar,
though higher in degree, was perfectly similar to those
of the tithing man, the hundreder, and the earl ; and he
posseiBsed nearly the same powers over the whole king-
dom, which those inferiour officers enjoyed in their
particular districts. ^

King Offa, in an address to his people, speaks of
his elective tide, and of the great purpose for which
he was elected, in the following very remarkable and
unequivocal terms-^' " electus ad libertatis tuae tui-
tionem, non meis meritis, sed sola liberalitate vestra."

It appears from history, says a vexy accurate inqui*
rer,J that all the kings of the Saxon race were elected to
their kingly office.

« Bac on Gov. 29. 3a fld.41. 8^ Id 70.

^ Millar. 153. ' SuUiv. 244. (4te.) i Id. 245^'

VOL. II* S b

1^6 I.ECTUILE8 ON LAV.

Even the mighly Conqueror, says the learned 5eU
den,^ stooping under the law of a Saxon king, became a
king by leave ; wisely foreseeing, that a title gotten by
election is more certain than that which is gotten by
powers Henry the third brought in with him the first
precedent in point, oL succession by inheritance in the
throne of England.

Sir William Blackstone himself, in one place in his
Commentaries, speaking of thie Saxon laws, mentions,
among others^ the election of their magistrates by the
people, originally even that of their kings* He adds,
indeed, that dear bought experience afterwards evinced
the convenience and necessity of establishing a heredi-
tary succession to the crown. ^

If an elective title is a distemper in the body politick ;
the history and experience of England would lead us to
conclude, that a hereditary title is a remedy stiU wcorse
than the dises^e. Henry the third is stated as the first
fair instance of a prince ascending the throne by virtue
of a hereditary claim. How soon was this claim trans^
mitted, in crimson characters, to his posterity, by the fatal
and factious war of the roses concerning the right of suc-
cession ! How long and how destructively did that war
rage! How pernicious were its consequences, for ages
after its immediate operations had ceased ! How few and
how short have been the lucid intervals, during whith
the madness of a contested claim to the succession or to
the enjoyment of the English or the British crown has not
disturbed the peace and serenity of the nation \

^ Bac. on Gov. 7% > 4. BL Com. 4d6.

LSCTURES ON- LAW. 18/

The intrigues, and cabals, and tumults, and convul-*
sions, which. are assumed as necessarily annexed to the
election of a first magistrate, are perpetually urged against
this mode of estabHshing a title to the office. It is well
worth our while to mark the sedulous attention, with
Arhich intrigues, and cabals, and tumults, and convulsions,
in the election of our first magistrate, are avoided, nay,
we trust, rendered impracticable, by the wise provisions
introduced into our national constitution^

To avoid tumults and convulsions, the president of the
United States is chosen by electors, equal. In number, to
the whole number of senators and representatives, to
which all the states iare entitled in congress. Thes6, as
we shall find by referring to one part of the constitution,
cannot much exceed the number of one for every thirty
thousand citizens. These, as we shall find by referring
to another part of the constitution,- are only equal to the
number, which compose the two deliberative bodies of the
national legislature. If they are not too numerous to
transact, with decency and with tranquillity, the legisla-
tive business of the Union, in two places ; surely they aife^
not too numerous to perform, with dtfbency'and with
tranquillity, a single aet; in as many places as there are
states ; foiy iu tbe?ir respective states, the electors are!
obliged to^meet.

In the appointment of the electors, there is not reason
for the least apprehension of convulsions and tumults.
They , are to be appointed by each state ; and they are to
be appointed in such a manner as the legislature of each
state shall direct. They will, in all probability, be ap-
pointed in one of the two following modes — ^by the citi-
zens-^r by the legislature. If the former ; the business

* IBB LlKCTUEES ON LAW>

wiU be managed in the same manner as the election of
representatives ia each state. If the. latter ; it will be
managed by those to whom the diflferent states have in-
trusted their legislative authority — ^that kind of authority,
the exercise of which requires the greatest degree of
cooluess and caution. Of either mode, can tumults and
convulsions be th^ apprehended result ?

To intrigue and cabal, the election of the president
is rendered equally inaccessible, as to convulfii(His and
tumults. Those, who s^point the elector^, have a deep
interest, or represent such as have a deep interest, in the
consequences of the election. This interest will be best
promoted by far other arts- than those of cabal and dn-
trigue. Such electors, we may, therefore, presume, will
be appointed, as will favour and practise those other arts.
Some reliance, consequently, may be placed on the cha-
racters of the electors.

But this is, by mo means, the only circumstance, on
which the expectations of the United States rest for
candour and impartiality in the election of a president.
Other circumstances ensure them. 1. The, electors must
vote by ballot. Ballot has been called the silent assertor
of liberty : with equal justness, it may be. called the silent
assertor of honesty. 2. The electors must give their
votes on the same day throughout the United .States,
How can cabal and intrigue extend or combine their in-
fluence at the same time, in many different places, sepa-
rated from one another by the distance of hundreds or
thousands of miles \ 3. Each elector must vote for two
persons, without distinguishing which of the two he
wishes to be the president. The precise operation of his
vote is not known to himself ajtthe time when he gives it.

L£CTUR£8 ON LAW. . 189

By this reguktton, simple but sagacious, cabal and in-
trigue, could they even be admitted, would be under the
necessity of acting blindfold at the election* The sinister
plims, formed separately in every part, might and often
would be defeated by the joint and unforeseen effect of
th^ whole. For it is the unforeseen effect of the whole,
which must finally determine, or furnish materials for
finally determining, the election of the president.

His election shall be finally determined in this manner.
Xhe person, in whose favour the greatest number of votes
is given, provided that number shall be a majority o^the
-whole number of electors, shall be the president. If more
than one person have a majority, and, at the same time,
an equal number of votes ; the house of representatives
shall immediately choose one of them for president, by
ballot. If no person have a majority of votes of the elec-
tors ; the house of representatives shall choose, by ballot,
a president from the five highest on the list.

After the choice of the president, the person having
the greatest number of votes of the electors shall be the
yice president. But if there remain two or more having
equal votes y the senate shall choose from them the vice
president by ^ ballot, n

"* Cons. U. S, art 2. s. 1.

"^ Bf an alteration of the constitution recommended by cong^ress
in December, 1803, and which, having received the approbation of
three fourths of the states in the Union, has now become a part of
the constitution, the regulations mentioned in the text have been
changed in the following particulars. The electors are directed to
name, in their ballots, the person voted for as president, and, in
distinct ballots, the person voted for as vice president, and to trans«
But to the seat of government distinct lists of the persons so voted for.
LECTURES ON LAW.

Thus much concerning the title of the president of
the United States.

2. I am, in the next place, to consider his poiv^rs
and duties. "^

He is to take care that the laws be faithfully executed ;,
he is commander in chief of the army and navy of the
United States, and of the militia, when called into their
actual service. In the Saxon government, the power of
the first executive magistrate was also twofold. He had
authority to lead the army, as we are informed by Sel-
den, to punish according to demerits and accc^ding ta
laws, and reward according to discretion. The law mar*
tial and that of the sea were branches of the positive
law, settled by the general vote in the wittenagemote^ .

Ths person having tho greatest number of votes for president, shall
be the president, if such number be a majority of the whole num.
ber of electors appointed ; and if no person have such majority, then
from the persons having the highest numbers, not exceeding three
on the list of those voted for as president, the house of representa.'
tives shall choose immediately, by ballot, the president If thehoiise
do not make a choice before the foorth day of Mardi then next
following, the vice president shall act as president, as in case of the
death or constitutional disability of the president. The person, hav-
ing the greatest number of votes as vice president, shaff be the vice-
president, if such number be a majority of the whole number of
electors appointed ; and if no person have a majority, then from
the two highest numbers on the list, the senate shaU choose the vice
president A quorum for the purpose shall consist of two thirds of
the whole number of senators, and a majority of the wh<de number
shall be necessary to a choice. No perscm CGnstitutionally ineligible
to the office of president, shall be eligible to that of vice pre»dent
of the United States.— £d

• Cons. U. S. Art 2. s. 2, 3.

LECTIIRES ON LAW, 191

and not left to t;he will of a lawless general or comman-
der : so tender and uniform were those times both in
their laws and liberties. J The person at the head of the
.executive department had authority, not to make, or al-
ter, or dispense with the laws, but to execute and act
the laws, which were established : and against this power
there was no rising up, so long as it gadded not, like
an unfeathered arrow, at random. On the whole, he
ivas no other than afrimum mobile^ set in a regular mo-
tion by laws, which were established by the whole body
of the nation. ">

. The president has power to nominate, and, with the
advice and consent of the senate, to appoint ambassadours,
judges of the supreme court, and, in general, all the
other officers of the United States. On this subject,
there is a very striking and important difference between
the constitution of the United States and that of Penn-
sylvania* By the latter, the first executive magistrate
possesses, uncontrolled by either branch of the legisla.
ture, the power of appointing all officers, whose appoint-
xnents are not, in the constitution itsdf, otherwise pro-
vided for. ^ On a former occasion « I noticed a maxim,
which is of much consequence in the science of govern-
ment— ^that the legislative and executive powers be
preserved distinct and unmingled in their exercise.
This maxim I then considered in a variety of views :
and^ in each, found it to be both true and useful. I am
very free to confess, that, with regard to this point, the
proper principle of government is, in my opinion, ob-
served by the constitution of Pennsylvania much more

P Bac. on Gov. 4a ^ Id. 32, 33.

.* Cods, Peon* art 3. s. 8. * Aate. vol 1. p. 401, 407.

192 LECTURES ON LAW«

correctly, than it is by the constitution of the United
States.' In justice, however, to the latter, it ought to
be remarked, that, though the appointment of officers is
to be the concurrent act of the president and senate, yet
an indispensable prerequisite — ^the nomination of them
-*is vested exclusively in the president.

The observations which I have delivered concerning
the appointment of officers, apply likewise to treaties \ the
making of which is another power, that the p!resident
has, with the advice and consent of the senate.

The president has power to fill up all vacancies that
may happen, in offices, during the recess of the^ senate,
by granting commissions, which shall expire at the end
of their next session.

He has no stated counsellors appointed for him by
the constitution. Their inutility, and the dangers ari-
sing from them, were before ^ fully shown« He may,
however, when he thinks proper, require the opinion, in
writing, of the principal officer in each of the executive
departments, upon any subject relating to the duties of
their offices.

On extraordinary occasions, he may convene both
houses of the legislature, or either of them : and, in
case of disagreement between them, with respect to the
time of adjournment, he may adjourh them to such time^
as he shall think proper.

It is his duty, from time to time, to lay before con-
gress information of the state of the Union; and to re-

LECTURJES ON LAW. 193

commend' to their consideration such measures^ as he
Bhall judge necessary and expedient.

He has power to grant reprieves and pardons for of-
fences against the United States, except in cases of im-
peachment*

To prevent crimes, is the nohlest end and aim of
criminal jurisprudence. To punish ihcm, is one of the
means necessary for the accomplishi^nt of this noble end
and aim.

The certainty of punishments is of the greatest im-
portance, in order to constitute them fit preventives of
crimes. This certainty is best obtained by accuracy in
thepublick police, by vigilance and activity in the execu-
tive officers of justice, by a prompt and certain communi-
cation of intelligence, by a proper distribution of rewards
for the discovery and apprehension of x^riminals, and,
when they are apprehended, by an undeviating and in-
flexiUe strictness in canying the laws against them into
sure and full execution. '

All this will be readily allowed. What should we
then think of a power, given by the constitution or the
laws, to dispense with accuracy in the publick police, and
with vigilance, vigour, and activity in the search and
seizure of offenders? Such a power, it must be admitted,
^would seem somewhat extraordinary.

What, it will next be asked, should we think of a power,
given by the constitution or the laws, to dispense with
thrir execution upon criminals, after they have been ap-
prehended, tried, convicted, and condemned t In other

VOL. II. . G c

J

\i._ '

194 LECTURES ON LAW.

words— ^an the power to pardon be admissible into aojr
well regulated government i Shall a power be given to
insult the laws, to protect crimes, to indemnify, and, bjr
indemnifying, to encourage criminals ?

From this, or from a similar view of things, many
writers, and some of them very respectable as well as
humane, have been induced to conclude, that, in a go-
vernment of laws, the power of pardoning should be
altogether unknown*

Would you prevent crimes ? says the Marquis of Bec-
caria: let the laws be clear and simple: let the entire
jpirce of the nation be united in their defence : let them,
and them only, be feared. The fear of the laws isssdu*'
tary : but th^ fear of man is a fruitful and a fatal source,
of crimes. Happy the nation, in which pardons will be
considered as dangerous! Clemency is a virtue which
belongs to the legislator, and not to the executor of the
laws ; a virtue, which should shine in the, code, and no^
in private judgipent. The prince, in pardoning, gives
up the publick security in favour of an individual : -and,
by his ill judged benevolence^ proclaims an act of impu-
nity.*

With regard, says Rousseau, to the prerogative of
granting pardon to criminals, condemned by the laws of
their country, and sentenced by the judges, it belongs
only to that power, which is superiour both to the judges*
^d the laws — ^tfae sovereign authority. Not that it is
very clear, that even the supreme power is vested with
such a right, or that the circumstances, in which, it might
be exerted} ^re frequent or determinate. In a well

* Bee. c. 41. 46.

LECTURES OK LAW* 195

governed state, there are but few executions ; not be
cause many are pardoned i but because there are few
criminals. Under the Roman republick, neither the se-
nate nor the consuls ever attempted to grant pardons :
even the people never did this, although they sometimes
recalled their own sentence. ^

In Persia, when the king has condemned a person,
it is no longer lawful to mention his name, or to intercede
in his favour. Though his majesty were drunk and
beside himself; yet the decree must be executed ; other-
wise he would contradict himself; and the law admits
•f no contradiction.^

■4

^^ Extremes, in nature, equal ends produce ;" so in
politicks, as it would seem.

The more general opinion, however, is, that in a
state, there ought to be a power of pardoning offences.
The Exclusion of pardons, says Sir William Blackstone,
must Necessarily introduce a very dangerous power in
the judgeK>r jury, that of construing the criminal law by
the spirit instead of the letter; or else it must be holden,
what no man will seriously avow, that the situation and
circumstances of th^ offender (though they alter not the
essence of the crime) ought to make no distinction in
the punishment.^

I. cannot, upon this occasion, enter into the discussion
of the great point suggested and decided, in a very few
words, by the learned Author of the Commentaries —
that judges and juries have no power of construing the

«»
V Roos, Or. Com. 54. 1. 3. c. 5. "^ Mont. Sp.L. b. 3. c. 10.

* 4. BL Com. 39a

196 LECTURIBB OH ILAW*

criminal law by the spirit instead of tlie letter. But I
cannot, upon any occasion, su£Fer it to pass under my
notice, without entering my caveat against in^pUcit Mb»
mission to this decision. I well know the humane nile^
that, in the construction of a penal law, neither judge
nor jury can extend it to facts equally criminsdi to tbos^
specified in the letter, if they are not contained in the
letter. But I profess myself totally ignorant of any rule
— I think it would be an inhuman one — that the letter of
a penal law may be carried beyond the spirit of it ; and it
may certainly be carried by the letter beyond the spirit^
if judges and juries are prohibited, in construing it, from
considering the spirit as well as the letter. But to return
to our present subject.

The most general opinion, as we have already obscav
ved, and, we may add, the best opinion, is, that, in every
state, there ought to be a power to pardon offences. In
the mildest systems, of which human societies are capa*
ble, there will still exist a necessity of this discretionary
power, the proper exercise of which may arise from the
possible circumstances of every conviction. '^ Citizens^
even condemned citizens, may be unfortunate in a higher
degree, tha^ that, in which they are criminal. When the
cry of the nation rises in their favour ; when the judges
themselves, descending from their seats, and laying aside
the formidable sword of justice, come to supplicate in
behalf of the person, whom they have been obliged to
condemn ; in such a situation, clemency is a virtue ; it
becomes a duty.

But where ought this most amiable prerogative to be
placed ? Is it compatible with the nature of every species
of government? With regard to both these questions,
different opinions are entertained.

LECTURES ON lAW. 19/

With regard to the last, the learned Author of the
Commetitaries on the laws of England declares his un-*
qualified sentiment — ^*'In democracies, this power of
pardon can never subsist ; for there nothing higher is
acknowledged than the magistrate, who administers the
Ikws : and it would be impolitick for the poiver of judging
and of pardoning to centre in one and the same person.
This would oblige him (as the President Montesquieu
observes) very often to contradict himself, to make and
Unmake his decisions : it would tend to confound all
ideas of right among the mass of the people; as they
would find it difficult to tell, whether a prisoner were
discharged by his innocence, or obtained a pardon through »
favour. In Holland, therefore, if there be no stadtholder,
there is no power of pardoning lodged in any other mem-
ber of the state.

^^ But in monarchies, the king acts in a superiour
sphere; and though he regulates the whole government
as the first mover, yet he does not appear in any of the
disagreeable or invidious parts of it. Whenever the
nation see him personally engaged, it is only in works
of legislature, magnificence, or compassion.

wy

Let us observe, by the way, the mighty difference
between the person described by Selden, as the first
magistrate among the Saxons, and him described by
Sir William Blackstone, as the monarch of England
since that period. The former was set in regular motion
by the laws : the latter is the first mover, who regulates
the whole government.

y 4.BLCQm,^.391.

1^ LECTUKES OK LAW.

Let me also repeat here, what has been mentioned in
another place. One of the most enlightened writers oa
English jurisprudence imagines, that the power of par*
doning is a power incommunicable to the democratlcal
specie^ of government. For the western world new aad
rich discoveries in jurisprudence have been reserved.
We have found, that this species of government— the
best and the purest of all — that, in which the supreme
power remains with the people — is capable of being form-
ed, arranged, proportioned, and organized in suph a-
manner, as to exclude the inconveniences, vaxd to aecore
the advantages of all the others.

Why, according to Sir William Blackstone, can the
power to pardon never subsist in a democracy ? Because^
says he, there, nothing higher is acknowledged, than
the magistrate, who administers the laws. By pursuing
the principle of democracy to its true source, we have
discovered, that the law is higher than the magifitrate,
who administers it ; that the constitution, is higher dian'
both ; and that the supreme power, remaining with the
people, is higher than all the three. With perfect con-
, sistency, therefore, the power of pardoning may sub-
sist in our democratical governments : with perfect
propriety, we think, it is vested in the president of the
United States.

The constitution, too, of Pennsylvania, animated by
the wise and powerful recommendation, conveyed, by
innumerable channels, to the conv/ention, which proposed
and framed it, " that they should imitate, as far as it
Applies, the excellent model exhibited in the constitution
ofthe United States" — ^the constitution of Pennsylvania*

% Avt.3.8.9.

LECTURES ON LAW. 199

vests the power of pardoning in the govemour of the
commonwealth.

It is by no means, however, a unanimous sentiment^
if we collect the publick sentiment from the. constitutions
of the different states of the Union, that the power of
pardoning criminals should be vested solely in the supreme
executive authority of the state.

By the constitution of New York, » the govemour,
in cases of treason or murder, can only suspend the
execution of the sentence, until it shall be reported to
the legislature, at their subsequent meeting; and they
shall either pardon, or direct the execution of the crimi-
nal, or grant a further reprieve.

In the state of Delaware the governour possesses the
power of granting pardons*, except where the law shall
otherwise direct. ** A similar legislative control is impo-
sed on the governours of Maryland, Virginia, and North
Carolina, by the constitutions*^ of those states.^

a S. 18. k Cons. Del. s. 7,

c Cons. Mar. s. S3. Cons. Vir. p. 127. Cons. N. C. s. 19.'

d By the present constitution of Delaware, this legislative con-
trol over the power of the govemour to grant pardons is destroyed
— ^Art. 3. 8. 9. In Vermont, the power of the ex^utive to grant
pardons is restrained in cases of treason and murder ; in which
they have power << to grant reprieves, but not to pardon, until after
. the end of the neict session of assepably.'' Cons. c. 3. s. 11. By the
constitution of Kentucky, the power of pardoning is, in cases of
treason, vested in the general assembly, but the govemour may
grant reprieves until the end of their next session. Art. 3. s. 11. In
Temiessee and Ohio, pardons can be granted only after conviction
Cobs. Ten. art % s. 6. Cons. Ohio, art. 3. s. 5. In Georgia like*,

200 LECTURES ON LAW.

In the states of New Hampshire, Massachussetts and
South Carolina, pardons can be granted only after a
conviction.*

The president and vice president hold their offices
during the term of four years.

The president shall, at stated times, receive, for his
services, a compensation, which shall neither be increased
nor diminished during the period, for which he is elected ;
and he shall not receive, within that period, any other
emolument from the United States, or any of them.

I here finish what I propose to say concerning the
second great division of the national government-^— its
executive authority.

wise, according to her present constitution, the gcnreniour can grant
pardons only after conviction ; and in cases of treason and murder,
he can only recite the execution, and make report thereof to the
next general assembly, by whom a pardon may be granted. Cons-
Geor. art. 2. s. 7. JSd

« Cmis. N. H.p. 18. 19. Cons. Mas. c. 2. s. 1. a.8. Cons. S. C;
a^t|2. $.7.

CHAPTER III.

OP THE JUDICIAL DEPARTMENT.

t

1 HE judicial poorer of the United States is vested iii
Che supreme court, and in such inferiour courts as are
established by congress. *

A court, according to my Lord Coke,^ is a place where
justice is judicially administf red.

To Egypt, where much wisdom, we are assured, was
to be learned, we trace the first institution of courts of
justice. Concerning its adnilnistration, the Egyptians
were remarkably vigilant and exact ; for they believed,
that on it depended entirely the support or the dissolu*
tion of society. Their highest tribunal was composed of
thirty judges. ^ At the head of it was placed the person,
who, at once, possessed the greatest share of wisdom, of
probity, and of the publick esteem.

a Cons. U. S. art 3. s. 1.

c 1. Gog. Or. L. SS.
vol. II* D d

b 1. Ins. 59.

S02 LECTURES ON LAW.

I

The trials, it is said, were carried on in writing ; and,
to avoid unnccdssarj' delay, the parties were allowed to
make only one reply on each side. When the evidence
was closed, the judges consulted together concerning the
nierits of the cause. When they were fully understood
and considered, the president gave the signal for proceed-
ing to a judgment, by taking in his hand a small image,
adorned with precious, stones* When the sentence was
pronounced, the^president touched, with the image, the
party, who had gained his cause. The image was with-
out eyes ; and was the symbol, by which the Egyptians
. were accustomed to represent Truth. It is probably
from this circumstance, that Justice has been painted
bliad«

I *

* The judges of this court received from government

what was necessary for their support ; so that the people

paid them nothing for obtaining justice.

We are told, that no advocates were admitted in this
tribunal ; but that the paHies themselves drew up their
own processes. This, however, must probably be under-
stood with some limitation ; for we cannot reasonably
imagine, that all the inhabitants of Egypt were not only-
taught to write, but were also possessed of a degree of
legal skill, sufficient to qualify them for- composing their
own defences. It is not unlikely, that the regulation
went no farther than one, which we have seen adopted in
another state — ^Every one has a right to be heard by him-
self and his counsel.

On the model of this high tribunal of Agypt, was
formed the Celebrated court 6f the Areopagus at Athens*
This court was instituted, one thousand and five hundred

>

LECTUREB ON LAW. 203

years before the Christian era, by Cecrops, who was ori-
ginally of Sais, a city of the lower Egypt, and to whom
Athens, the seat of literature and politeness, of Uoquence
and patriotism, owed its foundation and first establish-
ments.

This excellent man relinquished the fertile banks of
the Nile, in order to avoid the tyranny, under which his
native country, at that time, groaned. After a tedious
voyage, he reached the shores of Attica : and was re-
ceived in the most friendly manner by its inhabitants.
Placed, after some time, at the head of their affairs, he
conceived the noble design of bestowing happinesls on his
adopted country. For this purpose, he introduced among
his new compatriots niany valuable and memorable insti-
tutions, of which, indeed, he was not strictly the author —
if he had, he would have been the first of legisl^ors and
the greatest of mortals — but which he brought, probaUy
with his own judicious improvements, from a nation, who
had been attentive to carry them to perfection during a
long series of ages. Some of his institutions — ^in all of
them wisdom and humanity shone conspicuous-^will
claim our future attention. At present, it is directed to
the court of the Areopagus.

«

Aristides — well qualified to decide upon this subject ;
for he ulras distinguished by the appellation of the just —
informs us, that this court was the most sacred and venera-
ble tribunal in all Greece. From its first t^stablishment^
it never pronounced a sentence, which gave reasonable
cause of complaint. Strangers, even sovereigns, solicited
and submitted to its decisions ; which contributed, more

204 LECTURES ON LAW.

than any thing else, to disseminate the principles of jnstice
first among the Grecians. ^

The proceedings in this tribunal were, in some in-
stances, very solemn and striking. In a prosecution for
murder, the prosecutor was obliged to swear, that he was
related to the person deceased — ^for none but near rela-
tions could prosecute-— and that the prisoner was the cause
'of his death. • The prisoner swore, that he was innocent
of the crime, of which he was accused. Each confirmed
his oath with the most direful imprecations ; wishing that,
if he swore falsely, himself, h)s family, and his houses
might be utterly destroyed and extirpated by the divine
vengeance. *

In early times, it is s^id, the parties were obliged to
plead their causes themselves. But this severity was^
afterwards relaxed. Those, who were accused, might
avail themselves of the assistance of counsel. The coun-
sel, however, were never permitted, in pleading, to wan-
der from the merits of the cause. This close and perd*
nent manner of speaking gave^the tone to the bar of
Athens, and extended itself to the speeches, which were
delivered in other assemblies. In this. manner, we may
natdraUy account for the condensed Vehemence so re-
markable in the orations of Demosthenes.

Let tne conclude this account of the Areopagus by
mentioning an incident, seemingly of slight importance,
but which will not be related without producing, in my
hearers, feelings in proper unison with those, which the

A % Gog. Or. L. 16. 21. 1. Anac 11. « 1. Pot Ant 106.
' % Gog. Of. L. 23.

' LECTURES ON LAW. 205

• ■^^

incident occasioned. A little bird, pursued by its enemy,
took refuge in the bosom of one of the judges., Ixlstdad
of protecting, he stifled it. For this instance of cruelty
he received punishment ; and was thus taught that he^
-whose heart is callous to compassion, should not be suffer^
ed to have the lives of the citizens at his mercy*

You will not, after this, be surprised, when you are
told, that the (decisions of the Areopagus were deemed
the "Standards of humanity, as well as of wisdom. ^

In order to understand, fully and in their true spirity
the juridical* institutions of the United States and of/
Pennsylvania, it will be of the greatest use to take a mi-
nute and historical view of the judicial establishments of
England; especially those which were formed under the
government of the Saxons.

Civil governments, in their first institutions, areno*
■ thing more than voluntary associations for the purposes
of society.' . When the Saxons first settled in Britain^
they found themselves obliged, by the disorders of the
times, to associate, in their different settlements, for
their mutual security and prot.ection. Families, con-
nected by consanguinity or other ties, found it agreeable*
as well as necessary, to live together in the same neigh-
bourhood, in order to enjoy the social pleasures of peace,
as well as to give and receive assistance in the time of
war. These societies were known by the appellation of
vills or. towns. ^ On some occasions, an ^ association of
the same kind was necessary, and it was therefore gra-
dually introduced, between the inhabitants of a larger

f2.Anac290. hWTiUar.lU

406 LECTCTRISS ON LAW.

I
t

district. Those larger districts were distin^ished hy
tb6. name of hundreds. ^ The cbnnexions and the exi-
' gencies of society becoming, on great emergencies, still
inore important and extensive, the members of diiFerent
hundreds also associated together, and formed distriscts
larger stiUy^vhich were denominated shires. The officer
who presided dVer them was called alderman or earl.
Hundreders and tythingmet, as their names import,
presided over the lesser associations, i

This establishment of tythings, and hundreds, and
shires, though, at first, intended chiefly for the mutual
defence of the inhabitants, was soon rendered subser-
vient to other purposes, salutary and important.^ The
same motives which induced them to associate for their
Security against foreign danger, induced them alsq to
iake measures for preventing or composing internal dif-
ferences or animosities. In this manner, a judicial au-
thority was gradually assumed by every tything over the
members, of which it was formed. In the same man-
ner and upon the same principles, the hundred exercised
the power of determining the controversies, which arose
within the bounds of its larger district. In the same
manner and upon the same principles stilly the shire esta-
blished a similar jurisdiction over the different hundreds
comprehended within its still more extensive territory.

These courts took cognizance of every cause, civil
and criminal ; and as, in the first instance, they enjoyed
respectively the sole jurisdiction within the boundaries
of each, they soon and naturally became subordinate, o^

i Maiar. 117. i Id. tit, 114.

t

y

LECTUHES ON LAW* 20ir

to another : from the sentence of the tything, an appeal
lay to the hundred, and from the sentence of the huK^
dred, an appeal lay to the shire*

It deserves also to be known — ^for it is important^ to
know— 4batv besides the 4e£ence of the country and th€
decision of law suits, the Saxon tythings, hundreds, and
shires were accustomed to, deliberate upon matters of
still greater consequence* They received complaints
concerning the grievances or abuses in administration^
vrhich' happened within their respective districts, and
sq)plied a remedy by introducing new regulations. Thus
the heads of families in every tything exercised a legxs«
lative power, within their own limits: but were liable
,to be controlled by the meetings of the hundred, which
enjoyed the same power in a larger district: both of
these were subordinate to the assemblies of the shire^

It

which possessed a legislative authority over all the
hundreds in that extensive division. "* Unto the coun*
ty court, says Selden, " all the freemen of the coun*
' ^ assembled, to learn the law, to administer justice, and
to provide remedy for publick inconvenience, o

"* Millar. 130. n Bac. on Gov. 42.

« A striking analogy >vill sometimes be found where it is least to
be expftQteo. The empire of Peru was divided into small districts,

' each consisting of ten families : five of these constituted a higher
class : two of these composed a third class, called a hundred \ ten
hundreds formed the great class of a thousand. Over each of these
a superiatending officer was appointed to administer justice, and to
provide, that those committed to his care should be furnished with

' the means of industry and the necessaries of life.

Between two governments, so remote from each other m time
and plsioe, liilaaiialogy coald not hate been the^ect ef imitation :

208 LECTURES ON LAW.

\

A$ the freemen of a tything, of a hundred, and o£
a shire determined the common affairs of their seversd
districts : so the union of people belonging to different
shires produced a greater assembly, consisting of all the
freemen of a kingdom. This national council was cal^-
led the wittenagemote. Th€ king presided. During the
heptarchy, each of the Saxon kingdoms had a wittenage-
mote of its own : but when they were all reduced into
one, a greater wittenagemote was formed, whose au- ^
thority extended over the whole English nation, f Those
who could not attend the wittenagemote in person, had
always the right of appointing a procurator to represent
them in their absence, q

The wittenagemote exercised powers of a judiciary,
as well as of a legislative kind. They heard complaints
concerning great quarrels and enormities, which could
not be adjusted or redressed by the prdinary courts ;
and they endeavoured, by their superiour authority, .
either to reconcile the parties, or to decide their con*
troversies. By frequent interpositions of this nature,
the great council was formed into a vegular court of jus-
tice, and becanfie the supreme tribunal of the kingdom.
In this tribunal, appeals from the cQurts of every shire,
as well as original suits between the inhabitants of dif-*
• ferent shires, were finally determined* *"

The original meetings of the wittenagemote were ^
held regularly at two seasons of the year : but the in-
crease of business, especially of that which regarded the

it must have been the native result of similar states and circum«
stances of society. Bever. 7, 8.

P.MiUar.l33. a Id. 143, 144 >'Id.l50.

•LECTURES OK LAW. 209

administmtion of justice, rendered it afterwards neces-
sary that its meetings should be more frequent. Occa^
sional meetings were, therefore, convened by the king.
At those occasional meetings, the nobility, who resided
at a distance, seldom gave themselves the trouble of
appearing. Of consequence, the business devolved on
those members who happened to be at court, or who
might be said to compose the privy council of the king.
For this reason, they seldom undertook matters of gene*
ral legislation ; but confined themselves chiefly to the
hearing of appeals. These smaller and occasional meetings
of the wittenagemote seem to have suggested the idea
of the aula regis. *

After the conquest, appeals to parliament multiplied:
the members of .that assembly became 4aily less disposed
to execute this part of their duty : a regular tribunal was,
therefore, formed, in order to discharge it. Of this
tribunal, the great officers of the crown became the
constituent members. To these were adtled such as,
from their knowledge of the law, were thought qualified
to give the best assistance. ' This court received, from
the place in which it was commonly held, the appella-
tion of the aula regis. In its constitution, it corresponded
exactly with the tour de roif^ which, after the accession
of Hugh Capet, was gradually formed out of the ancient
parliament of France ; and with the aulick council,
which, after the time of Otho the Great, arose, in the
same manner, out of the diet of the German empire.'*

For some time after its first formation, the king^
whenever he thought proper to sit as a judge, presided

»<Minar. 242. 243. « Id. 316. « Id. ZMt.

vol. II. E e

/

210 LECTURES OK LAW. •

«

in the aula r^gis: but he, at length, ceased to dis*
charge the ordinary functions of a judge ; and the grand
justiciary became, in a manner, the sole magistrate of
the court. ^ .

The institution of this court yr2is a great improvement
in the system of judicial policy. It was always in readi-
ness to determine every controversy, criminal and civil.
The reparation of injuries was secured ; the expenses
of litigation were diminished ; and justice pervaded the
remotest parts of tlie kingdom. It had the power of
reviewing the sentences of inferiour jurisdictiotis; and^
by that means, produced a consistency and even a uni-
formity of decision, in the judiciary system of the
nation. ^

From circumstances, however, which were the natu-
ral consequences of the introduction and progress of the
feudal s)^tem in .'England, this court began and conti-
nued to make ambitious and unnecessarv encroachments
on the inferiour jurisdictions. Soon after the conquest^
^oo, a complete separation of the ecclesiastical from the
temporal courts took place. The bishop no longer sat as a
judge in the court of the county ; nor the arch-deacoii in
that of the hundred. From the moment ef this separation,
^ the clergy were zealous, and they were successful, in
extending their own jurisdiction, and invading that of the
subordinate temporal tribunals. % By the gradual and
strong operation of these causes and circumstances, the
county courts, in particular, dwindled into a state of
insignificance^' their power was, at length, exercised
•Bly on matters of an inconsiderable value ; ^and the

^ Miliar. 31«. w W. 324; 325. % Id. 331.

LECTURES ON LAW. 211

greatest part of causes, civil, criminal, and fiscal, were
drawn into the vortex of the aula regis, oi^ into that of
the ecclesiastical courts. ^

"4. • .

So far as these changes related to the aula regis, the
consequence of them was, that this court, at first admi-
rably accommodated to the arrangements of the juridi-
cal system then existing in vigour, became, afterwards,
defective, unwieldy, and inconvenient. It followed the
king, wherever the political state of the kingdom requi-
red his presence. A court, thus ambulatory, was incon-
sistent with the leisure and deliberation, which are
necessary for judges m forming their decisions ; and it
was still more incompatible with the interest of the par-
ties, who, with their witnesses, were obliged to travel
about from place to place, before they could obtain a
final determination of their suits. "^ Besides, the great
increase of judicial business, which now crowded into
the aula regis, rendered the proper despatch of that
business an object altogether unattainable : from this
cause, therefore, as well as from the other, the admini-
stration of justice became tedious, burthensome, and
expensive. »

The remedies for these grievances seem to have been
natural and easy — ^to establish the aula regis as a station-
ary court^ — and to remand a great proportion of the -
original causes to those tribunals, which were best fitted,
in the first instance, to decide them. , These remedies,
however, though easy and natural, were not applied.
The county jurisdictions had ceased to be objects of
&vour at court : and the splendour of a retinue, com-

y Millar. 326. 331. ^ Id.42t 422.

J12 LECTURES ON LAW. «

posed of the officers of the judicial as well as the execu-
tive department, was a gratification too fascinating to
be easily relinquished.

One of the remedies, indeed, it was found necessary
to adopt in part ; and the remedy, even in that part, was
obtained with difficulty, and was soon abridged by inge-
nious and favourite fictions of law. When magna charta
was demanded of King John^ one of the articles inserted
in the important instrument was — ^^ that common pleaa
should no longer foUpw the court of the king, but should
be held in some certain and appropriated place." When
we see this regulation forming a part of that great trans-
action between the king and the nation, we may be fully
satisfied, that it was much wished for, but could not be
easily obtained. In consequence of this regulation, a
court of comSoion pleas, detached from the aula regis,
was erected, and was appointed, for the future, to have
a fixed and permanent residence. But though the court
of common pleas obtained, in this manner, a separate
establishment, and was held by separate judges, yet it
was deemed inferiour in rank to the aula regis held by
the grand justiciary, and in which the king still continued
to sit sometimes in person ; and, for this reason, was
considered as subject to its 'decisions of review. *

There is much reason to believe, that the other reme-
dy, so natural and easy, for lessening or removing the
inconveniences, wjhich arose from the crowd of business
in the aula regis — ^that of reinstating the inferiour juris-
dictions in their original degi-ee of respectability — ^was,
by no means, suffered to escape the attention of those,

» MiUar. 424.

i

XECTURES ON LAW. 213

who obtained the great charter, Onfc of the articles of
their demand was—** that the king should promise to
appoint justiciariea, constables, sheriffs, and bailiffs of
such as knew the law of the land, and were well disposed
to observe it."** With this demand the king literally
complied, and engaged to app6int men only of such
characters. ^ Had this engagement continued and been
fulfilled, the subordinate, and, in particular, the county .
establishments for the administration of justice — for to
the county establishments I wish to. direct your particu-
lar attention — ^would have gradually regained, as they
gradually lost, their original dignity and ioiportance.
The uniform and uninterrupted appointment of judges,
intelligent, upright, and independent — men, who, in
the language of magna charta, ** knew and would observe
the law of the land" — ^would, without any farther or
more explicit provision, have been amply sufficient to
have attracted and secured the confidence of suit6rs9
and, by a necessary consequence, to recover and retain
the usefulness and the respectability of the courts. This
engagement, however, was neither continued nor fulfill-
ed. In the instrument confirmed by Henry the third,
this, among many other important regulations of the
magna charta of John, was unfortunately omitted. The
county establishments, from that period to the present
moment, have been despised or disregarded in England;
and other establishnients, less natural and less conTeni«
ent to the nation, have been substituted in their place.
To the view of those other establishments we now
proceed.

4 -,

When we consider' the administration of justice in
theory, it seems very susceptible of an arrangement in

* Bl. 8. art. 42. c Id. x^, art. 45.

514 LECTURES ON LAW»

three great divisions. Prosecutions for crimes are easily-
distinguished from suits concerning property: and, in
suits concerning property, the demands of government
are as easily distinguished from demands of individuals*
On the foundation of this specious theory, a triple divi-
sion was made, in England, of the unwieldy jurisdiction
accumulated in the aula regis. We have already seen^
that ** qommon pleas," or demands of property made by
individuals, were detached from that court by an article
of the great charter. In the reign of Edward the firsts
a farther division was made of its powers ; the court of
exchequer was erected to decide in matters regarding the
publick revenue. 7'he cognizance of crimes was the only
division now remaining to the original court. To an
alteration, so material, in its jurisdiction and power, an
alteration, equally material, in its establishment and name
was added, and the aula regis now subsided into the court
of king's bench. This court is still, in its constitutioti,
ambulatory ; and may attend the person of the king in
whatever part of the kingdom he shall be. The process
of this court is in the king's name, and must be returned
ijcfore him " ubicunque fuerimus in Anglia." **

We now see, clearly and fully, the origin of the three
great courts of common law, which, during a series of
centuries, have been the ornaments of Westminster hall ;
and we now see, clearly and fully, the distinct principles,
on which those three courts were separately erected. To
the king^s bench was allotted the jurisdiction of offences
and crimes : decisions concerning the property of indivi-
■ duals — meum an(J tuum, as our books express it — ^were
committed to the court of^ common pleaa : the enforced

d 5. Bl. Com. 41.

LECTURES ON LAW.. 215

collection of the publick revenue was intrusted to the
court of exchequer. .

I conclude my inquiries respecting the juridical history
of England, at a period, at which, others generally begia
theirs.

To the jurists of Pennsylvania, this investigation,
though minute, concerning the distribution of the powers
and the jurisdiction of the aula regis, is deeply interest-
ing ; nay, it is of indispensable necessity ; for, by the
constitution and laws of Pennsylvania, a jurisdiction,
similar to the. combined jurisdiction of that court, is re-
united in the supreme court of this commoiiwealth. But
along with that reunion, the measures proper for avoiding
its incony^niences have been adopted. The supreme
court is stationary; and juridical establishments, highly
respectable, are formed in every county. These, in due -
course, will become the objects pf particular attention.

By the historical deduction which we have made, we
are now properly prepared to examine,, by a particular
survey, the judicial departments of the United States and
this commonwealth ; and. to . estimate, with correctness,
the numerous jurisdictions, supreme and subordinate, of
which those departments are composed, and upon the
qualities and proportions of which, the declining or the
flourishing state of those departments, and of every
thing connected with those departments, must ultimately
depend.

The judicial power of the national government ex-
tends— to all cases, in law or equity, arising under the
eon9titution,the laws, or the treaties of the United States ;

216 LECTURES ON LAW*

to all casea^ affecting publick minister? and consuls f to aU
, cases of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; to contro-
versies, to which the United States shall be a party ; to
controversies between two or more states ; between a
state and citizens of toother state ; between citizens of
different states ; between citizens of the same state, claim-
ing lai^s under grants* of different states ; and between, a
^tate, or the citizens thereof, and foreign states, citizens,
or ^ subjects. ^

Besides the supreme court established by the consti-
tution, the judicial power of the United States is, at pre-
sent, vested in circuit and in district courts. «

The supreme court has original jurisflictic^ in all
cases, to which a, state shall be party, and in all cases
Meeting publick ministers and consuls. In all the other
cases before mentioned, it has appellate jurisdiction, both
as to law and fact ; but with such exceptions, and under
such regulations, as are made by congress.*^ It consists
of a chief justice and five associate justices ; and holds

e Cons, tr, S. art 3. s. 2.

f The supreme court of the United States, in tht case of Chis-
holm V. the state of Georgia (2 Dall. 419.) decided, that under ihc
clause of the constitution which extends the judicial power of the
United States to controversies " between a state and citizens of ano-
ther state," a state was liable, as defendant^ t© a suit commenced
by such citizens. But by the eleventh article of the amendments to
the constitution, it is declared that « the judicial power of the United
States shall not be construed to extend to any suit in law or eqnii^,
commenced or prosecuted against one of the UnHed States by citi-
zens of another state, or by citizens or subjects of aoy fbr^gii state/'
Vide post. ch. 4. Md*

% Cons. U, S. Art. 3. s. 2. ' .

fi

LECTURES ON lAW* 217

annually two sessions at the seat of the national govern-
ment4 Oi^e session commences on the first Monday of
Februarys the oth^r, on the first Monday of August.
Four judges are a h quorum. *

The judges, both of the supreme and inferioui* courts,
hold their offices during good behaviour j and, at stated,
times, receive, for their services, a compensation, which
cannot be diminished during their continuance in offic^. i

The supreme court has poWcr tp issue wrfts of prohi-
bition to the district courts, when they proceed as courts
of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction ; and wi^its of
mandamus, in cases warranted by the principles and
usages of law, to any courts appointed} or persons hold^
ing office, under the authority of the United States. ^

^ Laws. U. S. l.-cctiu 1. j9es8. c. SO. s. 1^ .

1 By an act of congress passed 29th April, 1802, the supXsm^ court
h to hold but obe session annually, commencing on tlie first Monday
Sn February, Four of the justices form a quorum. If four shall not
attend within ten days after the time appointed for the commence-
ment of the session, the business shall be continued to the next stated
session ; but any one or more of the justices may make all necessary
orders preparatory to the hearing, trial, or decision of any case re-
• turned to or depending in the court. The August session is abolish-
ed ; but one of the justices is directed to attend at the seat of govern-
ment on the first Monday of August annually, and has power td
make all necessary orders in any case returned to or depending in
the court, preparatory to the hearing, triat, or decision. Writs and
process may be returnable on the first Monday in August, in the
same manner as to the February session, and may also bear teste on
that day, as though a session of the court was holden. Lstws» U. S^
7, con. L sess. c 31. s. 1. 2. JEd.

j Cons. U. S. ait. 3. s. 1.

^ Laws. U. S. 1. con. 1. bess. c 30. s^ 13.

TOL. II. F f .

218 t£CTVR£S OK LAIV^.

Final judgments and decrees of a circuit coUrt, where
the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand dollars, may
be reexamined and reversed or affirmed in the supreme
court, ^ upon a writ of errour, ««

If the validity of a statute or treaty of the United
States, or of an' authority exercised under them, be drawn
in question, in any suit in the highest court of law or
equity of a state, in which a decision of the suit could be
had ; and a decision is against their validity — ;if the vali-
dity of a statute of any state, or of an authority exercised
under that state, is, in any suit in such court, drawn in
question, as repugnant to the constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States ; and a decision is in favour
of their validity— if the construction of any clause of the
constitution, of a treaty, of a statute of the United Statea^
or of a commission held under them, is, in any suit in
such court, drawn in qilestion ; and a decision is against
the title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set up
1 Laws. U. S. ;l. con. 1. sess. c. 20. s. 23.

«n See the case of Wiscart et al. v. Dauchy, (3. Dall. 321.- 327) in
which the supn^me court of the United States decided, that causes
cf admiralty and maritime jurisdiction and suits in equity, as well as
other civil actions, could be removed from the circuit into the su-
preme court by writ of errour only, and not by appeal ; and that
therefore nothing was removed for reexamination but the law. Byv
an act of congress since, passed (7. con. 2; sess. c. 93. s. 2.) it is
provided that an appeal shall be allowed to the supreme court of the ,
United States from final judgments or decrees rendered in the circuit
court in cases of equity, of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, and
of prize or no prize ; where the matter in dispute, exclasive of costs,
shall exceed the Value of two thousand dollars. No new evidence,
however, can be received in the tupremc court on the hearing of the
appeal, except in admiralty and prize causes. JE^

LECTURES ON LAW. S19

«r claimed by either party under such clause— a final
judgment or decree, in all these cases,* may, upon a writ
of errour, be reexamined and affirmed or reversed in the
supreme court of the United States. "

The United States are divided into circuits and dis«
tricts.

The districts are, in number, sixteen t one consists
of that part of the state tof Massachussets, which lies
easterly of the state of New Hampshire, and is called
Maine district : one consists of the state of New Hamp-
^Mre, and is called New Hampshire district: one ^con-
sists of the remaining part of the state of Massachussetts,
and is called M assachussetts district : one consists of the
state of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations, and
13 called Rhode Island district : one consists of the state
of Connecticut, and is called Connecticut district : one
consists of the state of New York, and is called New
York district: one consists of the state of New Jersey,
and is called New Jersey district : one consists of the
state of Pennsylvania, and is called Pennsylvania dis-
trict : one consists of the state of Delaware, and is
called Delaware district: one consists of the state of
Maryland, and is called Maryland district : one consists
of the state of Virginia, and is called Virginia district:
one consists of the state of North-Carolina, and is called
North Carolina district: one consists of the state of
South Carolina, and is called South Carolina district:
one consists of the State of Georgia, and is called Georgia
district : ° one consists of the state of Vermont, and i»

^ Laws. U. S. 1. con. 1. sess. c 20. s. 35.
* Id. 1. con. 1. sess. c. 30. s. 3.

820 LECTURES ON LAMT.

called Vermont district :P one consists of Kentucky, and
is called Kentuckj' district.

These districts { except Maine and Kentucky, are di-
vided into three circuits, the eastern, the middle, and the
southern. The eastern circuit consists of the districts
of iitvr Hampshire, Massachussetts, Rhode Island, Con-
necticut, New York, and Vermotit : the middle circuit
consists of the districts of New Jeirsey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia : the southern circuit
consists of the districts of North Carolina, South Caro-
lina, and Georgia. **

In each district, there is a district court, consisting
of one judge, "^ who resides in the district| and holds
four sessions annually, *

In each district of the three circuits, two courts, cal-
led circuit courts, are annually held. These courts con-
sist of any two justices of the supreme court, and of the
district judge of the district, any two of whom constitute
a quorum. "*

p Laws U. S. 1. con. 3. sess. c 12. s. 2.
^ Id. 1. con. lb sefts. c, 20. s. 4. >' IcLs. 3,

8 For the alterations which have been made in the distribution
of the United States into districts and circuits, and in the sessions
of the district courts, the number of which now varies in different
districts, see Laws U. S. 3. cong. 1. sess. c. 54. Z.cong. 1. sess. c. 31-
7p cong. 2, sess. c. 60. £d,

*■ Laws U. S. 1. con. 1. sess. c. 20. s. 4.

« The circuit courts aow consist of one of the judges of the su-
preme court and the judge of the district ; either of whom may hold
the court. In cases removed from a district to a circuit court by

i

LECTURES ON LAW, 421

Over crimes and oflFences, committed upon the high
seas, or within the respective districts, and cognizable
under the authority of the United States, the district
courts have jurisdiction ; provided the punishment ex-
ceed not ^whipping with thirty stripes, a fine of one hun-
dred dollars, or imprisonment for six months. From
Jurisdiction over such crimes or oiFences, the courts of
the several states are excluded. ^

The district courts have, in the first instance, exclu-^
aive cognizance of all causes of admiralty and maritime
jurisdiction, *^ and of seizures under laws of impost,
navigation, or trade ; provided the seizures be made on
the high seas^ or within their respettive districts, on
waters navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more
tons burthen. But the right of a common law remedy
18 saved to suitors in all cases, in which the common

appstal or writ of errour, judgment shall be rendered in conformity
to the opinion of the judge of the supreme court. In other ca^es, if
the opinions of the judges shall b^ opposed, tlie question respecting
which they disagree shall, during the same term, at the request of
either party or their counsel, be stated under the direction of the
judges, and certified to the supreme court, by whom it shall be final-
ly decided ; and their decision and order shall be remitted to the
circuit court, and be then entered of record, and shall have effect
according tethe nature of the decision or order. No punishment
shall, in any case, be inflicted, when the judges are divided in opi-
nion on the question respecting it — ^Laws U. S. 7. cong. 1. sess. c. 31.
s. 4. 5. 6. Ed.

V Laws U. S. 1. con. l. sess. c» 20. s. 9.

^ Every district court in the United States possesses all the
powers of a court of admiralty, whether considered as an instance
w as a prize court. 3. Dall. 16. . E^,

S2!^ lECTURBS ON LAW*

law is competent to give it. ^ Of se^izures on Isind, or^
on waters, other than as above described, and of all
suits for penalties and forfeitures incurred under the laws
of the United States, the district courts have, likewiset
in the first instance, exclusive cognizance*

Of all causes, in which an alien sues for a tort only
in violation of the law of nations or of a treaty of tfat^
United States, the district courts have cognizance, con-
current, as the case may be^ with the circuit cQurts, or
with t&e courts of the several states. They have a simi«
lar concurrent cognizance of all suits at common law, in
which the United States sue, and the matter in dispute,
exclusive of costs, amounts to the value js>£ one hundred
dollars. Th€y have, exclusively of the courts of the
several states, jurisdiction of all suits against consulsor
vice consuls, except for offences above the descriptioa
before mentioned. ^

*

The circuit courts have concurrent jurisdiction wkh
the district courts of the crimes and offences cognizable
in the latter, and they have exclusive cognizance of all
other crimes and offences cognizable under the authority
of the United States, except where provision is or shall
be otherwise made. .

They have, concurrent with the dourts of the several

statts, original cognizance of ^ civil suits at common

law or in equity, where the matter in dispute, exclusive

of costs, exceeds the yaliie of five hundred dollars, and

^here the United States are plaintiffs, or an alien is a

#
* Laws U. S. 1. con. t seas. c. 3a s. 9.

yldibM.

\

• L£CTUIl£S ON LAW. 223

party, or a suit is between a citizen of the state, in which
it is brought, and a citizen of another state.*

The final decrees and judgments of a district court
in civil actions, where the matter in dispute, exclusive
of costs, exceeds the value of fifty dollars, may, upon. 1

a writ of errour, be reexamined, and reversed or affirm- 1

«d in' a circuit court, holden in the same district. » ' \

From the foregoing detail, which was necessary,
though not entertaining, we find, that as yet, only three
species of courts are known to the constitution and laws
of the United States ; and that even to one of those,
species no appropriate order of judges is assigned ; for
the judges of the circuit courts are drawn together, in
opposite directions, from the supreme court and the dis-
trict. This very uncommon establishment may become
the subject of some future remarks.

I proceed to take a view of the courts of Pennsyl-

vania*

#

X Laws U. S. 1. COD. 1. sess. c 30. s. 11.
a Id. s. 32.

^ By the 31st section of the same act, an apiieal to the circuit
court was allowed from final decrees in a district court in causes of
udmiralty and maritime j^^adictUmy where the matter in dispute
exceeded the value of three hundred dollars exclusive of costs. By
a later act {T, cong. 3. sess. c. 93. s. 2.) it is provided that firom all
Jinal judgments or decrees in any of the district courts of the United
States, an appeal, where the matter in dispute, exclusive of costs,
shall exceed the value of fifty doOarS) shall be allowed to the circuit
court jEor the saii^e (Ejistrict Md^

V

224 LtCTUKES ON LAW. ^ «

The first, which attracts our notice, is " the high
court of errours and appeals." This court was constituted
by a late law. A court of the same name and of much
the same kind was known in Pennsylvania, before the
present constitution* This court, as at present established,
consists of the judges of the supreme court, of the pre-
sidents of the courts of common pleas, and of three
other persons, appointed during good behaviour, and
removable in the same manner as the judges of the su-
preme court. Five judges form a quorum. It is em-
powered to decide on writs of errour from the supreme
court, and on appeals from the register's courts in the
several counties of the commonwealth, c

The supreme court has been long known in Penn*
sylvania, though not always by the same name. By
consulting the records of our laws, we shall find ** an
act for erecting a provincial court," passed as early as the
year one thousand six hundred and eighty four. It had
power to try titles, of land, to try all causes civil and
critninal, both in law and equity, not determinable in the
county courts, and to decide appeals from inferiour juris-
dictions.^ This law was continued, according to a
general regulation in force at that time, from one ses-
sion of the general assembly to another, till the year one
thousand six hundred and ninety. From that year to
the year one thousand seven hundred, there is a chasm
in the laws of Pennsylvania. To those, who are con-
versant in the general history of the province, the reasons
of this chasm are well known.

c 3. Laws Penn. 97. s. 17. .
d R. O. book A. p. 7U \

L£CTiril£S ON LAW. 225

In the year one thousahd seven hundred and one^ a
new act was passed for establishing a provincial court.
By this act, the court had jurisdiction in equity by bill
and answer, such as is necessary in courts of chancery,
and proper in these parts. * This law was, in the year
one thousand seven hundred and five, repealed by the
queen in counciL

In the year one thousand seven hundred and fifteen^
another law was passed '* for erecting a supreme or pro-,
vincial court of law and equity."^ This experienced
the fate of the former — it was repealed by the king in
council in the year one thousand seven hundred and
nineteen*

I may be permitted to remark, by the way, that such
•was the fate of many of the most valuable laws, which
were passed in the early periods of Pennsylvania. They
•well deserve the attention of every one, who wishes to
become a master of her juridical history. They disclose,
in the most striking as well as the most authentick man-
ner, how soon and how strongly a spirit of jealousy began
to operate in the administration of the colonies. ^

Will it be believed, that the benefit of the great palla-
dium of liberty — ^the writ of habeas corpus — was refused
to be imparted to the plantations ? Will it be believed,
that the name of Somers — a name, in Europe, so dear
to liberty — stands first in the list of those, by whom the
tyrannick refusal was given? These things ought not to
be believed without the most irrefragable testimony v if

* R. O. book A. vol. 1. p. 110. ^ R. O. book A. vol. 2. p, IO9,

VOL, II. G g

226 LECTURES ON LAW.

the most irrefragable testimony of their authenticity can
be produced, these things ought to be both believed and
published. They show how dangerous it is for freedom
to depend upon her best friends for z. foreign support.

In December one thousand six hundred and ninety
five, the committee of plantations wrote, to the governour
and council of Massachussetts, a letter on the subject
of a variety of laws passed by the legislature of that
colony. Many of those laws were favourable to liberty;
and, among others of this spirit, there was one concern-
ing the writ of habeas corpus. With regard to this law,
the committee expressed themselves in the following
manner, truly remarkable. " Whereas by the act for
securing the liberty of the subject, and preventing illegal
imprisonments, the writ of habeas corpus is required to
be granted, in like manner as is appointed by the statute
of 31. Charles II. in England; which privilege has not
as yet been granted in any of his majesty's plantations :
it was not thought fit in his majesty's absence, that
the said act should be continued in force ^ and, there-
fore, the same hath been repealed.'* My Lord Somers
signed the letter ! ^
I return to the supreme court of this commonwealth*

By a law, npiade in the year one thousand seven hun-
dred and twenty two, and which is still in force, a court
of record >yas established, and styled the supreme court
of Pennsylvania. To that court power is given to issue
writaof^eas corpus, certiorari, and writs of errour.
and all r^Haedial and other w^rits and process, in pursu-

e ChaL 74.

UtCTURES ON LAW, 227

aace of the powers given to it. ^ Its judges are authori-
sed to minister justice to all persons, and exercise the
jurisdictions and powers granted by law, as fully and
amply as the justices of the court of king's bench, com-
mon pleas, and exchequer, at Westminster, or any of
them, can do. * It was made a doubt, whether, under
the authority of this law, the supreme court could exer-
cis^e original jurisdiction, and take cognizance of causes
at their commencement. A law, passed a few years
ago,' gives it expressly original jurisdiction in enumerated
cases, i

m

I

By the constitution of Pennsylvania, ^ the jurisdiction
of the supreme court shall extend over the state ; and
the judges of it shall, by virtue of their ofEces, be jus-
tices of oyer and terminer and general gaol delivery in
the several counties.

Besides the powers formerly and usually exercised by
it, it has now the powers of a court of chancery so far as
relates to the perpetuating of testimony, the obtaining of
evidence from places not within the state, and the care
of the persons and estates of those, who are non compotes
mentis.^

The judges of this court hold their offices during good
behaviour ; but^ for any reasonable cause, which shall
not be ground of impeachment, the governour may
remove any of them, on the address of two thirds of

h 1. Laws Penn. 179. s. 11. '» Id. 180. s. 13.

J 2. Laws Penn. 472. s. 4. 5. * Art. 5. s. 3.

1 Cons. Penn. art 5. s. 6.

228 LECTURES, ON LAW.

each branch of the legislature. '^ They shall, at stated
times, receive, for their services, an adequate conipeit-
sation, to be fixed by law ; which shall not be diminished
during their continuance in office.

By a law passed during the present year, the supreme
court is established in the same manner, and with the
same powers, as it has been heretofore established by
the laws of the state, consistently with the provisions
contained in the constitution. " It holds three terms in
the year ; one, on the first Monday in January; ano-
ther, on the first Monday in April ; and the third, on
the first Monday in° September, p

a

By the constitution of Pennsylvania,"^ a court of com*
mon pleas, an orphans' court, a register's court, and a
court of quarter sessions of the peace are established for
each county. Before I consider tliese jurisdictions sepa-
rately, it will be proper to premise some observations,
equally applicable to them all.

Among the dispositions and arrangements of judicial
power, the institution of counties has long made a con-
spicuous figure. The division of England into counties
^s generally ascribed to the legislative genius of the great

^ Cons. Penn. art 5. s, 2. " 3, Laws Penn. 92. s. 1. <> KL ibid.

P The terms of the supreme court now commcHce on the first
Mondays in March, September, and December. March term con-
tinues three weeks ; September term, two weeks ; and December
term four weeks.' The first and last days of each term are return
days. 5. Laws Penn, 166. Ed.

^ Art. 5. s. !•

' LECTURES ON LAW, 229

Alfred* His genius was unquestionably equal to the

task ; but part of it was performed before his reign. ' A

country so large as some of the kingdoms of the heptar^

chy could not, according to the policy and the exigencies

of the times, enjoy the administration of justice without

a division into subordinate districts. Accordingly, in

the old laws, before the union of England under £gbert,

vre find the mention of sheriffs and shires. ^ But though

Alfred did not commence, he undoubtedly extended the

county establishments of England. Before his reign,

the Dknes had made extensive settlements in the northern

parts of the kingdom. During some years after the

commencement of his reign, they confined him within

very narrow limits, and ravaged the rest according to

their savage pleasure. At last, however, this great man,

whom so many embarrassments surrounded, and who

surmounted so many embarrassments, obliged those,

who had viewed him with supercilious contempt, to

acknowledge him as their superiour and lord. After his

conquest over the Danes, he then settled the boundaries

of the counties through every part of England. In the

southern parts of the kingdom, they were, probably,

laid out according to the formei>limits. In the northern

parts, which were less fertile and more uncultivated, they

were laid out on a larger scale. Hence, to this day,

we find the largest counties in the north of England.

In every county, justice was administered to the*
inhabitants near their places of residence, without the
delay and expense of resorting to Westminster.

SuUiv. 245.

230 LECTURES OK LAW.

Each of the counties or shires had, as we are told by
Seldqn, their two chief go vernours for distributive jus-
tice : of these, the sheriff was the more ancient and
worthy; being, in certain cases, aided by the power of
the county* His office was partly judicial and partly
ministerial. In the last character, he was the king's ser-
vant to execute his writs : in the first, he regulated the
courts of justice within the county. The other officer was
the coroner, whose duty it was to inquire of homicide
upon the view, to seize escheats and forfeitures, to re-
ceive appeals of felony, and to keep the rolls of •crimi-
nal proceedings. He was chosen, as was the sheriff,
from among the men of the first rank in the county.

In those times, the county court was surrounded with
numerous and respectable attendants : it was considered
as the great theatre, on which the justice and the power of
the county were displayed. ' In those times> justice was
administered principally in the county establishments ;
and it was only in cases of uncommon magnitude or
difficulty, that recourse was had to that judicial tribunal,
whose jurisdiction extended over the whole kingdom.
In those times, the p]:x)ceedings and decisions of the
courts were simple and unembar^assed — an advantage,
as a learned writer says, « which always attends the in-
fancy of laws — an advantage, as I will venture to say,
which always attends their perfection. Such have been,
and such will be the true character and native conse-

» Bac. on Gov. 40, 41.

t Forum plebeix justitix, et theatrum comitivx potestatis. Spel.
Gloss. V. comitatus,

» 4. Bl. Com. 407.

k

f-

LECTURES ON LAW. 231

quences of county establishments, properly instituted
and properly organized.

Let us now trace their origin and their progress in
Pennsylvania.

In the second session of her legislature, it was en-
acted, that " all actions of debt, account, slander, and
trespass, shall be first tried by the court of the county,
in which the cause of action arises." ^ In a subsequent
session, it was constituted a court of equity as well as
of law. ^ Soon afterwards the sphere of the county ju-
risdictions was enlarged. It was enacted, that trials of
titles of lands, actions of debt, account, and slander, and
all actions civil or criminal whatever (excepting treason,
murder, manslaughter, and other enormous crimes)
shall be first heard, and determined in the proper coun-
ties by the respective justices; and that the county courts
ishall be held quarterly, and oftener, if there be occa-

sion. *

These institutions fell at the chasm of legislation,
which I have already mentioned ; but their spirit was
afterwards revived, continued, and invigorated. They
received, it is true, some checks, similar to those, which
were experienced by the supreme court. In the year
one thousand seven hundred and fourteen, an act was
passed for establishing the several courts of common
pleas within the province. ^ It naet its fate at the same
time and in the same manner as the law for establishing
the supreme court.

V R. O. Book A* p. 33. wldLp. ro,

, «. 14 p» «4« y U. Td. 3. pb 113.

232 LECTURES ON LAW^

By a subsequent law^ more fortunate, a court of record,
styled the county court of common pleas, was established
in every county, with power to hear and determine all
pleas and causes, civil, personal, real, and mixed, ac-
cording to the laws and constitutions of the province. *
Here appears a plain separation of the civil from the
criminal jurisdiction, both of which were, before this
time, vested in the county courts. The criminal juris-
diction was, by the same law, transferred to a court in-
BtiUited at the same time, * and styled ^^ the general quar-
ter sessions of the peace and gaol delivery.'- ^

By the constitution,^ the judges of the courts of
common pleas shall hold their offices during good be-
haviour.

I am next to consider the establishment and the juris-
diction of orphans' courts in Pennsylvania. These are
institutions pf the last importance to the welfare of the
commonwealth. .

Among the ancients, those who studied and practised
the sciences of. jurisprudence and government with the
greatest success, were convinced, and, by their conduct
showed their conviction, that the fate of states depends
on the education of youth.

History, experience, and philosophy combine in de-
claring— ^that the best and most happy of countries is
that country, which is the most enlightened.

* 1. Laws Peon. 183. s. 21.
» See R. O. Book A. vol. 3. p. 9a
^1. LawsPenn. p. 176.S.3. <Art5.s. 2^

LECTURES ON LAW* 283

" It was a leading principle with our ancestors," says
Isocrates in his oration on reforming the government of
AthenS) ^'.not to limit the education of the citizens to any
particular period of life. Great pains were employed
upon them during their youth ; and, as they advanced
to the years of maturity, they were watched with an at-
tention still more sedulous than before. Their manners
were an object of such high concern, that the Areopa-
gus seemed instituted with no other view but to preserve
them." ^ It was the business of this court to appoint tu-
tors and governours for the youth ; and to take care that
they were educated in a manner corresponding to their

situation and circumstances. ^

*

A similar degree of watchfulness and assiduity was
bestowed upon education, in other parts of Greece.
£paminondas, we are told, in the last year of his life,
said, heard, beheld, and performed the very same things,
as at the age in which he received the first principles of
his education. ^

Nothing, indeed, can be of greater importance, than to
conduct our children in the same manner, in which we
ought to conduct ourselves.

" Custom," says my Lord Bacon, " is the principal
magistrate of man's life. But custom is certainly most
perfect, when it^beginneth in young years. This we call
education ; which, in effect, is but an early custom. But
if the force of custom, simple and segregate, be great -,
the force of custom, copulate and conjoined and coUe-

d Gil. Lys. & Isoc. 4S7. « i. Pot Ant 104.,

^ Mont Sp. L. b. 4* c 4.
VOL. II. H h

X

234 LECTURES ON LAW.

giate, is far greater. For there, example teacheth, com-
pany comforteth, emulation quickeneth, glory raiseth.
Certainly the great multiplication of virtues upon human
nature resteth upon societies well ordained and disci-
plined." «

Things are sometimes best displayed by the side of
their contraries. It has been the benign aim of patriot
legislators to disseminate knowledge : it has been the
infernal wish of despots and the minions of despots to
extinguish it. The political principles of Mr. Hobbes
are well known. Such an abhorrence he contracted for
popular government, and the principles of freedom, that
he was anxious to see both extirpated from the face of
the earth. In order to obtain this consummation, in his
perverted judgment so devoutly to be wished, he recom-
mends it to princes to destroy the Greek and Latin
authors. " By reading them," says he, " men have, under
a false show of liberty, acquired a habit of favouring
tumults, and of licentiously controlling the conduct of
their sovereigns." ^ In France, during a late reign, a
minister was heard to say — " I will put an end to all
schools ;" and another is said to have declared — " I am
tired with these publications ; if I continue ten y^ars ,
longer in office, I am determined that no books, except
the court calender, shall be printed in Paris." * But in
France, that late reign is now passed.

The same savage and tyrannick maxims have, in
former times, been avowed in America. But those times
ar« now also passed. It will not, however, be unuseful

8 3. Ld. Bac. 357. 358. h Lev. P. 2. c. 21. 1. Shaft. Char. 88.
i Fr. Rev. 266.

LECTURES ON LAW. 235

to turn our eyes back upon them ; and, with the mingled
emotions of disdain and conscious joy, to trace the stri-
king contrast between the views of government in a past,
and those in the present age. , .

In the reign of Charles the second, the lords of the

committee of plantations transmitted to Virginia a series

©f inquiries concerning the condition of the colony.

Among the answers returned by Sir William Berkeley,

who was then its governour, we find the following one,

too extraordinary to be passed without particular notice.

*' I thank God, there are no free schools, nor printing ;

and, I hope, we shall not have, these hundred yejars. For

learning has brought disobedience, and heresy, and sects

into the world ; and printiDg has divulged them and libels

against the best government: God keep us from both!"J

By the court of Charles, this prayer was received mo8.t

graciously ; and, agreeably to its principle, a succeeding

governour was ordered "to allow no person to use a

|)rinting press on any occasion whatsoever."

Very different were the principles, which animated the
genius of the immortal Alfred. He considered learning
and the sciences as the glory and the felicity of his reign.
He founded and endowed schools : difficult as the task
was in'that unenlightened age, he provided those schools
with proper instructors. Still farther to diffuse a taste
for knowledge, and to transmit its blessings to posterity,
he made a law, obliging all freeholders, possessing two ,
hides of land or upwards, te send their sons to school,
and give them a liberal education. By his own example
«-^for he was the most accomplished scholar of his age-^

i Chal. 328. i^ Id. S45.

236 LECTURES ON LAW*

by his powerful recommendations of learning — for he
made it the great road to preferment — ^he introduced
among his people the most ardent pursuits after intellec-
tual acquirements. The old bewailed their unhappiness
in being ignorant ; some, at a very advanced age, applied
themselves to study ; and all took care to procure proper
instruction for their children, and their other young
relations. *

According to the theory of Plato " and the institutions
of Lycurgus," the care and education of children were
taken entirely out of the hands of their parents. The
propriety of this regulation I will not, at present, examine.
Suffice it to say, that the laws ought to give every possi-
ble encouragement and assistance to the education of
children ; but particularly of those, who are unfortunate-
ly deprived of their parents.

We now see the reasons and the importance of esta-
blishing orphans* courts. The first object of their juris-
diction is the education of orphans : their property is the
second.

So early as the second session of the legislature of
Pennsylvania, orphans' courts were established in every
county to inspect the estates, usage, and employment of
orphans ; " that care," says the law, " may be taken for
those, that are not able to take care for themselves^" ®
Their education is. more immediately the object of a sub-
sequent law, which was made in the same session. ** "That
poor as well as rich may be instructed in commendable

* 2. Henry 356. » 4 Anac 341. n Id. 1«3.

0 R.O.Book.Ap.34. P.Id.p.46.
LECTURES OH LAW. 337

learning," it was enacted, ^' that all persons having children,
and the guardians or trustees of orphans, shall cause them
to be instructed in reading and writing ; and to be taught
some useful trade or profession ; that the poor may work
to live, and the rich, if they become poor, may not want."

By a law still in force , orphans' courts appoint guar-
dians over such orphans as the court shall judge incapa-
ble, according to the rules of the common law, of choosing
guardians for themselves ; admit orphans, of the proper
age, to choose their own guardians ; and direct the bind-
ing of orphans to be apprentices to trades or other employ-
ments. But it is provided, that no orphan shall be bound
an apprentice to any person, or be placed under the
guardianship of any person, whose religious persuasion
is different from that of the orphan's parents.^

You will probably be surprised, that the regulations
known to our laws for the education of orphans here
close. You have reason for your surprise. Those regu-
lations are, indeed, defective. To parental affection the
care of education may, in most instances, be safely
intrusted. But in no other principle ought the laws to
repose an implicit confidence, concerning an object of
the greatest magnitude, immediately to orphans, and
eventually to the publick* In Sparta, one of the most
respectable members of the state was placed at the head
of all the children. Would not some similar institution
be eligible with regard to ' such of them as are deprived
. of their parents?

The jurisdiction of the orphans' courts, as it respects
the property of orphans, will be discussed with more pro-

4 t Laws. Penn. lOt s. 7. 103. s. 12.

s

258 LECTURES ON LAW*

priety, wheii we come to the second great division of the
law— that, which relates to things.

By the constitution of Pennsylvania, ' the judges of
the court of common pleas of each county compose its
orphans' court,

I proceed to the consideration of the register's court.

In England, the probate of wills and the granting of
letters of administration belong to the jurisdiction of the
ecclesiastical courts. In Pennsylvania, this jurisdiction
is turned into a very different channel.

In the first session of the legislature of Pennsylvania^
a registry was established for wills, for lexers of adminis*
tration, and for the names of guardians and executors. '

A law passed in the year one thousand seven hundred
and«five directed, that an officer, called register general^
should be appointed for the probate of wills, and granting
letters of administration. He was directed to keep his
office at Philadelphia, and to constitute a deputy in each
county of the province. The deputies were empowered
to take probates and grant letters of administration, as
amply as the register general himself could do. A will
proved, or letters of administration granted, in any one
county, superceded the necessity of another probate or
other letters of administration in any other county. '

It

Wheii objections were made, or caveats entered against
the proving of any will, or granting letters of adminis-

rArt5.s.r. • R.O.Book.A.p. 18.

^ 1. Laws. Peon. 56. s. 8.

LECTURES ai^ LAW, 239

tration ; and when there was occasion to take the final
accounts of executors or administrators, or to make dis-
tribution of decedents' estates, the register general and
his deputies were respectively obliged to call to their
assistance two or more of the justices of the court of
common pleas, who w^re empowered and required to
give their assistance, accordingly, to do all judicial acts
concerning the matters before mentioned. This was the ^
register's court. **

The office of register general is now abolished ; and,
by the constitution, a register's office for the probate of
wills and granting letters of administration shall be kept
in each county. ^

The register of wills, together with the judges of the
court of common pleas, or any two of them, compose the
register's court, w

The court of quarter sessions of the peace is the last
of those courts, which, by the constitution of Pennsylva-
nia, form the juridical establishment for every county in
the commonwealth.

In England, the general or quarter sessions of the
peace is a court of record held, in every county, once in
every quarter of the year. It is held before two or more
justices of the peace, for the execution of that authority,
which is conferred on them by the commission of the
peace, and a great variety of acts of parliament.

« R. O. book A. vol. 2, p. 43. v Cons. Penn. art 5. s. 11.

w Id. art 5. 8. 7.

240 LECTURES ON LAW.

By the statute of 34 Ed. III. c. 1. the coart of general
quarter sessions have authority to hear and determine
all felonies and trespasses M^hatever done in the county
in which they sit. But they seldom try any greater
offences than small felonies ; remitting crimes of a
heinous nature to the assizes, for a more publick aiid
solemn trial and decision. There are many offences,
which ought to be prosecuted in the quarter sessions,
as bel<Higing particiilarly to the jurisdiction of that court.
Of this kind are the smaller misdemeanors, not amount-
ing to felony ; such as offences relating, to the highways,
taverns, vagrants, and appi;entices.' It has co^izance
also of controversies relating to the settlement and pro-
vision for the poor, and orders for their removal. It
cannot try any newly created office, without an express
authority given by the statute, which creates it. ^

In Pennsylvania, the courts of quarter sessions of
the peace are formed upon the model, and exercise juris-
diction according to the practice of the courts of the same
denomination in England. In one important particular,
however, there is a very material difference between
them. The courts of quarter sessions in England are
composed of the justices of the peace, who hold their
commissions only during the pleasure of the crown: those
in Pennsylvania are composed of the judges of the court
of common pleas, who hold their commissions xduring
their good behaviour. ^

Thus much concerning the court of quarter ses-
sions.

* Wood. Ins. 499. 4. Bl Com. 368. r Coos. Pcnn. art 5. s. T. 3*

. '

LECTURES ON LAW. 241

In each county, and in such convenient districts aa
.«ire directed by law, the gorernour of Pennsylvanift
appoints a competent number of justices of the peace. *

To the common law, the conservation of the peace
has always been an object of the most particular atteib*
tion and regard. Long before the institution of justices
of the peace was known, many oflkers were, ex officio, or
by election, or by particular appointment, guardians of
the puUick tranquillity — conservatores pacis. ^

<
When quarrels suddenly arise — ^when violence is com*
mitted — when riots and tumults are likely to ensue, it is
vain to wait for the interposition of the ordinary courts
of justice. That cannot 'be obtained soon enough for
preventing or suppressing the disorders. It is highly
important, therefore, that metk of character and influence,
to whom, upon any emergency, application may be easily
made, should be invested with sufficient power to arrest
dHisorderly persons, to confine them, and to preserve or
restore the quiet of the country.

The peaccy in the most extensive sense of the term,
comprehends the whole of the criminal law. ^^ Against
€tic peace," all crimes are laid to be committed.
Whoever, therefore, had authority to take cognizance
of crimes was, from the nature of his office, considered
as a conservator of jthe peace. The king himself was sty-
led its great conservator through all his dominions. His
judges and his ministers of justice were also official
conservators of the peace. Others were conservators
by tenure or prescription* Others, again, were elected

s Cons. Penn, art 5. s. 10. - * MQUtf , 433.

VOL. II. I i

242 LECTURES ON LAW*

■

in the full county court, in pursuance of a writ directed
to the sheriff* Besides all these, extraordinary epnser*
vators of the peace were appointed by commission from
the king, as occasion required. They were to continue,
says my Lord Bacon, for the term of their lives, or at
the king^s pleasure. For this service, adds the same
great authority, choice was made of the best men of
calling in the county, and but few in the shire« They •
might bind any man to keep the peace, -and be of the
good behaviour; and they might send for the party, direct
ing their warrant to the sheriff or constable to arrest the
party and bring him before them*

»
This it was usual to do, when complaint was made,
upon oath, by smy one, that he stood in fear of another ;
or when the conservator himself saw the disposition of
any man inclined to a breach of the peace, or to- misbe-
have himself in some outrageous manner. In such cases^
the conservator might, by his own discretion, send for
auch a fellow, and, as he should see cause, oblige him
to find sureties for the peace, or for his good behaviour^
. If he refused to find them, a commitment to gaol would
be the unavoidable consequence.

Those, who were conservators of the peace by virtue
of their qifices, still retain the character and power:
thoj^e, who became so by election or appointment, are
superseded by the ji^stices of the peace. *»

Of tliia ins^titution, says my Lord Coke,*^ it i& such
a form of subordinate government for the tranquillity

b 4. Ld. Bac 59. 99. 1, Bl. Com. 349. ^ Rcev. 122.
^ 4v Ins. iro.

LECTURES ON. LAW« 243

jmd qui«t of thee realm, as no part of the chriatiaii world
liftth ; provided it be duly executed.

The power of the justices of the peace arises from
two different sources — ^their commission, and acts of par-
' liament, which have created the objects of their juris-
diction*

By his commission* every justice is appointed a con-
servator of the peace, and is vested with a separate power
to suppress riots and affrays, to take securities for the
peace or good behaviour; and for defect of sureties may
commit to the common gaol or house of correction. For
treason, felony, or breach of the peace, he may commit
even a feHow-justice<

>•

The powers, which, by acts of parliament, have been
conferred, from time to time, upon one, two, or more
justices of the peace, are accumulated to such a degree
as to form a jurisdiction of immense variety and impor-
tance. They are so many and so. great that, as Sir Wil-
liam Blackstone observes,' the country U greatly obliged
to any worthy magistrate, who, without sinister views of
his own, will engage in this, troublesome service. For
this reason, he is protected, by many statutes, in the
honest discharge of his office ; and, for any unintentional
errour in his practice, great indulgence is shown to him
in the courts of law. On the other hand, tyrannical
abuses of his . office are punished with the merited seve-
rity; and all persons, who recover a verdict against
him, for a. wilful or malicious injury, are entitled t«
double costs.

* Wood. Ins. 80. « 1. Bl. Com. 3if4.

244 LECTURES ON LAW.

In England, a justice of the peace holds bis office
only during the pleasure of the king : by the constitiition
of Pennsylvania, he holds it during his good behaviour*
He may be removed on conviction of misbehaviour in
office, or of any infamous crime, or on the address of
both houses of the legislature. ^

< • ^

The presidents of the courts of common pleas, within
their circuits, and the other judges, "vtrithin their several
counties, are justices of the peace, so far as relates to
criminal matters* ^

This distinction, suggested by the constitution, brings
into our view a very important branch of the power of a
justice of the peace. He possesses civil as w^U ds cri«*
minal jurisdiction in Pennsylvania, and decides concern^
ing property as well as concerning offences. This branch
of hb power deserves a. particular consideration*

The easy, the regular, and the expeditious adminis*
tration of justice has, in every good government, been
an object of particular attention and care. To the aU
tainment of an object so inteiesting, the distribution of
ythe juridical powers among convenient di^icts is highly
conducive. Such distribution, therefore, has, in tnany
states, been made with a degree of precision suited to
its importance. * Every citizen should be always under
the eye and under the proteaion of- the law and of. its
officers : each part of the juridical system should give
and receive reciprocally an impulse in the direction of
the whole.

^ Cons. Penn. art 5. s. la < Id. art. 5. s. 9.

V

LECttTRES 0» LAW. 245

In Athens, there %yas a grade of magistrates, who,
in the several districts, had jurisdiction of suits, when
the sum in controversy did not exceed ten drachms.
They had cognizance also of actions of assault and bat-
tery.^

Arbitrators likewise acted a very considerable part on
the juridical theatre of Athens. There were two kinds
of them. One kind consisted of those, who were drawn
by lot to determine controversies, in their own tribe,
concerning demands, which exceeded ten drachms in
value. Their sentence was not final; for if either of the
contending parties thought himself injured by it, he might
appeal, for redress, to a superiour court of justice. * Ar-
bitrators of the other kind were such as the parties them-
selves chose to determine the controversy between them*
From the determination of these arbitrators, the law
permitted no appeal. But they took an oath to give their
sentence without partiality. J

We have seen and traced the importance of the coun«
ty establishments. But counties are too extensive, for
their inhabitants to meet on every- occasion* Hence the
propriety of fnferiour divisions. .

Among the Saxons, there wms a magistrate called the
hundredary, who presided over that division of a ^hire
which wsis called a hundred. This magistrate was known
to the ancient Germans, as we find, in Tacitus, ^ an ex-
press reference made to his jurisdiction. The hundredary
was, in virtue of his office, empowered to appoint tbe

h GiL Lys. & Inc. 489. 1. Pot. Ant 123. ' 1. Pot Ant 132.
i 1. Pot Ant 133. ^ De mor. Ger. c 13.

d46> tXCTUREB ON LAW.

times and plates for the meetings of the hundred court;
to preside in those meetings ; and to carry the sentences
of the court into full execution. All the members withia
the hundred were originally members of the hundr^
court, and obliged, under severe penalties, to attend*
This, however, was discovered, by experience, to be
inconvenient; and, therefore, the court was new mq-
delled by a law of the gresM; Alfred. It was reduced to
the hundredary oi his bailiff, and twelve of the hundried;
and these twelve were sworn, neither to condemn the
ii^nocent, nor to acquit the guilty. It was a niixed court,
possessing both civil and criminal jurisdiction. ^ Many
petty causes came before it* Its proceedings were sim*
pie and summary : but if any one thought himself ag.-
grieved by its decision, he had the right of appeuling^
to a superiour tribunal. In this court also, sales of land,
and other important transactions between members of the
same hundred were published and confirmed.^

We have seen, that, in Pennsylvania, a very early-
attention was given to the respectable establishment
of county courts. In the same session, which was
the second after the settlement of the province, at-
tention was also given to districts more circumscribed.
It was enacted, that, in every precinct, three persons
should be chosen yearly as peace makers in that precinct.
That arbitrations might be as valid as the judgments of
courts, it was directed, that the parties should sign a re-*
ference of the matter in controversy to the peace makers
so chosen. This reference being ratified by the county
court, the award of the peace makers was as conclusive

^Bac 00. Gov, 42, 43. 2. Henry. 341. 342.

LECTURES ON LAW. 24/

as a judgment ; ahd was registered in court in the samo
manner as other judgments. ™

A farther regulation was made, also in the same ses-
sion, that speedy justice might be administered to the
poor, and in matters of small value. Debts under forty
shillings were ordered to ])e heard and determined, upon
sufficient evidence, by any two justices of the peace of
that county, in which the cause arose. The justices
were directed to report their judgment to the next coun-
ty court. This judgment, if approved by the court, was
to be recorded as good and binding. "^ Thus matters
stood with regard to small debts, before the chasm of
legislation, which has been repeatedly mentioned.

in the year one thousand seven hundred and five, a
law was made, empowering any one justice of the peace
to take cognizance of debts under the sum of forty shil-
lings. His judgiyient concerning them is declared to be
final and conclusive, and without appeal. ° This law was
repi6aled, but its principle was confirmed by another,
made ten years afterwards. * Such is the law still with
regard to debts under the sum of forty shilling^.

By a law made in the year one thousand seven hun-
dred and forty five, the jurisdiction of a single justice,
of the peace was extended, from sums under forty shiU
lings, to sutns not exceeding five pounds. But with re*
gardtothe exercise of the extended jurisdiction, two ver}'
salutary precautions are used. At the request of the
parties, referees, named by them and approved by the

m

R.O. Book A. p. 99. n Id. p. 34.

Id. voL 1. p. 154. V F 1. Laws Penn. 113, 114

248 LECTURES ON LAW,

justice^ shall hear and examine the cause* Upon their
return^ the justice shall g^ve judgment. In all cases,
except those determined on the return of referees, an
appeal lies from the judgment of the justice to the next
court of common pleas* Upon an appeal made, the jus-
tice shall send a transcript of his judgment to the jm"o«
tbonotary of the court, which has the appellatCv Jurisdic-
diction of the cause, q

Since the revolution,** the jurisdiction of a single jus-
tice is carried as high as debts not exceeding the sum
of ten pounds.*

q J. Laws Penn. 305. s. 1. 307. s. 7, 8. ^ 2. Laws Penn. 304.

s By a law passed in the fear one thousand seven hundred and
ikkiety foar (3. Laws Pens. 536.) the jurisdiction of the js^tices of
the peace was extended to actions of debt and other demands not
exceeding twenty pounds, under the regulations and exceptions
contained in the act of 1745. An appeal from the judgment of th^
justice to the court of common pleas was allowed only in cases,
where the debt or demand exceeded live pounds.* W^het party
might, before judgment given by the justice, elect to have the cause
tri^ in the court of common pleat, if the debt or demand exceeded
^en pounds.

By the present constitution of Pennsylvania (art 9. s.6.) it isde-
cl^f ed, " that trial by jury shall be as heretofore, and the right
thereof remain inviolate.** This constitution was adopted in the year
1790. At that time, the jurisdiction of justices of the peace, (before
w^om a trial by jury cannot be had) was confined to cases of debt
and contract not exceeding ten pounds; and even of such cases,
some, in which unliquidated damages were claimed, were excepted
out of theh" jurisdiction. In cases of torts, they possessed no juris-
diction whatever. The law of 1794 was early opposed, as repug*
nant to the above mentioned provision of the constitution, which,
it declared, « was excepted out of the general powers of govem-
menty" and should <* for ever remain inviolate,** (Art. 9. s. 26.) A

LECTURSS OK LAW. 249

Prom this historical deduction, it is natural to obser\^e,
that the civil jurisdiction of justices of the peace seems
to have been a growing favourite with the legislature of

respectable minority in the house of representatives protested against
the act, at the time it Was passed in that house, on this, among
other grounds. (Jour. H. Rep. 23d. Feb. 1793.) No judicial determi-
Bation on the subject has taken place. It was once brought before
the supreme court of the state ; but the law, whidi was temporary
expiring, the judges declined pronouncing a decision.

The attachment of the legislature, . however, to the jurisdiction
of the justices of the peace, has continued and increased. By a
law passed at their last session (March 1804.) which repeals all the
prior laws above mentioned, that jurii^iction has been extended to
an cases of debts, and of demands for damages on promises of
whatever kind, not exd^eding the amount of one hundred dollars.^
(9, 1«} But it is declared, that their jurisdiction shall not be con-
strued to. extend t^ actions of ejectment, of replevin, on real con-
tracts for the sale or conveyance of lands or tenements, or upon
promise of marriage, (s. 15.) And in cases of rent not exceeding one
hundred dollars, they have power to compel the landlord to de&lcate
0r set off the just account 6f the tenant out of the same ; but the
landlord' ma^ then wave farther proceedings before the justice, and
pursue the method of 'distress, in the usual manner, for the balance
so settled, (s. 12.)

If the demand does not exceed five doUkrs and thirty three cents,
the justice himself hears tbe parties, and gives judgment, which is
linal. If the demand is for a sum exceeding that amount, the case
shall) if both parties consent, be submitted to referees, whose
award shall be transmitted to the justice, and he shall enter judg-
ment on it, which shall be final and concluave, if for a sum not ex-
ceeding fifty three dollars, (s. 3.) If either of the parties retusfe to
refer, the justice 'may hear them and give judgment, (s. 4.)

If the cause is decided by the justice alone, and the*demand ex-
ceeds the sum of five dollars and thirty three cents, either party, if
dissatisfied with the judgment, may appeal to the court of common

VOL. ij. K k •

A

250 LECTURES .ON LAW*

Pennsylvania. It was introduced, at first, widi apparent
hesitation and reserve : it was confined to *sums under
forty shillings : it was intrusted to two magistrates, not
to one : the judgment even of two magistrates was not
binding till it was approved by the county court. The
same jurisdiction was afterwards intrusted to a sing^
magistrate, conclusively and without appeal. The juris-
diction of a single magistrate has been since ^extended
from two to five, and from five to ten pounds : with th^

pleas; as he may likewise do, if judgment is given on the award of
].eferees, and such award exceeds the sum of fifty three dollars-
(8. 4.) No appeal lies in the case of rent : but the remedy by re-
plevin is declared to remain as before the act passed, (s. 13.)

^ This act did not receive the sancdon of the gpremoar ; not
being returned by him, to the house in which it ot^;inated, withm
ten days after it was presoited to him, it became a law. Acts of a
similar nature passed by the two houses at the two prior sessions,
had been negatived by him, on account of their being contrary to
the above cited provi»on of the constitution (which* he declared to
be his decided opinion, and to be more and more confirmed by re-
flection) as well as of their dangerous and oppressive tendency.

From these circumstances, and those before stated in this note,
the question respecting the constitutionality of the late law must be
considered as at least doubtful. It is worthy of observation, too,
that the objections apply more forcibly to the late law, than to that
of 1794. For, bjr the former, no right is given to either party to
elect, before judgment given by the justice, to have the cause tried
by a jury in. the court of common pleas, as was given by the latter.

The justices of the peace 'also possess, by an act passed 1st
March, 1799, (4. Laws Penn. 351.) which was temporary, but has
been revived and made perpetual, jurisdiction over actions brought
for the recovery of damages for any trespass done to real gt per-
sonal property, whera ^ey do not exceed tweo^ dollars. Ed.

LECTURES ON LAW. 251

two precautions, indeed, of which I have already taken
notice.

It may be observed, and the observation certainly has
weight, that experience, the best test of things, must
unquestionably have witnessed in favour of this jurisdic-
tion; otherwise it would not, in this gradually progres.-
sive manner, have been intrusted and extended. But
4iie weight of this observation ought to be compared
^with that of another, which is found in the opposite
scale.

We hav^ seen who are to exercise this jurisdiction :
let us now see upon whom it is to be exercised—^" upon
the poorer sort of people,** says the law, " who are unable
to bear the expenses arising by the common method of
prosecution." ' Let us suppose it possible, that a magis-
trate, in the exercise of his final and conclusive jurisdic-
tion, may be guilty of gross partiality or wilful injustice j
how is redress to be ^obtained by the unhappy sufferer
under his injustice or partiality ? Only by a prosecution
against him. But the unhappy sufferer appeared or was
brought before him, only because he was unable to bear
the expense of a common prosecution. Would the pro-
secution of a magistrate, clothed with authority, and
heretofore answering before his associates in ofHce —
would such a prosecution be less expensive ? Would he,
who was unable to bear the former, be strengthened in
such a manner as to support the burthen of the latter?
That the oppressed have suffered in silence, is no proof
ythat the oppressed have not suffered.

^ 1. Laws Penn. 304. 305*

'*

253 LECTURES OK tAW^

Before the establishment of the present conatkuttofi^
this was, in Pennsylvania, a subject of well fQunded alarm.
One half, probably, of the personal proper^, which, in
this commonwealth, becomes, during the revolution of a
year, the subject of judicial decision, is withdrawn froxn
the trial by jury, and committed to the summary and
solitary determinations of the justices of the peace*
Before the establishment of the present constitution, the
single magistrates, on whom this jurisdiction was con-
ferred, were not appointed by any respectable and respon-
sible officer, nor chosen by any considerable part of the
community, or at stated and well known times : they were
elected in a comer, as occasion offered, or contrivance
planned. The causes, which came before a justice chosen,
and anxious to be again chosen, in thi^ manner, were
itrequently suits betweeen a party, On one side, who would
have a vote at his succeeding election, and a party, on the
other side, who would be entitled to no such vote. The
poor and friendless part of the community — ^those, who
were soonest ruined by oppression — ^those, who were least
able to struggle against it — ^wcre the part selected to be
delivered over, bound hand and foot, to magistrates pos-
sessing such powers, and possessing them by such means,
and in such a manner. Surely, this was a subject of
well founded alarm.

The cause of alarm is removed'by the salutary provi^
sions, which we find in the present constitution of the
commonwealth. The justices of the peace are appointed
by the govemour, who, by the citizens of the common-
wealth, is himself elected, and who, to the citizens of
the commonwiealth, is himself responsible. The justices
of the peace are appointed during good behaviour ; and
can no longer be seduced, by a dependent situation, to

LECTURES OH JLAW. 255

disgrace themselves and their offices by sinister adjudi-
cations. Farther; they are habitually controlled 'by the
judges of the court of common pleas. Those judges have,
within their respective counties, the like powers ivith the
judgeK <rf the supreme court, to issue writs of certiorari
U» the justices of the peace, and to cause their proceed-
ings to be brought before them, and the like right and
justice to be doije."

But though the cause of alarm be now removed, the
cause of considerate circumspection still subsists : for it
is still true, tha:t the property decided by justices of the
peace is property withdrawn from a trial by jury. The
constitution suggests, indeed, that those magistrates are
to exercise a civil jurisdictioB j but the terms, onVhich,
and the extent, to which that jurisdiction is t6 be exer-
cised, are l^ft, as is piroper, to be marked and ascertained
by the wisdom and the experience of the legislature.

Perhaps the distant view which I have taken of the
hundred courts, may not have been altogether imperti-
nent to the present subject. Perhaps it will not be im-
jpracticsdble, after some time^ to introduce them into Penn-
sylvania, modified, indeed, but with modifications not
destructive of their principle. Such a tribunal should
mot be considered as a fanciful alteration, or a wild expe-
riment ; it ought rather to be deemed a close adherence
to the wisdom of the ancient plan, concerted by the great
Alfred, and to the spirit of his excellent and venerable
institutions. To an object of this kind, the legislature is
fully competent ; for the constitution ^ empowers it to
establish courts from time to time.

tt Cons. Penn. art.5. s, 8. ^ Art 5. s. 1.

254 XECTUABB Oir LAW*

I have now made a tour through the..<:ourts of the
United States, and through a number of the couito of
Pennsylvania. Perhaps I youg^t here to make an apolog3r
for the degree of minuteness, with which I have surveyed
tind described tbem» Let me apologize by reciting 'an
incident, which I remember to have heard in my younger
years.

From the castle of Edinburgh, in Scotland, the pros-
pect is uncommonly rich, extensive, and diversified* A
young gentleman, bom and educated at no very consi«-
detable distance from it, set out on his travels through
Europe, with a view to notice attentively every thin^,
whid^h he should find most worthy of his remark* Wheti.
he was at Rome, the subject of exquisite prospects be-
came, one day, the topick of conversaticm in a company^
of literati, to whom he had been introduced* Among
others, that from the castle of Edinburgh was mentioned ;
and to our young traveller a reference was naturally made
for a minute description of its different parts ai^ beauties;
They expressed themselves happy in so fine an opportu-
nity of learning every particular concerning that, of which
vague and general accounts had so much excited their ad-
miration. With blushes, he was obliged to disclose the
fact— that though he had resided, from his birth, near an
object, which so well deserved to be known, yet he had
never bestowed upon it the least share of attention, and
was, therefore, totally unqualified to gratify the company
b/ describing it. A profound silence was observed. It
was not lost upon the young traveller. He returned
immediately to Scotland, and acquired the knowledge of
what was worthy to be known at home, before he went
farther abroad in search of what was remarkable in foreign
countries.

LECTURES ON LAW, ^55

The institutions of other nations and of other times
merit, most unquestionably, our perusal and our study.
The travels of a young Anaclwsis, in which the govern-
ments and laws-^of Sparta and of Athens are so beauti-
fully delineated, richly deserve to be read and admired.
But to us, the governments, and laws, and institutions
of the United States and •f Pennsylvania ought to be
the constant standard, with which we compare those of
every other country. How can we compare them with a
standard, which is unknown ?

Trusting, therefore, that the interesting nature of
the things which I describe will compensate for my
minuteness and for my many imperfections in describing
them, I proceed to give an account of some other juris-
dictions known to the constitution and laws of the
United States and of this commonwealth.

'•V

Circuit courts form a part, and a very valuable part,
of our juridical system in Pennsylvania. These are of
two kinds— courts of nisi prius, which try issues joined
in civil causes— courts of oyer and terminer and gene-
ral gaol delivery, which hear and determine criminal
causes.

The courts of nisi prius are derived from the supreme
court; and act as its auxiliaries in the exercise of its^
very important jurisdiction. They decide, in the several
counties, all questions of fact, which arise in civil causes
depending in the supreme court. They are called courts
of nisi prius from the following circumstance-^The
- causes commenced in the courts of Westminster Hall
are, by the course of those courts, appointed to be tried
at their bar, by a jury returned from the county, in

25% LSCTUftSS on I.AW«

which the cause of action arises. But in the writ, enjoin-
ing the attendance of the jurj^, there is this proviso — r
9iVi prius justitiarii ad ^assisas capiendas venerint-—
unless, before the day prefii^ed, the jodgesof assize come
into the county in question. This they do : the issue
joined in the cause is tried in the proper county : the
verdict is taken, and retumofi to the court above, on the
day when the jury would otherwise have been obliged to
appear and try it at bar. ^ By this means, much trouble
and expense are saved to the parties, the jury, and the
witnesses.^ By this wise arrangement, the investiga-
tion of the facts-^«t matter frequently of the greatest
consequence even in civil causes, is carried on in the
county, sometimes in the very neighbourhood, in wluch
the dispute arose ; while questions of law are left to
be considered by a court, which, from its permanent
situation, is better qualified for deciding points of difficult
ty and importance.

The courts of nisi prius are held between the terms
of the supreme court, at such times as the judges think
most convenient for the ^ people. '

w 4. Ld. Bac 64. x3.BLCom.59. 7 a Laws Penn. 92. s. 1.

* Courts of nisi prius are now held only in the county of Phila-
delphia. In the other counties of the state, they have been siq[>erSb-
ded by courts, styled ^< circuit courts," established by an act of
assembly passed in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
nine. (4. Laws Penn. 362.)

The circuit courts are held by one or more of the justices of the
si^reme court, at such times and places as the justices ci that cour^
^^oint, having due r^ard to the amvenience of the peq[>le (s. 1.)
In most of the counties, they are held once, and sometimes twice
hi the year, at the discretion of the justices.

lECttTRES ON LAW« 857

' l( it is highly expedient and convenient, that cbrQ
actions should be tried in the.countv. iti nrhich the causes
of action arose; M is much more so, that crimitiad
prosecutions should be tried in the county, in which thte
t:rimes were committed. A crime can seldom be proved
in any other manner than by oral testimony. But of all
the modes of proof, that which requires the attendance
of tiHtnesses from a great distance, is necessarily the
most burthensome and expensive. In another view, too,
it is very important, that every crime should be tried and
every criminal should be punished near tiie {dace, wheiie
tike guilt was conttneted. One great design of punish-

Tkcf have no original Jurisdiction ; bnt have power to issue writs
of certk»ari, hsfaeas corpus, and all other remedial and other writs
sad lirocess, grantable by the justices of the supreme court by vir-
tue of their offices (except writs of errour, and certiorari after
judgments, orders, or decrees) ; and the writs and process so issued
are returnable in the circuit court Appeals also lie to the circuit
court in each county from the register's and orphans' courts of that
county, (f . 30

The circuit courts have power to give judgment, pass decrees*
toA awald execution, and generally exercise similar power in any
cause before them, and iii which jurisdiction is given to them, in
as ample a manner as if sitting in bank. They have power, though
not sitting as a court of oyer and terminer, to try any capital or
other criminal case removed into the circuit court, and to pronounce
judgment, and award execution, as fiilly as the supreme court may
da (s. 4.)

If either of the parties to any suit removed frcui the common
pleas, register's court, or oiphans' court is dissatisfied with the
decision of the circuit court oh any demurrer, special verdict, cai|B
Stated, point reserved on the trial, motion in arrest of judgment or
ftit a new trial, or to set aside a judgsaent, discontinttanGe, or non
pros, he may BppnXM tha supreme cimrt (s. 4.) £ti.

VOL. IK X.1
258 LECTURES ON LAW.

ment is to deter others from imitating the conduct^ for
which it is inflicted. This design is most eJSectually
accomplished, when the same persons, who. have seen
the law violated, are witnesses also of the dismal con-
sequences, by which its violation is unavoidaUy suc-
ceeded.

In England^ crimes are generally tried before judges,
who sit by virtue of two commissions from die crown.
One is a commission of oyer and terminer : the other
is a commission of general gaol delivery* The first is
directed to the judges of the circuits, and to many others
of the best account within the circuits, -as we are inform-
ed by my Lord Bacon. By this commission, they are
authorized to hear and determine all treasons, felonies
and misdemeanors. But this commission gives them
no power to proceed upon any other indictments than
those found before themselves. The second commission is'
directed only to the judges themselves, and the clerk of
the assize associate. This commission empowers them
to try and deliver every prisoner in the gaol, for whate,
ever offence he may have been committed, or before
whatever judges he may have been indicted : but, by
this commission, they have authorit}^ only over those wh©
ai*e prisoners in the gaoK "^

By the law of the land, says my Lord Coke,** diis
commission was instituted, that men might not be detain,
ed a long time in prison ; but might receive full and
speedy justice.

Commissions of oyer and terminer are either general,
or they are particular, in respect of the persons, of thie

a4,LdBac61. . ^4,Jds.168.

LECTURES ON LAW. 2.59

ciffencefls or of the places where the offences are com-
mitted. ^ Sometimes, upon urgvant occasions, the king
issues a special or extraordinary commission of oyer and
terminer and gaol delivery, confined to' those offences,
which demand immediate inquiry and punishment.
On these, the course of proceeding is the same as on
ordinary and general commissions* ^

The constitution of Pennsylvania declares, * that no
connmiftsion of oyer and terminer or gaol delivery shall
be issued. This power is expressly excepted out of , the
general powers of government. The powers granted,
in England, by those commissions, are, in this common-
wealth, placed much better for the security and advantage
of the citizens. The jud^s of the supreme court are, by.
virtue of their offices, justices of oyer and terminer and
general gaol delivery in the several counties of the
state. The judges of the court of common pleas, in
each county, are, in the same manner, justices of oyer
and terminer and general gaol delivery for the trial of
capital and other offences in such county* f

m
We have already seen that all those judges hold their
offices during their good behaviour. ' The judges, both
of the supreme and inferiour courts of the United States,
hold their offices by the . same tenure. The important
nature o£ this difference between the situation of those,
who exercise criminal jurisdiction in England, and that
of those, who exercise iti in the United States and in
Pennsylvania, was fully shown in a former lecture, «

<^ 4. Ins. 162. 163. ^ ^ BL Com. 267.

« Art 9. s. 15. 26. ^ Corns. Penn. art 5. s. 3. 5.
« Ante, vol 1. p. 463.

2tO UCTVRBS 9V t4LVr«

vAten 1 waa engaged in drawing a psmUel bet3(7Mm the
government of the United Statea wd that of Q9€^
Britain.

You have frequently heard of the dMtinetioa betir^A
IffMT and eqaity, of courtp o£ equity^ and of eqnilaUc.
jurisdiction and powera.

Though no court of equity aubsista sepatatidy ia the
United Statea or in Pennsylvania, yet thia ai^joct
demands your closest intention* It occii{nes an impiHP*
taat station in the science of bnr*

By Ai&atode, equity is thus defined-***^ the correc^oia
of that, in ndiich the law is defective^ hiy bring tsio gene*
raL" ^ In makii^ laws, it is imposstbk to apec^ or ta
foresee eirery case: it is, therefore, necesaaiy, ihat, m
interpreting them^ those oases should he excepted, 'whieh
the legislator himself, had he foreseen them, would have
specified and excepted. Such intei^etation, however
ought to be made with the greatest cifcumspeotioii*
By indulging it rashly, the judges would bei^ifie the
arbiters, instead of being the ministers of tl|e laws. It
is not to be used, unless where the atrotige^ aod moat;
convincing reasons appear for using it. A, striing rea9M
for using it is drawn from the spirit of the law* or thQ
motive which prevailed on the legialatmre t^ ,make it^
When equity is taken in tbis sen^e, every cpi«rt of l$iw
is also a court of equity* M%en equity is taken in. ^a
senae— 4mdf applied to the interpr^tatioii ^f l^w, this is
its genuine meaning^— <-it is an expression synonimous to
true and sound construction. ^

LJBCTURBfi OH LAW* 361

Tefins, and the rjelative poattions of tenns, are fre<«
qo^itly too apt to mislead us. When we find a court
of law and a court of equity placed in contradistinction
to each other, how natural ia it to conclude, that the
fanner decides without equity, and that the latter decides
widiout law. Such a conclusion, however, is greatly
erroneous.

It has, indeed, hten said, concerning a court of equi-
4y, that it determines by the spirit, and not by the letter
of a rule. But ought not this to be said concerning a
court of law likewise ? Is not each equally bound-— does
not each profess itself to be equally bound— to explain
lbs law according to the intention of those, who made it i
Im the interpretation of laws, whether strictly or liberally,
there is not a single maxim, which is not adopted, }n
the samci manner, and with the same force, by both
courts. Hitherto, then, we find no difference between
a court of law and a court of equity.

It has been supposed, that it is the peculiar and exclu-
sive business of a court of equity to taVe cognizance of
frauds, and accidents, and trusts. One kind of trusts,
indeed — ^a technical, a useless, and a mischieyous kind, as
I shall show in the proper place — A trust created by
the limitation of a second use — ^has been forced into
the courts of equity, by the narrowness of the courts of
law. But of other trusts, the courts of law take full and
unreserved cognizance; particularly the very important
and extensive trust of money received by one to the use
of anothei*. An action, fotinded on this trust, has often
been compared to a bill in equity, on account of its use*
ful and salutary influence. For accidents, too, remedy
is found in a court of law : for the loss of deeds ; for

262 LECTURES OH LAW.

mistakes in payments, receipts, and accounts ; for the
destru'ction of records ; and for a variety pf other con«
tingencies. For relief from other accidents, which might
be specified, application ^ a court of law, we own, is
vam ; but application to a court of equity is vain also*.-
With regat*d to frauds, they are as much the objecta.of
cognizaiiice and resentment in the courts of law, as they*
are in the courts of equity : a fraud in obtaining a devise
of lands is always sent out of chancery to be determi-
ned at law.^ Hitherto, again, we find no dififereuce be-
tween a f ourt of law and a court of equity.

A court of equity has been represented as bound by-
no precedents or rules, but as proceeding arbitrarily, ac--
cording to the sentiments of the chancellor, arising from
the circums-ances of every particular case. But, in truth,
precedents and rules govern as much in chancery as they
govern in courts of law. Decrees are often founded on
no other principle, than a reverence for a series of foi:mer
concurring determinations. Hitherto, still, again, we find
no difference between a court of equity and a coiut of
law. The rules of property, the rules of interpretation,
and the rules, of evidence are, iii both, the same. The
systems of jurisprudence in both are systems equally
laboured and artificial, and founded equally on the same
principles of justice and positive law.

Let it be observed farther, that the distinction between
law and equity, as administered in separate courts, is not
known at present, nor seems to have been known at any
former period, in any country, excepting England, and
those of her colonies, who, in this instance, have imitated

j a Bl. Com. 431.

LECTURES ON LAW. 263

the practice of England. Even in England, the aula
regis, anciently, as we haye seen, a court of supreme
jurisdiction over the whole ^cingdom, administered equal
justice, according to the rules of equity as well as of law.
In none of our very ancient authors, such as Glanvil,
Bracton, Fleta, and Britton, do we find the remotest-
reference or allusion to the equitable jurisdiction in the
court of chancery. When the aula regis, become un-«
wieldy and cumbersome, was divided into a number of
distinct courts, a court of equity, existing separately from
a court of law, did not, by any means, enter into the
original plan of partition. ^

Whence then the origin and progress of this distinct
and independent equitable jurisdiction, which, in £41-
gland, has become so very extensive and important? In
what material or essential points, does it differ from a
jurisdiction exercised according to the rules and prin-
ciples of law ? These questions merit full and satisfactory
answers. *

In very early times, the chancellor of England was
nothing more than an officer merely ministerial. He was
the king's secretary. In this character, he had the sole'
charge of writing the king's letters. In the same charac-
ter, he acquired the sole power of issuing the king's
writs. 1 These writs were necessary, not only to bring
the defendant into court, but also to give the court juris-
diction over the cause. For, soon after the conquest, it
became a general rule, that no plea could be held in the
king's court without the king's writ. °* As causes and
^ the.kinds of causes multiplied, the chancellor was more

^ 3. BL Com. 49. 1 Mfflar. 4Q9. <" 1. Reev. 66.

I

J

I

**

364 LECTURES OH LAW*

and more employed in issuing writs, and in framing new
writs, directed to the courts of common law, in order to '
empower them to giv^e remedy in cases, in which none
could before be obtained.

On this subject we find an early legislative provision. *
^^ When, in one case, a writ was found in the chancery ;
and, in a like case falling under the same right and
requiring the like remedy, no precedent of a writ could
be produced, the clerks in chanbery were directed to form
a new one. If they could not agree, it was ^djoifmed to
the next parliament, that a writ might be framed by the
consent of the learned in the law." This provision was
made^ *^ lest it should happen that the court of the ting
should be deficient in doing justice to the suitors." Here
we see the chancery fully established as the great oJltei$Ui
hrevium. These writs, however, were all intended to be
returnable in the courts of justice. At diis time^ the
chancery itself was not considered as a court : it is alwuya
mentioned as an ofiice merely. °

In the reign of Richard the second, the provision,
which we have just now read, was apjdied to a purpose,
unforeseen and unexpected. Uses of land— a species^
not of property, but of an artificial and mysterious clainoi
to the advantages of property, which I shall hereafter
consider minutely — ^beg^^ about that tkne, to be intro-
duced. The establishment of them was, to the clergy^ a
lucrative and a favourite object : for it would h«re eluded
the statutes of mortmain. To accomplish this object^
John WaUham, the bishop of Salisbury, add at that time
chancellor, by a strained inteipretation of the law^ devised

" St 13. ^w. ]. c. ^. o 1. RseVt 43.

^IiEGTUHES ON LAW. 265

the^ wrifof subpaena— the powerful instrurtient of chancery
jux^is^icUotir-'S^ .made it returnable before himself in
<;|ia9cery, in or^er.to oblige a feoffee to uses to account
£6r the profits of the land, ^ Successful in, assuming the
jurisdiction of one case, the chancellor afterwards extend-
ed it to others ; and, in the time of Edward the fourth,
tke procefs by subpsena was become the daily practice of
the Gourt. Such was the origin of the equitable jurisi^*
diction qI chancery^

. The description which we have given of courts of
equity tod courts pf law, and of equitable and legal juris-
dictions, is conformable to the (o-actice and proceedings
^ the court of chancery and of the courts of commoa
law in £])gland> £tt present, and during the last hundred
yseara^ or the greatest part of them. But thi& de&criptio^
ctanot^ with proprie;ly9 be applied to the practice and
pfoceeditiga of those courts at periods more remote : iu
those remote periods, a court pf ejquity was considered
and acted as possessing a poifer, altogether discretionary*
♦* Equity," says Mr. Selden, ^ " is a roguish thing. For
law we have a measuine < know what to trust to. Equity
is acoording to the ^nsdenee of him that is chapcf Uor ;
9BB^ as'tbat iS'lar^r or narro^vrier) so is equity. It isi.aU
«ifte as* if they 'Should make the standard of measure a
<^anceik)r'3 loot. What an uncertain measure would this
be ! One chancellor has a lopg foot : another, a short
iioot; athird, a^ indifferent foot. 'Tis the s^me thing
incbe chancefior's conscience." Similar, though not eXf^
praACedy perbiq^a, in a similar maimer, w^re the sentiments
of theprincipallawyers of, that ag^-^of jSpebnan, of Coke,

P Millar. 475. 6. BlCom. 51. , q Table talk,
vol, II. . Mm

266 " LECTURES OM LAW.

*

of Lambard, and even of the great Baeon,'' whfr himself
held the office of chancellor, and who, of sdl others, ap-
pears to have been the be$t qualified to undefvtand the
nature of that office. This, indeed, was in the infancy,
as it may be called, of the court of chancery, before ite
jurisdiction was settled, and when the chancellors, partly
from their ignorance of law, and partly from ambidoa
and lust of power, had arrogated te themselves sudi un-
limited authority, as has since been totally disclaimed, by
their successours.

In the remote periods, which we have mentioned,
while a court of equity acted and was considered as pos-
seasing powers altogether discretionary, the courts trf
law, on the oiher hand, acted upon principles, which were
both narrow and unjust.' If the judges of the courts of
^common law had been as liberal then as they have been
since, the court of chancery would never have swelled to
its present enormous bulk. ^^ I have always thoi^ht,"
€aid the very able and learned Judge,^ who3e opinion I
now quote, ^^«that formerly there was too confined a way
of thinking in the judges, of the courts of common law:;
and that eomrts of equity have risen, because the judges
have not properly applied the.principles of the common
law, but, being too narrowly governed by old cases aixl
maxims, have too much prevented the public^ from ha-
ving the benefit of that law." This contracted spirit, pre-
vailing, for a long time, in the courts of common law,
necessarily drove a multitude of suitors, into, a court of
equity for relief. The doors of this court were con^
stantly open to receive them.

*• Millar. ASf7. X Bl. Com. 433. » 3. Bl, Com. 433.

*

t Lord Chief Justice Wilmot % Wils. S5a

V

' LECTURES ^ON LAW. 267

I adduce an instance,, familiar and striking* A dou^
ble bond^-a bond, with a penalty containing the ^double
of the stun really due—- is an instrument peculiar, I be-
lieve, to England, and those countries which have adopt-
ed the laws of England. It was originally contrived to
evade those absurd constitutions, which interdicted the
receipt or payment of interest for the use of money
lent* Since interest could not be allowed by the law, as
it then stood, the penalty was, in the courts pf law, con-*
sidered as the real debt, when the debtor did not perform
his agreement at the time stipulated; and for the penalty,
Judgment was accordingly given. •In proportion as busi-
ness and trade became considerable and extended, the
necessity and the propriety of paying and receiving in-
terest became daily more apparent, and was allowed by
the law ; and, in th^ reign of Henry the eighth, it
was declared, by an act of parliament, that the debt or
loan itself was, " the just and true intent," for which
the obligation was given. One would naturally suppose,
that this legislative declaration would have been a suffi-
cient authority for the courts of law to alter the principle,
* on which their former judgments had been given. The
narrow minded judges of those times thougHt otherwise ;
and, adhering wilfully and technically to the letter of the
settled precedents, refused to /:onsider the payment of
principal, interest, and costs as a full satisfaction for the
bond. In the courts of equity, where a more liberal
spirit prevailed, the instrument, according to " its just
and true Intent," was considered as merely a isecurity
^or the money really due, and was discharged on its pay.
- xnent. But so pertinaciously, in this instance, did the
courts of law cling to their precedents, even so late as
the present century, that the parliament was obliged, at
length, to interpose, and to direct, that what had long

36A LECTVREe OV LAV*

been the practice in the courts of e<{uity, should^ in fu-
ture, be the' practice in the courts of law. °

We now see the causes of the progress^ which a (tis-
tinct and independent equitable julrisdiciionniade in Eo^
gland.

«

Id many instances, however, and, indeed, in the ge-
neral principles/ of their proceedings and adjudications,
the courts of law and equity have, for a century past^
gradually approximated to one another. A seiie^ of emi-
nent lawyers, who successively filled the cnSncellor's
chair, formed the system of equity into a regular science,
which, like the science of law, cannot be acquired with«
out the aids of study and experience* In the courts of
law, a series of lawyers, equally eminent, have, by de-
grees, embraced the enlarged and enlightened principles,
by which law as well as equity should be governed and
illustrated. In chancery, it is a maxim, that equity
follows the law. In the courts of law, a powerful reason
for adopting a principle or rule is the consideration, that
the principle or rule has been adopted in chancery. Each
jurisdiction^ as far as possible, follows the other, in the
best and most effectual measures for attaining the great
ends of certainty, peace,- and justice.' The suggestion,
indeed, of every bill in equity, in order to give jurist-
diction to the court, is still, that the complainant has no
remedy at the common law. But he who views the va-
riety and extent of the causes determined in chancery,
must be satisfied that this suggestion is now a mere fic-
tion, copied, indeed, from the realities of former times.

° 3. BL Cem. 435.

LECTURES ON LAW.

S69

We are now prepared to give an answer to the second
qaestion, which was proposed some time ago^^In what
material or essential points, does the jurisdiction of chan-
cery differ from a jurisdiction exercised according to the
rules and principles of the common law I
They differ not, as we have seen, in the rules of pro-
perty, of evidence", or of itjitdrpretation : they differ not
in the principles of justice or of positive law. Still,
however, they differ in some points very material, and^
nvhich ought to be known.

They differ with regard to the mode of proof. By
the rules of the common law, as a party cannot be a
witness in his own favour, so he cannot be obliged to
become a witness, orto feimish evidence, against himself.
But the views of equity, with regard to this subject, are
more extensive' and refined. If the defendant knows
the claim made upon him to be well founded, he ought
neither to conceal it, nor refuse to satisfy it. If he has
doi}e nothing improperly, he can sustain no loss by a can-
did declaration of what he has done. If his conduct
has been fraudulent, the fraud should receive no pro-
tection: but it receives protection, if it is suffered to be
concealed. For these reasons, when material facts rest
only in the knowledge of the party, a court of equity
examines him, on oath, with regard to the truth of the
transaction.

In mercantile transactions, this mode of discovery
is peculiarly reasonable and important. In such transac-
tions, the parties are generally at a distance from one
another: their contracts, therefore, cannot be made in
jthe presence of witnesses. Of such transactions, each

2^0 LECTURES OK LAW.

party keeps or ought to keep a regular diary or acdbont*
On the truth and accuracy of dvis account, the other par-
ty may naturally.be supposed to place a very considera-
ble degree of dependence.

As this mode of discovery is unknown to the courts ,
of law, equity has acquired a concurrent jurisdiction
with those courts in all matters of account. From the
sa^me source, it has acquired a jurisdiction in matters of
fraud, and judgments at law obtained by fraud or con-
cealment.

In the courts of common law, the trial is by a jury.
This trial requires, that the witnesses should give their
testimony viva voce^ and in open court. But in courts of
equity, the mode of trial is by administering interroga-
tories to the witnesses, and taking their depositions in
writing, wherever they may happen to reside. For this
reason, the chancery alone can take proofs by commission,
when, the witnesses are abroad, or about to go abroad,
or arc prevented by age or infirmity from attending. »

. When a contract has been made and broken, a court
of law only awards damages for the breach ; but a court
of equity will decree a specifick performance. It will
likewise set aside deeds, and order sales and conveyances
of lands. ^

These are the principal, though not the only points,
in which the jurisdiction of a court of equity differs
materially from that of the courts of common law. I
speak of those jurisdictions as considered under the as^

^ Millar, 482. 3. BL Cbm./43r.

LECTURES ON LAW, 271

pectSi under which they have been hitherto viewed.
There is a particular aspect, in which they have never,
so far as I know^ been viewed ; but to which I shall, bjr
and by, direct your, i^inute. attention.

In the mean time, it will be proper to consider a
question, which has employed the talents of the most
eminent writers on jurisprudence. Should the jurisdic-
tion according to equity, and the jurisdiction accord-
ing to law, be committed to the same court ? or should
they be divided between diiferent courts ?

My I^ord Bacon thinks that they should be divided :
my Lord Kaims thinks that they should be united. All
this is very natural. My Lord Bacon presided in a di-
vided, my Lord Kaims was a judge in a united jurisdic-
tion. Let us attend to their arguments : the arguments
of such consummate masters will suggest abundant mat-
ter of instruction, even if we cannot subscribe to them
implicitly, ^

The reason assigned by my Lord Bacon for preferring
the division of these jurisdictions between several courts
is, that if they are committed to the same court, the
distinction between them will soon be lost ; for that the
discretionary will soon draw along with it the legal
power. "^

My Lord Kaims admits, that, in the science of juris-
prudence,* it is- undoubtedly of great importance, that the
i>oundary between equity and common law be clearly
ascertained i because, otherwise, we shall in vain hope

w L Ld Bac. 353. Apl^. 45i

272 LSCTURES <Nr LAW«

for just decisions. A judge, adds he, who is uacetUtiik
whether the case belong to equkjr^r td connncm. law^
cannot have a clear conception whut jodgment ouglit to
' be pronounced. But, on the other hand, may it not' be
urged, that to divide, among different courts, thiags inti-
mately connected bears hard upon every man, who hasa
claim to prosecute ; because, before he bring his aotioti^
he must, at his peril, determine a point extremely me— ^
whether the case is to be governed by equity, or by com^
mon law ? Nor is the most profound knowledge always
sufficient to prevent inconveniences upon this fiiubjcM t
for, though he may be perfectly acquainted with hia,
own demand, he cannot certainly foresee the defence^
nor divine whether it will be a defence &t law or la
equity. Weighing these different arguments, the pre-
ponderancy seems, in his Opinion, to be ola the side 0f>a
united jurisdiction. The sole inconvenience of a uniteA
jurisdiction — ^that it tends to blend common law witii
equity — may admit a remedy by an institute, di^dngursl^
ing, with accuracy, their boundaries : but the incdfii^ei-
nience of a divided jurisdiction admits not any effectual
remedy. *

Both these great men agree in one* point — ^that th^
distintiion between common law and equity ought, by aH
means, to be preserved ; and one of them recommends
even an institute to distinguish their limits with acciHWy.
With the becoming deference to such high authority, it
may be worth while to ex£^mine, whether, in the fiiictua-
ting situation of men and business, an attempt to fet peri^
manently the line of division between law and equi^
would not be fruitless and impracti£dl)le. This line, I
am apt to believe, will be found to change necessarily ac*

» Prin. <Sf Eq. 49.

LECTURES ON LAW.

27S

carding to different circumstances— >the state of property
-—the improvement of the arts — ^the experience of the
judges — ^the refinemeidt of the people.

In rude ages, the first decisions of judges arose, pro*
bably, from their immediate feelings ; in other words,
from considerations of equity. In the course of their
business, many similar cases would supcessively occur :
upon these, similar decisions would naturally be given.
A number of precedents, thus introduced, would, from
the power of custom, acquire authority and respect.
General rules would gradually be formed ; and the utility
of establishing them would beqome an object of attention.
Those rules, however, upon a little further experience,
would be found, at some times, too narrow; at other
times, too broad. To adhere rigidly to them, at all
times, would be to commit injustice under the sanction
of law. To avoid an evil so alarming, it would be thought
advisable, upon extraordinaiy occasions, to recede from
general miaxims, and to decide, as originally, according
to the immediate sentiments of justice. In this manner,
the distinction between equity and strict law was, proba-
bly, introduced : the former comprehended the establish-
ed rules : the latter comprised their exceptions.

But when the exceptions became numerous, many of
them also would be found to be similar, and, consequent-
ly, to require a similar decision. Those similar decisions
would, in time, produce a new rule ; and this new rule
would, in its turn, give birth to new exceptions.

If this account of the matter is just — and it seems
to be natural — ^law and equity are in a state of conti-
nual progression ; one occupyinjg incessantly the ground,

VOL. II. Nn

274 LECTURES ON LAW.

which the other, in its advanceiaeiit, has left. The posts
now possessed by strict law were formerly possessed by
equity ; and the posts now possessed by equity will here«
after be possessed by strict law.

In this view of the subject«-«and it is an interesting
one— -equity may be well deemed the conductor of kiw
towards a state of refinement and perfection.

In this view of the subject, we can find no difficulty in
pronouncing, that every court of law ought also to be a
court of equity ; £or every institution should cobtaia in^ it
the seeds of its perfection, as well as of its preservation.

In this view of the subject, we shall find as little diffi-
culty in pronouncing, that every court of equity wiU
gradually become a court of law ^ for its decisioim, at
first discretionary, will gradually be directed by general
principles and rules. Thus, in England, the^ court of
chancery has gradually devested itself of its original and
.arbitrary character, and has approached to that of the
courts of common law. Thus^ again, in England, the
courts of common law, animaterd lately with the spirit of
improvement inspired by a liberal age, have enlarged
their powers of just decision, and have advanced within
the precincts of equity.

The particulars, in which they still differ, are, indeed,
of importance ; but I see no reason why the separate
powers of chancery, placed there very properly, indeed,
should be thought incommunicable to the courts of com*
monlaw*

, A power to compel discoyeries by a party may, with-
out any incongruity, be annexed to a common law juris-

in

L£CTUR£8 OK LAW. 275

V

diction. This, to a certain degree, has been already done
by a law of the United States. In the trial of actions at
law, the courts of the national gbvemment are authorized
to require the parties to produce books or writings in their
power, in cases, in which they might be compelled to
produce them by the orditiary rules of proceeding la
chancery. ^

The power of granting commissions to take, upon
interrogatories, the depositions of foreign, removing, or
infirm witnesses is fBtmiliar, in practice, to the courts both
of the United States and of Pennsylvania.

The power of compelling a speciiick performance is,
I apprehend, strictly and originally a power at the com-
jtion law. In some of its unpropitious eras, indeed^ the
exercise of thi» part of its authority has, in most cases,
fallen into disuse, and has not been revived, but anciently
it subsisted in its full force and vigour ; and, in one case,
it is supposed to subsist in its full force and vigour to
this day. I fortify my bpinion by instances of the fact.

Fines, or solemn agreements acknowledged and enter-
ed of record, are well known to be of very high antiquity
at the common law. It is generally, I believe, supposed,
that they took place only in pleas respecting land. But
the fact is unquestionably otherwise. Fines were executed
In other pleas. If either of the parties violated the agree-
ment, a suit upon it was commenced. When they both
appeared in court ; if they both acknowledged the writing
containing the agreement ; or if the agreement was stated
to be such by the justices, before whom it was taken, and

y Laws U. S. 1. cong. 1. sess. c. 20. s. IS,
LSCTURXS Ofr X«AW»

this vaa testified by their record ; then the psarty, who ,
had broken it, was in the king's mercy» and was attached;
till he gave good security to perform the c<MiKord In,
future — either the specifick thing agreed on, if that was.
possible ; or otherwise, in some instances, an equivalent.''
Can a power to adjudge a specifick performance be ^-
pressed more unequivocally or more strongly? This
instance is referred to a period so ancient as the reign
of Henry the second.

In the 'reign of Edward the first, we find.that, in some
cases, land could be recovered in a writ of covenant ;
and in such cases, it was a real action : in other cases,
damages only could be recovered ; and in such cases, it
was a personal action. The former writ of covenant
was generally that, on which fines.were levied. ^.Actions
of covenant for land occur likewise in the time of
Edward the second. It was held, that this action- was.
appropriated for the recovery of a fee simple or of m
term. **

In tracing this subject down.to the reign of Edward
the third, we find that a writ of covenant was that, upon
which fines were most commonly levied. But, by this
time, the writ of covenant was usually brought upon a
supposed transaction. The writ of covenant, in this
instance, had the effect of actually transferring the land;
and thus produced a specifick effect. "" Such, with regard
to fines, continues to be the practice to the present
day.

» l.Rccv. 110. * Id. 4r7. «► 3.Reev.S3. 147. « Id. Xrx

LICTUR£S ON LAW. 277

I think I have now proved, that the power to adjudge
« specifick performance is strictly and originally a power
at common law*

The power to setaside deeds, and to order sales and
conveyances of land, can be considered only as branches
of the power to compel a specifick performance.

In all the views which we have hitherto taken of this
important part of jurisprudence, we find no reason to
eoncltide, that a court of chancery would bestow any
improvement of essential importance, on the juridical
system of the United States, or of this , common-
wealth*

There is, however, another view, in which this sub-
ject ought to be considered. In that other view, if I
mistake not, the establishment of a court of chancery
will be found a matter of great moment both to the Uni-
ted States and to Pennsylvania.

Military power has too long governed in the affairs
of men : influence of a kind more peaceful and benign
is, we hope, about to assume its place. We trust that,
in future, men, instead of knowing and treating one
another as enemies, and as engaged in enterprises
mutually destructive, will know and treat one another
as friends, and as jointly operating in plans and systems
for promoting the prosperity, the virtue, and the felici^
of the human race.

Deeds of arms, we fondly anticipate, will not be the
themes of future songs. The more delightful subjects

2fS L£CT0REi Off lAW.

of agriculture, of the arts, and of commerce will cmpioy
the efforts of genius the most sublime.

Commerce arresis our present attention. Its encou-
ragement is justly a favourite object with every govern-
ment, which is good and wise. The protection of
commerce, and of foreign merchants engaged in com-
merce, forms an article in the great charter of the liber-
ties of England. A regulation, so salutary and so
humane, deserves, as it has obtained, the warmest eulo-
gium of the eloquent Montesquieu. Upon this subject,,
his powers carried him away like a torrent, rapid arid
irresistible : my humbler aim is to glide along a smooth
and gentle stream.
The law merchant as well as the law maritime forms
a branch of the general law of nations. ' The inference
is natural, that mercantile as well as maritime transac-
tlons should be the object of a separate jurisdiction ;
and that we should see courts of commerce as well as
courts of admiralty. Things done upon the sea are
deemed worthy of peculiar cognizance : are things done
beyond the sea less entitled to peculiar notice ?

In the rude and barbarous times, which are past, and
which, we pray, may neyerreturn— in those times, above
alluded to, when nations were known to nations only by
feats of hostility ; even their hostile feats were subjected
to the cognizance of law, and were dignified with an
appropriate jurisdiction. The court of chivdlry, held
before the lord high constable and earl marshal of
England, had cognizance of contracts and deeds of arms
and of war out of the realm, and also of things Which

X£CTUR£S ON LAW, 279

touched war wtthin the realm.** When war was the
general trade, this court enjoyed a high degree of conse-
quence and reputation. My Lord Coke calls it " the
honourable court." • As cprnmerce comes in the place
of war, should not commercial come in the place of
military institutions ?

Even with regard to: commerce, we shall find, in
former ages, establishments expressly made and calcu-
lated for its protection and encouragement, in the man-
ner in which it was then carried on. This was chiefly
in markets and publick fairs, at which merchants attend-
ed personally with their Qierchandise. It was hot then
-usual to trust property to a great amount in the hands of
foreign correspondents.

. So early as the reign of Henry the third, we find the
delays, and what were called the solemnities, of pro-
ceedings dispensed with, where the plaintiff deserved
a particular respect or privilege ; as noble persons, or
Merchants, who were continually leaving the kingdom.*

■

Edward the first has been often and deservedly styled
the Englisli Justinian. In his reign we may expect to
find a proper attention paid to the interests of commerce.
Our expectation will not be disappointed. In his reign
the statute of merchants was made.

The pressing demands, which arise in the course of
mercantile transactions, rendered the delays and the
niceties of the law inconvenient, and sometimes fatal, to
the credit and fortunes of the merchants. This, it is

^ 4. ^8. 133, « 1. Reev 395. 396. 30a

280 LECTUEE8 ON LAW.

said, occasioned many to withdraw from the kingdom.
These, who remained, made application that some spee-
dy course might be appointed for recovering their debts
at the stipulated times of payment. In compliance with
their application, the following method of securing a
ready payment of their debts was provided by parliament.
The merchant was to bring his debtor before the magis*
trates specified in the law, to acknowledge the debt and
the time of payment. This recognisance was entered
on a roll. If the debtor did not make payment at the
time appointed, the magistrate, before whom the recog-
nisance was acknowledged, was, on the application of the
creditor, obliged immediately to cause the chattels and
devisable lands of the debtor to be sold, to the amount
of the debt, by the appraisement of honest men. The
money, if the property was sold, was paid instantly to
the creditor : if the property could not be sold, it was -
delivered to him according to the appraisement. If, from
partiality to the debtor, the appraisers set too high a
price upon the goods, they were themselves obliged to
take them at the price which they fixed, and to satisfy
the creditor for the money due to him.

Commerce continued to be patronised by the kings,
and encouraged by the legislature, of England. In the
twenty seventh year of Edward the third, was made the
famous statute of the staple, containing a most complete
code of regulations for commercial transactions at the
staple, or great mart, which was then established in cer-
tain places of England.

As this mart was intended, in its very institution, for
the resort .of foreign merchants, a mode, consonant to

f 1. Reev. 405.

LSCTURES ON LAW. 281

the ideas of foreigners, and fitted to the nature of mer^
cantile transactions, was adopted for administering jus-
tice. That disputes might be decided among them ac-
cording to their own conceptions, it was provided, that
none of the justices of the courts of Westminster Hall,
nor any other justices, if they came to the places where
the mart was, should interfere with the jurisdiction of
the mayor and constables of the staple. Within the town
where the mart was, those officers had* cognizance of
people and of things touching the mart. All merchants
coming to it, and their servants, were, in all things con-
cerning it, governed by the law merchant, and not by
the common law of the land, nor by the us^ge^ of cities,
or boroughs, or towns ; nor were they, concerning such
things, to implead or be impleaded before the magistrates
of such cities, boroughs, or towns. That the foreign
merchants might have reason to complain of no one, and
that no one might have reason to complain of them,
speedy justice was administered from day to day, and
from hour to hour.

That contracts made within the staple might be strict-
ly observed, and that payments might be punctually
made, a course similar to that of the statute merchant
was directed. The mayor of the staple was empowered
to take similar recognisances of debts ; and upon those re-
cognisances, similar proceedings were held. A recog-
nisance of this kind has obtained the name of a statute
staple. ^

It was directed that, in every staple town, the mayor
should be one well acquainted with the law merchant,

« 2. Reev. 71.
VOL. II. o o

282 . LfiCTUREg ON LAW.

that he might be qualified for the dispharge of such ata
important trust* ^

If we refer to the institutions of the ancient nati<Hi3 ;
we shall find that, aniong them too, tribunals have been
established for the decision of mercantile causes. Ma-
gistrates, called Mt9«)ufc^, had the jurisdiction of them
in Athens, i The pra^or peregrinus determined them
in Rome. ^ Even after the fall of the western empire,
the institution of courts for the trial of commercial suits
subsisted in many places : ^ and fairs and markets had
their peculiar jurisdictions assigned for the expeditious
determination of controversies that might arise in them.

The United States have the most extensive projects
of commerce before them. The variety of their climate,
the richness of tbeir soilf the number and value of their
productions furnish them with abundant materials to ex*
change for the manufactures and refined commodities of
Europe and of Asia. The genius of their governments
js favourable to trade, because it is favourable to equality
and industry, the only pillars, on which trade can be sup-
ported. The long and cumbrous list of duties and cus-
toms, which publick debts, the arts of finance^ and the
political views of government have introduced into every
country of Europe, is, in a great measure, unknown ia
their ports. They possess not, indeed, the advantages
of use and hid)itto form precedents for their transactions,
publick and private, with foreign nations, and with die
individuals of whom foreign nations are composed : but
to compensate for diis, they are disengaged from one

h 2. Reev. 75. | Bouch. The. Com. 134.

i Id. 13«. «( Id. 14a '

LECTURES ON LA^. . %BS

mconvenience, with which use and habit are naturally
accompanied— I mean that of confining the imagination,
and damping the spirit of vigorous and enlarged enter-
prise. In order to improve the opportunities, with which
they are favoured, asid to s^vail themselves, as they ought,
of the happy situation, in which they are placed^ they
should encottirage commence by a liberal system of met*
cantile jui^ispmdeaceA

h
These observations concerning the situation, the du«
ty, -and the interest of the United States, receive an
easy and a strong application to the situation, the duty,
and the inteis^st of Pennsylvania.

In other countries, as we have sieen^ where commerce
has been regarded as an object worthy of the publick
attention, jurisdictions have been established for the trial
and determination of commercial causes. In the United
States and in Pennsylvania, commercial causes are tried
in the same manner, by the same tribunals, at the same
expense, and with the same delay, as other controversies
relating to property. This must be often productive of
the most serious disadvantages.

Before the revolution, we were strangers, in a great
measure, to what is properly called foreign commerce.
The same system of commercial law pervaded Great Bri-
tain and her coloniess^ The rules, therefore, of admitting
ioreign testimony, and of authenticating foreign trans-
actions^ have been but lately th|^ objects of much consi-
deration. They have not been fixed with the clearness
and precision, which are now become requisite. But they
should, as soon as possible^ be ascertained, particulariKed>

S84 LECTURES OK LAW.

and rendered as easy as the precauti<^ns necessary to avoid
fraud will admit.

Great innovations should not be made : a wise and
well tempered system must owe much to experience.
But the foundations should be laid betimes. They
should be broad, and deep, and well compacted, that they
may be sufficient to support the magnificent structure,
which the present ahd future ages will build upon them.

The important ends, which may be attained by a court
of chancery formed and organized for commercial pur-
poses, now begin to appear in prospect before us. In
this view, the establishment of courts of chancery appears
to be of high importance to the United States in general,
and to the commonwealth of Pennsylvania in particular.

It will not, I am sure, be supposed, that I am un-
frieiidly to the trial by jury. I love — I admire it : but
my love and my admiration spring from proper princi-
ples : I love and I admire with reason on my side. Sacri-
lege would be offered to the venerable institution, by
profaning it to purposes, for which it was never intend-
ed. Let it be maintained in purity — ^let it be maintained
in vigour : but if it be so maintained, it must be main-
tained in that spirit, and in that application, foi which it
was formed, and to which it is so exquisitely adjusted*
Its genius should be encouraged and concentred : if it
be applied to foreign and unnatural objects, its strength
will soon dissolve and evaporate.

Let us attend to the nature of mercantile transactions*.
Accounts never were, by the course of the common law,
brought to trial before a jury. Toajury^ indeed, the

LECTURBS ON LAW. tS$

freneral question— K)ught the party to account— w£^8 sub-
mitted for its determination. But the adjustment of the
accounts was submitted to auditors, instead of being tried
by a jury. If, upon any article in account, the auditors
cannot agree; or, if agreeing, the parties are notsatis«
fied f then^ upon each point, so litigated, a separate and
distinct issue may be taken, and that issue must be tried
by a jury* In this manner, a hundred issues may be
joined in the same cause, and tried separately by as many
juries ; but the general statement of the disputed accounts
still remains before the auditors, and by them the general
result from the whole must be formed and ascertained*
This mode of liquidating accounts judicially at common
law, is obviously exposed to many disadvantages and
delays ; and, for this reason, the action of account has,
in a great measure, fallen into disuse. In England, the
parties in unsettled and litigated accounts have recourse
to chancery ; in Pennsylvania, to arbitrators, or to jurors
acting in th^ character of arbitrators*

%

The numerous embarrassments, which arise from
the want of a proper commercial forum, are well known
and severely felt both by the gentlemen of the bar, and
by the gentlemen of the exchange.

Impressed with these truths, t\^ committee who were
appointed to report a draught of a constitution for the
cot^sideratlon of the late convention of Pennsylvania, in-
.cluded, in their report, the plan of a chancery establish-^
ment. The convention thought it improper to fix that
establishment as a part of the constitution, but have given
ample powers to the legislature to adopt that or any simi-
lar one, and to model and alter it as the sage instructions
of time may direct.

380 LSCTUAES ON 'LAW.

Impressed vkh ihese truths^ whicli I liave both vit»
ii€ssed and experienced, I have thought it vay duty to
faring this 'important sjabject fuBy into your viev. View«
ed in a connnercial light, Pennsylvania^ axid pa^kularly
her metropolis, attracts, solicitous attention both on this
and on the other side of the AUantick. {^yery iriend ta
Fennsytvania, every friend tQ. her metropolis,, every en^
lightened friend to the interests of commerce, must ^i^
ardently to see her commercial establish«ients complete..
These observations apply to the IJnited States on a sqalet
still more extensive ; and, as applied to them, therefore^
acquire still an additional degree of importance.

With these observations I conclude, at last, my minute,
delineation — if drawn in a more masterly manner, it
would be interesting as well as minute — of the juridical
establishments of the United States and of Pennsylva*
nia.

\

CHAl»TER IV.

BfB

OF THE NATURE OF COURTS.

X HE next subjects of my re'itoadks are^ iht nature^
itttd the constituent pxrtn 6f couitfr.

That the judicial depsplment should be ittdepelident^
IS a principle, which, in a former part of my lectlires,^
I had an .opportunity of stating, explaining, and en-
forcing at large* In the review which we have now
t^ade of that department, as established i<i the United
{States and in lS%is commonwealth, we see what a strict
and uniform tegard has been paid to the practical obs^r^^
vance of this very important principle. To neither of
the constitutions is a judicial magistrate known,. who
holds his office by a tenure less secure or less respectable
than that of his own good behaviour.

All courts should be open. This is one of the rules,
wnich, by the constitution of Pennsylvania, ** is rendered

* Ante, vol 1. p. 405.

i» Art 9. s. 11.

288 LECTUKES ON LAW.

inviolable by the le^slature itself. It is a rule of~ the
highest moment.

The place of administering justice was originally at
the gates' of the cities — in other words, in the presence
of all the people. Such was the practice in the days of
Job. ^ By Moses also, of legislators the first and wisest,
the ^ame ancient custom is mentioned. ^ Homer speaks

of it as subsisting in the heroick ages. ^ In some coun-

«

tries, this simple and undisguised mode is still observed.^

Among the Saxons, as we are informed by Selden^
their courts, like the heliastick court at Athens, were, for
the most part, kept in the open air. ^

By the ancient Romans, trials were held in publick,
in the presence of the accused, and of all who wished
to hear them. This procedure was open and noble ;
says the writer^ who mentions it; it breathed Roman

magnanimity*

«

In France, too, as appears, we are told, from some
old manuscript law books, criminal processes wefe an-
ciently carried on in publick, and in a form not very dif*
f^rent from the publick judgments of the Romans.
" The witnesses," says Beaumanoir, one of the oldest
writers on the laws of France, ** ought to give their testi*
mony in open court." *

c Job xxix. 7. d Gea xxiii 18. « D. L 18. v. 497.

^ 1. Gog. Or. L. 28. s Bac. on Gov. 10. ^ Com. on Bee* g. 23.

^MQDt^.L.b.38.c.34.

LSCTURXS ON LAW. 289

AH trials, says Heccaria,-^ should be publick ; that
opinion, which is the best, or, perhaps, the only cement
of society, n^ay curb the authority of the powerful, and
the passions of the judge ; and that the people, inspired
-with courage, Ynay say, " We are not slavee ; we are
protected by the laws."

-^^ Let not," says my Lord Bacon, ^ in the same spirit
of sound sense, ^^ decrees issue in silence: let judges^
g^ve the reasons of their judgments: let them do this
openly ; that what is unrestrained in point of authority,
may- be circumscribed by a regard to character and
fame."

But why, it may be asked, are examples produced in
such numbers — nvhy do we cite authorities of so much
weight, in order to establish a principle, in itself so
extremely plain ? Is it not selfevident, that,' in a court
of justice, every one is entitled to a publick trial? Why,
then, refer us to instances, in Asia, in Greece, in Rome,
in France, of the enjoyment of a selfevident right i

Beca^use, in Asia, in Greece, in Rome, in France,
too, till very lately, the enjoyment of this selfevident
right has been lost. Liberty, indeed, says it is selfevi-
dent : but tyranny holds a contrary language ; and unfor-
tunately for the human race, the voice of tyranny has
been more loud and more powerful than the voice of
fr««doQi.

' To states as well as to individuals, the lesson is salu-
taiy*»-4et those, who stand, take heed lest they fall.

i C. 14* k 1* I'd. B^ 2SZ Aph. 38.

VOL. II. p p

290 LE€TUllSg OK LAW.

Asia is fallen, Greece is fallen, Rome is fallen, France
is fallen — I correct myself--*she rises. Let the other
monitory instances suggest caution,: I offer them not
to your imitation.

The slave who suffers, and the slave who dreads the
inquisition-— how would he exult to be able to say, ia
the irrevocable language of Pennsylvania, ^^ all court*
shall be open."

According to the rules of judicial architecture, a
system of courts should resemble a pyramid. Its base
should be broad and spacious : it should lessen as it
rises : its summit should be a single point. To express
myself without a metaphor — in every judicial depart-
ment, well arranged and well organized, there should
be a regular, pi^ogressive gradation of jurisdiction ; and
one supreme tribunal should superintend and govern all
the others.

An arrangement in this manner is proper for two
reasons. 1. The supreme tribunal produces and preserves
a uniformity of decision through the whole judicial
system. 2. It confines and it supports every inferiour
court within the limits of its just jurisdiction*

If no superintending tribunal of this nature were
established, different courts might adopt different and
even contradictory rules of decision ; and the distrac-
tions, springing from these different and contradictory-
rules, would be without remedy aQd without end. Op«
posite determinations of the same question, in differeat
courts, would be equally final and irreversible. But
when, from those opposite determinations, an appeal to

LECTTTltes OH LAW. S91

a jurisdiction superiour to both is provided, one of them
will receive a sentence of confirmation, the other, of
reversal. Upon future occasions, the determination
confirmed will be considered as an authority ; the deter-
mination reversed will be viewed as a beacon.

AmpUare jurisdictionem has been a principle avowed
by some judges : it is natural, and will operate where it
is not avowed. It will operate powerfully and irre-
sistibly among a number of coordinate and independent
jurisdiction s ; and, without a tribunal possessing a con-,
trol over all, the pernicious and interfering claims could
neither be checked nor adjusted* But a supreme court
prohibits the abuse, and protects the exercise, of every
inf«riour judiciary power.

In France, before the present revolution, the esta-
blisiunent of a number of parliaments or independent
tribunals produced, in the different provinces, a number
of incongruous and jarring decisions. This has been as-
signed, and with much apparent reason, as the great source
of that diversity of customs and laws, which prevailed,
to an uncommon degree, in the different parts of the
kingdom of France, in other respects so well com-
pacted*

In England, the principles and the rules of law are,
through the whole judiciary department, reduced to a
standard, uniform in an exemplary degree. In no
country, perhaps, does k stronger impression prevail of
the advantages resulting from stability in the admini-
stration of justice. But by an unwise inattention, to
say the least of it, to the inferiour establishments, the
base of the exquisitely proportioned edifice, erected by

Alfred, is natrowed and weideened ; and its beauty and
durability are consequently iftipaired.

In the United States and Pennsylvania— 4br here we
must take the two constitutions in a collected view<*«-«
fine and regular gradation appears, from the justices of
the peace in the commlonweakh, to the supreme court
of the national government. The justice of peace is, id
criminal matters, assisting to the court of quarter ses«
sions : in civil causes, his jurisdiction is subordinate to
the court of common pleas. The courts of common
pleas, and quarter sessions, and orphans' courts of each
county are subordinate to the supreme court, whose
jurisdiction extends over the commonwealth. The
supreme court is, by a late law, rendered subordinate
to the high court of errours and appeals. With regard
to the register's court, an exception is introduced by
the law just now mentioned. Though a coun^ jurist-
diction, it is not rendered subordinate to the supreme
court by an appeal : that revisionaiy process is directed
per salttim to the high court of errours and appeals.
From the highest court of a state, a writ of errotir
lies, in federal causes, to the supreme court of the
United States. In the national government, a writ of
errour lies from a district to a circuit court, and from a
circuit to the supreme court.

In controversies, to which the state or nation is a party,
the state or nation itself ought to be amenable before th&
judicial powers. This principle, dignified because it is
just, is expressly ratified by the constitution of Pennsyl-
vania. ^ It declares, that suits may be brough t i^;ahist the

^ Art 9. 8. U

nCTURES OK LAV* MS

tommonwealth. The manner, the courts, and the cases,
in which they may be brought, are left to the direction of
the legislature. It was deemed sufficient to recognise the
principle : its operation will be guided in such a way, ais
time and circumstances shall suggest. Upon the same
principle, the judicial power of the national government
** shall extend to controversies to which th« United States
Hre a party ; and to controversies between two or more
stales." "

These provisions may be viewed by some as incom-
patible with the opinions, which they have formed con-
cerning the sovereignty of the states.

In the introduction to my lectures,** I had an oppfjr-
tunity of showing the astonishing and intricate mazes, in
which politicians and philosophers have, on this subject,
bewildered themselves, and of evincing, that the dread
and redoubtable sovereign, when traced to his ultimate
and genuine source, is found, as he ought to be found, in
the free and independent man. In one of my lectures, **
I proved, I hope, that the only reason, why a free and
independent man was bound by human laws, was this —
that he bound himself. Upon the same principle on which
he becomes bound by the laws, he becomes amenable
before th« courts of justice, which are formed and autho-
rized by those laws. If one free and independent man,
an original sovereign,, may do all this ; why may not an
aggregate of free and independent men, a collection of
original sovereigns, do this likewise ? The dignity of
the state is compounded of the dignity of its members.

m Cons. tr. S.«rt 3. s. 2. „ Ante. vol. 1. p. 23. 25i

« Ante. voL 1. p. 211. et seq.

N

SM LSCTURES ON LAW.

If the dignity of each singly is undiminished, the dignity
of all jointly must be unimpaired. Is a man degraded
by the manly declaration, that he renders himself ame-
nable to justice? Can a similar dedaration degrade a
state i

To be privileged from the awards of equal justice, is
a disgrace, instead of being an honour ; but a state claims
a privilege from the awards of equal justice, when she
refuses to become a party, unless, in the same case, she
betomes a judge.

" In any cause" — said the judge of the high court of
admiralty of England, in a very late decision'—** In any
cause where the crown is a party, it can no more with-
hold evidence of documents in its possession, than a
private person. If the court thinks proper to order the
production of any publick instrument,, that order must
be obeyed."

In the Mirrour of Justices, we have an account of the
first constitutions ordained by the ancient kings of
England. When the writer of that book calls them
ancient, they must be so indeed ; for my Lord Coke ^
informs us, that most of it was written long before the
conquest. Among these constitutions, we find the fol-
lowing very remarkable one. ** It was ordained that the
king's court should be open to all plaintifis ; from which
they should have, without delay, remedial writs, as well
against the king or the queen as against any other of the
people." ' You are pleased by tracing another instance,

P l.CoL Jot. 68. 9 la Rep.Pre£ 14

■" 4. Cou. Ang. Norm. 487.

LECTURES ON LAW* S9J

» I

in which Saxon principles are renewed by our consti-

tutions.

Ci

Judges ought to know, that the poorest peasant is a
man, as well as the king himself: all men ought to obtain
justice ; since in the eyes^of justice, all men are equal ;
whether the prince complain of a peasant, or a peasant
complain of the prince.'' ■ These are the words of a king
—of the late Frederick of Prussia. In his courts of
justice, that great man stood upon his native greatness,
and disdained to mount upon the artificial stilts of
sovereignty.

In England, there is a noted distinction, which runs
through the whole system of courts. Some are courts of
record: others are courts not of record.

A court of record is one, whose proceedings and acts
are entered in rolls of parchment, and whose power is to
hold pleas according to the course of the common law.
These roUs, being the memorials of the judges, import in
them such incontrollable credit, that they admit no aver-'
ment, or plea, or proof, to the contrary of what they con-
tain. Such a record can be tried only by itself. ' No
possible kind of evidence, not even that of the senses, can
shake its authenticity ; if we may rely on the authority
of a well known story in Westminster Hall. A party, in
})erfect health, was hearing his cause ; but his counsel, by
an unfortunate stroke of his plea, had killed him on the
record. The judges could, by no means, take notice of
him, though he stood before their eyes. He averred that
he was alive : his averment could not be received : it was
against the record. "

• Warv. 343. . « 1. List. 260. « Bar. on st 248.

396 L£CTURES OX XAWp

A court, not of record, is one, whose acta are not en-
rolled in parchment, or whose proceedings are not accordU
ing to the course of the common law. y

It deserves to be remarked, that the distinction be-
tween courts of record and courts not of record was
unknown in England till after the Nomian conquest*^
The occasion and the cause of its introduction deserve
also to be remarked. The Conqueroir, averse to the Saxon
law of liberty, but unwilling to run the risk of an at*
tempt to overturn it at once, formed a plan, artful and
too successful, for undermining it by degrees. He
appointed all the judges of the curia regis from among
the Normans, ignorant of the Saxon laws, and fond of
their own. The language of the court was altered ; and
all pleadings and proceedings were entered in the Nor-
man tongue. This introduced the technical terms and,
imperceptibly, the rules and maxims of that fo]::eiga
juriq>rudence.

This introduction of a new language, the exaltation,
of the aula regis, and the consequent depression of the
county courts, paved the way, in the opinion of a very
sensible lawyer, ^ for the distinction between courts of
record and not of record. Courts of record were those,
whose proceedings were duly entered in the Norman
tongue, and, vmless reversed, could never be questioned
or contradicted. To have allowed such a privilege to the
county courts, in which the Saxon suitors were judges,
and whose proceedings were in the £i\^ish language,
would have been inomsistent with the genius of the Con-
queror's plan ; for it would have had A tendency to con-

V Wood. Ins. 464. w i. Reer. Q8. » Sulliv. 271.

LECTURES ON LAW. 297

firm, rather than to depress, the SaxoR system. The
county courts, therefore, were considered as courts not
of record, ,

From any thing I have fiaid, no inference, I hope, will
be drawn, that I deem fidelity and exactness in register-
ing and preserving the acts of courts of justice as matters
of small importance : they are of the greatest. I only
mean to enter my protestation against a sacrifice of the
principles of common sense, to a superstitious regard for
the infallibility of records.

VOL. II. q, ^

CHAPTER V.

ft

OF THE CONSTITUENT PAETS Of COURTS.-*^

OF THE JUDGES.

•X NOW proceed to. consider the constituent parts of
courts. The judges form one of those constituent parts.
Let me introduce their chjaracter by the beautiful and
correct description of the magna charta of King John.
A judge should know the laws : he should he disposed
to observe them.

It seems to be the opinion of some, that severity
should be the striking feature in a judge's countenance.
His countenance should reflect the sentiments of his
heart. In his heart should be written the words of the
law. If the law say, and the law does say, that, in all
its judgments, justice shall be executed in mercy ; on the
heart of a judge will this heavenly maxim be deeply en-
graven ; in his looks it will beam.

——Nee supplex turba timebunt.
Judicis ora sui ; sed erunt sub judice tuti.

. OVID.

300 • LECTURES ON LAW*

He ought, indeed, to be a terrour to evil doers ; but he
ought also to be a praise to those who do well. The
more numerous as well as the more valuable part of
the citizens, are, we trust, 'of the latter descripticm*
Complacency, therefore, rather than vengeance, should
habitually influence the sentiments, and habitually mark
the features of a judge*

A judge is the blessing, or he is the curse of society.
His powers are important : his character and conduct
can never be objects of indifference.

When a judge is mentioned as the curse of society,
. Jefferies, ofinfe^ons memory, iftstatndy -starts into view.
Some circumstances, tehich attended the fate of that
odious^ man, place, in. the strongest light, that deep
ifiktestation which is dways entertained, and whidh i&
«i^>ressed whenever it can be expressed with sirfe^
iagainst the charactdr and person of sm oppireasivc and
Ifyrannical judge.

When his master abdicated the throne, his owft
security lay only in flight. From the law, the law's
worst assassin could expect no protection. That he
might escape unknown, he shaved his eye brows, pot
on a seaman's habit, and, all alone, made the best of Us
way to Wapping, wkh « design to take shaping for a
foreign country. But his countenance coidd not remain
undiscovered under all this disguise: a man, whom
upon a trial, he had frightened almost into cdnvolsiotis^
no sooner got a glimpse of it, than^ in a momem, he
recollected all the terrours he had formerly felt. No-
tice was instantly given to the mob, who rushed in
upon him like a herd of wolves. He was goaded on

LECTUftEa OW IfAW« 301

to dus lord mayor; tlM^ lor4 lAayor, i^eing a ixiaii» <m
whom he had never looked without trembling, l^'ought
before him in this situatipn, fell into fits, was carried to
.Jus bed, and nti^tx rt^e froin iu On his wnjr to the
.^owttj tp which he wa6 committedi^ he saw threatening
fiu:es oft every side ; he saw whtps^ and halt&rs heJdup
around him ; and cried out in agony^ *^ for the Lord's
sake, keep them off." I saw him, I heard him, says a
'Cotem|)orary historian, and without pky too ; though,
witbout pity^ I never saw any other niafeALctor*

:•*•

On the other hand-— I now speak from Beocaria^-^
a man of enlightened undsrslandiag, appointed guardian
of the laws, is the greatest blessing, tl^t a sovetetgn Qa«
bestow on a nation* Such a man is accustomed;^
4>ehoM truth, and not to fear It : unaoquainted wiitb the
greatest part of those imaginary and tnsatiaUe neceaai^
ties, which so often put virtue to the proof, and accus*
temed to contemplate mankind from the most elevated
point of view, he considers the nation as his family, and
li*s fellow citizehs as brothers.

Patience of hearing, says the great Lord Bacon, is
aa essential part of justice ; and an overspeakiiig judge i«
no wdil tuned cjnoibal. It is no grace to a judge, first to
iindthatj which, in due time, he might have 'heard from
the bar ; or to show qmickiyss of conceit in cutdng wit«
nesses or counsel off too short ; or to prevent information
by questions, even by pertinent ones. In, bearmg a
cause, the parts of a judge are four — to direct the evi-
denc&"^to moderate lengdi, repetition, or smpertinency
of speech— ^to recapitulate, select, and collate the material

a 4. Guth. 1063. »» C. 42.

5Qd LEGTirltfta ok law.

|Nirt8 of tluit which hath been said— -to give the rale <ir
tenteace* ^ '

A judge, particidarly a jodga of the commoa law,
should bear a great regard to the sentiments and deci-
4lifMi8 of those, who have ihougfat and decided befc^e
him*

It may be asked«*-why shoidd a point be received wf
law, merely because one man or a succesrion of men have
said it is law, any more than another point should be
-received as reason, merely because one philosopher or a
«et of philosophers have said it is resnon ? In law, as in
philosophy, should not every one ihink and judge for
himself? Stare decisis may prevent the trouble of inves-
ti^tson ; but it will prevent also the |dieasure and the
advantages of improvement.

Imphcit deference to authcMity, as I have declared oa
more occasions than one, I consider as the bane of science ;
and I honour the benefactors of mankind, who have bro-
ken the yoke of that intellectual tjn'anny, by which, in
man^ ages and in many countries, men have been depri-
ved of the inherent and inalienable rig^t of judging £cxr
ih^nselves. But how natural it is, from one extreme to
vibrate with violence to its opposite one ! Though autho-
rity be tkot permitted to4y;|^nnise as a mistress*; may
she not be consulted as a skilful guide I May not respect
be paid, though a Uind assent be refused, to her dictates?

A man must have an uncommon confidence in his own
talents, who, in forming his judgments and opinions,
feels not a sensible and strong satisfaction in the concur-

« 3.Ld.BacS7r.

LECTURES ON SAW.

30$

rence of the judgments and opinions of others, equally or
more conversant than himself with the subjects, on which
those judgments and opinions are formed. Society of
wise men in judgment is like the society of brave men
in battle; each depends not merely on himself: each
depends on others al^: by this means, strength and
courage are diffused over alL To human authority in
matters of opinion, as well as to human testimony in mat-
ters of fact, a due regard ought to be paid. To rely on
bodi these kinds of evidence, is a propensity planted^
by nature, in die human mind.

In certain sciences, a peculiar degree of regard should
be paid to authority* The common law is one of those
sciences. Judicial decisions are the principal and most
authentick evidence, which can be given, of theeilustence
of such a custom as is entitled to form a part of the com*
mon law. Those who gave such decisions, were selected
for that employment, on account of their learning and
experience in the common law. As to the parties, and
those who represent th^ parties to them, their judgments
continue themselves to be effective laws, while they are
unreversed. They should, in the cases of others, be
considered as strong evidence of the law. As such,
every prudent and cautious judge will appreciate them.
He will remember, that his duty and his business is,
not to make the law, but to interpret and apply it'.

V

CHAPTER VI.

TH£ SUBJECT CONTINUED.
OF JURIES.

JURIES form, with a few exceptions, another consti-
tuent part of courts : they form, especially, a constituent
part of courts exercising criminal jurisdiction.

' I mentioned, in a former lecture,^ that I love and ad-
Anire the trial by jury ; and that my love and admira*
tion of it spring from proper principles. Those princi*
jples t am now to unfold.

When I speak of juries, I feel no peculiar predilec-
tion for the number twelve; a grand jury consists of
more, and its number is not precisely fixed.

When I speak of juries, I see no peculiar reason for
confining my view to a unanimous verdict, unless that
verdict be a conviction of a crime— particularly of a
capital crime. In grand juries, unanimity is not required.

* Ante. p. 284.
toIh II. R r

306 LECTV^I^S ON LAW.

When I speak of juries, I mean a convenient number
of citizens, selected and impartial, who, on particular
occasions, or in particular causes, are vested with discre-
tionary powers to try the truth of facts, on which depend
the property, the liberty, the reputation, and the lives of .
their fellow citizens.

Having described what I mean when I speak of juriest
it is proper that I should assign, in the fullest and clear*
est manner, my reasons for some parts of my descrip-
tion.

The first part in this description, which has drawn
your most marked attention, is, probably, that which
represents the powers^ vested injuries, as discretionary.
This part, therefore, merits the first illustration. It wffl
be remembered all along, that the discretionary power
vested in juries is a power to try the trutib of iacts. ^^ Ad
quaes tionem facti respondent juratores."

The truth of fsLCts is tried by evidence. The princi-
pal species of evidence, which comes before juries,' is
the testimony of witnesses.

In a former lecture, >» I had occasion to observe, that
human testimony is a source of evidence altogether ori-
ginal, suggested by our constitution ; and not acquired,
though it is sometimes corroborated, and more frequent-
ly corrected, by considerations arising from experience.
I had occasion further to observe, that, in no case, the
law orders a Vritness to be believed ; for the testimony
of a thousand witnesses may not prodtice belief ; and

fc Ante. p. 88. 90.

LECTUAES ON, LAW. SOT

that, m no case, the law orders a witness not to be be*,
lieved ; for belief may be the. unavoidlable result of his
testimony. These general positions, then laid down, it
is now eur business to fortify and apply. If we shall be
successful in foitifytng and applying them ; we shall see^
in a new and in a very striking li^t, the sublime prin*-
ciple of the institution of juries*

It is tedious, and it is painful, to travel through all th^
nuttierouis degrees, into which it has been attempted to
arrange the force of evidence. Some vpriters on th^
subject have divided proofs into such as are near, and
such as are remote. Others have been adventurous
enough to define the precise number of each, which is
necessary to superinduce the condemaatioa of a person,
who is accused. One says, two will be sufficient : a se«
cond says, three are necessary : a third fixes upon a
number different from either. They have never reflect-
ed, that evidence arises from the circumstances attending
the fact: that those circumstances should be considered
in a coHected and not in a separate view i and that on
the more or less intunate connexion which subsists be-
tween them, the strengdi or weakness of the evidence
resulting from them depends.

The truth of this remark will sufficiendy appear, if
we consider separately any of the presumptions enume-
rated by those writers op the criminal law. There is not
one of them, which may not appear favourable, or un*
favourable, or indifferent to the person under trial. A
man, with a bloody sword in his hand, is seen running
from a hpuse. On entering it, a person run through the
body, and no other person, is found there* Would not
the presumption be strong, that the map, who ran from

ao8

LXCTUREB Oil LAW.

the house was the assas^ni i But should a jury be coni*
pelled, on this evidence, to convict htm? ^hoidd he
not be allowed to prove, if he can, the cotmexioa of ~this
strong circumstance against him with aiiotl»r, in Us la-
TOur, equalty strong-**that, passmg-the door of the hcnise,
he was drawn, by the cries of the person assasstiuitedt
to his assistance, and suddeidy seized the poignard which
the assassin had left in lus side ? The weight of any
one circiunstance cannot be ascertained independent of
others : the number and connexion of those odiers^ can*
not be specified, previously, in a didactick treatise upon
the degrees of evidence.

Thus it is with regard to evidence arising from ^r*
cumstances': wiU more success attend an attempt to as«
certain systematically At degrees of evidence arising
from positive testimony ^ This depends upon the chatac*>
ter of him who delivers, and upon the character of him
who receives it. That, which would be believed from
the mouth of a witness famed for his integrity aiul good
^ense, would be disbdieved, if told by a witness remark*^
able for fdsehood or credulity. A person, hackneyed
in the ways and vices of the worid, who has deceived
and who has been deceived a thousand times, is slowrto
credit testimony. An undesigning countni^man, who has
never practised nor experienced the artifices of fraud,
believes implicitly every tbmg he bears. Can the chai»
racters of witnesses-^^ian the chsu*acter8 .of jurors be
graduated in a disscltatioti upon evidence i And y%%
in each particular case, the force of evidence must de-
pend upon the character both of witnesses and jurc»*s«

For these reasons, we find, in the institutions pf an^
tiquity, no general ru)a» prescribed ccmcemii^ the force

LEGTURKB ON LAW. 309

of. testimony, or the weight of presumptions: the em*
perour Hadrian eacpressly declares the impracticability of
prescribing them. When cme of hia judges applied to
htm for a rescript, containing particular directions upon
this subject; the emperour wrote him an answer, in which
the sentiment we have mentioned is beautifully exhibit-
ed* ^ No cer^n rule,'' says he, ^^ can be. given with
regard to the degree of evidence, which will be sufficient
/ in every cause that shall occur. This only I can recom^
mend to yo^ in general ; that you by no means confine
yourself to any one kind or degree ; but that, according
to the nature and the circumstances of every case, you
estimate, in your own mind, what you believe, and what
you do not think to be sufficiently proved." «

The evidence of the sciences is very different from
ike evidence of facts. In the sciences, evidence depends
on causes which are fixed and immovable, liable to no
ftuctuation or uncertainty arising from the eharacters or
conduct of men. In the sciences, truths, if selfevident,
lure.instandy known. If their evidence depend on their
connexions with other truths, it is. evinced by tracing and
discovering those connexions. In facts, it is otherwise*
They consist not of principles whi^h are selfevident ;
wot can their existence be traced or discovered by any
necessary connexioti with selfevident principles. As
fiaclB, therefore, are neither principles, nor necessarily
connected with principles ; the evidence of facts is un-
susceptible of a general theory or rules*

Let us then forbear to attempt a graduated scale of
diis kind of evidesice. It is the philosopher's stone of

« 2. M<D. ins. 631.

310 XXCTU&XS ON LAW*

criminal jurisprudence. It is impossible to estaUtfth
general rules, by which a complete proof may be dm^
tinguished from a proof that is incomplete^ and presump-
tions slightly probable may be distinguished from conjee-
tares altogether uncertain.

If, therefore^ the evidence of facts can be ascertained^
distinguished, and estimated by no syiM)em of genm^al
rules ; the consequence unavoidably is, that, in every
case, the evidence of facts must d^>aid upon circumn
stances, which to that case are. peculiar. The futh^*
consequence imavoidididy is, that the power of deciding
on the evidence of facts must be a discretionary power i
for it is a power of deciding on a sid)ject uosusceptible
of general principles or rules.

And, after all, is it, at last, come to this? Bo we
live by discretionary power i Is this the final result of
the boasted triad by jury i In Turkey, life and every
tfaipg precious in life depend on the nod of one man: here^
it seems, on the nod of twelve. There is a dUSerance^
indeed, in number : but, in principle, where is tto di&
ference i

. Such is, and such must be our doom. It is agreed^
on all hands, that, in every state, there must be some^
where a power supreme, arbitrary, Absolute, uncontt'ot
lable : these are strong expressions for discreticmarf
power. There have been, it is true, ^diiferent opinions
concerning the question — where does this power reside ?

What security, then, it may nelt be asked, is dieiae^
under any government, for the enjoyment of property,
character, freedom, and life ; if, under every govern^

LECTURES OK LAW. 311

mmty the last resolutidti of the tedious and expenswc
process. is into arbitrary or discretionary power?

Let us not despair : perhaps, after a little investiga-
tibn, we may be happy enotifb to discover some emerg.
ing isthmus, on which, amidst this unstable, watery scene
that suTTOunds us, we may be able to find rest for the
soles of our feet.

It has been shown, at large, that it is impracticable, by
any determinate rules, to ascertain or graduate the force
€rf evidence in facts ; and that, consequently, juries, who
decide on the evidence of facts, must possess discretion-
ary powers. But though it be impracticable to ascer-
tain this matter by determinate rules ; is it, therefore,
impracticable also to give and acquire some conception
of it by a general reference ? Perhaps not.

Let us try ; let the reference be as comprehensive as
possible : if we must live by discretion, let the exercise
of that discretion be universally unanimous. If there
ittiist be, in every political society, an absolute and dis-
cretionary power over even the lives of the citizens ; let
the operations of that po^er be such, as would be sanc-
ticmed by unanimous and universal approbation. Suppose
then, that, in pursuing this train of thought, we assume
the following position<>-*-that the evidence, upon which a
citizen is condemned, should be such as would goveiji
the judgment of the whole society.

Let us, first, inquire, whether this position be rea#
smiable :^ let us next inquire, whether, if this position
is reas<mable, the establishment of it would give, to the
citizen, a just degree of security against the improper

dis

LECTtTRES ON LAW*

exc^rcise.of discretionsny power : let us, in the last plate^
inquire, whether, if this theory is eligible, it be possihle
to reduce its principles to practice.

»

1. I am first to inquir^ whether die position-— that
the evidence, upon which a citizen is condemned, shoidd
be such as would govern the judgment of the wiiok so-
ciety—be a reasonable position.

We showed, at large, in a former part of these lee*
tures, ^ that, in a socie^, the act or judgment of a
majority is always considered as the act or judj^eoit of
the whole.

, Before the formation of socieity, the right of punish-
ment, or, to speak with more propriety, the right of pre-
venting the repetition of crimes, belonged to him who
had suffered the injur}'-, arising from the crime whidi
was committed. In a society formed and weU consti-
tuted, the right of him who has suffered the mjory is
transferred to the community. To the community^
therefore, instead of the injured individual, he who coan
mitted the injury is now to answer. To answer to the
community for his conduct, w^ a part of Ae social con-
tract, which, by becoming a member, be tacitly and
voluntarily made. ^ In this manner, a complete right is
vested in the society to punish ; and a full obligation is

d Antev(^ l.p. 310..

^ Upon this principle of consent, all civil penalties are debts to
the publick ; from whence the Greeks and Romans used Xvufy and
<< pcenas solvere, lucre,'* for undergdng a punidimeot, which "was
a conditional debt contracted by their own consent JPet ob« lor. f9.

L££T?R£« OK LAW. 313

laid oji the individual offeiadiiig, to be amenable to pU<»
maiiment*

The social Contract is of a peculiar kind : when ana-
lyzed into its component parts, it is found to be acoippo-
sition of agreemi&nts, equal in number to the number of
all the members, of which the society is composed. To
each of those agreements thefe are two parties. One
member of the society is the party on one side : all th€
odier QiejQdbers form the party on the other side.

,' The puEushment of a crime in regulated society pre«
supposes two things. 1. The crime must be authenti'*
cated. 2. The penalty must be ascertained. Upon the
principles which vft have laid down, each of those two
prerequisites to punishment must be equally the act of
the society-Mjf the whole society.

With regard to each of these prerequisites, the society
may act either cc^ectiyely and personally, or by depu*
tati(m aud representation. If they act by deputation
and. representation, they^ may intrust one of the fore-
mentioped, prerequisites to the management of one class
of .deputies anfd representatives ; and, to another class,
ibf^^ vasiy commit the management of the other prerequi-
rite. With regard to both, however, the proceedings
must be those of the whole society, or, at least, sanc-
tioned by the authority of the whole society : for it must
be remembered, that to the whole society the right of
punishment was transferred, and with the whole society

^e engagement to be amenable to its justice was made.

\

• ; • .

Q^ a nearer and more minute view of things, we
sfaall discover a most material difference between the
you XI. f s

/ \

I dl4 L£CTUR£S OH LAW*

modes proper for the management of the different pre--
requisites ; because, on a nearer and more minute view
of things, we shall discover, in the management of those
different prerequisites, a most material difference in the
sitixation of the parties to the social contract.

Penalties majr be adjusted, graduated, and ascertain*
ed by general rules, and against all the members of the
society indiscriminately. In the cotssequences of the
regulations made upon this subject,^ every member may
be affected in a double capacity ; he may be affected,
either as the individual party to one agreement, or as .
forming one of the numerous party to each of the otfi»r
agreements, <^ which we have seen the social contract
to be composed. In other words, he may be affected
either as die audior ov as the sufflerer of the peoaMes..
Impartiality,.' therefore, m the conduct of every mem-
ber, may rationally be expected ; and there will be little
reason to use strong or numerous precautions against
interestedness or its effect. Tf tike society aict by repre^
sentatives, and a; difference oi sentiment takes place
among them conc^:^ing any subjecr; the nombers on
&e different sides, in the representative body, wiB pro^
bably bear to one another a proportion ne^ly the same,,
as would be found if aH the members of the society were
personally assembled*.

But, when we attend to the management of ^e other
prerequisite — that of authenticating the commission of
a -crime— a situatiem' of men and things, extremely iitf-
feretit, appears to our view., Here no general n^es ca*'
be adopted-^-no measures can be taken, which will equal-
ly and indiscriminately s^ect all the diflferent nuev^ra
6f the commitfHty in their tum%^ Here,^ the pwrties ¥^

LTOTURSa ON LAW*

iu

^u^jo{ tBe agreements, which form the sochil contract,
^pear ia their origioal stations— -oa one side, an indi*
vidual**-on the other, all the members of the society
^s;cept him8elf-*<-oD one side, those who are to try*— on
the other, he who is to be tried.

In this isolated situation, in which he necessarily but
Unfortunately stands; and in which, if all the members
^f tlie society were present, his fate must, from the vtry
Stature of society, be decided by the voice of the ma«
jority— in this situation, if the society act by representa^
tives, it is reasonable to demand, and it is just to grajal:
the reasonable demand, that the unanimous voice of
those who represent parties, and who themselves are par-
ties as. well as judges, should be necesssoy to warrant a
sentence of condemnation* In such a situation. Where
the representatives are not indifferent, and, consequently,
sotay not be impartial, their unanimous suffrage may be
considered as nothing more, than wJuit is necessary to
found a fair presumption concerning the sentiments of
n majority of the whole community, had the whole com*
xnunity been personally present. In such a situation,
therefore, we may probably be justified in recurring to
our position— ^that the evidence, upon which a citizen is
xondenmed, should be such as would govern the judg*
inent of the whole society: and we may require. the
unanimous suffrage of the deputed body who try, as the
oeoessary and proper evidence of that judgment.

2. I am next to inquire, whether &e establishment of
this position would give, to the citizen, a just degree of
security against the improper exercise of discretionary
power.

3i6 LECTURES p9 X.Alf9'«

t

In all states, as ¥re haVe seen, dkcrelimiaiy po^efs
must be placed somewhere. The great body of the people
is their proper permanent depository. But on some occa-
sions, and for some purposes, they must be delegated.
When they are exercised by the people themsdves, a
majority, by the very constitution of society, is sufficient
for the purpose. When they are exercised by a delegation
from the people, in the case of an individujsl; it would
be difficult tosuggest, for his security, any provision more
efficacious than one, that nothing shall be siUFered to ope-
rate against him without the unanimous consent of the
delegated body*

This provision, however, may still be fortified hf a
' number of additional precautions. Care may be taken in
d;ie manner of forming tlie delegated^body. As this body
cannot, for reasons which will appear afterwards, be
. selected, on every occasion, by the great body of the
people themselves; they may, on every occasion,^ be
selected by an officer, confidential, impartial, and, by the
people themselves, appointed for this very purpose; Notr
withstanding this very guarded selection, yet if any im-
proper character appear among the delegated body, every
reasonable exception mdy be allowed against his compe-
tency to act. To a necessary exercise of dbcretionary
powers on one hand, the indulgence of a discretionary
power may be opposed, on the other. Leave may be
given to reject any determinate number of the delegated
body, even without disclosing any cause of rejection.
Under all these gu^axled and generous precautions, the
person who would undergo a trial might, with an almost
literal propriety, be said to try himself.

If, even after all these precautions, conviction might,
by possibility, take place improperly ; a power might be

L&CT0RES OK LAW. Slf

%

vested in anodic body to set the improper conviction
fl^side, and to remit the trial of the caus^ to a new abstract

of the citizens*

... . ^

Sttttt^unded and fortified by establishments and provi-
sions of this nature, innocence might certainly be secure.

3. I am now^ in the last place^ to inquire, whether
tliese principles, so' beautiful in theory, can possibly be
reduced to practice. <

V

Reduced to practice ! It cannot have escaped you, that
I have been describing the principles of our well known
ttialbyju^.

» • -

Those principles, so illustrious in themselves, will
receive a new de'gree of ^splendour from a more particular
investigation concerning the history, the nature, and the
properties of this admired institution.

To Athens, to Germany, and to Normandy, the insti-
tution of juries has been attempted to be severally traced.
From Athens it has been supposed to be transplanted to
Rome ; from Rome, to England. Those who think it
originated in Normandy or Germany, suppose it to have
been brought into England from the place of its original
establishment.

The great principle of Solon's system was, unquestion-
ably, this noble one — ^that every citizen should enjoy the
inestimable right of being tried t^liis peers, and bound
only by laws to which he had given his conseilt. His laws
were of the most extensive nature. They comprehended
rules of right, maxims t>f morality, precepts of agriculture,

Mft

LMfiTVUM 0» LAW*

and ngublioiis of oDmoierce. - His institttticMis concern-
ing marrifige, luccession^ tesismenUi the rights of perscmtf
and of things, have been disseminated thrqugh th^ juris*
prudence of every civilized nation in Europe* ^ . The
trial by jury, therefore, as well as odner establishments,
may, it is said, refer, with great propriety, its original
to Athens.

In Athens, the citizens were all equally admitted t4.
vote in the publick assembly, and m the Courts of justice^
whether civil or criminal.^

The trial by a jury in Atfams was i^onducCed, it is sakl,
with the same forms as those of an English jury, with a
few exceptions arising from the difference between the
two political constitutions. ^ ^ When the cause was reddy
for hearing, the jury, who were to try it, were chosen by
ballot. ^ It was necessary that they should be competent
in point of understanding, character, and disinterested^.
ness. i The jury was very numerous : it consisted some*
times of five hundred, sometimes of a thousand, some-
times of fifteen hundred members. ^ If the defendant,
in a criminal prosecution, had half the number of ii^otee
Ui his favour, he was aqiiuitted* ^ The presiding arches
settled the cause for trial, gave the ballot* re<;eived the
▼erdictf and published it. "^

In this mode of t^ial, we are told, equal law was open
to all : it was favourable to liberty, because it could not
be infttte9<;ed by intrigues* *"

f 1. GilL 461. Z Pet on Jur. S7. 58, 1. GilL 45§.

\ Pet on Jar ST. ^ Id. e». i I<L» ». k 14SJ9.
» Id. SWd. «i Id. 2d. 50. 51. n Id. 32.

I^KCTVIIEfr ON XAW. tL9

In every piiuticular cause^ the jurors were chosen audi
sworn anew. ^ They were attetided by prt^r officers of
the court, that no one might mix with them, or corrupt-
tfaem, or influence their debisions./ They were not:
obliged to follow testimony in cases immediateiy within'
their own knowledge : but when witnesses were the best
evidence, they were admitted* ^ They were an im^iori^
tant body of men, vested with great powers, patrons oi
liberty, enemies to fyrannny. >^

The antiquity of this institution among the • most
civilized people of the world, is urged as an at^ament^
that it is founded in natnre and original justice. * ^^ The
tirial'by a jury of our own equals seems to grow out of the
idea of jtist government ; and is fotmded in the nature of
things,"*

From thi^ institution, as it was estaUished and ob«
jN&rved by the Greeks, we pass to it as estedilished and
observed by the Romans,

About sixty'years after the eiqxilsioii of the Tanfuitn,;
the Romans, agitated by the dissensions between the
patricians and plebeians, on many sub|ects, aasd partica<*
larly on that of their judicial government, sent commis*^
aioners to Athens to d^ain a tnmsoript of the laws of

SfAan.

»

Among the Romans, there was a double selectioil of
jiiiors. On ^e kalends of Jamtary, a number, different
at 4iffsreat times, of citizens of best note were chosefi bjr

• Pet OB Jur. 43. rJa.M. ili.4a.ia.m.

S80 JUBCTUKBB ON lAW.

/

ballot. From tbesCf aU the juries were mpf^ed^ to
nundier of eighty one each, upon erery newxause. ^
each side^^t^ere was a Hberty to chadlenge fifteen : ifty
one remained to give the vel-dict.. This rejectio jutlicum
is often mentioned by Cicero. ""

- In Rome as in Athens, the jury were sworn ; and^ibe
defendant was acquitted on ap equally of votes. ^ .

Both at Athens and Rome, the time allowed to the
counsel for. their pleadings, was measured by the drop-
ping of a certain quantity of water* ^ When the^ couasely
on each side, had finished their arguments byssying^
^* dixi^^' the i»*aitor sent out the jury to. consult shoot theJor
Verdict. When they returned with dieir verdict,- tbejr
delivered it to the praetor ; and he published it. r

The Roman juries were judges of iaw as w^ as of
£akct. '• They could give a verdict of eondemnmtion, a
verdict of acquittal, or a verdict of n^n lifueU Tins last
hsks, by some, been considered as a special verdict ; biH
improperly ; for a special verdict furnishes the court with
a statement of facts, on whidi they can found a decision
of law ;: whereas a non liquet among the Romans- imme-
diately adjourned the cause for farther consideratson. hsL
some modem tribunals on the continent of Europe, a most
scandalous use h^s, by judges, been made of their pow^^
to pronounce a non liqtiet.

In the celebrated cause of Mil^, we can trace the
yestiges of a special jury. Pompey, who was, at that

tt Pet. on Jur. 113. 115. ^ Id. 114. 115. 123. ^ Id 117.
X Id. 134 . ^ Id. 119. ISa I id.131.

JL£CTt7R£d ON LAW. 321

Hitof sole consnl^ with the dictatorial power, ** videre
mt quid detriment! respublica caperet,'' appointed a
jttiy^ in all respects, of the most able and upright men.
Of this jury, the celebrated Cato was one. " Te, M.
Cato, testor,'' says Cicero^ in his animated and particulai:
-address. The seleetion 6f a jury in this peculiar maimer^
instead of the usual way by ballot^ was^ probal^ly, ohe
instance, in whi«h Pdmpey exercised his dittatotUt
au&ority. *

Julius CsBsar extended the Roman name and power
into Gaul and Germany ; and reduced tliose countries
into the form of Roman provinces. This is an etpr^s-
flion of strong and peculiar import. Wh^n a country
was reduced into the form of a Roman province, it lost
its own laws, and wsis governed by those of Rome. ^

- Caesar visited Brrtaifi^: Claadms, oite of his succeflh
aoin-s, adiieved the congest of a considerable part of
the islands He planted in it four colonies. One of them
*-— that at Malden-<^was intended, as we are told by
Taeitus,^ not so much ^s a check upon the rebel Britons,
ma to accustom the new conquests to a familiarity with
^be Roman laws-^**^^ imbuendis sociis ad officia iegum.'^
His des^s were crowifed With success. The Britons,
who, at £rst, were disgusted even with the language of
Rome, became soon the admirers of her language, her
eloquence, and her laws.^ Under the reign of Severus,
the Roman laws were in their meridiatt splendour in
Sritain, and were illustrated by the talents and authority
mi die^ebrated Papinian^ ^

» Pet on Jun 133.

•

»» U 140.

« Ann. Lit.

a Pet^J«r.M;

« Id 14$.

-

VOL. II.

T t.

$22 LECTURES ON LAW.

When the Romans retired from Ehg^d to guard the

. vitals of the empire, the Britons resumed, in pait,. their

.ancient customs; but blended them with the Roman

■ institutions, with which they had long been familiar*

As the trial by jury was a part of the Roman system

, of judicial polity, when her colonies were established in

Britain, it is probable, that this, among other parts, was

left and was continued among the Britons. ^

Such is the train of observations, which has induced an

opinion, that the trial by jury was introduced into

England from Adiens, through the intermediate channel

-of Rome. Others think they can trace this mode of

tri^ through a different channel.

The very learned Selden is of opinion, that the Saxons
derived the institution of juries immediately from the
Grecians. The government of the Saxons, about the
time of Tiberius, was, in general, as he informs us, ^ so
suited to that of the Grecians, that it cannot be imagined
but much of the Grecian wisdom was introduced among
them, long before the glory of the Romans was exalted
to its greatest height. It may be well supposed, he
infers, that there is some consanguinity between the
Saxons and the Grecians, though the degree of that con-
sanguinity be not known. The people were a free people,
because they were a law to themselves. This was a
privilegje belonging to all the Germans^ in the sanae man-
ner as to the Athenians and the Lacedempnians.

The most ordinary trial among the Saxons was, upon
traverse of the matter in fact, by witnesses before the

f Pet on Jur. 146. 179. c Bac. m Gov. 9.

a

LECTURES ON LAW. 323 '

! -
/

jurors ; their votes made the verdict, and determined
the matter in fact. In former times, continues he, it '
was questionless a confused manner of trial by votes qf
the whole multitude, which made the verdict hard to be
discerned. But tiihe taught them better advice, to bring
the voters to a certain number, according to the Grecian
way*^

The trial per pares, we are told by others, was
common to all the northera. nations, as well as to the
Saxons. *

r

It is probable, says an ingenious and well informed
writer, that, among the Saxons, every kind of law suit
was, at first, determined in full assembly, and by a plu*
rality of voices. But when the duty of these assemblies
became burthensoitne by the increase of business, conve-
nience introduced a practice of selecting a certain number
of their members to assist their president in the deter-
mination of each cause. Hence the origin of juries f
the precise date of whose establishment is uncertain,
because it probably arose from no general or publick
riegulation, but from the gradual and almost impercepti-
ble changes, authorized by common usage in the sevei*at^
districts of the kingdom. Tlie number of jurymen was^
for some time, different upon different occasions; till
the advantage of uniform practice introduced a general
rule, which determined, that no less than twelve persons
should be called in all ordinary causes.-^

A third class of writers contend, that juries, properly
so called, were first introduced into England from Nor-

^ Bac. on Gov. 56. « Millar. 440. SuDiv. si^l. i Millar. 123.

dS4| UG1UAX8 OJV I.4WV

m^ndy. They admit a near aSmity betveea tlu9 uiatL-
tution and that luiown to the triWiala of the Sasumaii
but Ui3]6t> that, among that peopte, the ttisk hy jary>
waiting correctly, ^ did Bat exiat« Thfi trtal^* say A^>.
per duodecim jurcUosy called noini^, was est^Kahed
among the Scandinavians -at a very earl^. peiiod ', hsxt
having fallen into disuse, was revived by a law. o€
Reignerus sumamed Lodbrog, about the year eight hun^
dred a^d twenty. Seventy yeacs afiter thb tmie, Rolkv
made, hiis^ aettJemept in Normandy-; and, among <Hber.
customs, carried with him this mode of trial. . WlMife
the Normans transplanted themselves into England, they
wer^ anxious, to. l^itimate this as wett as.oiiies parta.of
4^eir juri^prud^nce^ and endeavoured to aub^tute it ia
the place ofUiie $sLXf>n.sfcUitoresif or auttocs to l&e coutt^
The earliest mention, they say« which we find of ai^
thing like a jury, was in the r^igaof the Conquenoc*.
He had referred a cause to the county, or ^c^o/^reis,. to.
determine in their county court, a^the course then waa^
according to the Saxon establishments That court'^
g^ve their opinion of tlie cause*. But Oda, the bishop.
6f Baieux, who presided at. the hearing of the cause-,
was dissatisfied with their determination, and directed^
that, if they wete still sure they spoke truth, theyv
sliould choose twelve from^mong themselves, who should^
confirm it upon their oatha.^ The old trial by anJndefi^
^te number of suitors of court omtinued, it is snlded,
for many years after the conquest; but the precedent, sei«
by the Bishop of Baieux had a grei^ e£fbct towaitis*
altering it. It was not^ however^ till the reign of Henrf
the seccmd, that the.ti;Jal by jurors became. genendL^\

LSCTURE8 OH LAW. 325^

If this nccount possessed sdl the accuracy, with the
want of which it contains an implied censure of others,-
ittill it would adimt the princifdes aad substsmtial rukftf-
of trial by jury, to have subsisted among the Saxons y
asxd would establish, between their instittttbti and that-;
of the Normans, a difference only with regaird t6 thc^
liumber of jurors, and to their qualification by an oath*
But, on farther examination, we «haU find, that, in both
these respects, the law was the same before as after the
coiiquesl>^-that the suitors of the court, in other words,
^e freemen, wese the judges, or, as we now say, the
jury. °* .

Before the conquest, we can discover the clearest
vestiges of a jury qualified by an oath, and consisting of
t*relve men. The most ancient, says Selden,** are to
be- fovmd in a law of King Ethelred. Its original is in
the following words^— "'In singulis centuriis comitia
suhto, atque libers& cotlditionis viri duodeni, a&tate supe-
riores, una cum praeposito sacra tenentes juranto se adeo
vemm aliquem innocentem haud damnatutos^ sontemve
absoluturos*^ — In every hundred let there be a court ;
and let twelve freemen of mature age, together with
their foreman, swear, upon the holy relicks, that they
will condemn no innocent, and will absolve no guilty^
person. ®

Selden'j 2^ we^nd from his notes collected by Bacon^
translates the word' "propositus'^ — ^the lord of the hun-
dred. If his translation is just; then this is a strict
instance of the duodecentviral judgment. I translate
tlfe'Word* " propositus'* — ^the foreman of the jury : if my

^ SuSliv. 34r, « AnaL b. 2,.c 6. , • Pet on Jnr. U9i

326, I«£CTURB8 OK LAW.

*

traBsfation is just ; then the jury, in this instance, con-
sisted of thirteen members, including their foreman. I
can only say, that, so far as I know, my translation is the
i|sual one of the word, prsepositus ; that it seems rather
unnatural to designate the lord of the hundred by &e
name of the president of the jury $ and that, I apprehend,
it was never customary for the judge and jury to be swoni
*f together" — " una."

There were two Saxon kings of the name of Ethelred^
The first was the immediate predecessor of the great
Alfred : the second was one of his successours. Selden
refers the law which we have mentioned, to the reign of
the second Ethelred. Now, there must be some mistake
here one way or the other* If this law describes the
jury of twelve ; it is not the most ancient vestige of it ;
for, as we shall soon see, it was unquestionably establish-
ed in the. reign of Alfred. The conjecture is far from
being improbable, that this law should be- referred to the
reign of the first Ethelred ; and that it describes a jury
consisting of thirteen — a foreman and twelve others.

It, has been already observed, that, among the Saxons,
the number of jurynien was probably different at different
times. It may be observed here, that, before the era
of which we now speak, we discover not the slightest
traces of the principle of unanimity in juries. If a jury
was equally divided in a criminal prosecution, we have
seen that, in Athens and Rome, the defendant was
acquitted: but what was to be done in a civil cause?
To avoid frequent dilemmas of this kind, it is probable
that juries consisted generally of an uneven . number.
This number might be fixed by the first Ethelred to

riCTURES'ON LAW» '327

^thirteen. This, at least, was an improvement up6n a
larger and more inconvenient number.

But to the penetrating Alfred, this number, and the
regulations connected with this number, ' would, pro-
bably, appear to require and to be susceptible of still
greater improvement. A jury of thirteen sit on the
life of a prisoner. Six vote for his condemnation : six
vote for his acquittal : must his life depend on a single
vote — ^perhaps not more to be relied on than the single
throw of a die ? Is it not probable, that such as this
ifirpuld be the soliloquy of the humane Alfred ? If so ;
is it not probable, that, from this precarious situation,
the family of Alfred — ^for his people were his children
—would be relieved by the resources of a mind, no less
distinguished by its vigorous exertion, than by its wise
and benevolent reflections ? We can only conjecture his
jnotives, indeed : but we know his conduct. He fixed
the number of jurors at twelve : to a conviction by tHa,t
number, he rendered a unanimous vot^ indispensably
necessary. To him the world is indebted for the unani-
mous duodecemviral judgment.

I establish these interesting facts.

I have already mentioned, on the authority of my
Lord Coke, that the greatest part of the book called
^ ** The Mirrour of Justices," was written long before the
conquest. In that book, we find an account of Alfred^s
acts and judgments, conjectured to have been originally
composed by himself. Of that account, I give the fol-
lowing very literal translation from the old French — ^the
language, ih which Andrew Home, compiled and pub- .
lished the book. "He hanged Cadwine, because hp

988 i;.ECTvm£t on i.av«

»
judged Hackwjr to deadi wUhoui; the asaent of all the

jurors, in a case where he had put hlibaelif upon a* juiy
of twelve men ; and because three were for saving him
against nine, Cadwtne removed the three for others upon
whom Haqkwy did not put himself." *' He hanged
Frebem^ because he judged Harpin to death, when the
jurors were in doubt as to their verdict ; for where there
|s a doubt, they should save rather than condemn." ^

These texts are short : but they are pregnant widi

precious instruction*

1. Each juror may here find a salutary lesson for
his conduct, in the most important of all the tranaaetioM
of a man or a citizen«~*in voting whether a fellow man
and a fellow citizen shall live or die. Does he doubt i
he should' acquit. It ia only when the clearest convic-
tion is in full and undivided possession of the mind^
Ihat the voice of conviction ought to be pronounced^

2. AH the jurors may, in this transaction, of dU bii«
man transactions the most important, find a salirtavy
lesson for their conduct, in forming the. cpllected verdict
pf the whole from the separate judgment of each.

I speat of criminal-^I speak of capital casear hecsaise
tbe cases here mentioned were those, in whidi peraona
were " judged to death."

Is the judgment of a n^jority of the members— 4hat
the defendant should be convicled--4i sufficient founda*
tM» for a verdict of conviction by the jury ? It ia not-

» Pet on lac; I66» £67.

L£tiTUtl£S OK LAW* 329

That verdiet must: be composed of each separate' judg*
"fiient. In the case before us, a majority of three to one
-were for conviction. But the judge was hanged for pro-
notmciiig sentence of death upon the votes of*this majori-,
ty, though it was propped by an adventitious accession
of three other votes.

3. Every citizen may here find most comfortable in*
formation of the jealous attention, with which the law
inratches over him, even when he is accused .of violating
the- law. No jury can pass upon him, except thai upon ,
-which he piitshimself. " Hackwy," says the case before
us, " did not put himself upon those others." For every
trial thcrej must be a new selection* The discretionary
powers,, which we have described, and why;h, in one
view, appear so formidab^, though, in every view, they
are so nectys^ary, can never be exercised against him by
anybody of men, to the exerci5.e of whose powers he
does not give his consent. He may- suffer, indeed, in anO*
ther way. He may suflPer the pain of contumacy, dire-
ful and hard. His contumacy may, by a legislative pro- '
cess, be. transformed into a confession of his guilt. But,
by his . country he can never suffer, unless, in the lan-
guage of the law, he " put himself upon his. country."

In the strictest and mostxorrectmepning of the word^
we have unquestionably, I think, traced the trial by jury
to the Saxons. Selden thinks ^hey derived it immediate-
ly frojm the Greeks : others think they derived it from
'the> Greeks through, the intermediate chazmelof the Ro-
^naBS. The latter seems the. most probable opinion.
From the Romans they might receive it^ by their imme-
diate . intercourse with them in Germany f or they might

VOL. ix» .... ; . .u u ..' ., '

receive It by still another intermedi^e ch^nel — ^tbat cT
ibe Brkons*

It has been already mentioned^ that the Roman arms
were followed constantly and rapidly by the Roman laws*
If, therefore, we can trace the conquests of Rome to
the Saxons i to them we may expect to trace the institu-
tions ot Rome likewise.

The loss of the legions under Varus was one of die
most striking events in the reign of Augustus. On the
mind of the emperour it made so deep an impression,
that he was often heard to cry, in his interrupted slunt*
I^ers— -Varus 1 restore my legions! This remarkable
disaster happened in or near the country of the Cherusciyr
which was itself a part of Saxony ; and was, indeed^ ^
the consequence of the extraordinary pains employed by
Varus, to diffuse amone the inhabitants the laws and ju»
risprudence of Rome.

By Velteius Paterculus we are informed, that whes
Varus commanded the army in Germany, he entertain*
ed an opinion, that n^en, who had nothing human about
them but their form and their language, might be cir
vilized by laws much more easily, and much more eflPec-
tually, than they. could be brought under subjection by
the sword. Under the influence of this impression, he
remained in his camp without military exertion ; and^
surrounded with enenues, sat in judgment o^ causes^
which were brought before him, in the same maimer ai
if he had been a praetor, presiding in the forum of Rome*
Of this propensity, the Germans took an artful advan-
tage. They instituted, before Varus, a continued sc-
ries of litigation ; they expre^sed^ in the strongest terms,^^

LXCTDRE8 OH LAW.

tSieir gra^tude at beholding their controversies tertnin»< '
ted by Roman justice, and at seeing the mild energy of
law substituted in the place of decisions by force. They
expressed also their hopes, that, by the influence of this
new discipline, their own feroci^ would be graduaUy
softened, and themselres would be graduaUy qualified
to think and to act as the friends of Rome. The sur-
prise of his lepons was the first thing which roused
him — but it roused him too late — ^from hia delusive
dream.

The Saxons, it is said, might see' the benefit and
retain the exercise of the Rdman institutions, after they
had expelled him who introduced Aem with so ranch
Zeal, and so much unguarded confidence.

' The Sas6ns, who invaded and conquered England,
might also learn the Roman forms of decision through
the medium of the Britons. On a former occasion,^ I
mentioned, that there is, in truth, no reason to suppose
that the destruction of the Britons by the Saxons, on
their invasion of England, was so greator genera] as it
has been frequently represented. After some time, there
was, unquestionably, aff intimate and a continued iater-1
communication of manners, cnstoms, and laws between
the two nations. Even an English historian admits, that '
a more minute and particular account of the An^o-
SaxoD constitution might be extracted from the Welch
laws of Howell Dha, which were collected in the year
eight hundred and forty two, than even from the Saxon
laws the mseh^es. He indeed accounts for this similari-
ty, by supposing that the Welch adopted the regulations

1 Ante. p. 35, S&

4 >*i

332 LECTURES OK LAW,

- >

of their aneient ^enemies. A Welch historian woold^,
' probably, admit the fact of the similarity, but, as to the
inference drawn from it, he might, perhaps, be iiblc to
turn the tables upon the historian of England. It is, in*-
deed, highly probable, that the Saxons borrowed more
from the Britons, than the Britons borrowed from the
Saxons.

\ -

I have now traced the trial by jury, in its priticiple,

and in many parts of its practical rules, to the most splen-
did eras of Rome and Athens : and I have ascertained
the reign, in which its present number was fixed, and
the principle of unanimity in verdicts of convictioit was
introduced. On this principle of unanimity^ farther at-
tention ought to be bestowed* ^

We have seen an express and a very awful ^Kithoritjr,
that, in verdicts of conviction in criminal cases, it must
be inviolably observed. Is the rule extended— -ought it
to be extended to verdicts of acquittal in criminal cases i
Is it extended — ought it to be extended to any verdict
in civil cases?* I state the questions on the double
grounds of fact and reason^; because, in these lectures^
we are entitled to consider the4aw as citizens as well
as jurist3% It may be our duty to obey, when it is not
our duty, because, without any fault, it is not in out
power, to approve.

N.

I shall consider the questions historically and on prin-
ciple. On this, as on other topicks of common law, we^
shall probably find that princijde is illustrated by history.

I beg leave, before I proceed, to suggest one precau-
,. Uon^--*that the idea of a unanimous verdict should be

LECTUKBS Ol^ LAV.

. carefully distinguished from the idea of a unanimous
sentiment in thoae who give th^ unanimous verdict,
n'hia distinction, perhaps, will be found far'from being
unworthy of your attention. But let us proceed.

That verdicts in civil causes, as well as v«rdicts of
conviction^ criminalKauses, must be unanimous in or-
der to be valid, seems to be a rule unknown tp the law
■of England for many ages after that of Alfred. During
some reigns after the conquest, the law was, that if some
of the jurors were for one party, and some fc»r the other,
new jurors were added, till twelve were found, who
«gr«ed ia opinion for one of 'the parties.'' In the reign
of Henry the third, a unanimous verdict was still not,
deemed absolutely necessary ; but the dissenting jurors
Were amerced, as guilty of a kind of offence, in obsti-
nately maintaining a difference of opinion..'

In the next reign; — that of Edward the first — it was
laid down for law l>y a respectable writer, t that when
the jurors differed in opinion, the judge, before whom
the cause was tried, niight, at his election, add others,
till twelve were found unanimous ; or migbt compel the
jury to agree among themselves, by directing the sheriff
to keep them without meat or drink, till they agreed on
their verdict. • There was still another method, which,
we are informed by a remarkable case in that reign, was
the custom. The verdict of the minority as wejl as of
the majority was ascertained, and distinctly entered on
the record ; and then judgment was given- according, to
the verdict of the majority.'

, 1. Keev. 106. . , Id. 243. t Fleta.

Bl.BeeY.48o. 'IiLibid^ i Hale. P. C. 397.

334 XECTyRES OH LAW*

•

In the eighth year of Ed«ward the third, when a' Juror
delayed his companions a day and a night,, wil&ont as*
sentlng or'giTing any good reason why he vould not
assent, the judge committed him to prison. In the fertgr
first year of the dame reign, the point was fully debated
in the court of common pleas, and, as has been generally
thought, finally settled. All the JMfqjrs, exc^|| one, were
agreed. They were remanded, and remained aU that
day and the next without eating or drinling. Being dien
asked if they were agreed, the dissenting juror answer**
ed, no ; and said that he would die first in prison. On
this, the justices took the verdict of the eleven, and
committed the single juror to prison. All this bsq>peine<i
in an assize. But when judgment was prayed upon this
verdict, in the court of common ple^, the justices were
unanim^sly of opinion, '^ that a verdict from eleven
jurors was no verdict at all." When it was urged, ^at
former judges had taken verdicts of eleven both in assize
and trespass, and one taken in the twentieth year of the
king was particularly mentioned; Thorpe, one of the
justices, said, that it was not an example for them to
follow, for that judge had been greatly censured for it;
and it was said by the bench, that the justices ought ta
have carried the jurors about with them in carts till they
were agreed. Thus it was settled, we are told^ that the
jurors must be tinanimous in the verdict ; and that the
justices may put them under restraint,/ if necessary, to
produce such unanimity. ^

Unanimity produced by restraint ! Is this the princi-
pie of decision in a trial by jury ? Is that trial, which has

been so long considered as the palladium of freedoi^i*-^

•

t

^2.Rcev;i»L,

WCTURBS OH LAfl

Is that trial brougtit to ita consummation by tyranny^a
most direful engine — force upon, opinion — upon opinion
gtveu under all the sanctions and solemnities of an oath i
Every other agreement produced by duress is invalid and
unsatisfactory ; what contrary principles can govern this f

Letuq here make a pause— let us turn round and look
back upon the point said to be settled, and the manner
of settling it. Useful observations will probably be the
result.

We see |hat,in civil cases, unanimity was not original-
ly required from the jurors : the unanimous verdict of
twelve was, indeed, deemed necessary; and, for this
reason, new jurors were added, till twelve were found of
the same mind. This mode must have been productive
of very great inconveniences. It was neceBsary that the
added jurors should be as fiilly informed concerning the
cause, as those who had been impannelled originally.
Every new addition, therefore, must have been attended
wkh all the trouble, and expense, and delay of a new trial.
Wiiii a view, probably, to avoid those inconveniences, a
cuitom was introduced to enter on the record the opinion
of tlie minority as well as that of the majority ; and to
give judgment upon the latter o|Mnion. '

» Inthe fifty sixth ycarafHenrythethirdjWehaveaprecedeiil
of the nwnuer, in which the entry on the record wa> made — " And

all the jury exc^t — say uprai their o»th, &c. and says upon

his oath, &c. Butbecause the aforesaid eleven aay accordingly, ScK.
therefore it is considered," Sec.

In a record of the fburtecnth year of Edwardthe first, the reason
Is assigned in these words— " qma dicto majoris' partis juratonim
ff*^THl|im est." To the principte— that & majority is sufficient— and
LECTUKES ON LAW.

From the record of the case, however, in which tWs
is stated to have been the custom, it appears that another
mode was adopted sometimes by the jurors among them<*
selves, and without any communication of it to the court.
A large extract of this record, of the twentieth year o£^
Edward the first, is furnished us in one of the valuable
notes, annexed to my Lord Hale's history of the pleas of
the crown. ^ The history of that case, and the conduct
of the jury who tried it, deserve very particukurattentioD.

Certain lands were recovered against a prior before
' two judges of assize, in the sixteenth. year of ^dward the
first. The prior complained, that injustice had been done
him at the assize; and the. bishop of Winchester and
others were appointed to hear the prior's complaint, smd
to do justice. The judges appealed, for their just^ca-
tion, to the record of the judgment, which they had given*
In that record, the conduct of the jury was statjed very
minutely. John Pickering, one of the jurors, in narnting
the verdict of the jury, was contrary to all the otiber
jurors ; for he narrated a different thing from what was
agreed upon aniong them, as appeared by their examkia-
tion. For this conduct he was amerced, and ordered into
the custody of the sheriff, till he made satisfaction for his
transgression. The judges, say the bishop afid his asso-
ciates, without specifying on the record, as was the cus-
tom in such cases, the opinions of the eleven, or the
. contradictory opinion of John Pickering, received the
verdict, as if aU had been of the same isentiment concern-
ing it, and gave judgment accordingly. This judgment

not— that unaniiyity is necessary— aa appeal is jxiade on tl^e records
2. Hale. P. C. 297.

Vol. 3. p. 29a.

le(:tur£s oh la

WftS} hy the buhop and his associates, declared contrary
to the law and custom of the kingdom. From this deci-
sion, a writ of errour was brought before the king, by,
die origiital plaintiff. But whether any final determina-
tion vas given, or, if given, what it was, we are not
informed.

From the record it ajqicara, that, whea the j urors could
not a^ee iti a verdict, it was the custom and deemed to
be the law to enter the different sentiments upon the ,
record, and give judgment according to those of the ma-
jority. But from this record somethingjmore appears. It
a[q>eara, Uiaut the jury might agree upon a verdict among
themselves, and appoint one of their, number to narrate
it to the court— that if the person, thus appointed, nar-
rated die Terdict in a manner contrary to what wis agreed
on, he was guilty of a miadetncanor — ^that the verdict
agreed on should not, however, be vitia.'ed by the preva-
rication of the foreman, but should be received according
to what was agreed upon among the jury. Such is the
evident inport of the racorA be£xe the judges of assize*
and of the jjid^ueiit which they gave upon the pro-
ceedings.

The bishop and hii usociates are extremely inaccurate
in ttating the iacts, upon which they ground their repre-
IwnsiaB of the judges. Ftora tE^ir statemeot one woidd
be led to imagine, that Pickering narrated one verdict aft
the voice of the other eleven, and another as his own ;
■nd that the judges, whhouttaking any notice of this tfon:-
trtdiction, had received and entered the verdict as a
unaMDOUs otie. But fhU was very &r from being the
fact, as it appears upon the record oF the two judges of
assise. Pickering spe«U«4 in lus auratioii no difference
TOI.. II, XX

rURES OK LAV.

of sentiment. He, on the contrary, attempted to palm
upon the court, tu a unanimous verdict, one contradio
tory to that which had been agreed on among th« jury.
The other jurors disclosed the verdict agreed oa. That
verdict was received and entered as a unanimous one.
Pickering himself appears not to have either denied'cH*
retracted his own agreement to it. The law and custom
of ^e kingdom, therefore, concerning contradictOfry ver*
diets, were applied, with great inaccuracy, to the proceed-
ings before the two judges.

Highly probable it is, however, that, before this ver-
dict was formed, much diversity of sentiment was enter-,
tained concerning it, among the jurors. The expressions
of the record are very remarkable — .** inter illos fuit pro-
visum'^—^e verdict was provided among them. Consi-
deraUon, consultation, adjustment are aQ suggested bj
this emphatick phrase.

One important subject of their deliberation is mention-
ed ; and it appears, that their sentiments were worthy of
the subject, which emplojied their attention. The prior,
it seems, claimed the plainUffas his villain. The conse-
quence of this claim, if established, would have been, that
the plaintiff could not have recovered the lands in ques-
tion. For a villain could acquire no property in lands or
goods i but if he purchased either, the lord mig^t enter
t^n them, or seize them for his own use. '

The jury found, that the> father of the pl^dff was a
free man, and of free condition ; and that although the
father and his issue held, of the prior and his predeces-

■ S: BL Com. 9S.

LECTURES ON LAI

■on, their tenements in villainage and by viUiUQ s
this should not prejudice them as to the freedom of their
persons. They assi^ the reason — because no prescrip-
tion of time can reduce free bleod to a condition of slave-
lyj therefore the plaintiff should recover. This position,
indeed, the bishop aiid his associates declare to be alto-
gether false; and some of the jury themselves, perhaps,
entertained a degree, of hesitation .concerning it, and
did not adopt it till after much deliberation and advise-
ment* They provided, however, a verdict, founded
on this position, and instructed one of their number to
narrate that verdict to the court.

.The cotiduct of thia jury in forming their verdict '
' deserves the attention — perhaps, as yre shall afterwards
find, the imitation of their successours'. Sentiments,
somewhat discordant wKen taken separately, may, by a ~
proper process, be melted down into a unanimous ver-
dict.

Hitherto we have discovered no law or authority,
which, in civil, causes, requires unanimity in the verdicts,
far less in the sentiments, of jurors. In this.reign, how-
ever, an approach seems, at first sight, to be made
towards the rule. The author of Fleta, who wrote in
the time of Edward the first, gives, as we have seen,
the ..eltiction to the judges, either to increase the
number of jurors till twelve are found unanimous,
or to compel the first twelve, by hunger and thirst, to
-agree.

The author of Fleta was a writer very respectable^:
great deference is due to his sentiments : but the senti>
ments of no writer have, on the balance of authority.

01M lectdreb oh lav.

the weight of judicial determinations. Besides, ihe
practice of withholding from jurors the causes of torpor
and the incentives of passion, while they ponder and
deliberate concerning their verdict, will, perhaps, be
traced to a source and to principles, very dilFerent from
those assigned by the author of Fleta.

The case decided in the forty -first year of the reign
of Edward the third may, perhaps, be urged as a leading
and governing authority for the principle of unanimity
in the verdicts and opinions of jurors. In that case, the
court said, that the justice^ ought to have carried the
jurors about with them in carta, till they were.agreedl
But, as to this saying of the court, I crave the liber^ of
proposing two questions.

Is it supported by any previous custom or Adjudica-
tion? Our investigations hitherto lead us to conclude,
th9t it has no sufch support.

Is it the point of adjudication in this very case ? It
is not. The question in judgment before the court was
this — FS the verdict from eleven jurors only a good
verdict? This question the court determined judicial!)^;
and their determination Was in the negative. But was
the other question — what shall be done with a disagree-
ing jury ? — was this question in judgment before diem?
It was not. Was the answer given to this question a
necessary consequence of their adjudication on the point
judicially before them ! It was not. The verdict (rf de.
ven jurors only might be an erroneous verdict. Does it
follow, that the errour can be prevented or rectified only
by carting the jury till they agree? According to the
practice previous to this saying of th£ court, it would

LECTTTRES OH LAW.

have been rectified by entering tin the record the o]»Di<m
of the dissenting juror. According to the practice subse-
quent to this saying, the errour would have been prevented
by directing a juror to be withdrawn. According to the
principles of jury trial, it might be prevented or rectified
by a variety of modes oth«r and more eligible than that
of carting the jury. Some of those modes will soon be
suggested.

" I would know," says my Lord Chief Justice Vaughan,
in the celebrated cause of Bushetl, ' " whether any thing
be more common, than for two men, students, barris-
tera, or judges, to deduce contrary and opposite conclu*
eions from the same case In law? And is there any
difTercQce, that two men should infer distinct conclusions
from the same testimony? Is any thing more known,
than that the same author, and the same place in that
author, is forcibly urged to maintain contrary conclu*
stons ; and the decision is hard which is in the right? Ii
any thing more frequent in the controversies of religion,
than to press the same text for opposite tenets ? How
then conies it to pass, that two persons may not,
with reason and honesty, apprehend what a witness
says, to prove one thing in the understanding of one,
and a contrary thing clearly in the understanding of the
other I Must, therefore, one of these," asks his Lordship,
" merit fine and imprisonment ?**

Must, therefore, both of these, I beg leave to ask,
merit what is worse than imprisonment and fine i Must
they be exposed, m ctuts, to publick derision, because
^y act a part which is common, inQoCttDt, unavoididile?

SVZ I/BCTCRZS ON LAW.

Must they suffer all the extrcmiues of hunger and thirst*
till, at last, agoiiizmg nature makes the necessary but
disgraceful barter of unsufferable punishment for degr^
ding prevarication? Are instruments Bubscribed by pain,
by infamy, and by shame— are these the letters recom.
mendatory, which our law despatches, or wishes to
despatch, to the remotest regions of the globe, in order
to concentre in the trial by jtiry the admiration and imi-
tation of all ?

It must, however, be confessed, that though no ju-
dicial determinations, so far as I know, are precisely in
■ the point ; yet the forms of our law, rendered venerable
by the immemorial practice of ages, seem at least to
countenance, if not to presuppose, the principle of una-
nimity in the trial by jury. When the jury retire, a bailiff
is sworn to keep them together till they be agreed of
theii^ verdict. When they return to the bar, the first
question asked of them is — are you agreed of your ver-
dict i This question must be answered in the affirmative,
before the verdict can be received. Such are the esta-
blished forms of the law. They seem to require a
unanimous verdict.

Every juror swears that he will give a true verdict
according to his evidence. The sacred obligation of this
oath demands, that to unanimity truth shall not be made
a sacrifice.

In this situation are the jury placed. Truth and
unanimity— qualities very distinct— qualities, on some
c^ccasions, seemingly irreconcilable — ^must unite in the
composition of their verdict. To extricate them' from
such a labyrinth, where the lair seems to point to one

I.ECTVREB OK LAW. 343 .

direction, and their oaths seem to point to another,
is there no affectionate hand to furnish them a clue ?

What is a verdict ? It is the joint declaration of twelve
jurymen upoa their oaths. Littleton calls it " the ver-
dict of twelve men." ''

" Vcredictum," says my Lbrd Colce, in his valuable
Commentary, ^' quasi dictum veritatis, as" judicium is
quasi juris dictum. £t sicut ad qusestionem juris nan
respondent juratores^ sed judices; sic ad qusstionem
facti, non respondent judices, sed juratores." A verdict
is a declaration of the fact : % judgment is a declaration
'Of the law. To a question of law the judges, not the
jury, shall answer : so, to a question of fact, the jur^-, not
the judges, shall answer. So far the paralle} holds,
exactly hetween the duties of judges and of jurors^
in their respective provinces of law and of fact. So far
ttie parallel holds hetween a verdict and a judgment.

We have seen what a verdict is; it is a joint decla-
ration of the jury. What is a judgment ! It is, I appre-
"hend, the joint declaration of the court. It is not merely
a declaration of a majority of the judges : it is the decla-
tion of the court. When it is solemnly pronounced,
even hy a dissenting president, it must be announced as
*' the judgment of this court" — ^not as the "judgment of
a majority of the judges." Why should not the parallel
hold, in this instance too, with regard to a jury, except
in a case of conviction, which has been already shown to
stand upon its own peculiar foundation?

^44 J^EGTURSS ON tAW*

We have seen, that, in this instance too, the'parallel
did hold formerly with regard to the jury. We have
seen, that the declaration of the majority operated as
the verdict of the jury. For some time, indeed, the
dissent of the minority was noticed on the record ; but
was it necessary to notice that dissent ? Was it necessary
to continue that practice ? Every one knows, that judg-
ments are entered as the acts of the court generally,
even when there is a dissenting minority. Why should
SLOt the same practice prevait^-^hy should we not pre«*
sume that the same practice has prevailed, with regard
to juries ? On the record, the transactions of the cotirt
bear the same stamps of ui^imity with the trauisactioii4
of the jury: whence, then, can it be inferred, tiiat
a degree of unanimity is, in reality, required from th&
jurors, which, on all hands, i^ acknowledged to. be unne<*
cessary in the judges ?

Whether, therefore, we consult the suggestions of
the records, or the information of etymology, the Infe-
rences of analogy, 9r the language of adjudications, we
shaB find no authority to conclude, that, in civil causesj
the verdi(!;t of a jury must be founded on unanimout
opinion.

But recurrence will still be had to tbb$e venerable
forms, immemorially established, which' eountenaftce
or presuppose the doctrine of \maniitiity in the trial by
jury. Befoi?e'a verdict can be received, it will be :urgfcdt
i^e jur^" mu^ deoliU-e, diat of thatriterdkt they are
agreed. . y

Permit me, on this occasion, to have recourse to a
conjecture. I propose it with diffidence : I pursue it

*

¥:

LECTURES ON LAW. ' i4>^

with c&ution ; if my expressions concerning it become
sanguine, it shall not be till I think I have established lt«
My conjecture is^ that by the phrase,. .*' agreed of a ver-
dict/'- nothing more is meant, than that the jury are wil*
, ling and prepared to give a verdict ; and by that means,
bring to a decision the controversy submitted to them^

In e*rly times^ a verdict, as we have seen^ could not
be prevented by the contrary vote or sentiment of one
ov'of a miilority.of the jurors* The jury \vap increased
till twelve w^re unanimous; or the vote of a majority
was received as a^ decision. But the effect of sin obsti^
ttate refusal: to give any vote was very different; We
bave seen, that aH the votes were required to be dis-
posed of on the^ record ; and that though eleven votes*
on one side, and one on the other, formed maiteri-
als for a verdict ; yet eleven votesf*, unopposed by the
diissenting one, were deemed insufficient for that purpose.
Those, therefore, who wished to c^bstruct the administra<«
tion of justi<?e ia the trial by jury, accomplished theit
wishes by refusing to give any vote on either side. In
turbulent times — and the times I allude to' were tur-»
bulent---this expedient would be often used, by the
frieiftds of a powerful usurper in possession, against a^
legal recovery by him who had right. To restrain and
to prevent the pemic,ious effects of such a conduct, every
juror was sworn to give a verdict ; the bailiff was sworn
to*confine him till be should agree to give it ; and no decla-
ration was received by the court, till it was unanimously
declared, that, as to the point of giving a verdict^ they
were afi agreed*

These obsdrvatioiis :si^ill throw a new light upon some
jioii^ts, which have been already mentioned. The case
TOL. II. Y y

!■■. * *

L

346 {.ECTURjeS ON LAW.

of ati obstinate juror, of the species now described, hap*
pened, as we before noticed, in the eighth year of the
reign of Edward the third. Upon that case, my Lord
Chief Justice Vaughan makes the following re-
marks : " This book," says he, ** rightly imderstood,
is law : that he staid his fellows a day and a night, with-
out any reason or assenting, may be understood, that
he would not, at that time, intend the verdict at aU, more
than if he had been absent from his fellows ; but wilful-
ly not find for either side. In this sense, it was a mis-
demeanor against )iis oath; for his oath was" truly to
try the issue, which he could never do, who resolved
not to confer with his fellows.** ** And in this sense,^*
adds he, ^^ it is the same with the case 34. Ed. III. where
twelve being sworn^ and put together to treat of their
verdict, one secretly withdrew himself, and went away^
for which he was justly fined and imprisoned ; and it
diifers not to withdraw from a man's duty, by departing
from his fellows ^ and to withdraw from it though he stay
in the same room : and so is that book to be understood.***
These remarks corroborate what I have mentioned<r-that
the great object seems to have been to secure a decision^
not a unanimous decision, by verdict. For both the
cases, just now noticed, happened before that whidi is
alleged to have settled the principle of unaniniity* I
hope, I have now established my conjecture..

I have asked, ** since judgments ate entered as the
acts of the court generally, when there is a dissenting
minority ; why should not the same practice prevail-^
why should we not presume that the same prac^ce has
prevailed, with regard to juries ?** I now go farther, and
undertake to evince, that the reason for that pracHce U

cVaugh. 15I4

»t

• > LKTURES ON LAW. 34/

itkXLch'gtesLttm, and that, consequently, the presumption
ia its favour is much stronger, in the case of jurors, than
it is in the case o/ judges. This will appear from a va-
riety of considerations.

In the turbulent times, to which I allude, the jurors,
a$ we arc told by Montesquieu, were obliged to fight
either of the parties who might give them the lie. When
there was no dissent, or which, as to this point, was the
same thing— -when no dissent appeared, a party who gaVe
t)|e lie to one, must engage in single combat with each.
Their numbet would render him circumspect. A regard,
therefore, to the security of jurors would superinduce.
cvQjl^ prudent appeaiance of unanimity in their opinions
and verdicts. But this reason applied not to the judges.

In times the most civilized and tranquil, it is impro«
^r to expose jurors unnecessarily to the. concealed re-
•e^^tment of those, who may be- affected by the parts they
•everally take in the juries, of which they are members.
This reason is applicable, but not so strongly applicable,
to the judges. 4

In this argument, whatever shows a greater reason
for preserving the vestiges of diversity in the sentiments
of the judges, than in those of the jurors, will have the
same effect, as that which shows a greater reason for pre*
serving the appearance of unanimity in the sentiments
of the jurors^ than in those of the judges. We haye
seen,** that ** a judges particularly a judge of the com*
mph law, should bear a great regard to the sentiments
and decisions of those, who have, thought and decided
before him.** We have seen, « " that the evidence of

^ ADte. p. 302/ * Ante. p. 310.

548 L£CT0IiBS ON LAW.

facts— ^nd facts are the ^emntt of juriet^— <^aiti0t ht
ascertained, distinguished, or estimated ^by any system
of general rules ; and that, for this reason, the evi4eiice
of facts must, in every case, depend on circumstances,
which to that case are peculiar." The natural conse-
quences from these two positi<»n8<are> that it might be
useful, perhaps material, to preserve, on the record,
evidences of the unanimity or diversity <^ sentinieBts,
with which judgments are given, so that they may make
the slighter or deeper imppession on die minds of suc^
ceeding judges ; and that such a measure^ with regard to
verdicts, would be altogether useless and iramatmal ;
since every verdict rests on its own peculiar circumstaaces^
without precedent and without examqde«

The result' is, that the reasons for apparent unanimi-
ty on the record are not so great, nor the presumption
arising from them so strong, in the case of judges as ifx
the case of jurors : an apparent umminutyy however, is
preserved^ while a real diversity of sentiment suhsistsf
jn the case of judges': there is, therefore, much greater
reason to presirme, that a real diversity of sentiment
may subsist, though an apparent unanimity be preserved,
in the case of juries.

It may be naturally asked— if this principk of unani*
mity in the trial by jury be unfounded ; how has it hap^
peiied, that the opinion of its existence hi^ been so ge-
neral and so permsaient, not only among the pec^le at
large, but even among professional characters I Tfah
has already been accounted for in part. It. was prudent
to preserve the appearance of unanimity: this aniforal
appearance would naturally produce and disseminate soEt
pptpioh that the unanimity was real. Besides^ in one

LKOTURSB OH LAW. 849

i^pecies—rUi the most important species of verdicts— ^those
of convieCiOB in criminal, stiil more in capital cases"-^
thi^ unatiimity, upon the principles which have b^en ex«
plained, was not cfoly apparent, but real and ihdispensa-
ble. Fardier ; the awful precedents set by Alfred, to
.establish the principle of unauimity in this species of
verdicts, would naturdly make a deep and lasting im»
pression upon aH— upon professional characters, as well
as upon others. Impressions, deep and lasting, are al«
Ways diffusive : their influence, therefore, extended be-
yond those causes, which had ori^naliy produced them.
Unanimity, confined, in its principle, to verdicts of eon- .
vietion in criminal cases, was applied indiscriminately to
cases and verdicts of every kind — ^to verdicts of acquit-
tal, as well as to those of conviction — to cases civil, as
weH as to cases eriminal.

This subject, so very interesting to juries and to all
who, and whose causes, are tried l>y juries, I have
inv^estigated minutely and carefully, historically and upon
principle. Of many late dicta I have taken no notice,
because they are suspended on those of a more early pe-
riod. To trace matters to their remotest sources, is the
most satisfactory and the most successful mode of *de-
tecting errours, as well as of discovering truths.' In ^

doing both, I hope that, on this subject, I have had

«

some success: if so, I shall have much satisfaction ^
for I shall have contributed to dispel a cloud, dark and
heavy, which has hitherto shaded and hung over the
triad by jury, so luminocn when beheld in its untnter^
cepted lu«tie.

If I lunw been successful, many practical advantages
will result to parties, to jurors, and to judges. My

MO

LXGTURX8 ON X.AW.

Aeory is ^loitly this. To the.CQ&viciioii»of a crlsne^ 4»
iindottbting and the unaniinaus sentimieat of the, twelve
jurors is of indispensable nece^itjr. tn civil cau^sest the
sentiment of a majority of the jurors forms the verdict of
the jury, in the same maimer ^w the sentiment of a ma-
jori^ of the jadges forms the judgment of the court. In
many cases, a verdict may, with, great propriety, be com-
posed of the separate sentiments of the seversd. jurors,
reduced to what may be called their averse i^esult. This
will be explained. Hitherto, I have said nothing con-
cerning, verdicts of acquittal in criminal cases. After
what has been observed, it is unnecesMoy to say much
concerning them. If to a verdict of conviction, the un-
doubted and the. unanimous sentiment (^ the twelve
jurors be of indispensable necessity; the -conseifueaoo
unquestionably is, that a single doubt or a sii^e dissent
must produce a verdict of acquittal.

Let us now see whether this^ theory^ short and pban,
may not be reduced to practice, with great security and
advantage to parties, to juries, and to judges.

In criminal prosecutions, the state or sodiely is always
a party. From the necessity of the case, it is also always
a judge. For we have seen, that, in ^he social coiMract,
the party injured transfers to the publkk his right of
punishment, and that, by the publicly the parly iajiaing
agrees to be judged. The state acts by tiie medium ctf
the selected jury. Can the voice of die state be indicated
more strongly, than by the unanimous voice of thb select-
ed jury ? Again ; the state, though a party on one side,
has a deep interest in the party on the otkerside ; for to
a well organized state, every citizen is precious. Accord*
ing to the theqiy which we are now t|yin^*by its apfili*

LECTTTRES OlT LAtT*

^Sl

cation to practice, the state can lose no preckms part of
herself, unless on the strongest indication that she herself,
if consulted on the occasion, would say,

-— imme^ycabile vutous

Ease recidendum evt; Reparsjunceratrohetar*

\

Bjr the practice of this tl^pry, the sta,te will lose no inea(i»
ber by the malice or reaenlment of a single individual^
who, with a tonstitutton as strong as his heart ishard^
can -starve his fellow jurors into a reluctant and prevari-
cating verdict of ocmviction.

How stands the olh^ party to a criminal prosecution I
He standa single and unconnected. He is accused df a
crinae^ For bis trial on this accusation, he is brought
before those who, if he is guilty, represent his offended,
judge. If it were possible, the characters of party and
jndge should be separated altogether. When that is im«
possible, the greatest security imaginable should be pHrOf*
vided against the dangers, which may result from theit
union. The greatest security is provided by declaring,
and by reducing to practice the declaration, that he shall
not suffer, unless.the selected body who act for his coun*
try say unanimously and withoutjiesitationr*-4ie deserves
to suffer.' By this practice, the party accused will be
effectually protected from the concealed and poisoned
darts of private malice and malignity, ^d can never suffer
but. by the vo^ce of his country*

By this practice, we are led to see the beautiful and
exquisite propriety and emphasis of a fo];m, which is used
every day in criminal trials ; but which is the object of.
Uitle attemibn, because it is used every day* When the

/

dll

%JKiTVhBB^:<^1g hAW.

jwy 9X€ sworn to try 9^ pevscm £91* «. eriam, iht clerk o£
the eourt mform^ them sneekictly of the aature of the
charge ; that the prisoner h^ pleaded to it^ that be is act
guilty ; that for trial he has put himself vpon his country
'—"which couaAry," adkb he, "you are.-' Upon the
principles wbicif I have s|ftl»d and €Xfimatdy st jury, in
criminal cases, may, indeed, be called the' country of the
person accused, aiffed the trial by jvary nia^r, iDdi^e<^ be
deaominaited &e tr'ml ptr p^triiem*.

" In a well tempered govettttttwt,'' says the £mpr^a
of Russia, in the excellent .tastruGtioBS wfakh ahe gsMtre^
concerning a code of laws for her extensive empire^ " In
a well tempered goveTument, napersoix iadepri^^ of his
life, unless his couiktry rise up against him." ^ Ijet cl&era
imow, and teach, and publish, and reconrniead fine fcSi-
tical priiiciptes : it is ours to reduce thcsn to practice

We may now conclude, that the ptactke of die idieory,
wfakh we have explained, is advaa«sige6(UB>and seotrefor
the parties in erimkial causes* Let ufe next examine it
in r^Iatkm to causea of a civil tM&te^ Here, we say, diie
aentiment of a majority of the jurokrs forms the verdict of
the jury, m the same AmMer as the ventiment of a m^i^^
jevity of the judges^ forms the judgment of the court*

That the sentiments of the majority shatt govern, is,
as we before showed at large, ^ the general rut^ of socie^.
To this rule we have seen the (Strongest reason to intro-
duce an exception, with regard to verdicts of conviction
in. criminal prosecutions, fioes the &ati» reason ext^id
to civil eausesf i We* presume not. In; cakilr causes, tiise

f a^WanBibiOr.

t iUMbs^ vei I4 ]!. dl«.

'U

/
uc;rvR£s x>N LAW*. ' ssz

jQll^(rtw4 ^fl!M4|r m4iffer€Qt to t|ie parties on either side.
At ^^ jvH^H^al ^9^9^^ tk^a bwgft in {^rfect equipoise
^^^tweieQ theqi; it i^ for tjieir aecurityv ^^ ^Qi* their ad«
vaatnge too, that ^he scales should clearly indicate the
proportippfd weight 9ifh^ ^4 tnitLiYhtc^ i^ thrown into
them, and that a prf^nderi^icj oipi the whole should
direct the decision. To insist that a jury should be una-
ai|ii|04|s, if aventwdiy, in many cases, tp ordain, $hat
their vi^rdijCt.sh^ ffot.b^ fbe legitimate p^^pring of free
deliberation and candi4 discussion ^ but shall be the spu-
rious brood of stfisp^ of constitution and obstinacy of
tcniper* Fqr. tk^ advantage and seci^rity of the parties
^a cannot be ; tlie other mi^t.

*' . ■ ..."

Let ^8 npw consider this subject ^s it respects juries*
Vvovf^ the principle of unanis^ity, as it has been often
^^d£T$tood, he who 'will ,be. obliged to dischsurge the iniT
portant trusts and duties of a juryman has but a comfort?
lesa prospept beCpr^ him. H^ i^ust pefforin the most
interesting business pf aoci^tyr^he must decide upon
£brtunp, upon charact^, uppn lit^erty, upon life : all thi^
he must perform in conjunction with others, whom he
does not ^hpose, whojn, perhaps, be dpes not know, with
srfapin, perhaps, hp would not wi^h to associate f for
jd^QugljL jurors are sel^cted> they ai?e not selected by one
unotber : aU this, top, k^ mi^t perform inreal or in cpun*
terfeited unanimity with ejeven pther^, each of whom is
summoned and appears on this busii^eiis under the sam^
untoward circumstances with himself. What, must he
4o i In the affairs of li^, re#d i^i^i^iity aiiip^g s^ch a
number is little to be ejected i least of a)l is it to be
ies|>ecled in mattes w^if^h ^/^ litig9ted, and cpnceiHiiig
orUch, if there had b^ep i|o doubt, it is to be presumed
lliere would have beM f¥> cpntrovevsy. If real unj^umity
VOL. II. a z

354 LECTVREft 0V %AW.

eaiinot be expected, he must either couitterfeitlthiittsdC»
or he must be an accessory before the fact to the counter-
feiting of it by others. The first is the principal, tlie
second is inferiour only to the principal degree of diaitt-'
gehultj''. Such a situation can nevef be desirable : on
soine occasions, it msiy be dreadfidi '

Let us suppose, that matters are brought to die »ttl
alternative — that a juror must ruiti his constitution, or,
perhaps, literally starve himself ; or, to avoid immediate
death or a languishing life, he must, contrary to his con-
science, doom a fellow^ man and a felloe citizen to die—- ^
what must he do? In this crisis of distress, he praysr
direction from the. laws of his country: the laws of his
countr}"^, as often understood, tell him— you must starve :
for it cannot be insinuated, that the laws will advise htm
to belie bis conscience. 'He obeys the hard mandate: by
the virtue of obedience he loses his life : by his death the
jury are discharged: fdr now there is a natural^ as well
as a moral impossibility of obtaining th^unabimous ver-
dict of twelve mdn. The former produces what, on every
principle of morality and jurisprudence, the latter ought
most unquestionably to 4iave produced. But what must
be the consequence of the jury's discharge? Does tt dis-
charge the person accused ? No. A sedond jury mint sit
upon him i and before that second^ury muslt be brought
all those inextricable difficulties, which ptoduced? sack
calamity in the first. u. .

Where is this to end? By the {H^actice of the^princi-
ples which I have explained, this tan never ..begin. It is
no hardship for each juror to speafc>^Inft genume ^xsA
undisguised sentiinem. Is it fc»: co&viction ? Let him
declare it. Let^ every other, in tte same manner, dedai*

LxcTuaes on law^ ?SS

■

JM^ gemiific : and undi^uised seuting^nt* If the ^eminoyei)^
4>f every other is for coaviction ; the verdict of conviction
i^ unftnrmout. . If a fiingle senjtlment is not for conyiction ;
^en a verdict of acquittal is the immediate consequence.
To this verdict of ^aojpitta^, every one. whose private sen-
timent was for conviction ought immediaitely to agree*
For by the law, as it has been atated^ twelve votes of coa-
v^tion are necessary to compose a verdict of conviction ;
but eleven votes of conviction and one against it compose
a verdict of acquittal.

Thus it is as to ci'iminal matters* Under this dispo**
^tton of things, can an honest and conscientious juror
dread or suffer any inconvenience, in discharging his im«
pertaat trust, and performing his important duty, honestly
and conscientiously ? Und^sr this disposition of things,
will the citizens discover that strong reluctance, .which
they often and naturally discover, against serving on juries
in criminal, especially in capital cases ? Under this dis-
ppsition of things, will those who have influence with the
returning officer, exert that influence to prevent their
being returned ; and will those who cannot prevent their
being returned, but can pay a fine, , pay the fine ratherv
than perform the service ? Under this disposition, will
juries, in criminal, especially in capital cases, be compo-
sed— as we have seen them too often composed — chiefly
of such as have neither influence enough to avoid being
returned, nor money enough to pay a fine for their non-
aUendance?

In civil causes, the. business of the jury will be mfina-
ged and directed in the same manner as the business of
the court, and of every other publick body* Unanimity
will always be acceptable ; free and caiulid discussion

35»

LECtUlikS <rtl lAW.

will alwsqrs, be used : if they produte onatiimtty, k is welfe
if they reach not this hi^ aim, acquiescence wifl be
shown in the sentiment of the majority. This is tl*
conduct of legislators : this is the condtict of judges : wfaf
41i6ald.not this be the conduct t^ jurors I

* I mentioned, Aat, in man3r cases, a verdict may,
great projaiety,^ be composed of the sepatate scnthncnlSi
of the several jurors, reduced to whattnay he cdled thefts
avera^ result. This I now explain.

It has been observed — and the iiAscrvatlon Has beeii
illustrated at great length— that Ae power of jurffes is a
discretionary power. This discretionary power acrise»
from the nature of their office. Their office is to try the
truth of facts : the truth of facts is tried by their evi-
dence t the force of cvi^eace cannot be digested by ndes,.
nor formed into a r^utar system.

In many causes, there can be but two different senti«
ments. If, for instance, a suit be brought for the re<:6ve1fy^
of a horse ; there can be, among the jury, only two
opinions — ^that the plaintiff ought, and that he ought
riot, to recover.^ If there is a majority on either side,,
the voice of the majority should govern the verdict. H^
on each side, there be an equal number of opinions, the
verdict should be in favour of the possessor. ^ M^or est
conditio possidentis.'*

»

But there are many other causes, in which twenty
different opinions toay be entertained, as well as two ;
and there is no ilxed itile, by which die accuracy or
inaccuracy of any one of thetn can be ascertdned. An
•ction of slander, fol instance, is brou](htl>)r a youiig

woman to recmrer danuiges for an hijuty, whidb she hka
stxstained fay the defamation of her character* A variety
of opiniofis ina]r4)& formed, Without end, eoncetning the
partkukr sum which she ought to recover. Each of
those various opinimts may be composed from a variety
of combining circuntstances, the precise force of any of
which can nelwr be liquidated by ahy known nActlibds
i:ff cakulation* Those combining circumstances will ariW
firom llie situation afatdxharacter of the plamtiff, from the
situation and characterof the defendant, from the nature
and kind of the injury, and from the nature and extent
of the loss* In the mind of each of the jurors, ^cording
to his situation aiid character, each of those combining
circumstances may produce an effect, different from that
which is produced by them in the mind of every other
juror. The opinions, which are composed of those
circumstances operating thus differently, must, ofneces-
sity, be different. Each juror^ forms his own. The
Opinion of each has' an equal tide to regard. How shall
a verdict be collected from twelve opinions, no two of
which are the same? Let each pronounce the particular
sum, which, he thinks, the plaintiff ought to recover t
let the sums be added together : let the amount of the
whole be divided by twelve : let the sum produced by
this division form the verdict of the jury. In this man-»
ner I explain what I me^n by a verdict, " composed of
the separate sentiments of the several jurors, reduced to
wfcat may ht called Aeir average result.'^ This mode
of fbrming a verdict will, on many pccasions, be found
useful and satisfactory* r

Let^us, in the! last place, consider this subject as it
regards judges, Judges do not, indeed, undergo, but,.
With mdancholy, dympathetick f^^lingo^ they are obliged

3S% M^TUiMKa c#^ LAW.

10 wit&e«i-F-<4i»3F« they are obliged to be imtrttiiif»t9} h
the fe«l|&gs. ^hidi jar^ra uiidergi^ froan^die I»^iac^»lc
and the practice of unaniouty, as it is £requeiitlyvuBflm>
etood.

•■ — '

How oalural is it for a jwry^ wjoxf^down by tUist, gad
huBger, and want of sleep, dbtimcted^y altercatioB»4nHl
debates, bewikieired by Ae di^lculiiee aad embasraai|i»
ments by which those detotes aad^ ahjeifcatioDs wos^
produced — how natqjral is itior them to fly, for relief and
iastructioo, to the court! Before the eoiut they i^pear,
pale, anxioua, dejected i and beg the court to instruct and
relieve 4hein. On .the principle of unsmimity, as o&e^
received, what -can the co^irt do or advise i If they are
well disposed-— and we will presume them wi^ disposed
' —they will, with every miurk of compassionate attenticm
and regard, advise them to do— what, if they could
h|ive done, there wpuld have been no f^plication lor
advice*-^^^ gentlepien, we advise you to agree : retum to
your qh&mber ; confer ^geAer ; . reason together ; come
to an agreement ; fpr you must agree ; otherwise ^e
caimot receive your verdict." ^ ,

« I have presumed the, court to be weU diqiosed: for
this presumption, there is tM>t alw^^ys a sufficient ground.
In the celebrated trial of Willia^i Penn and William
Meade, four of the jurors diss^ited from the others.
The recorder of London, before whom the cause was
tried, addr^esaing himself to Mr. Bushel, one of the four
disjienters, said, Sir, you are the cause of thb disturb-
aause, and manifest show yourself an abett<»* of faction ;
I shall, set a mari; m you, Sir, Oentlen^n, said he
to the whole jury, you shall not be dismissed, till we
have a verdict that Ac coult will iiccept ; and yojji shall be

iscTtrftxs our i;aw» 9S9 .

JiDcked 1^ wklioiit meat, drinks fife, and tc^bftceo : we
will haire a verdict, by the help of God j or you sb^dl
eearve for it*'* /

But I have presuttied the court %0he well disposed.
ICthey really £re^ so, their situatidxi id, indeed* a distress-
§ai<me. They see before them a- body of tneti; iiiflrustea
1^ their country with the gteatest and inost intereathig
ponders : in the execution of this high trust-, they see
them suffering, thoergh not ofifetidi^g r from thosie unme^
rited sufferings, they feel themselves ^ttogethcrintfiipaA
Ue of Itffording relief. What, in this sitiiati^, is left
to the CQurt? The alternate emotions of compassion and
regret— compassion for those, whom they cannot aid—
regret, -because they cannot aid them. *

By reducing to practice the theory, which I have
iitated and explained, the judges wBlbe disbutthened df
nil that uneasiness, undei: which they Otherwise ' niust
labour ; and will, on every occasion, have it in theif
pbw6r to relieve and advise satisfactorily every jury,
who may apply to them for advice and relief. '

Is the jury sifting in a criminal cause I Are they atii
loss what to do i Do they pray the direction of the court?
The court may give them a series of directions, whieh,
one would imagine, must contaun a remedy for every
complaint.— Gentlemen, each of you must know the state
ef his own mind* Each of you must be clearly of opinion
that the prisoner ought to be convicted, or that he btight
t6 be acquitted; or you must be dotiAtfuI what opinion
you must form. If the first be the case, you ought t6

* ■ " " t u, - «

> 2.StiTr.613.614.

S60 I^SOTIfBIS im JLAfVc

f»ie fin* m convu»ciaa t i£ tklffr ot ikt^^Plm Imf^ be.tk^
cii«et youQtti^t to Tote.for maoquUt^K Whatwea^
ia the case of one, we say in the case of eveiy^jwe* Ijct.
every one, ther^ore^ govern his own vote by these di«
reclioiis;^ Whf n the vo^Df eaieh isjfoeiM^ i <2ie next step
is to <30mp^s(B 4bf( v^iidiet of ^U^fipoffi th^ v<^ ^ m^hM
Let the vo^^y ^hen^ Jie^t^ak^a t tl|fiy>9it»9l iH^#i|iieriiii«iu^
mws.or ii0t5iiu^ii||t|i|Bi^ if they; fU'e: dot ^nftnimMs, lei
«U agrfSf to a V:^rdic^ p( ncquiltai 4 if ^y are ^ssqi^
nmis, th^y n^nftC be uMnimous for acqaitt^l^ or for Mmn
Viotion : if the fit^rmttit th$ v^rfik^ is 9, v^^ of ncfuil^
fal : if ,th4 latter, the yerdict^is a vei^ict of ei^vtei«tt«*

V . - , ■'•■■■''■..' . . . ^

Is the jury fitting in a civil jpai^ i Are they, in tbii».
cause toO) a* a loss what to doi Dp th^y pray the ^irei;?
tion of the court i The court may^ in this cause too, give
1^1^411 aserte^i of satisfactory 4irpctiioQ;i«rrQ^^cAien,^caii
Duly two opinions be entertained concerning the cause
before you? If sos^ aiterfreely aifid ci^ndidly discussing
th^nuuter by friendly confer^ce s^mooy; yc^irselvesr let
each mak^ up his oym opinion ; let aU the opinions be
collected : if their^ be a xnajority on either side, let all agree
to a verdict in favour of that side: if there is an equality
^ votes oil (iKach.iiide, let the verdipt he given in favour
of possession* May any indefinite number of opinions
be entertained concerning the cause, before yqn?. Let
eachjuror foi7nhi$ ow^: let the, verdict <^on^tQf the
average result of all*

' ' ' . . • .';.'' ■ : •' *

. I truf ^ I h^ve now sh^wn^, ^t, by re4u<:ipg to prac*
tice the theory, which I have advanced 09 the subject pf
l3&Qildmity .in jury trials, vmj^ solid advantages woidd
result from it to jv^ges, to juries, and to parties. I trust,
i have established t]w tlhllpiy ojievery pillar on which a

, ^ X.SCTURES OH Z.4Vf 561

legal thepvy cao^be hiislt«HWi precedent—Non autiiority-^
QQ principle.

To sdl ^ nationst'iiiduch 8iraniied>&oi&.the iiortheni
liive^ the trial, by jury ^as commoo: tanone of them,
the principle «of uxumimity was kpown.

I here fiouh what, ait present^ I propose to «ay^
coAccming the doctrine of uoanimity in the trial by jury;

Of juries there are two kinds; a grand jury, and a
traverae jury. The institution of the grand Jury is, lit
•least in the pres^it times, the pecidiar boast of the com-
mon law* In the annals of the worUl^ there cannot be
found an institution so well fitted for avoiding abuses,
which might otherwise arise from malice,^ from rigour^
frotn negligence, orirom partidity, in the prosecution of
crimes.

« In Athens, we can discover the vestiges of an insti-
4ntion, which bears a resemblance, though a very slight
one^ to diat of grand juries. There was among them a
^ (previotLs inquiry befcire that trial, ki which the final sen*
•eence wa» pronounced.

*

In cases of murder, the relations of the deceaaed
alone had aright to prosecute. ^ There is' an evident re-
semblance between this regulation, and that part of the
Ik^ of England, which relates to prosecutions by appeal.
When crimes ^W^ere committed immediately against the
govemmi^t of Athens, every citizen might step forward
as thie prosecutor ; for an injtury offered to die com-

i 3. 66g. Or. I^jrt
yQU II. 3 A '

I

I

i62 Lie'niftss on lav*

*

monwealdi W9S contidered m pevsonal lo etch of ht
meinben*

AmoDg the Romans^ too, any one of the citizens was
peimitted to prosecute a publick offence. Wi& all our
predilecUon^ however, for those celebrated republicks,
we must admit, that these regpulations were extremely
^iqudicious, and produced mischiefs of very dai^jcrous,
though of very opposite kinds. Prosecutions were, on
some occasions, undertaken from motives of rancour
and reveaoge. On other occasions, a friend, a dependent,
perhaps a confederate, of the criminal officiously engaged
to prosecute him, with a view to ensure his impunity.
Of diis we have a remarkable instance, in the case of tlie
infamous Verres* Coecilius, hJMft creature and associate,
disputed with Cicero the right of accusing him. The
preference was adjudged to Cicero, in a process knovm
by the name of divinatiom

There was a time, says Beccaria, when the crimes
ef the subject were the inheritsince of the prince.i J^
jfU^h a time probably it was, than the judge himseU be*
eitmt the prosecutor. In several of the feudal nations^
this was, indeed, the case. The gross imprc^rie^of tlua
regulation appears at the first view* The prosecutor is
a party : without the last necessity, the^j^osecutor ou^t
not to be both a party and a judge..

Among the Saxpi^, as we are infonned by |if r. $d[«
den, besides the satisfaction recovered by the party in-
jured, there was a way found out to punish the offender
by indictment* The difference, adds he, between

iBeccir

iBGHUftSS ON LAW. 3^3

former Indictmeats and those jin these days^ conaista in
this, that the gncient indicttnents were in the name of
one man ; those of the latter sort are in the name of the
jury^ Time and experience, continues he, refined this
way of trial into a more excellent condition. ^

In the reign of Henry the third, the presentment of
offences was made by a jury of twelve, returned for every
hundred in the county. But towards the latter end of
the reign of Edward the third, another improvement was
introduced into the institution of grand juries. Besides
the jury for every hundred, the sheriff returned a jury
for the county, which was termed " the griind. inquest."
When this grand inquest inquired for the whole body of
the county, the business of the' hundred inquest, and
the whole trust wd duty of making presentments and
finding indictments, naturally devolved upon the grand
jury.*

A presentment is an accusation brought forward by
the grand jury of their own mere motion. An indict-
ment is a particular charge laid, by the publick prosecur
tor, before the grand jury, and found by them to be
true.

The trust reposed in grand juries is of great and ge*
neral concernment. To them is committed the custody
of the portals of the law, that into the hallowed dome
no injustice may be permitted to enter. They make, in
the first instance, the important discrimination between
the innocent and the guilty. To the former, they give

^ Bac on Gov. 53, 54, S7. ^ 3. Reev. 210, 311,

564 LtCTtlAES OH XAW.

ft passport of security : the latter diey consign to a final
trial by a traverse jtiry.

The mailner, in which grand juries ought to make their.*
inquiries, welt deserves to be attentively considered. It
has been declared by some, that grand jucies are only to
inquire, *^ whether what they hear be any reason to put
the party to answer" — ^^ that a probable cause to call iiim
to answer, is as much as is required 1>y law." But, in-
deed, such a declaration is very litde consonant to the
oath — die best evidence of the law — ^which every grand
juryman ii obliged to take. He swears, that h^ will in*
quire diligently. As little is such a declaration conso-
nant to ancient authority and practice.' ^^ In those days,^
says my Lord Coke,"* speaking of the reign of Edward
the first — -^' in those days (as yet it ought to be) indict-
ments, taken in the absence of the party, were formed
upon plain and direct proof, and not upon probabilities
or inferences." Still as little is such a declaration con-
sonant to the voice of reason and sound sense. An in-
dictment has been styled, and with no small degree of
propriety, the verdict of the grand jury. ** It ought to
itnpoit all the truth which is requisite bylaw ; and every
-part material ought to be found by the oath of the in-
dictors." Now, is it consistent with reason or sound
sense, that a verdict found upon oath-^upon an oath to
make diligent inquiry-— should be the vague, perhaps the
visionary, result merely of probability? Ought not mo-
ral certainty to be deemed the necessary basis of what
IS delivered, under the sianction of an obligation so so-
lemn and so strict I

n 3. Int. 364

i

I.ECTWRSS OK lAir. MS

Tlie (loetrine, that a grand j\iry may rejit satisfied
merely with probabilhies, is a doctrine dangerous as well
as unfounded : it is a doctrine, which may be applied to
toufitenance and promote the vilest and most oppres-
sive purposes : it ittay be used, in pemiciou& rotation^
as a ^nare, in which the innocent may be entrapped, and
as a screen, under die cover of which the guilty maty
escape.

' r

It has been alleged, that grand juries are confined, in
their inquiries, to the bilk offered to them, to the crimes
given them in charge, and to the evidence brought be;^
fore them by the prosecutor. But these conceptions are
much too contracted : they present but a very imperfect
and unsatisfactory viei^ of the duty required from grand
jurors, and of the trust reposed in them. They are not
appointed for the prosecutor or for the court: they are

• appointed for the government and for the people : and of
both the government and people it is surely the concem-

. ment, that, on one hand, all crimes, whether given or
not given in charge, whether described or hot described
with professional skill, should receive the punishment,
which the law denounces ^ and that, on the 6iher hand,
innocence, however strongly assailed by accusations
drawn up in regular form, and by accusers marshalled
in legal array, should, on fuH investigation, be secure
in that protection, wliich the law engages that she shall
enjoy inviolate. "

The oath of a grand juryman — and his oath is the
commission, under which he acts^-'-assigns no limits,
except those marked by diligence itself, t<E> the course ef
his inquiries : why, then, should it be circumscribed by
more contracted boundaries i Shall diligent inquiry be

306 I^ECTVUXS 0« XAir*

enjoined ^ And shail the mesois and opfiortilnities of
inquiry be prohibited or restrained i

^ ■ ' . " '

The grand jury wre a great channel of communication^
between those who make and administer the laws, and
those for whom the laws are made: and administeied*
All the operations of government, and of its n^nistera
and officers, are within the compass of their view and
research. They may suggest publick improvements, and
the modes of removing puhlick inconyeniences : they
may expose to publick inspection) or to publick punish-
ment, publick bad men, and publick bad measures*

The relative powers of courts and juries form an
interestitig subject of inquity. t^onceming it, different
opinicms have been entertained ; and it is' of much con-
Sequence, in the study and in the practice too of the.
law, that it be clearly and fully understood. I shall
treat it in the same manner, in which I have treated
other questions of great importance : I shidl esLamine it
historically and on principle.

From a statute made in the thirteenth year pf Edward
the first, usually called the statute of Westminster the
second, " it appears, that the contest between judges and
juries concerning their relative powers ran, at that time^
in a direction very different from that which it has taken
since. The judges, then, were disposed to compel the
jury to find the law as well as the fact : the jury were
disposed to show /the truth of the fact only, and to refer
to the court the determination of the law. The statute
interposed, and declared the discretionary power of the

/

LECTUIUSS ON LAW* 367

jury to do which of the two they thought most proper.
*'^ It is ordained, that the justicest assigned to take assizes
shall Qot compel the jurors to say precisely, whether it
is or is not a disseisin." A general verdict of this kind
included the question of law as well as the question of
fact. ^^ It is sufficient that they show the truth of the fact,
lind pray the assistance of the justices. But if they
will voluntarily say, whether it is or is not a disseisiii^
their verdict shall be received at their own peril."

This statute; recognised the law as it thei) stood, but
introduced ndnew law. We are informed by my Lord
Coke, in his commentary on it,^ that in all actions,
real, personal, and mixedy and upon all issues joined,
general or special, the jury might find the special m^>-
ter, of fact pertinent and tending only to the issue joined,
tt^d might. pray the discrietion of the court for the law*
This the jurors inijght do at. the comtnon law, not only
^i; cases between, party and p^rty, of which the statute
puts an example of the assize ; but also in pleas of the
crown at the suit of the king* This. statute, therefore,
like many others of the, ancient atatutes, isonlyin.affirm^
unce of the comQiQn Jiaw. ? .

T '

> " ' '

Bracton, who wrote rn^the reign- of Henry the thiwl,
tells us^^ that a distinction was commonly taken between
the provinces of the judges and jutors in this manner-^
truth is to be displayed by the jury ; justice and judg-
ment by the court. Yet, says he, it seems that judg-
ment sometimes belongs to. the jurors, when they declaim
upon their oath, whether such a , one disseised or 4i|l
Aot djisseise such a ow i according to which dedara-

•2.hifi.4^» p9.Rcp.i3;. ^BractlS^b.

368 • zXGTU&ss on ZAWm

«

iioiif die jj[i4gttieiit of the court is rendei^d. But^ Bdd^bt,
as it belongs to the judges to pronounce a just judgment,
it is incumbent on them diligently to weigh and examine
what is said by the jury, that they themselves may not
be misled by the jury's mistakes*

We have the high authority of Littleton, diat, in cases
where the jury may give their verdict at large — in oUietr
words, a special verdict, stating the facts, and praying
the decision of the court as to the law — ^they may, if
they will take upon them the knowledge of the law,
give their verdict generally, ' as is.put in their charge* ''

In a ease determined in the reign df Queen Edi^abeth^
it was objected, that a juiy cocdd not give a apeci^I
verdict upon a special and coUat^al issue ; but that, in
auch case, the jury ought to give a precise and catego-
rical answer to the question arising from s^ch special
issue. It was resolved, however, unanimously Jby the
court, diat the law will not compel the jurors to take
4ipon them the knowledge of points in law, either in
4tases of profMVty, or ill diose which concern life ; send
that it will not compel even the jndges to give their
opinions of questions and doubts in law upon the sudden j^
but^ in sncb cases, the truth of the fects should be found;
and, after constderaikion and- conference, the question
should be determined according to< the law."

III thii famous trial of John Lilbume, for publishing
a^book, entided, an impeadiB^ient of hig^- treason against
Oliver Cron»well, we hear a kln||;uage, very -different
•from that) tb< which w« ha^ hidifei^'b^en accustpmed.

** Lit 1 36$. 1. Ins. 1238^ • 9. Rep. XI. b. 13.

££CTUlt£S OH X>AW« , 369

I

(

-"* I*et ,^ltbe bearers know" — ^said Mn Justice Jerstin,
sk judgje of the upper bench) a;s it was jealled during the
commonweakh, and who was one of the commissioners
appointed in the e^xtraordinary commission of oyer and
terxainer for the trial of Mr. Lilbume — " Let all the
bearers know, the jury ought ^p take notice of it^ that
the judgeSf that are sworn, that are twelve in number, .
^ey hayc ever been the judges of the law, frojn the fir§t
lime that ever we can read or hear that the law was truly
es^pressed in Englaind: and the jury are only judges,
whether such a thing were done or no ; they are only
j^ud^a of maUer of feet." ' Lord Commissioner Keble
delivers it as the opinion of the court, that " the jury
are judges of matter of fact altogether f but that they are
not judges of master of law." ^ The prisoner urged the
authority of my Lord Coke, that the jury were judges
of the law as well as of the fact ; but, by a mistake,
mentioned the book as a commentary upon Plowden
instead of Littleton. The court told him there was no
such book ; that they knew it a little better than he did.
He pressed to read it ; and said that it, was an easy mat-
ter for an abler man than? him, in so many interruptions
as he met ^ith, to ntjatake Plowden for Littleton. " You
Gacinot"*^these are the words of Judge Jermin, as men-
Uoned in the report of the tri^l--*^' you cannot be suffer-
ed to read the law: you have broached an erroneous i
opinion, that the j.ury are the judges of the law, which
Ui enough to destroy all the law in the land-; there was
tteve? sueb a dinnnable heresy broached in this nation
before."^ Mr. Lilburnepersiste4y however, and read his
authorities.

frS.StTrikl« uU<»9i ^W.iWd,

VOL, lit 3i^

.;3^ LSCTUftES OK LAV.

** Extremes in nature equal ^nds produce/' As were
aome of the judges undo: Cromwell^ so were sovalt of
the judges under Charles the second. We have had
occasion to take some notice of the trial of William Pens
and William Meade. The jury, at ls»t, agreed cm a
rerdict of acquittal. This verdict the court could not
refuse ; but they fined each of the jurors forty maak%
far giving it, ^ because it was against the direction of
tfie court in matter of law." ^ The jurors were impari-
•oned tin they should pay the fines. Mn BusheS^, xmt
of them, sued a writ of hi6eas corpus out of the couit
of commoA pleas* His case was heard and determined
- there ; and the cause of commitment was adjudged to be
insufficient, and Mr. Bu shell was discharged.

To what 6Bd-»*4aid Lord Chief Jnitice Vaugfem, in
delivering the opinie^ of the €ourt--^to what end are
jurors challenged so scrupulousl}' to the array and the
poll i To what end must they be true and lawful men,
and not of affinity with the parties concerned ? To what
end must they have, in many cases, 1^ view, for dieir
exacter information chiefly i To what end must they
undorgotiie heavy punishment of the vill^nous judgment ;
U^ after all this, they must impHcidy give a verdH^ct by the
dictates and authority of another man, under pain of fines
" aasd imprisonment, when sworn to do it according to the
best of their own knowledge I A man cannot see by an-
other's eye, nor hear by another's ear ; no m6re can a
man cottclnde on infer the thing to be resc^pd, by an*
o&er*stmderstanding or reasoning*

Upon aH general issues, the jury find not the fact of
every case by iuelf, l^avingthe law to the court ; but find

* .

LECTU&Efl OV LAW* Z7l

ibr the plaintiff or defc^ndant upon the issue tried, where-
in Aey resolve both law and fact complicately, and not
fbi^ fact by iff elf. ,

Ineveiy caae, says the lat^ Sir Michael Foster, wh^e
the point turneth upon the question, whether the, homi-
cide was comipitted .wilfully and maiiciouslyi or und^
circomatances justifying, excusing, or alleviating; the
ixiatter ^fact, to wit, whether the facts alleged by way pf
justificalion, excuse, or alleviation be true, is the propet
4iod only province of the jury. But whether, upon a sup-
positioit of the truth of the facts, such homicide be justi-
fied, excused, or alleviated, must be submiUed to the
judgment of the courts ^

It is of the greatest consei^uence, says my Lord Hard-
wtcke, to the kw of Ei^land, that the powers of the judget
aad jury be kept distinct : that the judges determine the
law, and that the jury determine the fact.'

This well knowti division between their provinces baa
been long recognised and established. When the ques«
tion of law and the question t>f fact can be decided sepa^
rately ; -there is no doubt or difficulty in saying, by whom
the separate decision shall be made. If, between the

' parties litigant, there is no contention concerning the
faets, but an issue is joined upon a question of law, as is
die case in a demurrer ; the determination of this ques-^

^ tion, and the trial of this issue, belongs exclusively to the
judges. On the other hand, when there is no question
concerning the law, and the controversy between the
parties depends entirely upon a matter #f fact ; the de-

"" Vaiq^ 148.15a r Feet 315. > Hardw.36.

«

t

J

»^

5ff t^ECTURSS tm LAW*

termination of this matter, brought to an issue, belongs
exclusively to the jury. But, hi many casesy the qaestton
of law is intimately and inseparably blended, widi the
question of fact : and when this is the case, the decision
of one necessarily involves the decision of the other*
When this is the case, it (s incumbent on the judges to
inform the jury concerning the law ; and it is ineuttbent
oa the jury to pay much regard to the information, whiefe
they receive from the judges. But now tl}e difficulty, m
this interesting subject, begins to press upon us. Suppose,
that, after all the precautions taken to avoid it, a differ^
ence of sentiment takes place between die judges and thei
jury, widi regard to a point of law : suppose the law and the
fact to be so closely interwoven, that a determination of
one must, at the same time, embrace the determination of
the other : suppos,e a matter of this description to come
in trial before a jury«--what must the jury do f-^«-The .
juiy must do their duty, and their whole duty : they must
decide the law as well as the fact*

This doctrine is peculiarly applicable to criminal cases ;
and from them, indeed, derives its peculiar importance*
When a person is to be tried for a crime, the accusation '
charges against him, not only the particular fact which he .
has committed, but also the motive, to which it owed its
origin, and from which it receives its complexion. The
first is neither the only, nor the principal object of exami-
nation and discussion. On the second, depends the iniio*
cence or criminality of the action. The verdiet must '
decide not only upon the first, but also, and principattf,
upon the second : for the verdict must be coextpnsive and
commensurate with the charge.

It may seem, at first view, to be somewhat extraordi-
nary, that twelve ;men, untutored in the study of juris-

tKCTURfiS OH LAW. JT3 »

prttdence) ^botild be the ultimate interpreters of the law,'
with a' power to overriile the directions of the judges,
* who have made it the subject of their long and elaborate
researches, and have been raised to the seat of judgment
for their professional abilities and skill.

Btit a deeper examination of the subject will reconcile
us to what, at first, may appear incongruous. In criminal
eases, the design, as has been already intimated, is closely
interwoven With the transaction ; and the elucidation of
both depends on a collected view of particulars, arising
not only froni the testimony, but also from the character
and conduct of the witnesses, and sometimes also from
the character and conduct of the prisoner. Of all these,
the jury are fittest io make the proper comparison and
estimate ; and, therefore, it is most eligible to leave it to
thenl, after receiving the direction of the court in matters
-of law, to take into their consideration all the circum-
' stances of the case, the intentioii as well as the facts, and
to determine, upon the whole, whether the prisoner has
or has not been guilty of the crime, with which he i«
charged.

Juries undoubtedly may make mistakes : they may
commit errours : they may commit gross ones. But
dhanged as they constantly are, their errours and mis-
takes can never grow into a dangerous system. The
native uprightness of their sentiments will not be bent
under the weight of precedent and authority. The esprit
du corps will not be introduced among them ; nor will
society experiente from them those mischiefs, of which
the esprit du corps, unchecked, is sometimes productive.
Besides, their mistakes and their errours, except the ve-
nial ones on the side of mercy made by traverse juries,
UCTVJl£ft OH LAW.

are not without redress. Of im indictment found fajr a
grand jury^ the person indicted may be acquitsed om. his
trial. If a bill be returned ^^ ignoramus'' improperly, the
accusation may be renewed before another grand jary»
With regard to the'tmverse jury, the court, if disnitisfied
with their verdict, have the power, and will exercise ihe
power, of granting a new trial. This ^weri| whUe it
prevents or corrects the effectaof their errourSf pr^Mrvj^
the jurisdiction of juries, unimpaired. The cause is not
evoked before a tribunal of another kind. A jury ^ the
country-^an abstract, as it has been called, of the citizena
at large, — summoned, selected, impannelled, and svorq.
as the former, must stUl decide.

One thing, however, must not escape our attention*
In the cases and on the principles,, which we have men*
tioned, jurors possess the power of determining legal *
questions. But they must determine those questicm^y as
judges must determine them^ according, to law. The .
discretionary powers of jurors find no place for exertion
here. Those powers they possess as triers of facts ; be.-
cause, as we have already observed, the trial of facts
depends on evidence ; and because the force of evidence
cannot be ascertained by any generid system of rules*
But law, particularly the common law, is governed by
precedents, and customs, and authorities, and maxims.;
those precedents, and customs, and authorities, and max-
ims are alike obligatory upon jurors as upon judges, in
deciding questions of law.

True it is, according to the sentiment of my Lord
Hardwicke, that it is of the greatest consequence to pre«
serve the separate and distinct powers of the judges and
the juries. But equally true it is, that those sepairate and

LECTITRES ON LAW. 3T6

dUiitict powers may be rendered reciprocally beneficial,
by the most pleasing and harntonious cooperation*

In favour of a conclusion of this kind, the conduct of
juries bears ample testimony. The examples of their
tcfsistkig the advice of a judge, in points of law, are rare,
except where they have been provoked into such an oppo-
sition by the grossness of his own misconduct, or betrayed
into an unjust suspicion of his integrity by the misrepre-
sentation of others* In civil cases, juries almost univer-
sally find a special verdict, as often as the judges recom-
mend it to them. . In criminal cases, indeed, special
verdicts are less frequent : but this happens, not because
juries have an^ aversion to them, but because such cases
depend more on the evidence of facts, than on any diffi-
culties arising in points of law.

Nor is it a small merit in this arrangement, that, by
means of it, every one who is accused of a crime may, '
on his plea of *' not guilty," enjoy the advantages of a
trial, in which the judges and the juiy are to one ano-
ther a mutual check, and a mutual assistance. This
point deserves from us a full illustration.

Some things appear, at the first view, to be alike,
which, upon a close inspection, are found to be mate-
rhdly diffei^nt. To a puperficial observer, no very im^-
portant distinction would seem to arise, between the
credibility and the competency of evidence. Between
them, however, a most important distinction subsists*
They spring from different sources ; they run in different
directions ; and, in the division of power between the
court and the jury, they are, with great propriety, allot-
ted to different provinces. In some instances, indieed.

376 " I.ECTURES ON LAW*

the Hne of division i& scarcely percepiible ^ but, even in
those instances^ the law points out a proper mode of
management*

Evidence is of two kinds, written and oraL In each
kind, the important distinc^tioa between its competency
and its credibility takes place. In oral evidence, bow^
ever, or the testimony of witnesses, the distincticm id the
most important; and, for this reason, it ahould be
clearly known and strictly preserved*

The excellency of the trial by jury, aays the great
and good Lord Chief Justice Hale, is, thitt they are the
triers of the credit of the witnesses, as weU as the truth
of the fact : it is one thing whether a witness is admisr
sible to be heard : whether, when he is heard, he is to
be believed, is another thing. ^
It is a known distinction, says Lord Chief Justice
Willes, in a very celebrated cause, Aat the evii£ence^
though admitted, must still be left to the persons who
try the causes, to give what credit to it they please. ^

That I may observe it once for all, says Lord Chief
Justice Hale, in another place, the exceptions to a wit-
ness are of two kinds. 1 . Exceptions to the credit of
the witness, which do not at idl disable him from being
sworn, but yet may blemish the credibili^ of hiB XeaA>'
mony ; in such, case, the witness is to he allowed^i bat
the eredit of his testimony-is left to the juvyr ^^^^ <^>^
jttdi^a of thr fisurt, and likewise of the probdhility or
impnebafaility, cradibiiily g» incredibifity of the

LECTURES ON LAW. ZTT

aod his testimony ; these exceptions are of such great
variety and multiplicity, that they cannot easily be
reduced under rules or instances. 2. Exceptions to the
competency of the witness, which exclude him from
giving his testimony : and of these exceptions the court
is the judge.®

The writers on the civil law, to which the trial by jury
has, for many ages, been unknown, have attempted to
reduce the credibility and incredibility of testimony
under rules and instances \ but their attempts have
shown, what, indeed, has been likewise shown from the
nature of the thing, that such a reduction is not only not
easy, as my Lord Hale says, but is altogether and abso-
lutely impracticable.

Evidence ' is, by those civilians, distinguished into
different degrees — into full probation ; into probation less
than full } into half probation. The deficiency in half
probation is made up, sometimes by torture, sometimes
by the suppletory oath of the party. ^ Concerning circum^
stantial proofs, rules, unsatisfactory because unfouttdedy
have been heaped upon rules, volumes^ have been heaped
upon volumes, and evidence has been added, and divi-
ded, and subtracted, and multiplied, like pounds, and
shillings, and pence, and farthings. In the parliament of
Toulouse, we are told by Voltaire,*^ they admitted of
quarters and eighths of a proof. For instance, one hear-
say was considered as a quarter ; another hearsay, more
vague, as an eighth ; so that eight vague hearsays,
which, in fact, are no more than the reverberated echos .
of a report, perhaps originally groundless, constitute a

c 2. HUe. P. C. ^6. A Com. onBec c. 22.

VOL. IX. 3 c

3T8 LECTURES ON LAW.

full proof. Upon this principle it wais, that poor Catas^
was condemned to the wheeU

Evidence is that which produces belief** Belief is a^
simple act of the mind, more easily experienced thaa
describe^. Its degrees of strength or weakness cannot^
like those of heat and cold, be ascertained by the pre^
cise scale of an artificial thermometer. Their eifects,
however, are naturally fek and distinguished by a sound
and healthful! mind. With great propriety, therefore,
the common law forbears to attempt a scale or system
of rules, concerning the force qr credibility of evidence :,
it wisely leaves them to the unbiassed and unadulterated
sentimeftts and impressions of the jury. But with regai^d
to the propriety or competency of evidence, the case i*
ver}' different. This subject is susceptible of systeso.
and of rule. This subject, therefore, is wisely com.«
initted to the information and experience of the
juciges.

The most general and the most conspicuous rule
with Regard to the competency of evidence, is, that the'
best, of which the nature of the fact in question is capa-
ble, must be produced, if it can be produced : if it cannot
be produced, then the best evidence, which can be
obtained, shall be admitted. Both the parts of this.
rule are founded on the most solid reason. To reject,,
as incompetent, the strongest evidence which can be
procured, would be rigid, and unaccommodating to tb€^
various vicissitudes of life and business. Ta admit an
inferiour kind of evidence, when evidence of a superiour
nature is withheld, would prevent that degree of satis-
faction in the minds of the jurors, which evidence should
be fitted to produce^ Evidence produces belief: the

V tECTURBB oir LAW. 979

^0B|[e8t evidence produces the strongest belief: whj
)s the strongest evidence withheld I The party, in whose
power it is, can have no motive for withholding it, unless
he is conscidUs that it would disclose sotnething^ which
has interest requires to be concealed* The satisfactory
Administration of justice, therefore, demands, that h
should be laid before the jury.

*
The application of this rule is most extensive. What
ought or ought not to be presumed in the. power of the
party, must be collected by a full and intimate knowledge
or information concerning the business and transactions
of life. The most authentick materials of information
and knowledge are furnished by juridical history— -a
subject deservedly the professional study of judges of dif
common law*

* Another rule, of high import in the adjninistratioft
of justice, is, that evidence, in order to be admitted,
xniist have a proper degree of connexion with the ques-
.tion to be tried : in legal language, it must be pertinent
to the issjie. A variety of evidence, unconnected with
€be point specified' by the record for the examination
of the jury, would have a tendency to bewilder their
minds, and to prevent that strict and undivided atten-
tion, which is so indispensable to the satisfactory inves-
tigation of that, which they are empowered and intrusted
to decide.

The evidence proper to be given in each of the nume-
rous kinds of issues, which come before a jury, forms a
y^ry interesting portion of legal knowledge. At present,
we can only show the principle and the importance of that
accuracy, which the law requires in the admission of

^80 LSGTVREft OK LAW.

t

evidence. The preservation of this accuracy is fitif
committed to the experience of the judges.

With regard to oral evidence, or the testiratony of
witnesses, the rule of the law is, that proper testimony
may be received from the mouth of evoiy intelligent
person, who is not infamous or interested. Concerning
the points of intelligence, of infamy, -and of interested-
ness, a great variety of rules are established by the
law. To apply those rules to cases which occur in the
course of practice, is, with obvious propriety, allotted
to the judges*

In one of those subjects, however— -I mean the inte-
rest of witnesses— the line of division, between the
province of the judges and that of the jury, is faintly
marked, and difficult to be ascertained. The degrees of
interest are so numerous, and the effects of the saine
degree of interest upon different characters and in differ-
ent situations are so diversified, that it is impracticable,
in many instances, to define exactly the precise bouiidary,
at which the question of competency ends, and the
question of credibility begins. In doubtful cases of this
description, the judges, especially of late years, presume
in favour of the province of the jury. This is done with
great reason. For an objection, urged, without success,
against the competency of a witness, may be urged suc^
cessfuUy against the credibility of his testimony ; and to
the objecting party it is altogether immaterial, whether
the testimony of the witness is rejected or disbelieved*
When an objection, says my Lord Hardwicke, is made
against a witness, it is best to restrain it to his credit*

LECTURES ON LAW*
unless it is like to introduce great perjury ; because it
tends to let in light to the cause. ' ■

I

s

In arranging and in summing up the evidence, the
court, from their knowledge and e^^perience of business,
can giVe great assistance to the jury. In questions ^of
law emerging from the evidence, the assistance of the
court is still more necessary and essential. Lord Chief
Justice Hale observes,' that a judge may be of much ad-
vantage to the jury, by showing them his opinion even
in matter of fact.^ Of the sentiment of a judge so ex-
emplary in his delicacy as well as in his candour, I
risk not the disapprobation ; but I add, that this power
can never be exercised with a reserve too cautious.

We have seen, by a number of instances, how, in this
administration of justice, the jury receive assistance front
the judges. Let us now see how the judges receive as-
sistance from the jury.

*' Ex facto oritur jus." The jury lay the foundation
of truth, on which the judges erect the superstructure of
law. A correct statement of the facts, every profes-
ftional gentleman knows, is necessary to an accurate re«
port. A true verdict given by the jury, is an essential
prerequisite to a just judgment pronounced by the court.
Judgihents < in supposed cases may abundantly evince
professional skill ; but they will never have a decisive in-
fluence over society — they will never come home to the
business and bosoms of the citizens- — ^unless they are
practically founded on the manners, and characters, and
Tights of men. The manners, the characters, and the

^ Hardw. 36o.

f Hale. Hist ^^.

083 IfiCTU&Sfl ON l^AW. _

rights d^ men are truly and practically reported by the
verdicts of juries*

To judges of a proper disposition, the assists^nce of
juries is soothing as well as salutary* In.crimin^ cases,
it is unquestionably so. ^^ To say the truth"— *I use the
language of thehumtoe LordChief Justice Hale"— *4t were
the moat unhappy case that could be to the judge, if he^
at his peril, must take upon him the guilt or innocence
of the prisoner, and if the judge's opimon moat rule the
matter of fact." «

Take upon him the guHt or innocence of the prisoner !
It may be soothing, indeed, to judges, to .be relieved
from this mental burt;^en,* of all the most anidous : but
upon wbom^-methinks J hear a citizen ask— upon whom
must this most anxious of all mental. burthens be laid?
How must it be bom by those on whom it is laid i

This very serious and momentous question brings be-
fore us the trial, by jury in a view, the sublimity of
which I have often admired in silence ; but which now
— though I feel myself far inferiour to the task — I must
endeavour to describe and explain. I solicit your candid
indulgence, while I attempt to delineate the particulars,
of which this prospect, magnificent and interesting, is
composed ; and then try, with unequal efforts, to convey
the impression which naturally wiU result from the com-
bination of the whole.

It will be necessary to review some principles, of
which notice has been already taken in the course of my

g3.Hsle.P.C* 313.

LECTtTRES ON LAW» 3SS

lectures. In a former part of them h I observed, that,
whea society was formed, it possessed jointly all the
previously separate and independlint powers and rights
of the individuals who formed it, and all those other
powers Jjnd rights which result from the social union. I
observed, that all those powers and rights were collected,
in order to be enjoyed and exercised ; that, in a nume.
rous and extended society, all those powers could not^
indeed, be exercised personally ; but that they might ,be
exercised by representation. I asked, whether one power
might not be delegated to one set of men? and whether ano-
ther power might not be delegated to another set of men ?
alluding to the legislative and executive departnients. I.
mentioned a third power of pociety — that of administer-
ing justice under the laws. I asked, whether this power
might not be partly delegated, and partly retained in
personal exercise ; because, in the most extended com-
munities, an important part of the administration of jus*
tice may be discharged by the people themselves. I
mentioned, that all this has been done, as I should have
the pleasure of showing, wjien I should come to examine
our governments, and to point out, by an enumeration
and comparison of particulars, how beautifully, how re-
gularly, and how usefully, we have established, by our
practice in this country, principles concerning the distri-
bution, the arrangement, the reservation, the direction^
and the uses of that publick power, of which the just
theory is still unknown in other nations.

I have had the pleasure of explaining the powers,
legislative, executive, and judicial, which the people
have delegated ; I come now to that part of the judicial

> Ante. vol. 1. p. 189^1S1.

I
864 ^ LECTURES ON LAW.

authority, which they retain in persoi^al exercise^*^!
mean, the authority to decide in criminal cases ; in cases,
especially, of life and^eath.

This may be consi4ered in two different points of light;
as a power, and as a burtheq* As a burthen, it is consider-
ed as too heavy to be imposed, as a power, it is con-
sidered as tQO great to be conferred, permanently upon
any man, or any organized body of men* We have
seen it a discretionary— ^o far it partakes of a legislative
power. - We have seen that, in large and extended com-
munities, necessity directs the delegation of other legis-
lative power. This is a species of legislative power,
which may, and therefore should, be exercised in per-
son. In cases of life and death, the standing juris-
diction remains with the people at large. As emer-i
gencies occur, an abstract of the people is selected for
the occasional exercise of it. The moment that the oc-
casion is over, the abstracted selection disappears among
the* general body of the citizens. No one citizen, there-
fore, any more than any other, can complain of this, as
an uneasy burthen. Except on particular occasions^
and during those occasions, it is imposed on no one.

If jurisdiction in cases of life and death, considered
as a burthen, is uneasy to those who bear it ; consider-
ed as a power, it is tremendous to those who behold it.
A man, or a body of men, habitually clothed with a
power over the lives of their fellow citizens ! These arc
objects formidable indeed. By an operation, beautiful
and sublime, of our juridical system, objects so formida-
ble are withdrawn from before the eyes of our citizens
—objects so formidable do not exist. To promote an
habitual courage, and dignity^ and independence of sen^

JtECTHREft OK J^jkMf.. M5

jtiment and of actions in the citizens^ should be the aim
of every wise and good government. How much are
these principles promoted^ b^^ this beautiful and subHme
effect of our judicial system. No particular citizen can
threaten the exercise of this tremendous power : with
the exercise of this tremendous power, no particular eiti-
zen can be threatened. Even the unfortunate prisoner^
the day of whose trial is come, the jury for whose trial
are selected^ impannelled, and returned— *even this nn»
fortunate prisoner cannot be threatened with the exercise
of this tremehdous power by any particular citizen*
When he comes to the bar and looks upon the prisoner,
a single superciUous look wiU produce a peremptory re.
jection.

Uncommonly jealous is the coiMtituti<»i of lite United
States and that of «Pennsylvania'upon this subject, so in*
teresting to the personal independence of the citizens*
The formidable power we have mentioned is inter-
dicted even to the legislatures themselves. Neither
congress nor the general assembly of -this common*
wealth, can pass any act of attainder for treason or
felony.^ Now, an act of attainder is a legislative vern
diet.

I have said, that this authority remains with the peo*
pie at large. Potentially, indeed, it does; actually, it
cannot be said to remain even, with them. The cdn*
trivance is so admirably exquisite concerning this ti^e*
mendous jurisdiction, that, in the general course of
things, it exists actually no where. But no sooner does.

i Cons. U. S. Art. 1. s. 9. G^nsrfenn; Art 9. s. 18.
VOL. 11. 3 p ^

3i6 I^CCTURISS ON l.A;V»

9Xky patticular emergency call for its operataofloi, 'dtan it
starts into immediate eitistence*

But it remains, that I give sati^factioft irkh regard ta
the inquiry'-^how shall this burthen, attended with so
«iuch tmeiteiness, he bom by those, upon whovi^
Aotxgh only occasiona&y, it is laid I

It is, we acknowledge, a most weighty burthee. That
man mtist, indeed, be callous to seosihility, who, with*
out amotion and anxiety, can deliberate on the question
— ^whether, by his voice, bis fdOiow main.afnd fi^Bow citi>
sen shall live or die* But while capital pamshmentt
continue to be inflicted, the burthen Inustbebom; asd
while it must be bom, every citizen, who, in the ser-
vice of his country, may be called to bear it, is bound
to qiKdiiy himself for bearing it in iiuoh a mamier, as
win ensure peace of mind to himself; jostif^e to him
whose ikte be may determine, and honour to the jiididaS
administration of his country. By so qualifying faitosdE^
' though, in the dischai^ of his duty, he wiQ feel straatg
emotions, he wiH, from the performance ^of it, feei no
remorse*

I must again enter upon a review of some principles^
of which notice has already been mken*

With regard to the law in criminal cases, et^ry citi-
zen, in a government such as ours, should endeavour
to- aciquire a reasonable knowledge of its princijdes aiMl
rules, ibrtlie'dii^ction of his conduct, when ixe is odted
to obey, when he is called to answer, and when he is
called to judg^. On ql^estions of law^ his 4eSciencie»
will be supplied by the professional directions of ^te

j^idgesy whose. 4i|t^ and whos^e bmsiiiess it b. p:^fea8ioii*
afly t» dscect him. Fob, aijs we have seeijs, verdicts^ ia
o^imiflal cases, gexiftH% <ji^teirmii>e the t|uestipa of lekWj,
a^ ^«11 astdie quose^an o£ fa^t. %ies<fioi^ of &iBi,. it u|,
hb eicchiAive pirwii^e to 4e^2!«))Q^* Wich^ th^ cQaeider^*
tioa of ettdteace^ itn^ona^ted with tb($ %u^of> wh^f h^
h»i ia, to try, hia fttteiijb^ witt tiM h^ <i[i^^ai::ti94;: fer eyetsy^.
thing of that nataiiiei^ we piseswjWie, wJU b6 eiK^J^fi^d by>
the court. The collected powers of his mind, therefore,
will be fixed, steadily and without interruption, upon the;
issue which he is sworn to try. This issue is ar issue of ^
fact* Its trial will depend upon the evidence. Evidence,
in every cause, is thar which produces : evidence, in a
' capital cause, is that which forces belief.

Belief, as we have seen, is an act of the mind, not
easily described, indeed, but easily felt. Does the juror
feel its force I Let him obey the constitution of his na-
ture, and yield to the strong conviction. If the evidence
produce, upon the mind of each of his fellow jurors, the
same strong conviction, which it produces on his, their
sentiments will be unanimous ; and the unanimous senti^
ments of all will still corroborate the strong conviction
of each. If a single doubt remain in the mind of any
juror, that doubt should produce his dissent ; and the
dissent of a single juror, according to the principles
which we have explained, and, we trust, established, will
produce a verdict of acquittal by all. x

Considered in this manner, is the duty of a juror, in
a capital case, intolerably burthensome ? It cannot, in-
deed, as we have said, be discharged without emotion :
but the unbiassed dictates of his own constitution will
teach — will force hirai to discharge It properly.

5SS

LECTURES ON LAW.

In crimiiia!U-»in capital cases, with what sublime ma^
jesty does the trial by jury now appear to its ravished
beholders ! In the first and purest principles of societ7
its foundations are Idid: by the moit exquisite skill.
United with consummate benignity, the grand and finelj
proportioned edifice has been raised : within its watts,
strong and lofty as well as finely proportioned, freedom
fehjoys protection^ and imiocence rests secure.

CHAPTER VII.

THE SUBJECT CONTINUED.

t

Of SHERIFFS AND CORONERS,

^ • . . ■' . '

T'. ' -

HE sheriff is an officer of high respectability in our

juridical system, and was known to the most early ages
of the common law.

Among the Saxons, his power was very great and
extensive — judicial as well as ministerial* In his minis-
terial character, he executed the writs of the king and
the judgments of his courts : in his judicial character^
the sheriff presided in the several courts of justice com-
prehended within the sphere of his jurisdiction* He was"
chosen in the county court by the votesof the freeholders;
and, like the king himself, says Selden, j^ was entitled to
his honour by the people's favour*

• •.

All the other nations of Gothick and German origin,
who, on the ruins of the Roman empire, founded king-
do tas in the different parts of Eurc^e, had officers of the

o Bac on Got. 41. ^

590 L£CTV&£S ON LAW.

same kind with the sheriffs of the Ang^o*Sasoiis« This
is a strong evidence of their high antiq^uity, as well as
general respectability* ^ In some of the Gothick consti-
tutions, the sheriffs were elected by the people, but con-
firmed by the king* The electicm and appointment were
made in this mannei*: the people chose twelve electors ^
those electors nominated tbi:^e^p^|S(HPi5' to the king ; from
those three the king selected one, who was the confirmed
sheriff. ^

The popular elections of the sheriffs, in England, were
lo|it by the people in the reigns of Edward the second and
Edward the third ; and a new mode of appointment was
substituted in their placfc..^ I9 itbf time of Lord Chan-
cellor Fortescue, the manner of the dection of sheriffs
was as. foUpwsA Every year there met,, in. the court of
exchequer, aQ the king^s coui\selIora, as well lords spirit
tual and temporal, as all other the king^s justices, all the
barons of the exchequer, the master of the rolls, and cer-
tain other officers. All these, by common x:onsent, nomi-
nated of .every county three persons of distii^ctton, such
s^s they deemed be^t qualified for the office of sheriff,
and presented them to the king. OS the person^ so
nominated ajtid returned, the king m^de choice of one,
who, by virtue of the king's letters pateAt^ was consti-
tuted high sheriff of that county, for which he was so
chosen^ ^ This mode pf nomination andy appoii^tm^nt
st^ll continues in England. ^

It has been usual to appoint them annually. But in
the reign of ftenry the fifth, we find from this custom, a

*» 2. Hen. 245. -o i.K, Com. 340. * 4. Hk Com, 430.
« Fort.de laud, c 24. - ^Wood.r<K

fkxtiumtrkfaty fexccfption^ rendered very r^maifkaA>l« by
•the Tea9<><i ^saSgnM for it. The kitig is ^erfiii«ted tt) *
appoint sherifis for four years; "because by w<ft*s aftd
p^stUetice th^r^ are not a sij^cient tiu^iiiiber r^ittdfiivig;
iti tlie dlflPcfretit coufities^ to discfh^rge thift ofSce froHl
year to year."*

By « parliainentary regulation made f« the rtipk of
Edward the second, atid repeated m that of Edward ^h^
third) it wds directed that shei4fe should be chosen frotfi
^tKfi 'persons t^ had landff in <their shires ; and that those
Istnds should be sufficient to answer to the kii^ and hk
people, if grieved, ^

By a law of the United States, a marshal is appointed
for ea A district for ifce term of four years ; but is remo*
vable from his office at pleasure. * As no particular mode
is specified by the law for appointing the marshal, hi*
appointment f«Als, of course, under the general provision
ttKiide by th6 nfrtioaail constJtutton. i The president nomi*
nates, and. With the advice and consent of the "senate,
appoints him. His powers alid his duties are, in^enersd^
coincident with those of a sheriff, u

% Bar. on St. 386. ^ 3.^eeT. 7a. .

* Laws. tJ. S. 1. cbng. 1. sess. c. 2a s. 27. J Art. 2. s. 2.

k u ri;^ marshals of the several districts, and their deputies^
shall have the same powers in executing the laws of the United.
States,,a8 sheriiis and their deputies, in the several states, have by
law, in executing the laws of the respective states." Laws U. S.
3. cong.2. sess. c. 101. s. 9. The same provision was contained in a
prior law, repealed by that above cited. Laws U. S. 2. cong. 1. sess»
G. 28. a. 9. £d.

/

^1^ LECTUREft OK LAllr.

By the constitution of Pennsylimnia)^ slieriffs sre
chosen by the citizens of ^ach county: two persons are
chosen for the office ; one of the two is appointed by the
governour. We observe, here, another instance of the
old Saxon and German customs revived in the constitU'
tion of this commonwealth.

Our sheriffs are Elected and hold their offices for three
years, if they behave themselves well ; but no person shall
be twice chosen or appointed sheriff in any term of six
years. The converse of this regulation we find in an act
of parliament — No man, ' who has served the! f^ce of
sheriff for one year, can be compelled to serve it again
within three years afterwards, m The reason o^ this coil-
verse regulation may be collected from another act of
parliament. The expense which custom had introduced '
in serving the office of high sheriff became so burthen-
some, that it was enacted, that no sheriff should keep any
table at the assizes, except for his own family, or ^ve
^y presents to the judges or their servants, or have more
than forty men in livery : yet, for the sake of safety and
decency, he may not have less than twenty men in En-
gland and twelve in Wales."

An attention to the powers and duties of the sheriff
will disclose, I think, a" peculiar propriety in the com-
pound mode of election and appointment, directed by our
constitution. He executes the process of courts, and, in
his county, is the principal conservator of the peace : so
far he is an executive officer, and should be appointed by
the governour. ' He returns jurors : for this reason, he

iArt6.s.l. » Stl.R.2.c.ll. LBiGmm

n St 13 and 14 C. % c 91. l.BL Com. 34#.

•££CTi;R£S OM I.AW*

a9i

llbould'Se ohoieo by the people. Invested 'with the dou-
ble .chiaiu:UT, he sfaoold receive ht6 authority partly from
both. As^he is elected aiid a|>pointed for three years^
osmd-caa si^rve onlyonceia the -period of sij^ yeai's; he
iB,in $i co^svdemble degree, independent, and may, there-
fore, be presumed impartial in the exercise of his very
important duties and powers* Those duties and powers
4re are now^icoDGisely to describe. ;

f 'i

' The judicial >powev of the sherHF, which, in former
timeSfWafr vsiy great, and; extensive;, is, :bry our juridical
system^ ftfaBjifercedi with/ great propriety^ to otheir esta^
blilshirfienfe:. for it ts^ obviQusly incdngruons^ thatekeeu-
tive- and judicial authority ekguld: be iiinited in the same
person.

- nP^nnit.me here ta observe, that the aecmbalation of
,iinn(ecesBary and even ideoiAsifte&t powers seems to^jbe
t^e principal objection against the old Saxon institutioos^
In..mQsl20tber nas|Hspts^- tbey are not moife venerable on
ncoount of theii? imtiquaty^ '4lian oni.slcGount of their
matured ^xoellf ncej Permklme also hicro to observe/that^
in the' coixect distributioaitof the powers; of. govemi|ient,
the constitution of Penna^lTahfa, approaches, if it doe^
not reach, : dieoretick perfbctidn;

The ministerial power of the sheriff is of great impor-
tance to the impiartial administration of justice^ andto the
internal peace and tranquillity of the commonwealth*
He is. the chief officer, says my Lord Coke, within the
abxre^'. To his custody the coumy is committed. This-
custody is three-fold. 1. Of the life of justice; for no
suit begins, and no process is served, but by die sheriff.
It belongs to him also to return indifferent juries^ for the

VOLt II,

3 £

994 X£CTUR£a on law.

trials of men's properties^ liberties, andtiTeti^ 3* .Of tkt
life of the law ; for, after suits king and chargeable, he
makes execution, which is the life and fruit of the law.
3. Of the life of tl^ republick; for, within the counqr,
he is the principal conservator of the peace, which is
the life of the commonwealth, o

With regard to process issuing from the courts of
justice, the sheriff's power and duty is, to execute itf
not to dispute its validity: though the writ be iUeg^,
the sheriff is protected and indemnified in serving it. '
From this general rule, however, one exception muit be
taken and allowed. He must judge, at his peril, wfccdier
the court, from which the process issued, has or has not
jurisdiction of the cause. ^

The selection and the return of jurors is a most mo*
yientotts part of the power and duty of a sheriff* It is
that part, in which abuses are most £!|tal : it is that
part, in which there is the greatest opportunity jmd temp^
tation to commit them. Let us ^ak of former tuaes.
In the reign of Edward the frst, the parliament was
obliged to interpose its aathortigr to give relief to the
people against deriffs, who harassed Jurors unnecessa^
rily, by summoning them from a great dbtaace, and who
returned such as would not fpve an impartial verdict.
This last abuse, says a modem writer ** on the English
law, was never perfectly removed till the late act was
made for balloting juries. In an account of ComwaB,
wiitten by Mr. Carew, we are informed, that, ia the
.reign of Henry the seventh, an article of charge for the

<" 1. Ins. 16a a. P 6. Rep. 54. 9. Rc^ 41.

4taRq!^r6.3. WiLSaC r Barv on St ISf .

. X

ttCTtniES ON laV«

^n

^ 'friendship of the sheriff," was common in an attor-
ncy'«bilL^

As the principal conservator of the peace in tiis coun*
ty, and as the calm but irresistible minister of the Jaw,
the authority of a shoiff is important ; his duty is pro-
portionably great. To preserve or restore the publick
tttmquilti^, to ensure or enforce the effectual execution
of the law, he is invested with the high power of order-
ing to his assistance the whole strength of the county
over which he presides.

The law is mild in its mandates ; but it will be obey.
ie3. It knows, it presumes, it will suffer none ,of its
ministers to know or to presume, any power superiour to
Its own. If any man, says my Lord Coke^ however
g;reat, might resist the sheriff in executing the king's
writs \ it would be regular and justifiable in the sheriff to
return such resistance : but such a return would redound
greatly to the dishonour of the king and his crown :
what redounds to the dishonour of the king and his
erowi^, is against the common law : and, therefore, if
necessity require it for the due execution of the king's,
writs, the sheriff may, by the common law, take the
posse comitatus to suppress such unlawful force and re-
sistance.* '

When necessity requires it» the sheriff not only may^
but must at his peril, employ the strength of his county*
In the reign of Edward the second, a sheriff had the
king's writ to deliver possession of land : the sheriff
returned that he could not execute the writ by reason of

*Bp.(mSt459.

t 2. In. 19^

resistance* This was considered as tti ittsmlt upon ^die
authorit)'^, with which he was invested ; and becamse hk
took not the power of the county in aid of the execution,
he was amerced at twenty marks. ^

Besides the warrant of the cdsmncm law, cootinties
my Lord Coke, die sheriff has his'letters patent of as8is6>
ance, by which the kkxg commands, that all airhbisbc^^
•bishops, dukes, earls, barons, knights, freemen, and all
others of the county sbsll attend, assbt, and answer to
the sheriff, in every thing which belongs to his ofice*
No man above fifteen and under seventy yeara-of age,
ecdesiastical or temporal, is exemptedfrom this service y
for so it is by construction of law* * ■

' ' '

How easily are these cases applied to the United
States and to Pennsylvania, under the operation of the
fine rule, that the empire of the law is stronger as well
as safer than the empire of maa !

I proceed to consider the office of coroner. Thi^
office, though much neglected, though, peibaps, despUed,
is an office, both ancient smd dignified. It forms no
inconsiderable part of a coinfdete juridical system*

In the time of the Saxons, as we are informed by M n
Selden, he was one of the two chief .govemours of Ae
county. He was made by election of the freeh(4ders iii
their county court, as ike sheriff was, and from among
the men of the dniefest rank in the county*^

\

By the constitution^ of this commonwealth, sher^
and coroners are chosen and appointed in the same man-

«3.Ins.l94; "" Bac on Got. 41. w^rt^s.!*

t
\

t.ECTlTE<ft OH VAW* $9f ,

aer* We see here another revival of the Saxon and
•Genaan issstitutions* ' ..

To die office of sheriff^ that of coroner is, in many
instances, a necessary 8ubstitut#: for if the sheriff is ia«
tetv^ted in a suit, or if he is of affini^ with one of the
parties to n suit, the coroner must execute, and return '
ihe process of the courts of justice. ^
■• ' . ♦

But the most important daty.and business of a comner
a»of another nature* When any person is killed, or di^
suddenly, or dies in prison, the coroner must hold an
inquest ccmceraing the manner of his death. This in«
quest must be held upon the view of the body ; for if the
bbdy cannot be found, the coroner cannot sit. He must
certify his inquisition to the court of king^s bench or to
the next assizes, y

«

The lord chief justice of the king's bench is the su«
preme cotoner of all England^ and may exercise that juris-
diction in any part of the kingdom. ,

From the statute of Wales, made in the twelfth year
of Edward the first, and which, by the remedies provided
for Wales, informs us, at the same time, what was the
law and practice of England-— from this statute we learn,
that the coroner was directed to attend and summon a
jury, when a man was wounded so dangerously, that his
Kfe was despaired. Thi^ branch of a coroner's duty is
now totally neglected. ^^ It is a regulation, however,"
says the learned observer upon the ancient statutes,
*^ which deserves much to be revived : and I should con-

^ 4.1n8.3n. y l.BLCom.349. « 4Rep.5rb.

MB

LSGTUISS pir LAW*

ttxvc that this attendance of the coroner with' a jurfy
when a dangerous wound had been received, was to pre*
vent the dying words of the person murdered from being
evidence ; as this kind of pro6f, though ifiowed at pre*
sent, cannot be too cautiously admitted. It is presumed^
indeed, that the words of a person expiring cannot but iMt
true, consideringthe dtuation, under which he gives the
information* But may not a dying man', thoi^ a good
christian, deprived of expected happiness in life by a
wound, received, perhaps, from an enemy, rather wish
his punishment more eagerly than he should do ? And
may not those about the dying perscm, who are generallT'
relations, repeat what he said asoce strongly on the trials
than possibly the words were delivered?" *

» Bar,QnSt.l34.

ft ••

' l4 •

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SUBJECT CONTINUED..

or COUNSELLOE8 AND ATTORKIES*

In our courts of justice there ^xt counsellor^ and attor-
nies* In England, there are two degrees of coonseUom
— Hseijeant^ and barristers* How ancient and honourable
the ^taite and degree of a seijeaat is, has been the
simple theme of many leaf n6d and elaborate treatises.

My Lord Coke^ in a speech wihith he made upon m
call of Serjeants^ coinpares thie serje^dits' coif-— a cap of ^
a particular fcrm— to Minerva's helmet ; for Minerva <
was this goddess of counsel. He also discovers, that th^
fiour corners of that cap indicate four ezcell^Qt qualities
«-4ciencj(> ^emerienc^ observation, recordaliotf. *

» B8r*oii.St4#S.

^ •

t
/

>

400 Li:CTURES ON LAW.

Pace tanti virl^ shall the truth be disclosed ? If the on*
gin of coifs is investigated, we shall, perhaps, find that
Mercury, and not Minerva, is entitled to the merit of
the invention. A.t one period,' the clergy were almost
the only lawyers known in England'; but, in a fit 6f
resentment, they were banished from the bar; Its sweets
— ^for its profits were sweet-— could not be easily rehn-
> quished. The clerk still pleaded, but disguised in the
Serjeant's robe, and, by cotitriviag the coif^ concealed
his clerical tonsure.

But, like many other things, its first origin was losC^
in it^ subsequent sptendduK '* The institution became
honourable ai|d venerable ; and, as such, is still con-
sidered and preserved in England. ^^ A serjeant at
law," says my Lord Chancellor Fortescue, *» " shall not
take oflf his coif, though he be in the royal presence, and
talking with fiis majesty. No one can be made a judge
of the courts of king's bench or common pleas, until he
is Called to the stale and dignity of a seljeant." To Am0*
rica, howeyer,*it ha^ not been transplanted. We leave
it td'cotitinue and flourish'in its native sdil. '

f . • ,*■•!' ...''•. . . '

Ii](=d^ first ages of Athens, the parties pleaded, for
themselves ; but, in iateir times,, they wei*e aUbWed tb
have the benefit of . counsel. ^ That the length of their
srpeech^s might not' eshaiust the patience 61 *the fudges,
bt* prevent other business equally necessary, it was lisiiaT
; -fc-pethaps ^^he spirit of the custom might be revived' Isrith
]|o disadviaiitage-^to measi\rd thtir ' ahbtted ^portion of
time by fen hour glass, in which they' tiied iv^l^i* l^^tfci*
of sand. XSb scrupulously exafct weV^ they iti thii parti-

fc De Laud. €. 4apL ^ t Pot Aat 10«. ' .

I.ECTURES ON LAW*
iCttlar, that an officer, whose name denoted his office —
Bpmiof^ — ^was appointed to distribute the water equally
to each side. While strict justice was required from the
advocates, strict justice was done them : the glass w*as
•topped while the proper officer recited the laws which
t|iey quoted. Nay, the water remaining at the conclu-
sion of an argument might be transferred to the use of
another speaker. Hence this expression — Let such a
one apeak till my water be run out,^

This custom was practised by the Romans. The time
allowed, by the law, for the speeches of the advocates
is termed, by Cicero, " legitimae horae." The patient
and indulgent Antoninus, who was a philosopher as well
as an emperour, ordered, as we are told by his historian,
plenty of water for the speakers at the bar ; in other
words, he allowed them full time for their speeches^
*' Quoties judico," says the younger Pliny, " quantum
quis plurimum postulat aquae do"— when I sit injudg-*
ment, I give to every advocate as much water as he
desires. ^
This instance of resemblance between the Athenian
imd Ronian bars is not mentioned on account of its intrin-
.aick importance ^ but because it proves, mor^ strongly
than an important instance could provt, the principle of
imitatioil. The coincident practice could be dictated
by no common principle of nature or of society.

Counsellors, or barristers at law, have been long
]tuM>wn in England. Formerly they were styled " appren«

d Pet. on Jur. 59. 63. 1. Pot Ant 118.
* PU. £p. 1. §. ep. 3. Pet on Jwr. 134

TOl. !!• ' 3 F

i02 I.XGTURES ON LAW*

ti«ii ad legenii" apprentices to the law ; because th^
were considered only as learners, and were not permitted
to exercise the full office of an advocate, till they were
qualified by the knowledge and experience acquired
dudng the long probation$hip of sixteen years. ^ Edward
the first, it is said, introduced the practice of permitting
them to plead in the court of king's bench, before they
attained the rank and dignity of seijeants. ^

Attorney, says my Lord Coke, is an ancient English
word, and signifies one who is set in the turn, stead, or
place of another. Of these, some are private ; and some
are publick, as attomies at law. ^ The business of an
attorney at law is to manage the practical part of a
suit, and to follow the advice of the Serjeants or baitis*^
ters, who are of counsel in it. ^

At the common law, no person could appear by an
attorney, without the king^s writ or letters patent. J In
one part of his works, my Lord Coke admif es the policy
of this r/egulation. Its genius was to prevent the increase
and multiplication of suits. But when statutes permitted
the parties to appear by attorney, it is not credible,
$ays he, how suits at law increased and multiplied.
Such ill success has ever had the breach of the maxims
and the ancient rules of the common law.^ In another
part of his works, he expresses sentiments more favour-
able to the appointment of attornies. The act command-
ing the judges to admit them, he styles ^* an act of

f Fort de Laud. c. 50 t l.Reev.491. ^ l.Iiis.51b,

^ S. Ins. 564. Wood. Lis. 466. | Wood. Iiw. 466b

^ 2. Ins. 249.

LECTURES 01^ LAW. 403

I

grace," because the king gave his royal assent to a law
for the quiet and safety of his subjects, giving them
power to make attomies, whereby he lost such profit of
the great seal, as he formerly received in such cases. ^

To correct the abuses, which arose from the admission
of attomies, whose heads and whose hearts were equally
unqualified for the trust, it was enacted^ so early as the
feign of Henry the fourth, "^ that all the attomies shall bt
examined by the judges ; and such as are good and vir^
tuous and of good fame shaD, by the discretion of the
court, be received and sworn well and faithfully to serve
in their pffices ; and their names shall be entered on the
roll.

.♦

A barrister is not sworn. ^

According to the law of the United States, parties majr
plead and manage their own causes personally; or by the
assistance of such counsel or attomies at law, as, by the
rules of the several courts, shall be permitted to m^mage
and conduct causes. ^

By a rule of the supreme court, it is ordered, that it
shall be requisite to the admission of attomies and coun#
sellors to practise in that court, that they shall have been
such for three years in the supreme court of the state to
which they respectively belong, and that their private and
professional character shall appear to be fair, fo^ the
circuit court for the Pennsylvania district, the same nrie'

*

1 2. Ins. S7«. " St. 4. H. 4. c. It. ■ 2. Int. 214.

^ Laws U. S. 1, cong. 1. sesi. c. 20. f. 35»

^404 LECtURES OK LAV.

is made wich the only difference of ^^two" instead of
*^ three*' years. ^

. By a law of Pennsylvania^ it is provided, that a com-
petent number of persons, learned in the law, and of an
honest disposition, may be admitted by the justices of
the several courts to practise as s^tomies in them. No
attorney shall be admitted, without taking an oath or
affirmation — ^that he will behave himself in the office of
attorney within the court, according to the best of his
learning and ability, and with all good fidelity, as well to
the court as to the client ; that he will use na falsehood,
nor delay any person's, cause for lucre or malice. ^ |

Attomies at law, on one hand, enjoy privileges on ae-
coimt of their attendance in courts : on. the other, thay
are peculiarly subject to the censure and animadversion
of the judges.*'

In all the courts of Pennsylvania, and in jaJl those of
the United States, except the supreme court, the same

p At Apnl sessions, 1804, the abovementioned rule of thedrodt
court was rescinded, and the following established. ^Ordered,
that no person s>hall be^ admitted to practise as counsel or attorney, of
this court, unless he shall have previously studied three years, been
admitted two years in a court of common pleas, and in the supreme
court of a state : or unless he shall have studied four years, been ad«
mitted one year in a court of common pleas, and in the supreme
oofn-t'of a state : or ualess he shall have studied fiveyeam, and beea
admitted in the supreme court of a state. . Sstisfisctipn.alsa of noial
character will be required." £d.

^ 1. Laws. Penn. 185. s. 38. >^ Id. 360. s. 38.

' aBl.C(»n.3e.

LECTURES ON LAW.
L^er^on may act both as counsel and as attorney. In the
supreme court, the different offices must be exercised by
difierent persons.

«/
The law has not, in every age, nor in every country,
ibeen formed into a separate profession. Doubts have
been entertetined, whether, in any country, or in any age,
it should be so formed. Every man, it hsA been oftcfti
msAA^ ought to be his own lawyer.

«

In a system of lectures, addressed peculiarly, though
b3r no means exclusively, to those wh6 are designed for
the profossion of the lawf this question deserves our par-
ticular notice. It deserves our notice more especially
as we are told, in a very late and a very sensible perform-
ance concerning the revolution in France, that those, who
have been most active in this mighty event, mean to de-
stroy the separate profession of the law. An event, so
auspicious to man, will diffuse a winning appearance over
every thing, with which it seems to be, in the slightest
manner, connected. But it is our business to examine
the foundations, and not merely the external appearances
of things.

It may be asked— when you have talien so much pains,
in the introduction to these lectures, and in many parts
of them, to persuade us, that the knowledge of the law
should, especially apiong a free people, be disseminated
universally J will you now turn suddenly in an opposite
direction, and endeavour to persuade us, that a distinct
and separate profession should be formed of the law i
The result, perhaps, of investigating this subject will be,
that unless the law is made the peculiar study and pro-
fession of some, it will never become the object o£ know-
ledge to all.

40S LXCTURES Off LAir.

We have heard the complaint of my L<»rd Coke, thst
the admission of attornies at \bw into the courts of justice
18 an innovation upon the practice and the policy of tho
common law. It must be confessed that this is the case.
At iikc common law, b<^h the ^aintiff and the defetidant
appeared in their proper persons. ^^ The plaintiff offeri*
himself," and ^^ the defendant comes" are the immemo«
ml and authentick forms of entry — ^^ Querens obtuKt se*^
•— " Oefendens venit." These, on both sides, denote m
personal appearance.

In th^ early and simple periods of society, the personal
appearance of the parties waa all that was necessary*
Such were the periods of which we speak. Among the
ancient Saxons, few and plain were the forms uid circnm*
attinces, under wliich property was litigated and decided
m. thcif courts of justice ; uniform and dhort were the
proceedings in those courts. Among the ancient Saxons,
therefore, professional characters were not necessary for
tibe management or the determination of suits. The king,
or the earl, as the case might be, was qualified to judge ;
aii4 the partiea to plead.

An adherence ^o principle often dictates a variation
in practice. In the progress of society, the business of
society became more comple:i^ and intricate ; and the con-
troversies arising from it became more frequent and
embarrassed. This new order of things introduced a
Mw order of profe9sions. To the king were substituted
the judges : to the earls, the sheriifs ; and to the parties,
attornies or counsel learned in the law. ^^ After the
Anglo-Saxon laws were committed to writing," says Dr.
Henry in his history of Britain, ^^ it became necessary
that some persons should read and study them widi pai^*

LECTURES ON LAW. 40f

ticular atte]:itu)xi4 in order to understand their true intenl
and meaning. This gsdve ri^e to lawyers by profession^
who, in the language of England in those times^ were
called retdborariy Qr lahmen, and, in latin, rhetoresj or
qausidicu Some of these law men, after having undeF^
gone an examination as to their knowledge of ,the law^
were appointed assessors to the aldermen and hundreda^
ries : others of them acted as advocates and pleaders at
the bar." '

But it will be replied — ^and still on the authority of
iny Lord Coke — that the introduction of lawyers multi*
plies suits at law. The unnecessary ^^ multiplication oi%.
lawyers", rather say : for that is the amount of my Lord
Coke's complaint : and, even in the ground of his com*
plaint, he appears not altogether, steady or consistent*
But elsewhere, my Lord Coke traces the multiplication
of law suits to causes, very different from the eatablisfa^
ment of the law as a profession. Xheir two general
causes, says he, are peace and plenty. Peace is the
mother of plenty ; and plenty the nurse of suits. ^ Ie«
stead of wishing the removal of those general cause&A
he prays for their continuance.

In a country governed by the common law, the sepa^
rate profession of lawyers ought to be established for n
peculiar reason. The common law is the law of experi«
ence. vFar is it, indeed, from being without its general
principles; but these general .principl.es are formed
strictly upon the plan of the tegulcc philosophandiy which^
in another sdence. Sir Isaac Newton prescribed and
observed with such glorious success-«-they are formed

« • • «

t3.Hen. 345. «4.Ias.ra.

408 LEGTURSa on LAW*

Ikom fhe coincidence, or the analogy, or the oppositioi'
of numberleBS experiments, the accurate history of which
is contained in records and reports of judicial determi-
nations. To peruse those reports— -to consult those re-
cords, requires much time and industry. To methodise
them under the proper heads, requires much attention
and patient sagacity. From a variety of particular cases
to draw conclusions, neither too wide nor too narrowt
requires a judgment habitually exercised, as well as na-
turaDy strong. These are the requisites, by which tho
common lawyer must be formed. From these requisites
we may easily infer the propriety of establishing the law
. as a separate profession. To acquire these requisites ic
a sufficient employment.

In the common law, principles are collected slowly
gnd with difficulty ; but, when once coUected, they may
be communicated soon and easily. The principles may
be known, and may be reduced to practice too, by men
who never heard or witnessed one of the legal experi-
ments, from the lengthened series of which those prin-
ciples are drawn.

In this manner I reconcile my positions-— that the
knowledge of tl^e law should be disseminated universal-
ly— and — that the law should be formed into a separate
profession. In this manner, too, I prove — that unless
the law is made the peculiar study and professioti of
some, it will never become the object of knowledge to
all.

Should the profession of the law be merely honoraryf
Or should it be a source of profit as well as of fame f
These questions have undergone ample discwision ; and

LtCTURES ON LAW* 409

h^e, at di&rent times^ received contrary authoritative
r^oIutions« In a government truly republican, the sub*
ject will not admit of dispute.

By the Cincian law, every gratification whatever was
interdicted to the Roman advocates. What was the con-
aciquence^ Betweeji citizen and citizen an inequality in-*
o(^sistent with the government of a free country. Those
who had and those who might have causes depending,
ami were unqualified for pleading, them-^^this is the de^
SQiption of the many-*— -were kept in a state of vas^salage
to.those^ by whom they migbt be pleaded without a fee
•^-tthis is the description of the few. Hence the well
known relation of client and patron : hence the tyranny
and servility, to which that 'well known relation gave
rise* Besides, this regulation was as liable to be eluded
as it was certain to be 'abused. Presents,^ said to be
vcduntary, might easily supply the place of stipulated
ftes« We are told of a lawyer, who practised this art
with great address and advautage* A piece of plate,
which a client had thrown at his feet, was placed con*,
ipicuous in his office, J with this inscription-**-^^ lucri ne^
glecti lucrum."

What can be more honourable than that gain, which
Is acquired by virtue and talents ? In a state of repub-
^can equality, what can be more reasonable, than that
one citizen should receive a compensation for the ser-
vices, which he performs to another ? still more so, for
those which he performs to the state ?

It may b^ expected, that I should here say something
f^nceming the studies which a lawyer should pursue, the

^ Bar. on St 415.

VOL. U. 3 Q -

\

' \

410 LECTUAES OH LAW.

accomplishments which he should aequire^ .and the cht«
racter which. he ^hauld support. Something concemii^
each of these topicks I mean to say, but with a diffideoee
proportioned to the delicacy of the subject*

I think I may venture the position — ^diat in aa
science can richer materials be found, and that, in fio
science, have rich materials been more neglected or
abused, than in the science of law-^particularly of the
common law. Listen to the sentiments of mvLprd Ba-
con, in his book on the ^ advancemoit of learning.
It is well known, that the*vast object of this exalted
and most comprehensive genius was, to erect a new and
lasting fabrick of philosophy, founded, not on hypothesis
or conjecture, but on experience and truth. To the ae-'
complishment of this design, it was necessary that he
should previously review, in all its provinces and divi-
sions, the state of learning as it then stood. To do this
effectually required knowledge and discernment, exqui-
site and universal : such were happily employed in the
arduous task. Whatever, in 'science, is erroneous or
defective, he has pointed out. I(e has done more; he
has suggested the proper means of correcting erroursafid
supplying defects. Of the science of law, he thus speaks
—Those, who have written concerning laws, have treat-
ed the subject like spec\ilative philosophers, or like mere
practising lawyers. The philosophers propose many
things, which, in appearance, are beautiful, but, in fact,
are without utility. They make imaginary laws for
imaginary commonwealths ; and their discourses are as
the stars, which give little light, because they are so
high. The lawyers, on' the other hand, attached imp
plicitly to the institutions o^ their country, or to the te-

^ nets of their sect, exert not their judgment unbiassed,

*ljut harangue as if they were in chains*

I^EGTVRES ON LAW*

Mt

Bat certaiidy, continues he, the knowledge of this
subject properly belongs ad viros civiies* Those viH
jtivUes-^^^^ practical statesmen" is, perljaps, the nearest
translation, of which our language will admit — he
describes in the following manner. They know what
appertains to human society, what, to the publick welfare^
what, to natural equity, what, to the manners of nations^
what, to the different forms of comnionwealths. These
ate qualified to judge concerning laws, by the prxaci-
pies and rules of genuine policy and natural justice*
For there are certain fountains of justice, from which all
civil laws should flow like streams. To those fountains
of justice and publick utility let us have recourse*^ He
then goes on, according to his plan, to give a specimen
of a treatise concerning universal justice, or the fountains
of ^aw.

I have said that the^law^ particularly the. common
law abounds in rich materials. For the truth of this
t>bservation, can I appeal to stronger evidence than to a ^
series-— continued, almost without interruption, for five
hundred years-— of cases which actually happened, and
were judicially determined? Many of these cases ara
related in the most accurate and masterly manner ; wit-
ness the reports of my Lord Coke, of Mr. Peere Wil-
liams, and of Sir James Burrow : others, too, deserve •
to 6e mentioned. These are the precious materials of
the common law. These are authentick experiments,
on which a sound system of legal philosophy must be
formed. On these experiments, the most indefatigable
industry has been frequently employed. But has it been
employed in a proper manner ? tJpon cases, cases have

1. Ld. Bac 248. 3. Ld. Bac. SZ7,f

4iM ' IKQTURSS OH^LAW^

been accumulated e to cdSectiona, collections hiiv^ been
superadded : but they have been directed, generaUy, bjr
no order more eligible than that of the alphabet* To
one who is already a lawyer, abridgments may, ola par-
ticular occasions, be of use: but surely they are not
calculated to inspire or to guide the libm^and enUght*
cned study of the law*

The Institutes of my Lord Cobs are a caUnet rtchiy
stored with the jewels of the law : but are not those
jewels* strewed about in endless and bewildering tonfu*
*ion?

In expression, as well as in arrangement, the eompo-
sitions of the law have been glsu*ingly im]^erfect ; md
have had an injurious tendency to deter those, whose
attachment they should Iv^ve been fitted to attract* Hear
' the natural and pathetick description which the celebrated
Sir Henry Spelms^n gives of his situation aod feelings,
when, he commenced ^his study of the comm^D. law:
^^ My mother sentme to London to leara the iawf when
I entered on its threshold, and encountered a foreign
language, a barbarous dialect, an inelegant arrangejnenti
and a collection ojT matter, not only immense, but dispo-
sed in such a manner as.tor be a perpetual load upon
the memory ; my spirits, I own it, failed within me*" *
• . ■ * . '

Since his time, ii^deed^ very considerable assistance
has been furnished to young gentlemen^ engaged in tha
acquirement of legal knowledge. . Of this assistance^ the
short but very excellent ansdysis digested by nsy Lord
Chief Justice Hale forms a most valuable jpart; whefhef

\ * 1. BLCoDu31« ». . .

WCTtfRES ON LAW. 410

V

I

%e cotisttler it in itself^ or as the foundation of what has
been erected upon it. The distribution of this scientific
cal performance has, as we are informed by Sir William
Blackstone, been principally followed in his celebrated
Comttientaries on the laws of England. It is but justice
to add, that, in those Commentaries, '^e method of
Hale's smalysis is improved as welbas regarded. I have
formerly observed, that, in point of expression, the
Commentaries are elegant and pure.

But something mote is wanting still. Excellent ma-
terials, a correct arrangement of those materials, . and a
proper expression of the arranged form are all necessary ;
but they are not all that is necessary to a sound system
of the law. For, a system founded on principles truly
political and philosophical, we still 16ok around us in
-vain. On such principles alone, can a system solid and
permanent be erected. To confirm my sentiments, let
^ tAe again resort to the high auth6rity, before whose,
splendour the whole host of sciolists hide their diminished
heads. ** The reasons of municipal laws,'* says my Lord
Bacon, " severed from the grounds o( nature, manners,
and policy, are like wall flowers, which, though they
grow high upon the cfest of states, yet they have no deep
root." ^

Let me again repeat it-— -that we have no such system
of the common law as I have described^ is by no means

• owing to the want of the nfiaterials proper for the erec-
tion of so noble a fabrick. ^^ I do not a little admire
the wisdom of the laws of England," says my Ldrd

•^ Bacon in another place,* " and the consent, which

y4.LcLBac101. Id 103.

.414 LE€TUAE6 OH LAV.

they Ifavt with the wisdom of philosophy aad natuN
itself."

By this time, yqu are at no loss to disca^^er my senti-
ments coficeming the studies which a lawyer ought to
pursue, and thp accomplishments which he ought to
acquire* He ought to know men and societies of men,
in every state and in every relation in which they can be
placed : in every state and in every relation in which men
or societies of men can be placed, he ought to know what
appertains to justice — ^to comprehtnsjve morality. From
' the fountains of justice, we have ^een,.the civil laws
should spring* . To that fountain, ever full and ev£r
flowing, let the student of the law intrepidly ascend : he
will then, with ease, with pleasure, and with certain^,
follow the nveandering courses of its nuinerous streams*

It is anr opinion, far from being uncommon, that thie
• •nly institution neci^sary for a practising lawyer is, to
observe the practice in a lawyer's office. No opinion
was ever more unfounded : no opinion, perhaps, ever
entailed more mischief upon those, who have been its
unfortunate victims. I certainly shall not be misunder*
stood as if I meant to speak with ^ontempt of .the prac-
tice, which is to be observed in a lawyer^a office. Nothing
can be more remote from my intention and from my sen-
timents. To the most accomplished lawyer, even the
fninutice of practice are objects of regard ; and, in his
hands, they can be employed to useful, nay, to splen^d
purposes* In nature, the greatest bodies, the gi^teiit
systems of bodies, are composed of the smallest parti-
cles ; and^ the microscope, as well as the telescope, dis-
closes a world of wonders to our view. So in the sciences
-—50, particularly, in the science of law. But to be con-

L£CT0R£8 OK LAW*. 4%S'

fined to microscopick obaervations is' the doom of an m-
sect, not the birthright of a man,

l have said that the opinion just mentioned entaili
much misohief upon its unfortunate >victi mis. I have said
the truth. Law, studied and - praaised as. a science
founded in principle, is among the most delightful of
occupations : foUo^^ed as a trade depending merely upon
precedent, 'it becomes and -continues a drudgery, severe
and insupportable. One, who| follows it in this manner,
liveii in* a state of continual distrust and alarm. To such
a one^ every thing new is something odious : for he has
been taught to approve of things, not because they arc
proper or right, but because he has seen them before.
To such a one, the least deviation from even the most
uneseential forpiy appears equally fatal with the greatest
departure from the most important principles: for they
agree inthe*only circumstance, by which he can distin-
guish either : they are not within the sphere of his pr^k€^
tice. Tied to the ceptre of precedent, he treads, , for
life, the same dull, and small, and uniform circle around
it, without daring to view or to enjoy a single object oa
either side. ^

How very different is the situation of him, who ranges,
not without rule, but without restraint, in the rich, the
variegated, and the spacious fields of science! To his
observation and research every thing is open : he is ac*
customed to examine and to compare the appearances and
the realities of things ; to contemplate their beauty, to
investigate their utility, and to adnaire the wonderful
harmony, with which beauty and, utility coincide. To
him .an object is not dangerous because it is new : ha
measures it by the correct standard of his principles :

416 ]JIGTVR£S ON LAW.

be ditcovsrt what purposes it is fitted to answer, and
what other purposes it is fitted to destroy : he learns
when to use it/and when, to lay the use of it aside* The
discovery of one improvement leads him to the discovery
of another : the discovery of that other leads him, in de-
lightful progression, to another still.

I SLva now to make some remarks concerning the cha-
tacter which a lawyer ought to support*

Laws and law suits seem, in the apprehension of ^
some, to be synonimous or nearly synonimous terms.
In the opinion of such, the business and the character of
a lawyer will be, to produce and to manage controversie^f
at law. Part of the opinion may be admitted to be'just*
To manage controversies at law, when they have been
produced by another xause, is part of the business of a
lawyer : to produce them is no part of it. Even to
manage law suitsf though a part, is not the principal
part, of a lawyer's business : the principal part of his bu«
siness is to prevent them. The professional pride of sk
lawyer is, that no controversy arises fjrom' any opinion
which he gives, iu>r from the construction of any instru*
ment which he draws. Like a skilful pilot, he has
.studied correcdy the chart of the law : he has marked
the places which are dangerous, as well as those which
are safe. Like a pilot, honest and benevolent as well as
skilful, he captiously avoids every danger, and through
the channels of security steers the fortunes of those, who
intrust them to his care*

One reason, why the association between lawyers and
law suits is so^strong in the minds of some people, mvf
l»ft tbis^ that they never think of the former, till they are

/

/

I.XCTVRES ON tAW. 417

j^unged in the latter, or in the necessary causes of Uie
latter. But even in^this situation^ the aasociation is not
• a correct one ; for when they are in this ^tuat^on, the
tardy recourse to a lawyer is to help them out of it.

To give honest and sound advice in questions of law,
tD those who ask it in matters relating to their business or
' conduct, forms the character, which a lawyer ought to
support. I speak now of his private character : his pub**
lick character and conduct cpme under a different consi-
deration*

A general prejudice against the professional character
of the bar has arisen, I belibve, from observing, that the
gentlemen of the profession appear equally ready to un«
dertake either side of the same cause, Soth sides, h is
said, and said with truth, cannot be right: and to under-
take either with equal alacrity evinces, it is thought, an
iojsensibility — ^presumed professional — ^to the natural and
important distinction between right and wrong,

JCbis subject deserves to be placed in its true light*
That this insensibility is sometimes found at the bar can-
not be denied. That it is often imputed when it is not
found, ought also to be admitted* A few observationis^
will easily disclose the origin of this prejudice: and its
origin ought to be disclosed ; for I deem it of publick
importance, especially in a free country, that the profes-
sional character of the bar should stand in a respectable
point of view*

Let it be observed, Aat by far the greatest number
of law suits originate from disputefd facts. Of diese a
lawyer cannot judge, butfrpm .the representation of diem,

VOL. II. 3 H

418 LECVVRES OH LAW.'

«

which he receives from hts client* A dishotiest client
will impose upon his counsel: an honest client, from the
blindness and partiality of self interest, is often imposed
upon himself: the imposition, m this case, operqtes upon
the counsel equally as in the other. In both cases, the
lawyer, instead of deserving censure, deservc^s sympathy;
for it is always disagreei^le to be engaged in a bad and
unsuccessful tause.

Again ; even when law suitas originate firotti disputed

«

points of law, they frequently spring from positive insti-
tutions, particularly from intricate and artificial regula-
tions concerning property. To such questions, the
natural distinction between right and wrong is susceptible
of no other application, than that they be decided
according to the law of the land*

But further ; in such cases, the rule of positive lav
niay be really doubtful ; and this doubt may be the true
cause of the controversy. How often do we sec juries
and judges divided, nay equally divided, in opinion?
If this is so, a difference of sentiment in two gentlemen
of the bar should not be viewed as either pretended or
reprehensible. The court frequently direct arguments
of counsel on each side: can it be improper for the
counsel to obey those directions I

These remarks explain and justify the conduct of
counsel in the cases which I hsive described, and are fitted
to :pemove the prejudice, which, in such cases, is enter-
tained against them* If a lawyer is so lost to a sense of
his duty and character, as to advocate a cause which
he knows to be morally and certainly unjust^ his conduct
requires not to be explained ; and I mean not to justify it

LSCTURS8 ON LAW.
> ',To the court, as well as to his client, a duty is owing
by a gentleman«of the bar : these obligations are, by no
means, incompatible : both wil) be discharged by uniform
candour, and by a decent firmness properly blended with
a dignified respect.

Thus much concerning counsel and attomies at law.
I have been full and particular upon this head, because
it personally and immediately concerns the future condu^
and prospects of many of my heaf^rs.

CHAPTER IX.

THE SUBJECT CONTINUED,
or CONSTABLES,

V

JL AM now to consider the office of a constable. This
officer, and the office which he holds, are often treated
with a degree of disrespect; but very improperly and
very unwisely. In a government founded on the authori-
ty of the people, every publick officer is respectable ; for
every publick officer is a free citizen : he is more ; by
other free citizens he is invested with a portion of their
power.

s

' Besides ; the powers and duties of const^les, if pro«
perly and effectually exercised and discharged, are of
real importance to the community; and their publick
utility should rescue them from contempt. The antiqui-
ty as well as the usefulness of the office is very great.
Of its original it may be said, as we ar^ informed by my
Lord Bacon, ^ caput inter nubild condit ; for its authori-
ty was granted upon the ancient laws and customs of the

"4. Ld. Bac. 94.
lECTURES OK LAIT.

kingdom, practised long before the conquest* It was
intended and instituted for the conservation, of the peace,
and for repressing every kind of annoyance and disturb-
ance of the people. This was done by way of preven-
tion and not of punishment ; for a constable has no
judicial power to hear or determine any cause.

Upon a probability of a breach of the peace, as when
warm words have passed, the constable may command
the parties to keep the peace, and depart and forbear.
When an affray is made, he may part those engaged in
it, and keep them asunder. He may arrest tfbd commit
the breakers of the peace ; and, if they will not obey,
he may call power to his assistance. ^ If an affray is in
a house, he may break the doors open to restore and
, preserve the peace. If an offender fly into another dis-
trict or county, the constable may make fresh pursuit and
take him. To prevent as well as to quell a breach of
the peace, he may command all persons to assist him ;
and those, who refuse, may be bound over to the sessions
and fined. *^

•

It is the duty of a constable to execute, with speed
and secrecy, all warrants directed to him ; and not to

*

dispute the authority of him who issues them ; provided
the matter in question is within his jurisdiction. ^

The power and duty of constables are extended to
a great variety of instances by a number of acts of as-
sembly, which have been passed in Pennsylvania. '

In cases of necessity, a constable has power to appoint

a deputy. *

k4.Ld.Bac.96. c Wood. Ins. 87. did. ibid.' «4.Ld. Bac.98.

IKCTURES ON LAW.
There are two kinds of constables ;, a high constable
and a petty constable. Their authority Is the same in
substance, and differs only in point of extent.

I

To appoint men of low condition to the office of con*
stable, is, accordinjg to my Lord Bacon, k a mere abuse
and degeneracy from the first institution. They ought,
says he, to be chosen from among the better sort of
residents. '

I
I have now finished my account of the judicial de-
partments of the United States and Pennsylvania ; and)
with it, the description of their governments and consti-
tutions. To the government and constitution of every
ather state in the Union, my remarks and illustrations
will, generally, be found applicable. In those instances,
in which a strict application cannot be made, still, I flat-
ter myself, my remarks and illustrations will throw some
light upon the respective advantages or disadvantages of
institutions, which cannot be measured by 'the same
common standard.

^ 4. Ld. Bac 98.

t Id. 96,

\l

CHAPTER X.

OF CORPORATIONS.

» « •

A N a former part of my lectures,* after having described
a state, I observed, that, in a state, smaller societies may
be formed by a part of its members : that these smaller
societies, like states, are deemed to be moral persons, but
not in a state of natural liberty ; because their actions are
cognizable by the superiour power of the state, and are
regulated by its laws. I mentioned, that, to these socle-
ties, the name of corporations is generally appropriated,
though somewtiat improperly ; for that the term is strictly
applicable to si^preme as. well as to inferiour bodies poli-
tickl In obedience, however, to the arbitress of language,
I shall designate those smaller societies by the name of
corporations ^ and to. the consideration of them I now
proceed.

VOX,. IX.

» A>^tc.ToLl.pi3(MR»

426 JLECTUBES ON LAV*

A corporation is described to be a person in a poUdcal
capacity created by the law, to endure in perpetual succes-
sion. ^ Of these artificial persons a great variety is known
to the law. They have been formed to promote and to
perpetuate the interests of commerce, of learning, and of
religion. It must be admitted, however, that, in too
many instances, those bodies politick have, in their pro-
gress, counteracted the design of their ori^al fonn^on.
Monopoly, superstition, md igaorance have been the un-
natural ofisprrag of litexSry, relig^us, and commercial
corporations. This is not mentioned with a view to
insinuate, that such establishments ought to be prevented
or destroyed : I mean only to intimate, that they should
be erected with caution, and inspected with care.

In England, corporations m^y exjst by the common
law, by act of parliament, by prescription, and by charter
from the king.^ The king and the parliament are Gorp%>
satioBs by dM Ibroe <^ tbe coounoa law*^

In. tile United States^ and in Pennsylvania, corpora-
dons can only exist by the commott law^ or by vir&ie of
legislative anthority. This authority, however, may be
eabercised by a' power deteg^ted 1^ the legidature ; as
has been don^, in this commonwealth,*^ with regard ^
<;hur€hes« Upon die same prineipte^ the< kiag, in JSn-
glaad, may communicate to« astlbj^ct^ the power of erect-
ing corporations, and may permit him to name the per-
afEms of whiMnthey shril be composed, ahd the authori^
whic^ they shaH enjoy. Stilf, however, it is the king,
who rtslif ereets them ; Ute sntsject is only his instni-

^ Wood. Ids. 111. « laRep. 29 b.

* Wood, Ills. 1»- * ^t.'Laws»FeiiD.4a

LCCTUHes 611 JLAWk 4df

ment i md the act of the instrument becoines the' act <^
itft mover, uT^et the vrM known ntajcim, ^^qui factt per
I, fadt per se%** ^

To every corporalioa a name nmtt be aligned $ and
by that name alone It <an petfortn legal aet^s

^ When a corpormkm is duly established, there are many .
powers, rights, and capacities^ vhith are annexed to it
tacidy and of course* , i . i

^ /• '■..-' . -- ^

It has perpetual sucoession, unless a period of limita*
tion be expressed in the instrument of its establishment. • ' i
This succession is, indeed, the great end of an incorpora«
tion ; and, for this reason, there is, in all aggregate bodies
politick, a power necessarily implied dP filling vacancies
by the election of new nyembers.li

The power of removiBg any of its members for just
canse, is a power incident to a corporation. To the order
and good government of corporate bodies, it is adjudged
fiecessary that there should be such a powen ^ ^

Another and a most important power, tacitly Minexed
to corporations by die vety act of their estiAlishment, is
the power of-making byJaws*^ This, Indeed, is the
principal reason for erecting mainy of die bodies corporate*
Their nature or their circumstances are peculiar; and
provisions peculiarly adapted to diiem cannot be expected

^ 10.Rep<33b. l.Bl.CQBi4 4Sr4 g laRep^m

^ 1. BL Com. 475. i 1. Burr. 539.

i Ld. 1l83r« 408. Hob. 211. 1. M. Com. 475.

4t8 LEGtnmms our law.

from the general law of the land. For tills resaaon, diey
are invested with authority to make regulations for the
management of their own interests and affairs. These
regulations, however, must ncy be contrary to the over-
ruling laws of the ^aite ; for it will be remembered, that
these smaller societies, though moral p^ersons, are not ia
a state of natiural liberty. Their private statutes are kges
sub graviore iege^ ^^ Sodides, legem quam volent, dum
nequid ex publica lege.corrumpan^t, sibi ferunto^'' is a rule
as old as. the twelve tables of Rome.

. The general duties of every corpomtion may be c<d-
lected from the nature and design (tf its institution : it
should act agreeably to its nature, and fulfil the purposes
for which it wa3 formed.

But corporations are composed of individuals ; those
individuals are not exempted from the failings and fraiL
ties of humanity ; those failings and frailties may lead to
a deviation from the end of their establishment. Fortius
reason, as has already been observed, they ought to be
inspected with care. The law has provided proper persons
with proper powers to visit those institutions, and to cor-
rect every irregularity, which may arise within them. In
England, it has, by immemorial usage, appointed them to
be visited and inspected, in the court of king's bench,
according to the rules of the common law. We have
formerly seen," that the powers of the court of king's
bench are vested in the supreme court of Pennsylvania.

A corporation may surrender its legal existence into
• the hands of ths^t power, from which it was received*

^ l.BLCom.4r6. ^ Id.481. . <& Ante^p.S3r.

LECTURES DN LAW*
From such a surreiider, the dissolution of the body cor«
porate ensues. An aggregate corporation is dissolved by
the natural death of all its members. '^ By a judgment
of forfeiture against a corporation itself, it may be dis-
solved ; but not by a judgment of ouster against indivi-
^duals. God forbid—- such is the sentiment of Mr. Justice
Wilmot^— that the rights of the body should be lost or
destroyed by the offences of the members. ,

I

Suffice it to have said thus much concerning corpo*
rations, or subordinate societies established lyithin the
society at )ai*ge* ,

n 3. Burr. 1867.

. Id. 1S71.

\

CHAPTER XL

OF CITIZENS AND ALIENS.

JLaET us proceed to investigate stfll farther the com.^
ponent parts of which civil government and all its
subordinate establishments consist. They consist of
citizens. ^

I have already observed* that the social contract is a^
contract of a peculiar kind ; that when correctly analyzed,
it is found to be an assemblage of agreements equal, in
number, to the number of individuals who form the
society ; and that, to each of those agreements, a single
individual is one party, and all the other individuals of
the society are the other party.

The hitter party X have considered heretofore ; and
hafe eailed it ti^e people. The former party I am now
t» cenaider ; and, in order to avoid confusion, I call it,

^ Atttei p.5l3lr
LECTURES ON LAW.

in this discussion, the citizen ; and when I shall have
occasion to refer to more subordinate agreements than
one, I shall call the individuals, parties to them, by the
name of citizens.

' I know that the term citizen is often apjdiied to one
of the more numerous party — ^to one of the people : and
I shall be obliged to take the description of a citizen
from the character which he suppc^ts as one of the people.
But you "n^ill easily perceive, that the same person may,
at different times, act or be viewed in different charac-
ters ; and though his description be taken from one of
them, the account of his duties and of his rights too
may, on a particular occasion, be referred to the other.
This I have chosen to do, rather than to introduce an
unknown phrase, or to use a knowb phrase in a new
signification. Besides, the expression is frequendy
employed also in the sense in which I now use it. " Ge-
nerally speaking," says the great political authority, ^
Aristotle, " a citizen is one partaking equally of power
and of subordination."

A citizen then — ^to draw his description as one of
the people — I deem him, who acts a personal or a repre«
sented part in the legislation of his country. He has*
other rights ; but his legislative I consider as his charac-
teristick right. In this view, a citizen of the United
States is he, who is a citizen of at least some one state in
the Union: for the members pfthe^ house of representa-
tives in the national legislature are choseuy in each state^
by electors, who, in that state, have the qualifications
requisite for electors of the most numerous branch of the

^ \. Hus. A&q. Eur. 362;.

LECTURES ON LAW. 433

State legislature.'^ In this view, a citizen qf Pennsylva-
aia is he, who has resided in the state two years ; and,,
within that time, has paid a state or county tax: or he.
18 between the ages of twenty one and twenty two years,
and the son of a citizen. ^
, •
, I have, on another occasion,^ traced the description
of a citizen in every other state of the Union: to your
recollection of that investigation, aiid to the constitutions
Qf the several states, I now refer you.

When a man acts as one of the numerous party to the
agreements, of which I have taken notice ; it is his right,
according. to the tenour of his agreements, to govern ;
Jie is one of the people* When he acts as the single par-
tf to that agreement, which he has made with all the
other members of the society ; it is his duty, according
to the tenour of his agreement, to obey ^ he is a single
citizen. Of this agreement. Indeed, it is impossible to
ascertain all tl^e articles. From the most obvious deduc*
tion of reason, however, one article may be specified,
beyond all possibility of doubt. This article, of prime
importance, is — :that to the publick will of the society,
the private will of every associated member must, in
matters respecting the social union, be subordinate and
submissive. The publick will of the societ}' is declared
by the laws. Obedience, therefore — civil obedience—-*
obedience to the laws and to the administration of the
laws — ^this is a distinguishing feature in the counte*
nance of a citizen, when he is seen from this . point of
view.

« Cons, U. S. art 1. s. 2. d Cons. Penn. art. 3, s- 1.

« Ante. p. 133— isr;
VQL. II. 3 K

434 LECTlTREft on LAW.

That men ought to be governed, seems to have been
agreed on all hands : the reason is, that, without govern*
ment, they coul4 never att^n any high or permanent
share of perfection or happiness. But the question has
been—by whom should they be governed i And thi<i has
been made ' a question, by reason of two others — by
whom can they be governed? — are they caps^de of
governing themselves ?

To this last question, Mr. Burke, in the spirit of his
late creed, has answered, in the negative. " Society^*'
says he, " requires not only that the passions of indivi-
duals should be subjected, but that even in the mass and
body as well as in the individuals, the inclinations of
men should frequently be thwarted, their will controUedf
and their passions brought into subjection. This can
only be done by a power out $/ thevuehes.^^ This nega">
tive answer has been, from time immemorial, the strong
hold of tyranny : and if this negative answer be the true
one, the strong hold of tyranny is, in fact, impregnable
to all the artillery of freedom. If men should be go. ^
vemed; and if they cannot govern themselves ; what is
the consequence? They must be governed by other
masters.

An opinion, however, has, by some, been entertained,
that the question, which I last mentioned, may receive
an answer in the affirmative. Men, it has beemthought,
are capable of governing, themselves. In the United
States, this opinion, which heretofore rested chiefly on
theory, has lately been putjn a train of fair practical ex-
periment. That this experiment, to human happiness so

^Refl.OQFr.Rev. 4r.

\

LECTURES ON LAW, 435

interesting, may be crowned with abundant and glorious
success, is, of all things in this world, the '^ consum-
mation most devoutly to be wished."

' But to its glorious and abundant success, the obedi-
ence of the citizens is of a necessity, absolute and su.
preme. The question, which has been proposed-^the
question, in the negative answer to which, tyranny has
triumphed so long and so generally^ — ^the question, con-
cerning which philosophers and patriots have indulged,
and been pleased with indulging, a contrary sentiment —
the question, which, in the United States, is now put
upon an experiment — ^this all-important question is-^not
merely nor chiefly— are men capable of governing ? Of
this, even tyrants will admit the afiirmative; and will
point to themselves as living proofs of its truth. But the
question is — are men capable of governing themselves f
In other words ; are they qualified-— and are they dis-
posed to be their own masters f For a moral as well as
an intellectual capability is involved in the question. In
still other words ; are they qualified— rand are they dis-
posed to obey themselves ? For to government, the cor-
relative inseparable is obedience. To think, to speak, or
to act, as if the former may be exercised, and, at the
same time, the la^tter may not be performed, is to think,
to speak, or to act, in a manner the most contradictory
and absurd.

By a long and minute deduction, I proved, in a former
lecture, s that, on the true principles of freedom, a
man is the only human power, by whom he himself can
be bound* It requires but a very small variation of phrase,

f Ante, vol 1. p. 211. et seq.

436 LECTURES ON LAW«

and none of sentiment, to say, that on the true princi-
ples of freedom, man is the only human power, by whom
he himself can be governed.

Are we made so waywardly, that what, in principle,
is true and right, must, in practice, be false and wrong ?
Surely not.

Is the safety of man endangered by obedience i What
can be a source of greater security, than to be governed
only by a law, which has been made by himself, and by
others, with whom he participates a general identity of
interest, and a perfect equality of duties and of rights ?

Is the freedom of man infringed by performing the
service of obedience to such a law, made as has been
mentioned ? This service bears, we think, a resemblance
as near as, being human, it can bear, to that service,
which, with a propriety truly striking and strong, is de-
nominated "perfect freedom."

Is the dignity of man degraded by observing a law i
The* Supreme of Being ! — ^he himself worketh not with-
out a rule !

In a moral view, self government increases, instead
of impairing, the security, the liberty, and the dignity
of the man; in 2l political vitw^ self government increases,
instead of impairing, the security, the liberty, and the
dignity of the citizen*

Attend now to the result of the whole. — In a free and
,well constituted government, the first duty of its every
member is— obedience to the laws. That they be true

{.ECfUAEB ON LAW«

,437

and faithful to themselves, is thie allegiance, which a
legitrmate republick requires from her citizens : to them-
selves they cannot be true and faithful, unless they obey
as well as make the laws^— unless, in the terms in which
a citizen has been defined, they partake of subordination
as well as of power.

As a citizen of a republican government owes obedi*
cnce to the laws ; so he owes a decent, though a dignified
respect to those who administer the laws. In monarchies,
there is a political respect of person : in commonwealths,
there should be a political respect to office. In monar*
^chies, there are ranks, preeminences, and dignities, all
personal and hereditary. In commonwealths, too, there
are ranks, preeminences, arid dignities ; but all official
and successive. In monar^chies, respect is paid without
a prospect of return. In conimonwealths, ' one may,
next year, succeed, as an officer, to the respect, which,
this year, he pays as a citizen. The dignities of- office
are open to all. ^

You will be pleased to hear, that, with regard to thit
as well as to many other subjects, we have renewed, Jn
our governments, the principles and the practice of the
ancient Saxons. Between dignity and duty, no separa-
tion was made by them. In the early period of the An-
glo-Saxon state, the allodial proprietors were numerous;
their estates, were generally small ; and all were under-
stood to be of the same rank and condition. Some, in-
deed, were distinguished above others by their charac-
ter and their talents ; but the superiority derived from
this source was accompanied with no legal preeminence
or power.^

I'MiUar. 236.

4SS LECTtJREft ON LAW.

So likewise it was in. the heroick ages of Greece : no
distinction was then known among men, except the dis-
tinction, truly honourable, which arose from a difference
of abilities and merit. '

Tides of npbility in England, though now merely
personal, were, in their origin, altogether official. The
heretoch or duke was intrusted with a military depart-
ment : the marquis was appointed to guard the frontiers
<^r marches of the country : the alderman or earl was, as
we formerly saw, the first civil officer of the shire. In
the juridical history of England, the first arbitrary tide
of honour, without the shadow of office or duty annexed
to it, makes its appearance so late as the reign of Henry
the sixth.

r

Under a republican government, it is prudent as well
as proper^^it is the interest as well as the duty of the
citizens, to show a political respect for office. In the
government they have an interest: in every office and
department of the government they have an interest :
this interest requires, that every department and every
office should be well filled : in a commonwealthf respect
attached to office is frequendy the principal inducement
to its acceptance by those, who are qualified to fill it
well.

On the citizen under a republican government, a
third duty, more severe, it may be thought, than either
of die former, is strictly incumbent. Whenever a com-
petition unavoidably takes place between bis interest and
that of the publick, to the latter the former must be

i 1. GilL 49.

LECTURES ON LAW. 439

the devoted sacrifice. By the will and by the interest of
the community, every private will and every private ih»
terest must be bound and overruled. Unless this maxim
be estaUished and observed ; it is impossible that civil
government could be formed or supported. Fortunate^
however, it is, that in a government formed wisely and
administered impartially, thi^ unavoidable competition
can seldom take place, at least in any very great dfcgree.

If the sacrifice, which I have mentioned, is demand*
ed and enforced by the publick, when the competition
does not unavoidably take place ; or if it is demanded
and enforced farther or longer than the existing compe-
tition indispensably requires ; it is tyranny ; it is not
government.

The citizen has rights as well as duties : the latter he
is obliged to perform : , the former he is entitled to enjoy
or recover. To that original contract of association, to
which, in our reasonings concerning government, an ap-
peal must so often be made, he is a party ; nay, in point
of right, a party, voluntary, independent, equal. On
one side, indeed, there stands a ^single individual: on
the other side, perhaps, there stand millions : but right
is weighed by principle ; it is not estimated by numbers.

. From the necessity of the case, as was shown on a for-
mer occasion,^ if a controversy arises between the par-
ties to the social agreement, the numbers, or a selection
fro^i the^numbers, must be the judges as well as one of
the parties. But, because those of one party must, from
the necessity of the peculiar case, b^he judges likewise ;

. docs it follow, that they are absolved from that strict

i Ante. p. 314.

440 LECTURES ON LAW*

obligation, bj^ which every judge is sacredly bound to
administer impartial justice ? Does it follow, that-thejr
may, with avidity, listen td all the interested suggestions,
the advice of which a party would pursue i When the
same person is and must be both judge and party; the
character of the judge ought not to be sunk in that oC
the par^ ; but the character of the party should be ez«-
ahed to that of the judge.

I

When questions— -especially pecuniary questioiu—
arise between a state and a citizen— more especiyiy stiUf
wh«n those questions are, as they generally must be, sub«
mitted to the decision of those, who are not <Hdy par*
^ ties and judges, but legislators^ also ; the sacred impar-
tiality of the second character, it must be owned, is too
frequently lost in the sordid interestedness of the first,
and in the arrogant power of the third. This, I repeat
it, is tyranny : and tyranny, though it may be more foi^
midabie and more oppressive, is .neither less odious nor
less unjust*— is neither less dishonourable to the charac-
ter of . one party, nor less hostile to the rights of the
other, because it is proudly prefaced by the epithet-
legislative. He, who refuses the payment of an bon^f&at
demand upon the pnblick, because it is in his power to
refuse it, would refuse the payment of his private debt,
if he was equally protected in the refusal. He, who
robs as a legislator, because he dares, would rob as a
highwayman — if he dared.

And are the publick gainers by this I Even if they
were, it would be no consideration. The paltry gain
would be but as dust in the balance, when weighed
against the loss of character — for as the world becomes
more enlightened, and as the principles of justice be-

LECTURES ON LAW. 441

come better understood, states as well as individuals
have a character to lose—- the paltry gain, I say, would
be but as dust in the balance, when weighed against
the loss of character, and against the many other perni-
cious effects which must flow from the example of pub-
lick 'injustice. But the truth is, that the publick must
be losers, instead of being gainers, by a conduct of this
kind. The mouth, which will not utter the sentiments
of truth in favour of an* honest demand, may be easily
taught to repeat tKe lessons of falsehood in favour of
an unjust one. To refuse fair claims, is/ to encourage
fraudulent ones, upon the commonwealdi. Litde loglck
is required to showt, that the same vicious principles and
diq>ositions, which oppose the former, will exert tlieir
selfish, or their worse than selfish, influence to support
the latter.

I think I have proved, that if the sacrifice, which
has been mentioned, is demanded and enforced by the
puUick, when the competition between publick and pri-
vate interest does not take place, it is tyranny, and not
government ; folly, and not wisdom. I have added, that
if this sacrifice is demanded and enforced farther or
longer than the competition indispensably requires, this,
too, is tyranny, and not government. This likewise
it is easy to prove. '

* • -

There may be times, when, to the interest, perhaps
to the liberty of the state, every private interest and re-
gard ought to be devoted. At those times, such may be
the situation and the peril of the common weakh— for it
16' in perilous and distracted times, that, by the citizen)B,
extraordinary exertions of duty ought to be made— at
diose timeS) a citizen obeys his duty's and his country's

VOL. lU 3 L

442 ^GTUR£S ON LAW.

sacred call ; he makes the necessary sacrifices, withoiift

expressly stipulating for a redompense : of demandisg

9uch a stipulatioq, the impiropriety and the indelicaqr

may be equally evident. Great sacrifices and great

exertions are made with faithfulness and zeal ; periuqps,

with considerable success. The perils disappear: to

dbtraction and danger, peace and serenity succeed:' tbe

pommonwealth becomes flourishing and opulent* Ougbfc

the sacrifice, which, in the hour of her distress a»d

danger, was made at her call, to be continually enforced

and demanded by her, after the dsmger a^d distress are

over i But thi^ sacrifice is demanded and enforced co&p

tinually, if this citizen has neither received, nor had it

in his power to recover, that recoinpense, which is ju^

This case — ^if such a case has ever happened*— mAy g«

without any actual redress ; but it caii never go witboiit

well grounded complaint.

There is a sacrifice of another kind, not indeed so greal,
but, on some occasions, very vexatious, which is requi>-
red of a -citizen under a republican govemmjeatt usviecea-
sarily, and against his rights. He is frequency pestefed
with a number of frivc^ou^ ambiguous, perplexed, and
contradictory laws. The very best constitutions are IbdJe
to some complaints. What may be called the rage of
legislatioh is a distemper prevalent 'ande{ttdemical among
republican governments.

Every article of the social contract cannot b^ ascer-
tained : some of its leading principles cannoi easii^ be
mistaken. , One certainly is, that, in a free stale, dbe
law should impose no restraint up<m the wiU ef the citi-
zen, but such as will be productive af adiiaatage, puUkk
•r private^ suSkient to overbalance the disadvantages of

LXCTURES OK LAW.' 441

llie restraint : . for, after all, we shall find that the citizen
was made for the sake of the man. The proof of this
advantage lies upon the legislature. If a law is even
harmless $ the very circumstance of its heing a law^ is
itself a barm. This remark might be remembered, with
profit, in the revision of many codes of law. In a word ;
|rovernment and human laws are necessary ; if good,
tiiey are inestimable, in, the present state. It must be
admitted, however, that they are a burthen and a yoke:
they should resemble that yoke which is easy, and that
burthen which is light.

The citizen under a free government has a right
to think, to speak, to write, to print, and to publisl^
freely, but with decency and truth, concerning publick
men,^ puUiek bodies, and publick measures.

Thus much concerning tho duties and the rights of a
private citizen.

I am next to treat of aliens.

homo sum^-

NihA Ittini^ alieatim a me pata

If this humane maxim had prevailed, as it ought to
have prevailed, in the establ^shmei^t of government, and
the formation of laws ; the title, which relates to aliens,
would have been of an impcMrt very different from what
we generally find it to be.

,. The contracted and debasing spirit of monopoly has
not been peculiar to oomtiaerce ; it has raged, with

\

^

\

AJjL

W » 9

XKCTURES ON LAW*

/

equal violence, and with «qual mischief, in law aad
politicks.

In ancient times, every alien was considered as aa
enemy. The rule, I think, should be reversed. None
but an enemy should be considered as an alien— I mean
— as to the acquisition and the enjoyment, of property*
The rights of citizenship are the rights of parties.to fjie
social compact. Even to these, aliens should be permitted
to accede upon easy tenhs.

This subject is of high importance to the United
States ; to Pennsylvania, in particular.

«

\Vhen I speak of the contracted rule, which prevailed
in ancient times, I mean to speak, and I wish to be
understood, with some illustrious . esiceptiohs* These
deserve to be distinctly pointed out. From them, valua-
ble instruction may be drawn.

The general policy of the Egyptians was unfriendly to
strangers. It is even said of them, that they were accus-
tomed to kills or reduce to slavery, all those whom they
found upon their coasts ; except at one city only, at
which they were allowed to land and trade. But Psam-
meticus, one of their princes', observed maxims of a
more humane and enlightened nature. He favoured
navigation in his seus ^ ht opened ;his ports to the cc»n-
merce of all nations; and he graated every kind of encou-
ragement to every one, who would settlle in Egypt.
Amasis, one of his successours, governed, by the same
principles, his .behaviour towards foreigners. He con-
ferred mdny benefits upon the Grecians ; and even allowed

LECTURES ON LAW. 44S

tiiem to erect altars and temples. Under the govern-
ment of Amasis, it is observed, Egypt was perfectly
happy, k

Under the famous Theseus, the rival and the friend
of Hercules, strangers were invited to participate the
privfleges of Athens : from all parts the invitation was
accepted ; and the new citizens were incorporated with
the ancient Athenians* Every thing now, it is added,
seemed favourable to his views : he governed a free
people with moderation and benevolence ; he was esteem-
ed and beloved by the neighbouring nations ; and he en-
joyed a foretaste of that profound veneration, with which
succeeding ages gradually honour the memory of great
laen.^

This policy, enlarged and generous, was continued in
Attica, during many ages after Theseus ; and rendered
that celebrated country the most frequent resource of the
miserable. On a particular occasion, the descendants
of the great Hercules, devested of their possessions and
driven into banishn^ent by one of the vicissitudes of thet
times, enjoyed the advantages of the policy introduced by
the friend of their ancestor : they were received by the
Athenians. "

When it was, in the time of Lysias, attempted to con-
tract the foundation of the Athenian, government ; this
part of their ancient policy is, in his oration against that
attempt, mentioned with particular respect. " As to my-
self, I hold it to be the best security for the state, that all

k S. Gog Or. Laws. 15. 16. ^ 1. Anac. 31. 32. *

m 1. GilL 69.

446 L£CT|7&£8 OH hAW.*

have an equal share in. the government. When fofmerl)!
we built walls, and acquired a fieet^ and money, and aUies |
we regarded not these advantages as obtained only for
ourselves ; we shared them with the Eubaeans, by esta-
blishing the right of intermarriage. Sucl^ were, once our
principles : by bestowing on strangers the honours, of om;
country, we rendered them our friends : shall we nosfir
by degrading our fellow citizens, render thei^i our ene^
mies ? Never let this t^ke place.'"*

^^ By those states," says my Lord Bacon, in his book
concerning the augmentation of the sciences, ^^ who have
, easily and liberally commvmicated.the right of citizenship,
greatness has been most successfully acquired. No com-^
monwealth opened its bosom so wide for the reception
of new citizens, as the commonwealth of Rome. The
fortune of. the empire was correspondent to the wisdom
of the institution ; for it became the largest on the fape
of the earth* It was their custom to confer the right of
citizenship in the most speedy manner ; and in the highest
degree too — I mean not only the right of commerce^ the
right of marriage, the right of inheritance ; but even the
right of suffrage, and the right to the offices and the
honours of the. republick. So that it may be said, not
that the Romans extended themselves over the whole
globe, but that the inhabitants of the globe poured them-
selves upon the Romans. This is the mLOst secure method
of enlarging an empire." ^

My Lord Hale, ajtiother lawyer of eminent name,
speaks in the same spirit. ^^ The shutting out of aliens,"

» Gil. Lys. and hoc 319. • t Ld. Bac. 345.

LECTURES ON LAW.
says he, ^^ tends to the loss of people, which, laboriouslj
employed, are the true riches of any country." '

In the law of Englsmd, there i^ a distinction between
two kinds of aliens— those who are friends, and those
who are enemies. Among alien enemies a subfdivision
is made, or at least was made till lately, which must occa-
sion some degree of astonishment. Alien enemies are
-distinguished into such as are temporary, and such as
are perpetual. Nay ; what is more ; this line of distinc*
tion, certainly never drawn by the peaceful spirit of Chris-
tianity, is attempted to be marked by the progress of the
christian system. " All infidels" — these are the expres-
sions of my Lord Coke in the report of Calvin's case —
*' all infidels are perpetual enemies ; the law presumes not
thatthey will be converted ; between them, as with the
devils, whose subjects they are, and the christian, there
is' perpfetuid hostility ; and can be no peace ;" — for he
fortifies the favourite sentiment by a pleonasm : he goes
farther — ^he attempts to fortify it by the language, tor-
tured surely, of Christianity itself. *' Qua autem con-
ventio Christi ad Belial ; aut quae pars fideli f uni infi-
.deli."^ - ^

** Upon this ground," continues he, " there is a diver-
sity between a conquest of the kingdom of a christian
king, and the conquest of that of an infidel. In the
former case, the ancient laws of the kingdom remain,
till they are altered by the conqueror : in the latter c^se,
they are immediately abrogated ; and, till new laws be
established, the conqueror shall judge them according tm
natural equity." *■

» 1. Bac 76. ¥ent 427. . 5 2. Cor, VI. liv r ^. Rep. jn

448 LECTUS.ES OK LATT.

The character of an opinion, like the character of a
man, may be illustrated by tracing its history and pedi-
gree. The opinion, that ^^ the common law of England,
as such, has no allowance or authority in, the American
plantations," is the bastard child of this bastard mother,
begotten on her body by the Commentaries' on the laws
of England. This very case of Calvin, and this very
part of Calvin's cas^, is cited — ^none better could be
cited — as the authority for an opinion, which was calcu-
lated to cut off the noblest inheritance of the colonies :
to use, for once, a language technically legal, die colonies
were mulier^ though they were puisne — they were legiti-
mate, though they were young.

But to return to the subject of alienage — ^an alien,
according to the notion commonly received as law, is one
bom in a strange country and in a foreign society, to
which he is presumed to have a natural and a necessaTy
allegiance. ^

Errour, as well as truth, is sometimes connected by a
regular chain.' A man is deemed a dangerous enemy or
a suspicious friend to that country in which he wishes to^
reside, because he is previously deemed an appurtenant
or a slave to that country in which he chanced to be bom.
Such is on^of the consequences of "natural and necessary
allegiance.''

Between alien friends, who are temporary subjects,
and subjects naturalized or natural bom, a species of sub-
jects intermediate is known to the law of England. They
are distinguished by the appellation of denizens. The

* l.Bl.Con3L lor. < LBac r6.

LECTURES ON LAW. 449

power of denization is a high and incommunicable por-
tion '^ of the prerogative royal. A denizen is received
into the natioji, like a person who is dropt from the clouds*
He may acquire rights, but he cannot inherit them, not
even from his own parent : he may. transmit rights to his
children, who are born after his letters patent of denii^a-
tion ; but not to those who were born before. A denizen
may be moulded into a thousand fantastical shapes : he
may be a denizen in tail, a denizen for life, a denizen for
years, a denizen upon condition, a denizen in one court
of justice, and an alien in another. ^ Of those modifica-
tions, however, a subject naturalized is unsusceptible ;
because, we are told, they would be inconsistent with
the purity, the absoluteness, and the indelibility of natural
allegiance* ^ For a sound rule, we receive an unsound
reason.

Between a subject naturalized and a subject natural
•born, the distinction is merely nominal as to private
rights: it applies only to the manner, in which those
rights are devolved. On one they are devolved by his
birth : on the other, by the consent of the nation, ex-
pressed in the parliament. With regard, however, to
J)ublick rights, the case is widely different. By statutes
made even since the revolution, no subject naturalized
can be a member of parliament ; and no bill for natural-
ization can be received in either house of parliament,
without such a disabling clause. ^

Britain seems determined to mer^t and to perpe-
tuate, in political as well as geographical accuracy, the

« 1. M. Com. 374. ^ 1. Ins. 129. a.

w 1. Ins. 139. a. x 1* Bl. Com. 374.

VOL. II. 3 m:

450 LECTURES ON LAW*

description, by which it was markeoL many centuries

— divUos toto orbe Britannos.

What a very different spirit animates and pervades her
American sons ! Indeed it is proper chat it should do so.
The insulated policy of the British nation would as ill
befit the expansive genius of our institutions, as the hills,
the ponds, and the rivulets, which are scattered over
their island, would adequately represent the mountains,
and rivers, and lakes of the United States. ^^ In the new
world" — I speak now from one of the finest writers of
Britain'' — " in the new world nature seems to have carried
. on her operations with a bolder hand, and to have dis-
tinguished the features of the country by a peculiar mag^
nificence. The mountains of America are much supe-
riour in height to those in the other divisions of the
globe. From those lofty mountains descend rivers pro-
portionably large. Its lakes are no less conspicuous for
grandeur, than its mountains and rivers." We imitate,
for we ought to imitate, the operations of nature ; and the
features of our policy, like those of our country, are dis-
tinguished by a peculiar magnificence.

In a former lecture, * we have seen how easily the
essential rights of citizenship can be acquired in the
United States, and in every state of the* Union. Let us
now see, how liberally the doors arc thrown open for
admission to the publick trusts and honours, as well as
to the private rights and privileges, of our country.

At the end of two years from the time, at which a
foreigner " of good character" — ^for numbers without

7 ?.Rob.Amer.3.4^ « Ante, p, 133. et seq.

LECTURES ON LAW. 451

Virtue are not our object — a former mode of " better
peopling his majesty's plantations" is now fallen into dis-
repute— at the end of two years from the time,* at which
a foreigner of good character sets his foot in this land
of generosity as well as freedom, he is entitled to become,
if he chooses,^ a citizen of our national government.
At the end of seven years, a term not longer than
that which is frequently required for an apprenticeship
to the plainest trade, the citizen may become legislator ;
for he is eligible as a representative in the congress of
the United States.^ After having, in that capacity,,
undergone the honourable but short probationship of
two years, the doors even of our national senate are
opened as far as to receive him. ^

In Pennsylvania, the citizen may become a repre-
sentative ^ at the end of three,' a senator,^ at the end of
four, and govemour ^ of the commonwealth, at the end
of seven years.

It would be tedious, and it is unnecessary, to multi-
ply particulars, by going through all the sister states;
In this, as in other respects, in which we have viewed
them, we are still pleased with the

•

— &cies, qualis decet esse sororum.

The rights and the disabilities of aliens with regard
to property, especially with regard to landed property,

^ By; the law now in force, a residence of five'years is required.
Xaws U. S. 7. cong. 1. sess. c. 28. Ed.

b Laws U. S. 1. cong. 2. sess. c. 3. c Cons. U. S. art 1. s. 2.

d Cons, U. S. art 1. s, 3. ^ Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 3.

^ Cons. Penn. art 1. s. 8. g Art 2. s. 4

452 I.ECTUREB ON LAV. l

forma a subject of investi^tion both interesting aid
nice. But, according to my uniform method, I postpooe
it until I arrive at the second great division -of my systtn.
The examination of general principles should pretaie
that of panicular rules.

One opinion, however, I will now mention .- itseemj
to be founded on the authority of Sir Henry Spelmm
and the Grand Custumier of Normandy. The opinion -
is, that the law, by which an alien is prohibited Itom

CHAPTER XII.

OF THE NATURAL RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS.

W E have now viewed the whole structure of govern-
ment ; we have now rang;ed over its numerous apart-
ments and divisions ; and we have examined the materials

454 LECTURES ON LAW,

J must add, all this is true. It is true ih the dark; it
is true eren in the enlightened portions of the globe.

At, and nearly at the commencement of these lectures,
a sense of duty obliged me to enter into a controversial
discussion concerning the rights of society : the same
sense of duty now obliges me to enter into a similar
discussion concerning the rights of the constituent parts
of society — concerning the rights of men. To enter
upon a discussion of this nature, is neither the most
pleasant nor the most easy part of my business. Bat
when the voice of obligation is heard, ease and pleasure
must preserve the respectful silence, and show the cheer-
ful acquiescence, which become them.

What was the primary and the principal object in the
institution of government ? Was it— I speak of the pri-
mary and principsjl object — was it to acquire new rights
by a human establishment ? Or was it, by a human es-
tablishment, to acquire a new security for the possession
or the recovery of those rights, to the enjoyment or
acquisition of which we were previously entitled by the
immediate gift, or by the unerring law, of our aD-wise
and all-beneficent Creator i

The latter, I presume, was the case : and yet we are
told, that, in order to acquire the latter, we must sur-
render the former ; in other words, in order to acquire
the security, we must surrender the great objects to be
secured. That man *' may secure fome liberty, he makes
a surrender in trust of the whole of it." — These expres-
sions are copied literally from the. late publication of Mr»
Burke. •

• Re& on Fr. Rev. 47.

LECTURES ON LAW* 455

Tyranny, at some times, is uniform in her principles*
The feudal system was introduced by a specious and
successful maxim, the exact counterpart of that, which
has been advanced by Mr. Burke — exact in every parti-
cular but one ; and, in that one, it was more generous.
The free and allodial proprietors of land were told that
they must surrender it to the king, and take back — ^not
merely " some,'* but — ^the whole of it, under some cer-
tain provisions, which, it was said, would procure a
valuable object — the very object was security — security
for their property. What was the result ? They received
their land back again, indeed ; but they received it,
loaded with all the oppressive burthens of the feudal
servitude — cruel, indeed j so far as the epithet cruel can
be applied to matters merely of property.

But all the other rights of men are in question here.
For liberty is frequectly used to denote all the absolute
rights of men. " The absolute rights of every English-
man," says jSir William Blackstone, "are, in a political
and extensive sense, usually called their liberties." ^

And must we surrender to government the whok
of those absolute rights ? But we are to surrender them
only — in trust: — another brat of dishonest parentage is
now attempted to be imposed upon us: but for what
purpose ? Has government provided for us a superin*
tending court of equity to compel a faithful performance
of the trust ? If it had ; why should we part with the
legal title to our rights ?

After all ; what is the mighty boon« which is to allure
us into thki surrender i We are to surrehder all that

k 1. Bl, Com. 12r.

4S6

LEGTUACft ON LAW*

we may secure ^* some :" and this " some," both as to
its quantity and its certain^, is to depend on the pLea-
Aure of that power, to which the surrender is made* Is
this a bargain to be proposed to those, who are both in-
telligent and free ? No. Freemen, who know and love
their rights, wiU not exchange their armour of pure and
massy gold, for one of a baser and lighter metal, how-
ever finely il» may be blazoned with ttnsel : but they will
not refuse to make an exchange >upon terms, which are
honest and honourable-— terms, which maybe advantatge-
ous to all, and injurious to none*

The opinion has been very general, that, in order to
obtain the blessings of a good government, a sacri&ce
must be made of a part of our natural liberty* I am
much inclined to believe, that, upon examination, this
opinion will, prove to be fallacious* It will, I think, be
found, that wise and good government— -I speak, at pre-
sent, of no other*-4nstead of contracting, enlarges as
-well as secures the exercise of the natural liberty of
man : mid what I say of his natural liberty, I mean to
extend, and wish to be understood, through all this ar-
gument, as extended, 1;^ aU his other natural rights*

This investigation will open to our j>rospect, from a
new and striking point of view, the very dose and inter-
esting connexion, which si^ists between the law of
nature and municipal law* This investigation, therefore,
will richly repay us for all the pains we may employ,
and all the attention we may besttow, in making it.

« The law," says Sir William Mackstone, " which
Tcstrains a ntan from doing mischief to his fellow ciu«
zens, though it diminishes the natural, increases the

LECTURES ON LAMT, 4ST

civil liberty of mankind, c " Is it a part of natural
liberty to do mischief to jany one ?

In a former part of these lectures, I had occasion to
describe what natural liberty is : let us recur to the de-
scription, which was then given. ^ " Nature has im-
planted in man the desire of his ow^ happiness ; she has
inspired him with many tender alFections towards others^
especially in the near relations of life ; she has endowed
him with intellectual and with active powers j she has
furnished liim with a natural impulse to exercise his
powers for his own happiness, and the happiness of those
for whom he entertains such tender affections. If all
this be true, the, undeniable consequence is, that he has
a right to exert those powers for the accomplishment of
those purposes, in such- a manner, and upon such ob-
jects, as his inclination and judgment shall direct ; pro-
vided he does no injury to others ; and provided some
publick interests do n6t demand his labours. This right
is natural liberty." ^

If this description of natural liberty is a just one, it
will teach us, that selfishness and injury are as little
coi^ntenanced by the law of natur^ as by the law of nian*
Positiv^ penalties, indeed) may, by human laws, be an-
nexed to both. But these penalties are a restraint only
upon injustice and overweening self-love, not upon the
exercise of natural liberty. .

In a state of natural liberty, every one is allowed to
act according to his own inclination, provided he trans*
gress not those liniits, which are assigned to him by the

c t Bl Com. 125. 126. d Ante. voL 1. p. 309.

VOL. II. - 3 N

V

^58 LECTURES OK LAV.

law of nature : in a state of civil liberty, he is alloired
to act according to his inclination, provided he trans-
gress not those limits, which are assigned to him by the
municipal law. True it is, that, by the municipal law,
some things may be prohibited, which are not prohibited
by the law of nature: but equally true it is, that, imder
a government which is wise and good, every citizen wiQ
gain more liberty than he can lose by these prohibitions.
He will gain more by the limitation of other men's free-
dom, than he can lose by the diminution of his own.
He will gain more by the enlarged and undisturbed ex-
ercise of his natural liberty in innumerable mstances^
than he can lose by the restriction of it in a few*

Upon the whole, therefore, man's natural liber^,
instead of being abridged, may be increased and se-
cured in a government, which is good and wise. As
it is with regard to his natural liberty, so it is with re-
gard to his other natural rights.

But even if a part was to be given up, does it follow
that all must be surrendered ? ** Man," says Mr. Burke,*
" cannot enjoy the rights of an uncivil and of a civil
state together.*' By an " uncivil" contradistinguished
from a " civil " state, he must here mean a state of na-
ture ; by the rights of this uncivil state, he must mean
the rights of nature : said is it possible that natural and
civil rights cannot be enjoyed together ? Are they really
incompatible ? Must our rights be removed from the
stable foundation of nature, and placed on the precarious
and fluctuating basis of human institution? JSuch seems
to be the sentiment of Mr. Burke : and such. too seenfs

'^Re&oaFr.Rev. 47.

* • r

LECTtTRES ON LAW.^ 459

\t have been the sentiment of a much higher authorit](
than Mr* Burke-— Sir William Blackstone.

In the Analysis of his Commentaries, he mentions
** the right of personal security, of personal liberty, and
of private property '^^ — ^not as the natural rights, which, I
confess, I should, have expected, but — ^as the ** civ^l li«
berties" of Englishmen. In his Commentaries, speaking
of the same three rights, he admits that they are found-
ed on nature and reason j but adds *^ " their establish-
ment, excellent as it is, is still human.'' Each of those
rights he traces severally and particularly to magfna char-
ta, .which he justly considers as for the most part de-
claratory of the principal grounds of the fundamental
laws of England.^ He says indeed, ' that they are\
** either that residuum of natural liberty, which is not
required by the laws of society to be sacrificed topublick
convenience ; or else those civil privileges, which socie-
ty has engaged to provide, inlieu of the natural liberties
so given up by individuals." He makes no explicit de-
claration which of the two, in his opinion, they are ; bu^
since he traces them to magna charta and the fundanien*.
tal laws of England ; since he calls them ^^ civil liberties ;"
and since he says expressly, that their establishment is
human ; we have reason to think, that he viewed them
as coming under the latter part of his description-— as
civil privileges, provided by society, in lieu of the na-
tiifal liberties giveh up by individuals. Considered in
this view, there is no material diiFerence between the
doctrine of Sir William Blackstone, and that delivered
by *Mfl Burke.

^B. 1. c 1. 8. 8. c L BL Com. IST,

klA ISS. 'Id. 129.

460 LECTURES ON LAW.

•

If this view be a just view of things, the consequence,
undeniable and unavoidable, is, that, under civil go-
vernment, individuals have '* given up'* or " surrender-
ed" their rights, to which they were entided by nature
and by nature's law; and have received, in lieu of.
them, those ** civil privileges^ which society has engaged
to provide."

If this view be a just view of things, then the conse-
quence, undeniable and unavoidable, is, that, under
civil government, the right of individuals to their pri-
vate property, to their personal liberty, to their health,
to their reputation, and to their life, flow from a human
establishment, and can be traced to no higher source.
The connexion between man and his natural rights is in-
tercepted by the institution of civil society.

If this view be a just view of things, then, under civil
society, man is not only made ybr, but made by the go-
vernment : he is nothing but what the society frames :
he can claim nothing but what the society provides.
His natural state and his natural rights are withdrawn
altogether from notice : " It is the civil social man,''
«ays Mr. Burke, ^ " and no other j whom I have in my
contemplation."

If this view be a just view of things, why should wc
not subscribe the following articles of a political creed,
proposed by Mr. Burke. '

" We wisKed, at the period of the revolution, and
we now wish to derive all we possess, as an inherit'

kRefl. onFr. ^cv. 4;^.

LECTURES QW LAW. 461

♦.

once from aur forefathers* Upoi^ that body and stock of
inhqr itance, we have taken /care not to .^nnoculate any >
cy on alien to the nature of the original phmf • All the .
reformations we have hitherto made, have proceeded ^
upon the principle of.referencfe to antiquity ; and I hope, i
nay I am persuaded, that all those, which possibly may,
be made hereafter, will be carefully formed upon analo-.:
gical precedent, authority, and example."

" Our oldest reformation is that of magna charta. >
« You will see that Sir Edward Coke, that great oracle of <
our law, and indee4 ^ ^be great men who follow him,
to Blackstone, are industrious to prove the pedi^ee of
our liberties."

Let us observe, by the. way, that the only ppsitipn, ,
relating to this subject, for which I find the authority of I
my Lord Coke quoted,* is a position, to which eveiy
one, who knows the history of the common law, will
give his immediate and most unreserved a§sernt: the
position is — " that magna charta was, for the most,
part, declaratory of the principal grounds of the funda-
mental laws of England," But Mr. Burke proceeds.

"They endeavour to prove, that the ancient char-^ ^
ter, the magna charta of King John, was connected with .
another positive charter from Henry the first ; and that
both the one and the other were nothing more than a re-
affirmance of the still more ancient standing law of the
kingdom. In the matter of fact, for the. greater part,
these authors appear to be in the right; perhaps not
always : but if the lawyers mistake in some particulars,

1 1. BL Com. 137. 128.

itpr6ves mj^ poskton still the more strongly ; becatise it
dl^monstrates the powerful prepossession towards anti-
qtif ty, with which the minds of all our lawyers and legisla-
tors, atid of all the people whom they wish to influenee,
have been always filled ; and the stationary ' policy of
this kingdom in considering their most sacred rights and
fraftehtses as an inheritance J^**^

It is proper to pause here a little. — If, in tracing the
pedigree of our " most sacred rights," one was permit-
ted to indulge the same train of argument aiid reflection,
which would be just and natural in the investigation of
inferiour titles, we should be prompted to inquire, how
it happens, that ^^ mistakes in some particulars'' would
prove more strongly the general point to be established.
Would mistakes in some particulars respecting a title to
land, or the genealogy of a family, prove more strongly
the validity of one, or the antiquity of the other \

But I must do Mr. Burke justice. The reason,
^ich he assigns, why the making of those mistakes
proves his position the more strongly, is, because it
proves the ** ^werfvil prepossession towards antiquity."
Of this prepossession I will controvert neither the exist-
ence nor the strength : but I will ask-^oes it prove the
point in question ?— Does it prove the truth arid correct-
ness of even the civil pedigree of the liberties of En-
gland ? Is predilection an evidence of right i Is property
or any thing else, which is| in litigation, decided to
* belong to him, who shows the strongest affection for it i
If, in a controversy concerning an inferiour object, the
penfon, who claitns it, ami who undertsd^ea to "substan-'

m RelLbn Fr. Rev. 34.

LECTUIISS ON LAW* / 46S

tiate bis cUum, should own, that, in deducing his chain of
tidcj some mistakes were made ; but should urge even
those mistakes as an argument in his behalf, because
his perseverance in his suit, notwithstanding those mis-
takes, demonstrates his powerful attachment for the
tiling in disp«i.te ; what would a discerning courN-*what
would an unbiassed jtiry think of his conduct? I believe
the j^ would not think that it paid any extraordinary com^
pUment, either to their impartiality or to their under-
standing.

I begin now to hesitate, whether we should subscribe
the political creed of Mr* Burke. .Let us, however,
proceed and examine some of its other articles.

Some one, it seems, had been so hardy as to allege,
that the king of Great Britain owes his crown to *^ the
choice of his people." This doctrine, says Mn Burke,
^^ aihrms a most unfounded, dangerous, illegal, and
unconsUtuj^nal position." ^^ Nothing can be more
untrue, than that the crown of this kingdoni is so held
py his niajesty." n . To disprove the assertion, ^* that the
king of Great Britain owes his crown to the choice of
his people," Mr. Burke has recourse to the declaration
of rights, which was made at the accession of King WiU
Uam and Queen Mary« *^ This declaration of right,*'
says he, ^^ is the comer stone of our constitution, as rem
enforced^ explained, improved, and in Its fundamental
principles /(7r ever settled. It is called an * act for decla-
ring the rights and liberties of the subject, void for settling
the succession of the crown.' These rights and this
ijijf If e^siQ]^ are decll^-ed in one body, and bound indisso-

s RdL(«Fr,Rev«9.

'464 LECTURES ON J.AW.

\Ay together.'' o « It is curious," adds he, " with what
address the temporary solution of continuity in the line
of succession" — for it was impossible for Mr. Burke not
'to admit that from this line a temporary deviation ^as
made — " it is curious with what address this temporary
solution is kept from the eye ; whilst all that could be
found in this act of necessity, to countenance the idea of
an hereditary succession is brought forward, and fostered,
and i^ade the most of by the legislature." ** The legisla<-
ture," he proceeds, " had plainly in view the act of recog-
nition of the first of Queen Elizabeth, and that of James
the first, both acts strongly declaratory of the inheritable
nature of the crown ; and, in many parts, they follow, with
a nearly literal precision, the words and even the forin,
which is found in these old declaratory statutes."'
" They give the most solemn pledge, taken from the act
of Queen Elizabeth, as solemn a pledge as ever was or
can be given in favour of an hereditary succession.
' The lords spiritual and temporal, and commons, do, in
the name of all the people aforesaid, most humbly and
faithfully submit themselves^ their heirs and posterities
for ever ; and do faithfully promise, that they will stand
to, maintain, and defend their said majesties, and also
the limitation of the crown^ Aerem specified and contained,
to the utmost of their jpower." *

I have mentioned above, that tyranny, at some times,
is uniform in her principles : I have done her full justice:
she is not so at all times. Of truth, liberty, and virtue,
it is the exclusive prerogative to be always consistent.

Let us, for a moment, adopt the statement, which
Mr. Burke has given us. Upon that statement I ask— -

• Rea on Fr. Rev. 13. p Id. 13. ^ Id. 14

LECTUilES ON LAW. 46^

if the humble and faithful submission of the parliament,
in the name of all the people, was sufficient, in the time
of Elizabeth, to bind themselves, their heirs and poste-
rity for ever, to the line of hereditary succession ; how
came it to pass, that, in the time of William and Mary^
the parliament, ,in the name of all the people, was justi-
fied in deviating, even for an instant, from the succession
in that hereditary line ? I ask again — if the humble and,
faithful submission of the parliament, in the name of all
the people, was, in the sixteenth century, insufficient to
bind their heirs and posterity in the seventeenth century;
how comes it to pass that, in the seventeenth century^
the humble and faithful submission of the parliament?
in the name of all the people, could bind their heirs a|^
posterity in the eighteenth century i Such a submission
was either sufficient or.it was not sufficient for that
binding purpose : let the disciples of the doctrine, which
rests on this dilemma, choose between the alternative^*

«
. I have now no hesitation whether we should or should
not subscribe the creed of Mr. Burke : that creed, which
is contradictory to itself, cannot, in every part, be sound
and orthodox.

But, to say the truth, I should not have given myself
the trouble of delivering, nor you, of hearing these anno-
tations uppn it ; unless it had derived the support, which
jt claims, from the Commentaries on the laws of England*
The principles delivered in those Commentaries are
never matters of indifference: I have already naentioned,^
V that when they are not proper objects of imitation, they
furnish excellent materials of odntrast."

' Ante. vol. 1. p. 22.
VOL. li. 3 0

%66. 1ECTUAE8 OK LATf.

Goverfunent, in my humble opinion^ should be formeiib
to secure and to enlarge the exercise of the natural rights
of its members ; and every government, which has not
this in view, as its principal object, is not a government
of the legitimate kind.

Those rights result from the natural state of man ;
from that situation, in which he would find himself^
if no civil government was instituted. In such a sitaa^
tion, a man finds himself, in some respects, unrelated
to others ; in other respects, peculiarly related to some ;
in still other respects, bearing a general relation to all.
From his unrelated state, one class of rights arises : from
' Ui peculiar relations, another class of rights arises:
firom his general relations, a third class of rights arises.
To each class of rights, a class of duties is correspon-
dent; as we had occasion to observe and illustrate,
when we treated concerning the jgenerad principles of
natural law. *

In his unrelated state, man has a natural right to
ills property, to his character, to liberty, and to safety.
From his peculiar relations, as a husband, as a father,
as a son, he is entitled to the enjoyment of peculiar
rights, and obliged to the performance of peculiar duties.
These will be specified in their due coui^e. From
his general relations, he is entitled to other rights,
ftimple in their principle, but, in their operation, fruit^
Ful and extensive. His duties, in their principle and in
their operation, may be characterized in dte same fnaftw
ner as ht3 rights. In these general rdations, his rights
are, to be free from inju't}'', and to reteive the fblffitment
of the engagements, which are made to him ; his dutiea
4ure, to do no injury, axid to fulfil the engiigements^ which

IBCTURES OH LAW*. 46^

he has made. On these two pillars principally apd
^spectively rest the criminal and the civil codes of the
municipal law. These are the pillars of justice*

Of municipal law, the rights and the duties of bene-
volence are sometimes, though rarely, the objects. When
tthey are so, they will receive the. pleasing and the merit-
ed attention.

You now see the distribution, short, and simple, and
plain, which will govern the subsequent part of my
system of lectures. Fiy>m this distribution, short, and
simple, and plain as it is, you see the close and very
interesting connexion between natural and municipal
law. You see, to use again my Lord Bacon'ii l^guage,
how the streams of civil institutions flow from the foun-
tain of justice, ^

I am first to show, that a man has a natural right to
his property, to his character, to liberty, and to safety.

His natural right to his property, you will permit me,
at present, to fiWume as a principle granted. I assume it
for this reason ; because I wish not to anticipate now
what will be introduopd, with much greater propriety
and advantage, when f come to the second great divi-
sion of my lectures, in which I am to treat concerning
things.

To his character, every one has a natural right. A
man^s character may, I think, be described as the juat
result of those opinions, which ought to he formed con-
cemipg his talents, his sentiments, and his conduct...
PpiniQilS, vfQfk thia u upm every otb^ subjeci^ ought

468 L1SCTUBE8 ON X.AW*

to be founded in truth. Justice, as well as truth, requires,
concerning characters, accuracy and impartiality of opi*
Dion.

Under some aspects, diaracter may be considered a«
a species of property ; but, of all, the nearest, the dearest,
and the most interesting. In this light it is viewed by'
the Poet of nature —

The purest treasure mortal times affi:>rd

Is qwtless rt;ptttatioiL

Who steals my purse, steals trash.

Twas mine ; 'tis his; and has been slave to thousands;.

But he who filches from me my good name,

Takes from me that, which not enriches him.

But makes me poor indeed. .

By the exertion of the same talents and virtues, property
and character both are often acquired : by vice and indo^
knee, both are often lost or destroyed*

The love of reputation and the fear of dishonour are,
by the all-gracious Author of our existence, implanted in
our breasts, for purposes the most beneficent and wise.
Let not these principles be deemed the growth of dis-
positions only which are weak ordain ; they flourish most
luxuriantly in minds, the strongest and, let me add, the
most humble. Of the happiness of heaven, a part of
the unerring description is — ^that it is " full of glory.'*

Well may character, then, be considered as one of the
natural rights of man : well may it be classed among those
rights, the enjoyment of which it is the design of good
government and laws to secure and enlarge : well does
it 4<^8ecve their encouragement and protection \ for, in iti

'XECTURES ON tAW. 40)l

turn^ it assists their operations, and supplies their defi-
ciencies. ^'

I remarked, a little while ago, that the rights and the
duties of benevolence are but rarely, though thejr are at
some times, the objects of municipal ]:aw. The remark
may be extended to rights and dutiesof many other kiiids.
To many virtues, legal rewards are not, nor can they be^
assigned : with legal impunity, many vices are^ and must
be, suffered to escape. But before a court of honour
those qualities and sentiments and actions are amenable,
which despise the subtlest process of the tribunals of law,
and elude the keenest vigilance of the ministers of justice.
This court, powerful in its sentences as well as extensive
in its jurisdiction^ decrees to virtue, and to the virtuous
exertion of talents, a crown of fame, pure and splendid;
vice, and idleness, less odious only than vice, it dooms
to wear the badges of infamy, dirty and discoloured.
This court, therefore, in a government of which virtue
is the principle and vice is the bane, ought to receive,
from all its institutions, the just de^ee of favour and
regard.

Honour 's a sacred tie—

The noble mind's distinguishing perfection,

♦

That aids and strengthens virtue, where it meets hei>

The Poet addi

And imitates her actions, where she is not

The inoral descriptions of Mr. Addison are seldom
inaccurate. On this occasion, however, I must declare
that I think him liable to the charge of inaccuracy. The
counterfeit of virtue should not be dignified with the ap-
pellation of hoMur.

4f0 LECTVill&S OH LAW.

It is the seotiment of #ome writers, higUy difttiii-
guiahed too by their liberal and manly principles, tbafi
honour ia peculiar to governments which are monarchi<-
caL ^^ In extreme political lib^rtyy*^ says the M|u*qui8
of Beccaria, ^^ and in absolute despotism, all ide^s 0£
hoMur disappear, or are contbiofded with others. In
the first case, repuitation becomes useless from the dea*
potism of the lawsi ai)d, in the second, the despotbm
of one man, annuiliog all civil existence, rediices the
rest to a pvecarious temporary personality. Honour,
then, is one of the fundamental principles of those mo*-
narchies, which are, a limited despotism ; and in these,
like revolutions in despotick states, it is a mooientary
return to a state of nature and original equality.''*

How prevalent even among enlightened writers, is
^e mistaken opinion,, that government is subversive of
equality and nature ! Is it necessarily so i By no means.
When I speak thus, I speak confidently, because I speal
from principle fortified by fact. Let the constitution of
the United States-*4et that of Pennsylvania be examined
from the beginning to the end. No ri^t is conferred, no
obligation is laid on any, which is not laid or confen^d
on every, citizen of the commonwealth or Union — ^I
think I may defy the world to produce a single e^pcep.
tion to the truth of this remark. Now, as I showed at
large in a former part of my lectures,^ the original
equality of mankind consists in an equality of their di>
ties and rights^

That honour is the principle of monarchical govem-
iftents, is the well known doctrine of die celebrate

s

*«m.<v9. .<lAMimi9LL|).3aiS»BM.

L*CtURE8 on LAW.

47i

Motitesqulea. ' But let ns examine the nature fttid qusfH^
ties of that honour which he describes. It is that kd*
hour which can subsist without honesty ; for he stijf^
expressly," that, in well policied monaWhies, there ari .
very few honest men. It is that honour which foi4>id3l
not adulation, nor cunning, nor craft. ' It is thftt hohottt
which judges of actions not as they are good, but as
they are showy ; not as they are just, but as they are
]^and ; not as they are reasonable, but as tRey are ex-
traordinary. It is, rft one wolrd^, that honour, whieK
fashions the virtues just as it pkases, and extends of
limits our duties by its own whimstcaJ^st^. To thfe
honour, indeed, truth in conversation 'iis -a tie<i^essfcfy
point : but is this for the sake of truth I By no xheani^.

For the possession of this honour-^vicious in its prac^
tice, and, even when right in its practice, vidbus in it^
principle — a republican government will not, I presunae,
contend. But to that honour, whose conttexion with
virtue i6 indissoluble, a republican goveitinient produced
the most unquestionable title. The principle Of vitttre
ii aHowed to be hers : if she possesses Virtue, she also
possesses honour. I admire the fine moral and political
instruction, as well as the elegant architectural taste,
exhibited by the jusdy framed structure, in which the
temple of honour was accessible only through the temple
oif virtue.

Viewed in this light, the honour of character is a
i>roperty, which is, indeed, precious. But let it be re-
4Biembered, that, in this view, it is a property, which
must be purchased. To claim that re|^tation which we

•d|>.L. ii.3.c.'IL

4f9 L|^QT0A&S ON LAV.

do not deserve, is ay absurd, U^ougfa it is not as baie^
faced, as to claim that property which. is not ours. The
pnly' difference is, that, in the former case, we claim
generally that' which belongs to another, while, in the
latter case, we claim that which only does not belong
IQ oursely^. , In both cases, the claim is equally un-
fouiid^d« ...

> . • > . . «

To beslpw on sinother that reputation which be does
not deserve, is equally, profuse, and, in many instances,
is more ui^ust than to* bestow on him that property, to
which he is npt, on the principles either of justice, or
charity, or benevolence, entitled. As it is equally pro-
fuse, it iSf more to be guarded against.' In the latter
case, we bestow what is our own, and, therefore, are in-
clined to be cautious : in the former case, we are apt
to be inconsiderate, because what we bestow is not ours.
Indiscriminate praise is not so odious, but it is as use-
less and it is:as heedless as indiscriminate censure. In
one important {particular they precisely coincide. They
h^ye an equal tendency to destroy and to render ineffica-
cious the great distinction between right and. wrong, ap-
probi^n and disapprobation, virtue and vice.

•* .

If it is unwarrantableto bestow reputation where it is
not due ; what epithet shall we assign to that conduct,
which plucks the wreath of honour from those tem-
ples, around which it has been meritoriously placed ?
Robbery itself flows not from a fountain so rankly poi-
soned as that, which throws out the waters of malicious
^defamation.

The subject of reputation will again come under
your view, when I treat concerning prosecutions for libek

LECTURES ON LAW. 4i7%

and actioni of slander : both of which suppose an un*
justifiable aggression of character. What I have now
said will suffice to point to the general principles, on
which those actions and prosecutions should be defended, ,
supported, and determined* ^

Property must often — reputation must always be pi#-
chased : liberty and life are the gratuitous gifts of hea-
ven.

That man is naturally free, was evinced in a former
lecture : ^ I wiU not reiterate what has been advanced.

I shall certainly be excused from adducing any for-
mal arguments to evince, that life, and whatever is ne-
cessary for the safety of life, are the natural rights of
man. Some things are so difficult ; others are so plain,
that they cannot be proved. It will be more to^ our
purpose to show the anxiety, with which some legal
systems spare and preserve human life ; the levity and
the cruelty which others discover in destroying or sport-
ing with it ; and the inconsistency, with which, in others,
it is, at some times, wantonly sacrificed,, and, at other
times, religiously guarded.

In Sparta, nothing was deemed so precious as the life
of a citizen. And yet in Sparta, if an infant, newly
bqrn, appeared, to those who were appointed to examine
him, ill formed or unhealthy, he was, without any fur-
ther ceremony, thrown into a gulph near mount Tayge-
tus. ^ Fortunate it was for Mr. Pope — ^fortunate it was

^ Vol. 1. p. 309. ^ 4. Anac 161. 162.

VOL. ll« 3 p

474 LSCTUiLSS ON i.AW*

for England, which boasts Mr. Pope-«4faat lie was ml

bom in the neighbourhood of mount Taygetus.

At Athens, X the parent was empowered, when a child
was. bom, to pronounce on its.life or its death. At his feet
it was laid : if he took it in his arms, this was received
aa the gracious signal for its preservation : if he deigned
not a look of compassion on the fruit of his loins, it was
removed and exposed. Over almost all the rest of

Greece,^ this barbarity was permitted or authorized.

<

In China, the practice of exposing new hour childreil
is said to have prevailed immemorially, and to prevail
stiiL As the institutions of that empire are never dianged,
its situation is never improved.

Tacitus records it to the honour of the C^imaiiSy-tfaat,
among them, to kill infants newly bom was deemed la
most flagitious crime. Over them, adds'lie, goodman-
ners have more power, than good laws have over4>ther
nations. This shows, that, in his time, tlieirestraints df
law began to be imposed on this unnatural practiee;
but that its inveteracy had rendered them still itoeiica-'
cious.

Under the Roman commonwealth, no citizen of Rome
was liable to suffer a capital punishment by ^^e sentence
of the law. But at Rome, the son held* his life by the
tenure of his father's pleasure. In the forum, *^ the* senate,
or the camp, the adult son of a Romsoi €itixen.*ei^cqF«d
the publick and private rights oi 2^ person: in his father^
house, he was a mere thing;* confounded, by the lavs,

''S.Aiiac.4. . 714 ibid. > 8. Gibbco. S3.

LECTURES OK. LAW. AffS

■ I

wilh'.tfat ottltle) whom the capricious master migjbt alien-
ate or destroy, without being responsible to any tribunal
on earth.

The gentle Hindcois laudably averse to the shedding
of. blood ; but he carries bis worn out friend or benefac-
tor to. perish, on the banks of the Ganges.

With consistency, beautiful and undeViating, human
life,, from, its commencement to its close, is protected
by. the common la\/* In the contemplation of law, life
begins when the infant is first able to stir in the womb. ^
IBiy the law, life is protected not only from immediate
de^ruetion, but from every degree of actual violence,,
and, insome cases, from every degree of danger.

I

The grades of solicitude, discovered, by the law, on
the sulagect of life, are marked, in the clearest manner,
by the long and regular series of the different degrees
of aggression, which it enumerates and describes —
direatening, assault^ battery, wounding, mayhem, ho-
micide* How those different degrees may be justified,
excused, alleviated, aggravated, redressed, or punished,
wiU. appear bolji in. the criminal and in the civil lode of
our municipal law.

Thus much concerning the natural rights of voxel in
xidiathas been termed his unrelated state. I come now*
to specify and to consider those peculiar relations, by
virtue of which, a man is entided to the enjoyment of
peculiar rights, and obliged to the performance of pecu-
liar duties^

*

a 1. Bl. Com. 139.

476 LECTURES ON LAW.

I begin with marriage, which forms tEe near relatioa
between husband and wife.

Whether we consult the soundest deductions of reason.
Or resort to the best information conveyed to us by his-
tory, or listen to the undoubted intelligence communica-
ted in holy writ, we shall find, that to the institution of
marriage the true origin of societj- must be traced. By
that institution the felicity of Paradise was consummated;
and since the unhappy expulsion from thence, to that in-
stitution, more than to any other, have mankind been in-
debted for the share of peace and harmony which has been
cfislributed among them* ^^ Prima societas in ipso con-
jugio est," says Cicero in his book of offices ; ^ a work
which does honour to the human understanding and the
hums^n heart.

The most ancient traditions of every country ascribe
to its first legislators and founders, the regulations .con-
cerning the union between the sexes. The honour of
instituting marriage among the Chinese, is assigned to
their first sovereign, *^ Fo^hi. In order to render. this
gi-eat foundation of society respectable, he adjusted, as
we are told,^ the ceremonies, with which the contracts
of marriage were accompanied.

Among the Egyptians, the law of marriage is said to
have been established by Menes, ^ whose name is trsms-
mitted to us as that of their first king. The history of
Abraham ^ affords a striking instance of the profound

• *»L.l.c. IT. c 1. Gog. Or. L. 22. v d 3, Gog. Or. L. 313.
« 1. Gog. Or. L. 22. ^ Gen. xii. 19.

LECTURES OH LAW. 4ttT

respect, which in his day was paid, in Egypt, to the con-
jugal union.

Cecrops has been already mentioned as the first great
legislator of the Athenians, and as borrowing his insti-
tutions from thbse of the Egyptians. Accordingly we
are informed, that he established, at Athens, the laws
and ceremonies of marriage, in the same manner as they
were observed and practised in Egypt, Polygamy was
not permitted, s These regulations are described as the
sources of virtues and enjoyments. They evinced the
advantages of decency, the attractions of modesty, the
happiness of loving, and the necessity of constancy in
love. ^

The founder of Rome made, concerning marriages, a
law, which, on many accounts, will deserve our particular
attention. It was expressed in these words : " let every
wife, who by the holy laws of marriage falls into the
power of a husband, enter with him into a community
of goods and sacrifices.".

As marriage has been instituted by the first, it has
always been encouraged by the wisest legislators. By
the law of Moses, ^ a man, during one year after his
marriage, was exempted from publick burthens, and from
going to war. A regulation nearly similar, as we are
' told, was established by the Inca^ of Peru. ' The ju9
trium liberorum^ introduced by the prudent policy of
Augustus, was a permanent inducement to matrimony
at Rome. „

^ ■

g 2. Gog. Or. L. 19. k 1. Anac. 7. « 1. RoL R, H. 32.
1; Deuter. xxiy. 5. 1 1. Gog. Or. L. 23. <" Mont. Sp. L. b. 23. c. 21.

4ffl^ ](<«OTJU&BS OH LAW.

Legislators hare, with great profirioty, , cartied their
views still farther ; they have provided, as far as muni-
cipal laws can provide, against the violation of rights,
indispensably essential to the puri^ andbanaoAy of^e
matrimonial uni(m« Treachery, upon any Qccasion, is
sufficient: to stain a page in the annak-of lif&; , but p^rfidy^
against the solemn engagements o{% mania^ obliteraleSf
the impres«i<Mi of happiness from ev«ry subsn^uent pait^
of the conjugal hi3tory.. Upon this subject^ however, a»
interesting to the finest sentiments and emotions of tbet
heart, every thing, that might be wished,, cannot,^ we
fear, be expected from the operation of human laws*
Much must, be left to the influence of that legitimate
honour, which we have described as the inseparable^
friend and companion of virtue. From the bastard
honour, wiiich we likewise described, it would be ridi-
culous, in this case, to hope for any assistance* I|i;
this case, as in many others,. that honour glories in itSt
ahame.

Concerning the ancient Germans, Tacitus, in his short
but masterly account of their manners,^ informs us,
that amo4g them the laws- of mamage were rigidly
observed ; and that no. part of their conduct wasi more:
exemplary.

We have seen the first institution of marriage
among the Athenians and the Romans : a. concise view
of its history will be instructive and interesting.

In the heroick ages of Greece, we are told, ^ the rightsr
of beauty and feminine weakness were highly respected
and tenderly ol>serveS< The simplicity of diose ages

■Cia. •LGffl.53.56.

was equalljr: remote fvom the cruel ^^r^omy of •sa'vtig^s,
which condemns the fair sex to servitude, and the sordid
selfishness of luxury, which considers them 'solely 'a&
instruments of pleasure. Hence those afiectin^ '^(ceifeft
«o exquisitely described by Homer, vrhich, in' the inter*,
views' of Hector and Andromache, exhibit the 'mo^t
striking image ^of nuptial felicity and love. 'But thfs
beautiful picture of ancient manners was soon miserably
defaced ; and, in the degenerate periods of Greece, the
fair sex were as much neglected and desrpised, as they
had been loved and admired in the heroick mges.

In Aose degraded times, of which I am noW'bbligett
to speak, no pains were employed to render the*€rrecian
femfales agreeable members of society, in any one part
tif their lives. Education was either entirely withheltl
fr6m them ; or it was directed to such objects as were
4itted to contract and debase, instead of elevating anil
enlarging the mind. When they were grown up, they
were thrown away in marriage, without being consulted
in the choice ; and by entering into this new state, they
found the severe guardianship of a father succeeded by
the absolute dominion of a husband. At this period,
even the laws of Athens countenanced this unworthy
tenour of conduct : to secure the fortune of the' husband
was deemed an object of greater importance, than to
protect the person and honour of the wife, from the out-
rage so peculiarly dreaded by female virtue. ^

Let us now turn our attention to Rome. You recol-
lect, that, by a law of Romulus, ** the wife fell into the
power of the husband." The law, which, on the whole,

p GUL Lys. and Imc. Int c.

480 LECTURES OK lAW.

was veiy susceptible of a construction mild and generous,
received from this part of it an interpretation most
uni^arrant^le and severe. By this interpretation, colour-
ed with the unnatural fiction, that, on a solemn marriag:e,
the wife was adopted by the husband, he acquired over
her all the tremendous plenitude of Roman paternal power.
This extreme, as is usual, soon produced its opposite;
and female servitude was exchanged for fepiale licen-
tiousness. The solemnities of the ancient nuptials were
declined) in order to avoid the odious consequences
superinduced upon them by the construction and fiction
of law ; and the parties, without losing, on either side,
their independence or their name, subscribed definite
and stipulated articles of a marriage contract. Their
cohabitation, and the appearances of a common interest
which they exhibited, were received, without investi-
gation, as sufficient evidence of a regular and solemn
marriage. Hence that detestable train of conjugal ^
vice, infidelity, rage, rancour, and revenge, with which
so many volumes of the Roman story are crowded and
disgraced.

By the precepts of Christianity, and the practice
of the christians, the dignity of marriage was, however^
restored.

«

In the eye of the common law, marriage appears ia
no other light than that of a civil contract : and to this
contract the agreement of the parties, the essence of every
rational contract, is indispensably required. If, there-
fore, either of the parties is incapable of agreeing, is
unwilling to agree, or has not, in fact, as well as in
ability and will, concluded the agreement ; the marriage

* LECTURES ON LAW. 481

cannot be established by the principles of the common
lair.

Disability to contract marriage may arise from imma-
ture age. A man, as we have seen before,^ may consent
to marriage at fourteen ; a woman, at twelve years of
age. If, before those respective ages, a marriage take
place, either party may, at the age of consent, but not
before or after that age, disagree, declare the marriage
void, and marry again : but if, at the age of consent,
they agree to continue together, there is no occasion for
another marriage between them ; that which has taken
place being deemed a marriage, though only an inchoate
and imperfect one. If, at the time of the inchoate mar*
riage, one of the parties is, and the other is not of the
age of consent^ when the last arrives at that age, the first
as well as the last may disagree ; for in a contract of
marriage, both or neither must be bound. ^

Disability to contract marriage may arise from the

want of reason. Consent, as has been already obsen^^ed,

' is essential to this, as to every other contract ; but those

who enjoy not a competent share of reason, are incapable

of giving consent. '

By ;a law of Pennsylvania, certain degrees of consan-
guinity and affinity, specified in a table subjoined to the
law, are disabilities to contract matrimony : and all
marriages within those degrees are declared to be
void. I refer you to the table specifying the degrees. ^

« Ante. p. 14a **■ 1. Ins. 79. a: b.

• 1. Bl. Com. 438. t L Laws Peno. 46.

VOL. II. 8 <t *

462 LECTURES ON LAW*

One marriage undissolved, forms^ a (Usability to con-
tract another. In such a case the second marriage is
^oid as well as criminal. ^

^^ Consensus non concubitus facit matrimonium," is
a maxim of our law ; marriage, therefore, must be the
effect of willingness as well as of capacity to contract
it.T

When to the ability and will to contract, an actual
contract is added ; then the marriage is complete.

Before the time of Pope Innocent the third, there was
no solemnization of marriage in the church; but the
man came to the house where the woman inhabited,
and led her home to his own house ; which waa all the
ceremony then used. ^

By an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania, all mar-
riages, not forbidden by the law of God, shall be encou-
raged* ' In the construction of legacies, it is a gen^nd
rule, that all conditions are unlawful, which would operate
against the liberty of marriage* '

It will be proper, in the next place, to consider the
consequences of marriage.

The most important consequence of onarriage is, that
the husband and the wife become^ in law» only one per^.
son : the legal existence of the wife is consolidated into
that of the husband. Upon this principle of union, almost

« 1. BL Com. 436. ^ l.Iil8.33. "* a.Bac 575.

s 1. Laws.Peiai. 36. ^r Swin.S66.

LECTURES ON LAW* - 48S

iH the other legal consequences of marriage depend. This
principle, sublime and refined, deserves to be viewed and
examined on every side. Among human institutions, it
seems to be peculiar to the common law. Peculiar as it
is, however, among human institutions, it seems not un-
congenial to the spirit of a declaration from a source
higher than human—" They twain shall be one flesh.*^

Even of the common law, this was not always a prin«
ciple. We are told by the learned Seldeji, that the Saxon
wives were never one with their husbands j nor were they,
as wives, under the view of the frank-pledge : a Saxon
wife was obliged to give pledge by her friends, that she
would do no wrong. She passed as an appurtenant to her
husband, rather than one in unity with him: and her
estate was rather appurtenant to her than to him : for if
she failed in her good carriage to her husband, she was
to make him amends out of her own estate ; and if that
was insufficient, then her pledges were to make satisfac-
tion for her.* This interposition of friends between hus-
band and wife, in matters respecting either their conduct
or their claims, seems alien to the delicacy and nearness
of the matrimonial connexion. On very pressing emergen-
cies, indeed, it is necessary that the law should interfere,
and on such emergencies we shall see that it does inter-
fere ; but the general presumption and the universal wish
ought to be, that, between husband and wife, there subsist
or may subsist no difference of will or of interest. Such
accordingly, during many centuries past, has been the
language of the^aw. Bracton, in the reign of Henry the
third, informs us, that ^^ husband and wife are as one per-
son, because they are one flesh and blood.*^ * Littleton,

■ Bac. on Gov. 65. , 1. Ins. 187 b.

484 LECTURES ON LAV.

whose, sayings are of such high authority, tells us repeat-
edly, ^^ that the husband and the wife are but one person
in the law." ^

In pursuance of this principle, a crime, except treason
and murder, ^ committed by the husband and wife, shall
be charged against him sQlely ; because the law will sup-
pose that she acted under his influence or coercion. In
pursuance of the same principle, ahusbahd and wife cannot
be witnesses for or against one another : if they were per-
mitted to give testimony for one another, one maxim of
the law would be violated — No one can be a witness in
his own cause ; if they were permitted to give testimony
against one another, another maxim of the law would be
' violated — No one is obliged to accuse himself.

But, as has before been intimated, whenever urgent
emergencies arise ; whenever any outrage is threatened
or committed against the peace or safety of society, as
well as against the refined rules of the conjugal upion ;
the law will interpose its authority, and, though it will not
order, because it cannot enforce its orders for observing
the latter, it will order, because it can enforce its orders
for preserving the former.

The refined delicacy of the ma^im — that husband and

wife are considered as one person by our law — appears

now in a beautiful and striking point of view. The rights,

the enjoyments^ the obligations, and the infelicities of the

matrimonial state are so far removed from her protection

or redress, that she will not appear as an arbi^ress ; but,

like ^ candid and benevolent neighbour, will presume,

for a^ wishes, all to be well.

%
^ 8. 168. 291. c 1. BL Com. 444.

X.ECTI7&E8 ON LAW* 4M

To the other rights and to the other duties of a mar-
riage life, we must extend the observations which we
have already applied \o one of them. Reliance must be
placed on^that honour, which is the inseparable friend and
companion of virtue.

I have spoken concerning those consequences of mar-
riage, which relate to d»e persons of the husband and
wife : the consequences which relate to their property,
will be fully considered under the secpnd great division
of my system ; you observe, that I carefully avoid the
blending of the two divisions.

By that event which closes the scene of all sublunary
enjoyments, marriage is dissolved : .it may be dissolved
sooner — ^by divorce.

To the law of England, two kinds of divorce are
known — a divorce from the bed and the table— and a
divorce from the chains — the metaphor is proper on this
occasion — a divorce from the chains of matrimony. The
propriety of the first kind, I am, I confess, at a loss to
explain : that of the second kind is frequently obvious.
When, as we have seen, the impression of happiness must
be obliterated from every succeeding part of the conjugal
history, why should any more blackened pages be added
to the inauspicious volume? But of causes which are
slight or trivial, a divorce should, by no means, be per-
mitted to be the effect. When divorces can be summoned
to the aid of levity, of vanity, or of avarice, a state of
marriage becomes frequently a state of war or stratagem ;
still more frequently, a state of premeditated and active
preparation for successful stratagems and war. Such was
the case in ancient Rome. " Passion, interest, or caprice,"

V

4M iscTint£8 otr law.

says the Historian of her falling state, ''suggested dailf
motives for the dissolution of marriage ; a' word, a sign,
a message, the mandate of a freeman declared the separa*
tion ; the most ten<)er of human connexions was degraded
lo a transient society of profit or pleasure."^

— Sic fiiint octo mariti
Qinnqiie per aotatnaiK.

JttV^ sat. Vh .30.

Kon consolomniimeTO, sed maritorum annos suos computant

Ben, de, Benef. III. 16-

Both these remarks are levelled particularly at the female
sex : buft who drew the picture, in which the lion was
injuriously represented ?

Cicero, after having said, as we have seen, "prima
societas in ipso conjugio est,** adds, ** proximain liberis.*''
I consider, in the next place, the relation of parent and
thild.

»
The transition is, indeed, a natural one. The senti-
ments of parental affection are generally warm and tender,
in proportion to those of conjugal love. Ttie sentiments
of filial duty are generally sincere and respectful, in pro*
portion to those of parental affection.

It is the duty of parents to maintain their children
decently, and according to their circumstances ; to protect
them according to the dictates of prudence ; and to edu-
cate them according to the suggestions of a judicious and
zealous regard for their usefulness, their respectability,
and their happiness.

d ^ Gibbon. 63

t£CTU&«S ON ]»AW. 4S7

The formidable power of a Roman father i» unknown
to the common law. But it vests in the parent such au*
thori^y as is conducive to the advantage of the child.
When it is necessary-— and a real necessity exists much,
more rs^rely than is often imagined — ^a moderate chasten*
ing may be administered ;, but every milder means should
be previously used. Part of his authority he may delegate
to the person intrusted with his child's education :* that
person acts then in the place, and he ought td act with
the disposition, of a parent. The legal power of a father
ceases, when the child attains the age of twenty one years.

But,-— for we now turn to the duties of children«-*as
obedience and subjection to their parents are due from
them during their minority; honour and reverence are
naturally and justly expected from them ever afterwards.
If it become necessary, the child should, according to his
circumstances, maintain the parent : 'tis but a natural and
grateful return for the maintenance, which the parent has
given to the child.

The decent reserve which the common law has shown,
with regard to the relation between parent and child,
should be admired, and may be accounted for on the
same principles, which were observed under the relation
of husband and wife. The civil law interposed in the
nice feelings and tender transactions of both relations,
with a rude and indelicate management. In that law,> we
find an enumeration of fourteen different reasons, for
which a father may disinherit his child. Would it not
have been much more natural, to have l^ft, as the common
' )aw has leftn this subject to the decision of that judge*
which holds its tribunal in every parent's breast i

• l.BLCom.453.

488 LECTtJREfl Olf LAW*

But, here as oa former occasions, I refer the question!
of property — and there are very important ones — arising
from this relatiqn, to the full discussion, which will be
^ven under the second division of my system*

A bastard is one who is born out of lawful marriage.
By law, he is considered guasi nulliusfitius. But surely
it is the natural duty of his parents to maintain, to pro-
tect, and to educate him.

The rules which govern the relation between a father
and his child, govern, but in an infe/iour degree, and for
a shorter time, that relation, which is substituted in the
place of the other, between a guardian and his ward. On
this subject, therefore, it will not be necessary to descend
into particulars.

I come now to e^aniine the relation between a master
and his servants.

Slavery, or an aBsolute and unlimited power, in the
master, over the life and fortune of the slave, is unautho-
ri7:ed by the common law. Indeed, it is repugp[iant to the
principles of natural law, that such a state should subsist
in any social system* The reasons, which we sometimes
^ee assigned for the origin and the continuance of slavery,
appear, when examined to the bottom, to be built upon
a false foundation. In the enjoyment of their persons and
of their property, the conimon law protects all. With
regard, however, to any right, which one man may have
acquired to the personal service of another, the case is
very different. This right the common law will support*

f t BL Com. 42S. 42ik

lECTUIlES ON tAW.
Hc^, to whose service this right is acquired, is only in
the same state of subjection, to which every servant and
apprentice is obliged, and finds it his interest, to submit.

The contract between a master and a servant arises
upoii the hiring* If a servant is retained generally,
without expressing any limited time, the law will con-

Jstrue it to be for a year: ^ the reasonable foundation of
this rule is, that, through the revolutions of the seasons,
equality shall be preserved in the contract; that the
master shall not have it in his power to dismiss the

' servant when there is little work to b^ done ; nor the
servant have it in his power to depart when there is
much. The contract, however, may be made for any
term longer or shorter than a year«|^ If, during the
term of the contract, the servant become sick, this is a
condition incident tp humanity. In his sickness, the
master is bound to take^care of him, and provide for
him ; nor can a deducticm of wages be made tor the
timei during which he is detained from service. ^

{f a servant marry, the nvarriage dissolves not the
contract to serve :,^ if^ without any reasonable xause, he
depart from his service, Mrithin the term, for which he
is detained ; he tsm recover no wages. ^ « A contract for
.service is, on. both sides, personal, and is discharged by
the death of either of the parties.* °^ This is the rule at
th& common law«

A master, we are told, may justify an assault in
defence of bis servant ; and a servant, in defence of his

s 1. Inu. 42. b. ^ 1. Bl. Com. 425. ^ 2. Burr. 948.

k F. N. B. 168. . 1 Wood. Ins. 51. « Str. 1267. Wood. las. 51.

VOL* !!• 3 It

I .

490 LECTURES OK LAW.

/

master ; the former, because he has an i^erest in the
service of the latter ; the latter, because the defence of
the former is considered as part of the consideration, for
which ^ages are stipulated and received* ^ The law is
unquestionaUy so as is here stated : the reasons assigned
for it> I am inclined to believe, are founded on principles
much too narrow. The defence of cme's own person is
a part of the law of self preservi^tion. The defence of
the person of another is, I think, a part of the law df hu-
manity. This point) however, which is of a very gene-
ral importance to the peace and security of society, will
merit an investigation in another place.

«

The common law, retaining the refined ddicacy wlack
we have observed ofteiier than once, will not, without
strong necessity, inspect or interpose in the interiour
government of a family* That sufficient authority, how-
ever, may exist to preserve order in the dosiiestick de-
partment— a department of mighty moment to human
happiness — the law invests the master with a power to
correct, but moderately, his servant or apprentice, for
negligence or for other misbehaviour. We have seen
that *^ sine imperio^ nulla domus stare potest.''*' . Be-
sides ; in the regulation which the law has drawn con-
cerning an atrocious outragfe, in which she found it ne-
cessary to interpose, she has with a pencil exquisitely
fine, but whose strokes can be traced by a discerning
eye, marked a line of general direction for the relative
rights and duties of a master and servant. From the
latter to the fbimer, she expressly requires a species,
though an inferiour species, of allegiance: firons the
former to the latter, she, by a necessary consequence,

« l.BlCom.439. • Cicdel^ia

tfiCTUR£$ ON LAW. 491

strongljr inculcates a species, though an Jnferiour spe-
cifes, of protection. These remarks will receive illus-
tration, when the crime of petty treason shall come un-
der our view.

Apprentices are a species of servants. They are usu-
all5r bound for a term of years, to serve and to be in-
structed by their masters in their profession or trade.

Persons under the age of twenty one years cannot, by
the common law, bind themselves apprentices, in such a
manner as to become liable to an action fot departing,
*from their service, or for other breaches of their inden-
tures. For this reason, it is necessary that the parent,
guardian, or some friend of the apprentipfe be bound for
the faithful discharge of his duty. ^ But it is not every
minor, who has such connexions, willing to be bound
'for him.

By the custom of London, an infant, unmarried and
above the age of fourteen years, may bind himself appren-
tice to a freeman of London ; and the covenants in the
indenture of apprenticeship shall be as valid, as if the
apprentice had been of full age.** The spirit of this
custom has been adopted and enlarged by the legislature
of Pennsylvania, A minor, bound an apprentice with
the assent of the parent, the guardian, or the next
friend, or with the assent of the overseers of the poor,
and approbation of any two justices, is bound as fully
as if of age at the time of making the indentures. But
ati apprenticeship under this vei'y excellent law must
expire, in the iiase of a male, at twenty otfe, in the cas«
of a female, at eighteen years of age. ^

P S. Bac. 547. ^ Id. 34r. ' 1. Laws Peim. 540* s. 1.

in

LECTI7RE8 ON LAW*.

To qualify one for the skilful and-successfdl exercise
of a trade or profession, an apprenticeship is certainty
useful ; but, by the common law, it is not necessar)% It
was resolved, as we are informed in one of the reports
of tmy Lord Coke, that, at the common law, no man can
be prohibited from exercising his industry in any bwful
occupation ; for the law hates idleness, the nH>ther of all
evil, and especially in 3roung men, who, in their youA,
^ich is their seed-time, ought to learn lawful trades
and sciences, which are profitable to the commonwealth,
and of which they themselves may reap the harvest in
their future years. Besides; the common law abhors
all monopolies, which forbid any from working in any
lawful trade. If he who undertakes to work is unskilful,
his ignorance is his sufficient punishment ; for ^^ quiUbet
quaerit in qualibet arte peritos;" and if^ in performing
his work, he injures his employer, the law has provided
an action to recover damages {(kr the injury done.^ To
every monopoly, we are told by the same book in ano-
ther place, ^ there are three inseparable incidents against
the commonwealth. 1. The price of the commodity is
raised. 2. The quality of the commodity is debased* 3.
Those who formerly maintained thems^es and their
families by the same profession or trade,are impoverished,
and reduced to a state of beggary and idleness.

Besides apprentices, and those to whom the name of
servant is appropriated in the language of common
life, the relation of servant is extended, by the lan-
guage and by many of the rules of the law, to others
in a superiour ministerial capacity — to bailiffs, to stew-
ards, to agents, to factors, to attornies, and to the mat-

^ It Rep. 5S. b. 54.

t Id.a«.K

LECTURES ON LAW. . ' 4M

terff of vessels considered in. their relation to the owners
of them* * ■ ,

Of many acts of the servant, the master is entitled
to receive the , ad vantage : of many others, he is obliged
to suffer or to compensate fbi; the injury* In each series
of cases— it would be, hore, improper to attempt an
emsmeration of particulars — In each^ series of cases,
the principle b the same. Whatever is don^ by the
servant, in the usual course of his business, is presumed,
and fairly presumed, to be done by the command, or
th« authority, tacit or express, oC the master ; whatever
is done by the master's command, is considered, and
justly x^onsidered, as done by the master in person :
" Qui facit per alium, facit per se."

Thus much concerning the relation between tnaster
* and servant ; and thus much concerning the component
parts of that important and respectable, though small
and sometimes neglected establishment, which is deno-
minated a family. " Id autem est" — says Cicero,^ in
the fine and just passage already cited oftener than once
— ^^^ id autem est principium urbis, et quasi seminarium
reipublic^e.'' It is the principle of the commifhity ; it
is that seminary, on which the commonwealth, for its
manners as well as for its numbers, must ultimately de-
pend. As its establishment is th^ source, so its hap-
piness IS the end, of every institution of governmept,
which is wise and good.

In the introduction to my lectures'^ I told my hear-
ers,, that ^^ publick law and pubtick government were

« 5.Bac544. v Dg OEL 1, ^. 17. ^ Vol. 1. p. 35,

494 OLfiCTURES ON I^AW.

Jiot made for themselves »" 6ut that ^* they were made
for sometKing better j" that ^' I meant society j" "that
** I meant particularly domestick society." Perhaps, it
was then thought^ by some, that all thife waaintrodciced
merely for the sake of an eneomium— but, by the way,
an encomium severely just— ^with which it was accotnpa-
nied. In tlie regular course of my system, the sentiment
has now undergone a scruttfiizing analysis in the most
minute detail. I caH appeal to such, if any such, who
thought otherwise then*-*! can appeal to all, who have
formed their opinion now, whether the sentiment, in all
its parts, and in all its objects too, is not founded in sound
politicks and genuine philosophy.

In digesting a system of English law a little more than
a century ago, it would have been necessary to notice
and explain another domestick relation— -not, indeed,
founded in nature^-^that of lord and villaui. Of the
feudal city, however, we can still recollect the exteriour
battlements and towers, cumbrous, but disproportioned
and insecure » and the interiour buildings and halls, spa-
cious, but comfordess and inconvenient. In ruins it now
lies. With sentiments very different from those of re-
gret, we can exclaim over iu^uit eenxitus.^

I have now done with considering the peculiar rela-
tions of man in a state of society, independent of civil
government. But in that state, as he bears peculiar re-
lations to some, so he bears a general relation to all.
From that general relation, rights and duties result. His
rights are, to receive the fulfilment of the engagements
which m made to him, and * to ]be free fit»m injury to

^Foitltieni.

LECTURES ON hAW* 495

his peculiar relations, to his property, to hid character,
to his liberty, to his personv His duties are, to fulfil
the engagements, which he has made ; and to do
no injury, in the same extensive meaning, in which
he would wish and has a right to suffer none* /

In a former lecture,^ when I delineatied at large the
principles smd the character of the social man, these rights
and duties received their illustration^ and we^ sfaowa
to belaid deeply in the human frame. To your recoU
lection of what was then^said^ I beg leave to refer you*
These rights and duties are indeed^ as has faeeaotiserved,
great pillars on which chiefly rest the criminal and the
civil codes of the municipal law. It would surely be
preposterous to undermine their foundation, with a view
to give strength or stability to what they support—to
unfix what rests on the immovable basis of nature, and
to place it on the tottering institutions of man*

I here. close my exan^ination into those natural rights,
whichy in my bumble opinion, it is the business of civil
government to protect, and not to subvert, and the ex*
ercise of which it is the duty of civil government to en«
large, and not to restrain^ I go farther ; and now pto^
ceed to show, that in peculiar instances, in which those
rights can receive neither protection nor reparation from
civil government, they are, notwithstanding its institu-
tion, entitled still to that defence, and to those methods
of recovery, which ares justified and demanded in a state
of nature.

y Vol 1, p. 292* 294.

496 LSCTURES OK LAIT,

The defence of one's self, justly called the primary
law of nature,' is not, nor can it be abrogated by any
regulation of municipal law. * This principle of defence
is not confined merely to the person ; it extends to the
liberty and the property of a man : it is not confined
merely to his own person ; it extends to the persons of
all those, to whom he bears a pe;culiar relation— -of his
wife, of his parent, of his child, of his master, of his
aenrant : ^ nay, it exte.nds to the person of every one,
who is in danger ; ^ perhaps^ to the liberty of every one,
whos^ liberty is unjustly and forcibly attacked. It be-
comes humanity as well as justice.

The particular occasions on which the defensive prin-
ciple may be exercised, and the degrees to which the
exercise of it may be carried, will appear in subsequent
parts of niy lectures ; for instead of being disavowed,
it is expressly vecognised by oiv municipal instituticHis.

As a man is justified in defending, so he is justified
in retaking, his property, or his peculiar relations, when
from him they are unjustly taken and detained. When
and how this recaption may be made, will also appear
in the proper places. For this redress^ dictated by. na-
ture, is also recognised by municipal law.

* Est igitur, jadices, ha&c non scripta, sed nata lex ; quam nm
dedicimus, accepimus, legimus ; verum ex natura ipsa arripuimus,
hausimus, expressimus ; ad quam non docti, sed facti, non institu-
tl, sed imbuti sumus ; ut si vita nostra in aliquas insidias, si in vimy
si in tela apt latronum aut inimicorum incidlsset, onmis honesta ra-
tio esset expediendse salutis : silent enim leges inter arma ; nee se
expectari jubent, cum ei qui expectare velit. ante iajusta pcena
luenda sit, quam justa repetenda. Cic pro MiL «

» 3. BL Com. 4. ^ Id. a. c 1. Haw. ISL

LECTURES ON LAW.

49r

Under the same description, the right of abating or
removing nuisances may, in many instances, be classed.

This long investigation concerning natural rights and
natural remedies, I conclude by answering the question^
with which I introduced it : man. does not exist for the
sake of government, but government is instituted for
the sake of man. The course of it has naturally led me
to consider a number of interesting subjects, in a view
somewhat different, perhaps, from that, in which we see
them considered in some of our law books; but in a
view perfectly consonant to the soundest rules an4 prin-
ciples of our l^w*

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

VOL, II.

3 s