Titles

Friends of the Constitution: Writings of the “Other” Federalists, 1787-1788

Title page from Friends of the Constitution: Writings of the “Other” Federalists, 1787-1788

Friends of the Constitution: Writings of the “Other” Federalists, 1787-1788

Colleen A. Sheehan

(editor)

Gary L. McDowell

(editor)

A collection of pamphlets, speeches, and other pro-ratification writings of George Washington, Benjamin Rush, Nicholas Collin, John Dickinson, James Wilson, Tench Coxe, Benjamin Franklin, Noah Webster, Roger Sherman, Fisher Ames, Peletiah Webster, Samuel Tenny, Stephen Hopkins, Oliver Ellsworth, and David Ramsay. They address the underlying themes of the Federalist-Anti-Federalist debate: “The Necessity of Union,” “Energetic but Limited Government,” and “Popular Government and Civic Virtue.”

Read Now

Downloads

EBook PDF

This text-based PDF or EBook was created from the HTML version of this book and is part of the Portable Library of Liberty.

Facsimile PDF

This is a facsimile or image-based PDF made from scans of the original book.

MARC Record

MAchine-Readable Cataloging record.

Buy this Book

Citation

Friends of the Constitution: Writings of the “Other” Federalists, 1787-1788,
edited by Colleen A. Sheehan and Gary L. McDowell (Indianapolis: Liberty Fund, 1998).

Copyright

The copyright to this edition, in both print and electronic forms, is held by Liberty Fund, Inc.

Category:

United States

Related Collections:

Political Theory

Law

American Revolution and Constitution

History

Books Published by Liberty Fund

Related People

James Madison (Author)

Madison was a member of the Virginia legislature in 1776-80 and 1784-86, of the Continental Congress in 1780-83, and of the Constitutional Convention in 1787, where he earned the title “father of the U. S. Constitution.”

Alexander Hamilton (Author)

Hamilton was secretary and aide-de-camp to Washington in 1777-81, a member of the Continental Congress in 1782-83 and 1787-88, a representative from New York to the Annapolis Convention in 1786 and to the Constitutional Convention in 1787, first U. S. secretary of the treasury in 1789-95, and inspector general of the army, with the rank of major general, from 1798 to 1800.

John Jay (Author)

Jay was a member of the Continental Congress in 1774 through 1779 and its president in 1778-79, drafter of New York’s first constitution in 1777, chief justice of the New York supreme court from 1777 to 1778, U. S. minister to Spain in 1779, a member of the commission to negotiate peace with Great Britain in Paris in 1787, U. S. secretary of foreign affairs from 1784 to 1789, Chief Justice of the United States Supreme Court from 1789 to 1795, and governor of New York from 1795 to 1801.

Melanchthon Smith (Author)

Smith, of New York, was a member of the Continental Congress (1785–88), and of the New York State Convention, in which he initially opposed ratification of the new Constitution.

James Wilson (Author)

Wilson signed the Declaration of Independence and was twice elected to the Continental Congress. He played a leading role in the drafting of the US Constitution and eventually became one of the six original justices appointed by George Washington to the United States Supreme Court.

Roger Sherman (Author)

Sherman was the only founder to sign the Articles of Association, the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution.

Critical Responses

Book

The Anti-Federalist Writings of the Melancton Smith Circle

Malancton Smith

This volume makes available for the first time a one-volume collection of Anti-Federalist writings that are commensurate in scope, significance, political brilliance, and depth with The Federalist.

MORE

What to read next...

Democracy in America

Alexis de Tocqueville

While not directly a response, Tocqueville’s reflections on democratic institutions, tyranny of the majority, and constitutional balance provide a deeper lens to critique assumptions in “Other Federalist” thought.

MORE

Connected Readings

Book

The Federalist (Gideon ed.)

Alexander Hamilton

A text central to the American political tradition. Written and published in newspapers in 1787 and 1788 to explain and promote ratification of the proposed Constitution for the United States, which were then bound by the Articles of Confederation, The Federalist remains of singular importance to…

MORE

Book

The Collected Works of James Wilson

This two-volume set brings together a collection of writings and speeches of James Wilson, one of only six signers of both the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution, and one of the most influential members of the federal Constitutional Convention in 1787.

MORE

Book

Collected Works of Roger Sherman

Sherman was the only founder to sign the Articles of Association, the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, and the Constitution. He served 1,543 days in the Continental Congress and was a member of the five-man committee that drafted the Declaration of Independence. At the…

MORE

Law & Liberty Essay

Natural Law and Democracy: The Philosophy of James Wilson

Roberta Bayer

James Wilson bridged Enlightenment natural law with the American constitutional project. This essay explores how Wilson’s commitment to natural rights shaped his vision for democracy, law, and civic virtue.

MORE