Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 20, March 12, 1783 to September 30, 1783
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_20/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 6]
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data (Revised for volume 20) Letters of delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 Includes bibliographical references and indexes. Supt. of Docs, no.: LC 1.34:14 Vols. 16- : Gerard W. Gawalt and Ronald M. Gephart, associate editors. 1. United States. Continental Congress—History— Sources—Collected works. 1. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931- JK1033.L47 973.3'12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set: alk. paper). A 47 Vol.^ (00) The paper used in this publication meets the requirements for permanence estab lished by the American National Standard for Information Sciences “Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials” (ANSI Z39.48-1984). For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20401


[Page 14]
Acknowledgments This edition began in 1970 as a project of the Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Office, now incorporated into the Library’s Manuscript Division as the Historical Publications Office. The Library has had a long tradition of publishing scholarship on the period of the American Revolution. Its monumental edition of the Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (34 vols., Washington, 1904-37) is a predecessor of the present work and will be a companion to it. The edi tors wish to thank the Ford Foundation for a substantial gift which has been indispensable to the progress of the edition. Our appreciation is also extended to the innumerable individuals who have contributed to enriching the holdings of the Library of Congress to make it the pre mier institution for conducting research on the American Revolution. The photocopies of the more than twenty-two thousand documents that have been collected for this project have been assembled through the cooperation of several hundred institutions and private individuals devoted to preserving the documentary record upon which the history and traditions of the American people rest, and it is to their work that a documentary publication of this nature should ultimately be dedi cated. Unfortunately, all the many contributors to this collecting effort cannot be adequately recognized, but for permission to print docu ments appearing in the present volume we are especially grateful to the following institutions: the American Antiquarian Society, American Philosophical Society, Archives du ministere des affaires etrangeres (Paris), Archivo General de Indias (Seville), John Carter Brown Li brary, Brown University, Chicago Historical Society, William L. Clements Library, Connecticut Historical Society, Connecticut State Li brary, James S. Copley Library, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Historical Society of Delaware, Duke University, Essex Institute, Green field Village and Henry Ford Museum, Harvard University, Haverford College, Illinois State Historical Library, Independence National His torical Park, Indiana University, Jervis Library Association, Maine His torical Society, Maryland Hall of Records, Maryland Historical Society, Massachusetts Archives Division, Massachusetts Historical Society, Pier pont Morgan Library, Morristown National Historical Park, National Archives and Records Administration, New Jersey Historical Society, New Jersey State Lbrary, New-York Historical Society, Museum of the City of New York, New York Public Library, New York State Library, North Carolina Department of Archives and History, Ohio State Li- x


[Page 15]
Acknowledgments xi brary, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Historical So ciety of Pennsylvania, Free Library of Philadelphia, Library Company of Philadelphia, Presbyterian Historical Society, Princeton University, Public Record Office (London), Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island State Archives, Rutgers University, Saint John’s Seminary, Scottish Record Office (Edinburgh), South Carolina Historical Society, United States Naval Academy, University of Vermont, Virginia Histori cal Society, Virginia State Library, University of Virginia, College of William and Mary, Windsor Castle Royal Archives, State Historical Soci ety of Wisconsin, and Yale University. And in addition we express our thanks and appreciation to Mr. Andrew Fiske, Mr. Ronald von Klaussen, Mr. Herbert Klingelhofer, Mr. Paul H. Smith, Mrs. Elsie O. and Mr. Philip D. Sang, and Mrs. Aileen Moore Topping. This work has benefitted not only from Edmund C. Burnett’s path- finding 8-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of several other documentary publications with a common focus on the revolutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a pleasure to give spe cial thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madison, Robert Morris, and George Washington. Finally we owe thanks to the histori ans who served on the Advisory Committee on the Library’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division


[Page 19]
Chronology of Congress xv 29 Ratifies treaty of amity and commerce with Sweden. 30 Directs superintendent of finance to publish regulations for receiving “Morris notes” in pay ment of taxes. August 1 Rejects motion to adjourn to Philadelphia. 6 Authorizes distribution of “necessities” to Dela ware Indians and friendly “northern nations.” 7 Orders preparation of “an equestrian statue of the Commander in Chief.” 9 Authorizes furloughing additional Continental troops and continuation of subsistence for Hazen’s Canadian regiment. 13-14 Debates motion for returning to Philadelphia. 15 Receives proceedings of the court-martial of the Philadelphia mutineers. 18 Directs superintendent of finance to report esti mate of the Continental debt. 26 Conducts audience with General Washington. 28 Debates ordinance for prohibiting settlement of Indian lands. September 1 Receives Pennsylvania Assembly resolves for re turning to Philadelphia. 10 Orders renewal of committees to oversee the ex ecutive departments. 13 Adopts stipulations concerning the cession of Vir ginia’s western land claims; confirms acquittal of leaders of the Philadelphia mutiny. 16-19 Debates Massachusetts’ call for retrenchment of Continental expenses. 22 Adopts proclamation regulating the purchase of Indian lands. 24 Adopts secret order authorizing Washington to discharge Continental troops “as he shall deem proper and expedient.”


[Page 20]
xvi Chronology of Congress 25 Reaffirms commitment to commutation of half pay claims; proclaims treaty with Sweden; debates report on federal jurisdiction over site of congres sional residence. 29 Lifts injunction of secrecy on most foreign dis patches. 30 Promotes Continental officers not promoted since 1777.


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclu sive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertainable from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in many cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from Newjersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various dele gates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller informa tion is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 7:lxiii-lxxvii for additional information on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are avail able in the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, 1774-1989, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Eliphalet Dyer Elected: October 15, 1782 Attended: March 12 to May 29, 1783 Oliver Ellsworth Elected: May 9, 1782; May 8, 1783 Attended: April 1 to July 28? 1783 Benjamin Huntington Elected: May 9, 1782; May 8, 1783 Attended: July 29 to September 30, 1783 Samuel Huntington Elected: May 9, 1782; May 8, 1783 Attended: July 29 to September 30, 1783 Richard Law Elected: May 9, 1782; May 8, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 xvii


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Stephen Mix Mitchell Elected: May 8, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 Jesse Root Elected: May 9, 1782 Did not attend in 1783 Jedediah Strong Elected: May 9,1782; May 8, 1783 Did not attend Congress Oliver Wolcott Elected: May 9, 1782; May 8, 1783 Attended: March 12 to April 11? 1783 DELAWARE Gunning Bedjord, Jr. Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: March 12-29?, April 15?-24?, May 30? to June 21, July 9?- 11?, September 22?-30, 1783 Eleazer McComb Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: March 12 to April 4, April 14-30, May 26 to July 18, July 21 to August 2,1783 Caesar Rodney Elected: February 1, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 James Tilton Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: September 22-30, 1783 GEORGIA William Few Elected: January 9, 1782 Did not attend in 1783 Noble Wimberly Jones Elected: January 9, 1782 Did not attend in 1783 Edward Telfair Elected: January 9, 1782 Did not attend in 1783 MARYLAND Daniel Carroll Elected: November 27, 1782 Attended: March 12 to May 23, August 7 to September 30, 1783


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress John Montgomery Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: March 12 to April 1, May 8 to August 14, August 27? to September 30, 1783 Richard Peters Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: March 12-22?, April 1? to May 5, May 12? to June 21, July 15? to August 14, August 27? to September 13?, September 25?-30,1783 James Wilson Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: March 12-21?, April 7? to May 12?, May 23 to June 21, August 7 to September 5? 1783 RHODE ISLAND Jonathan Arnold Elected: May 1, 1782; May 7, 1783 Attended: March 12 to July 11? 1783 John Collins Elected: May 1, 1782 Attended: March 12 to June 21, 1783 Ezekiel Cornell Elected: May 1, 1782 Did not attend in 1783 William Ellery Elected: May 7, 1783 Attended: June 30 to September 30, 1783 David Howell Elected: May 1, 1782; May 7, 1783 Attended: July 23 to September 30, 1783 Henry Marchant Elected: May 7, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 SOUTH CAROLINA Richard Beresford Elected: March 15, 1783 Attended: May 30 to June 21?, July 26 to September 18, September 25?-30, 1783 John Lewis Gervais Elected: January 31, 1782 Attended: March 18-29?, April 7, April 15 to May 30? 1783 Ralph Izard Elected: February 12, 1783 Attended: March 12 to August 19?, September 5?-ll? 1783


[Page 27]
List of Delegates to Congress xxiii Henry Laurens Elected: February 13, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 David Ramsay Elected: January 31, 1782 Attended: March 12-17?, March 28 to April 2, 1783 Jacob Read Elected: February 12, 1783 Attended: June 17 to August 14?, August 25? to September 20?, Sep tember 25?-30, 1783 John Rutledge Elected: February 13, 1783 Attended: March 12 to June 21?, September 8-13? 1783 Thomas Sumter Elected: February 12, 1783 Declined VIRGINIA Theodorick Bland Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: March 12 to July 11?, July 29? to September 19, Septem ber 25-30, 1783 Joseph Jones Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: March 12-18?, March 24 to May 5?, August 27? to Sep ¬ tember 4, September 13-22? 1783 Arthur Lee Elected: June 15,1782 Attended: March 12 to April 1, April 23 to May 12, July 16 to Sep ¬ tember 19, September 25?-30, 1783 James Madison Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: March 12 to April 26, May 5 to June 21, July 1-4?, July 22-26, August 27? to September 4, September 13-25, 1783 John Francis Mercer Elected: December 18, 1782 Attended: March 12 to April 11?, April 18 to July 11?, August 7?-9?, August 14? to September 13?, September 18?-30, 1783


[Page 28]
Illustrations Map of New Jersey endpapers “A Sketch of the Northern Parts of New Jersey, Copied from the Original by Lieut. J[ohn] Hills, 23d Regt., 1781.” This lower right hand quadrant of Hills’ pen-and-ink sketch is bisected by the road from Trenton on the Delaware River to Brunswick on the Raritan. “Kingstown” (Princeton) and its College, where Congress met from July to November 1783, is located on the road north from Trenton nearly midway to Brunswick at the top of this detail. Geography and Map Division, Library of Congress. G3810.1781. H5Hillsl5. Gunning Bedford, Jr. 77 Bedford (1747-1812), of Wilmington, Del., was born in Philadel phia, graduated from the College of New Jersey in 1771, studied law and was admitted to the Delaware bar in 1779. He was elected to three terms as a delegate to Congress, served as Delaware attorney general from 1784 to 1789, and attended the Constitutional convention in Philadelphia in 1787. He was also elected to the Delaware Senate in 1788 and was appointed a federal judge in 1789, a position he held until his death. Bedford’s service in Congress covered the period March 1783 to September 1785. He first took his seat just two days be fore the arrival of news of the signing of the preliminary treaty of peace in Paris and consequently became involved in the congressional debate over its negotiation and terms. And as he was present during the early debates over the invitations of New York and Maryland to lo cate the federal capital at Kingston or Annapolis, he urged his con stituents to enter the competition by proposing a location for Congress in Delaware. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Li brary of Congress. LC-USZ62-54665. William Hemsley 104 Hemsley (1737-1812), a Queen Anne’s County, Md., planter, be came provincial treasurer of Eastern Shore, Md., in 1773 and colonel of militia and justice of the peace of Queen Anne’s County in 1779. He was elected to the Maryland house in 1778 and the senate 1779-84 and 1786-91. A delegate to Congress in 1782-83, Hemsley was in Philadelphia at the arrival of the preliminary treaty of peace and sup- xxiv


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix and Richard Henry, and of the American commissioner to Austria and Prussia, William. He was educated in England and at the University of Edinburgh, where he received a medical degree in 1764, but after prac ticing in Virginia briefly he returned to London and took up his pen against the policies of the British ministry. He flourished in the arena of the city’s radical politics, and served as Massachusetts’ agent in London. At the outbreak of war in America he went to Paris where he served as a secret commercial agent for Congress under the direction of the Com mittee for Secret Correspondence. In this work he joined Silas Deane and Benjamin Franklin, but he soon became estranged from his col leagues and eventually accused both of fraud and neglect of duty. From Paris Lee also undertook abortive missions to Madrid and Berlin in 1777 and, after leveling serious charges against Deane, returned to America in 1780. He was a member of the Virginia Assembly in 1781-83 and 1785-86, a delegate to Congress, 1782-84, commissioner of Indian affairs, 1784—85, and commissioner of the United States treasury board, 1785-89, and he actively opposed the adoption of the federal constitu tion. Lee never married and died at his Lansdowne estate in Middlesex County, Va., in 1792. In Congress Lee was a vigorous defender of his state’s western land interests, though often aligned against his Virginia colleagues Joseph Jones, James Madison, and Edmund Randolph; and his obsession with the presumed malfeasance of Deane, Franklin, and superintendent of finance Robert Morris colored his relations with all his congressional colleagues. Painting by Charles Willson Peale. Independence National Historical Park.


[Page 37]
Gunning Bedford, Jr., to Nicholas Van Dyke Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 12th. 1783. I take the earliest opportunity of communicating the intelligence brought by Capt Barney. He brings us the preliminaries as settled be tween us & Britain, & which are to make a part of the definitive treaty when finished between the belligerent powers. 1 They acknowledge the Independance of the States—have bounded Nova Scotia & Canada agreeable to the treaty of Paris, give us a line from thence through all the northern lakes from thence to the head waters of the Massacipi, then down the waters of that river to Florida & then to the sea coast including all the isles within twenty leagues of our coast. This gives us a vast extent of country back not included within any of our States, names to us the navagation of those great lakes 8c of the fine river Massacipi, which we are to enjoy in common with them. We are to have equal priviledges in the fisheries, to take & cure fish on the uninhabited isles as usual, but if on the lands in a territory of either, the permission of the inhabitants to be obtained. All old Debts con tracted before the war on either side to be paid. And our commission ers agee that Congress shall recommend to the different States to re peal their confiscatory laws, & to permit the offenders to come in & purchase of the holders by paying the real value of the consideration, they had paid for the property—that the property of British residents should also be restored, & that all others have the priviledge of staying one year to settle their affairs—that no more confiscations shall be made 8c no further prosecutions for offences hitherto committed. The whole of this you will observe is but a recommendation, which the wisdom of each State will not hesitate to reject, 8c only consented to, to gratify in appearance the foolish pride of Britain. The prelimi naries give satisfaction, & come up to the full wish of every American. We had rather the mention of refugees had been omitted, but in fact it amounts to nothing as it stands, & is a mere finess to avoid doing any thing for them. Barney has a letter from Franklin as late as the 6th Jany. He left France the 17th Jany & his dispatches were made up the 1st 8c 14th Decemr. the Preliminaries signed the 30th Novr. 2 In Franklins letter to Barney he sais the negotiations seem further from a conclusion than they expected. The Count De Vergennes in his letter to Franklin in closing dispatches to the French Minister here, sais that he still rather hopes that the Definitive treaty will be compleated. 3 3


[Page 39]
March 12, 1783 5 thought right to let you know the Truth. The great bleeding had a great & good Effect, and she is now quite recovered, tho’ she looks thin & pale. She sends her Love. Hanny has got her at last with a Mis tress of the best Character that takes but 12 Scholers. Not a word of News. You have the Papers enclosed. I am not very doubtful about a Peace. I think the Delay is a favourable Symptom and can scarcely expect official Intelligence till between the 15th & 20th of this Month. Hanny joins me in Love to Mrs. P. & all Friends. Am Dr Sir, Yours Affectly. EB March 12th 1783. Since writing the above, Capt. Barney has arrived. He left L’Orient the 17th Janry. His last despatches is dated 25th Deer. 1782. He brings the preliminaries of Peace signed the 30th Novr. They consist of 9 Articles 1st. acknowledgmt of Independence. 2d. Bound aries of united States, full & clear. 3d free right to Fisheries. 4th Credi tors on either side to recover all just Debts. 5th. Congress to recom mend to the States the restoration of all Confiscated Property, belonging to british Subjects who have not taken arms—and to all others on their paying the bona fide purchase Money that the Pos- sessers gave for them. 6th No future prosecutions for Crimes and all now on foot to be discontinued. 7th a Firm Peace & Hostilities to cease in plundering—all american Artillery to be left—all archives, Deeds, Papers &c to be restored. 8th Navigation of Mississippi to be free to both Nations. 9th Any Place conquered after the date of Arti cles to be restored. As I have sketched this off as I was reading, do not suffer a Copy to be taken, but you may communicate the Contents generally. These Articles are not to be in Force untill a Treaty between France & GB. is perfected, which is in great forwardness. Capt. Barney Came with a british Passport. Am in the greatest Haste & Hurry, Yours &c RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 12th March 1783, 3 O’Clock. P.M. The arrival of Captain Barney this morning creates so great a field for the circulation of reports agreeably to the complexion of the Re porter, that I have thought it not amiss to inform your Excellency of the substance of his dispatches, tho’ you may perhaps receive it from other hands. He left L’Orient the 17th of January last. His latest dispatches are dated the 25th December. The Preliminaries between America and


[Page 40]
6 March 12, 1783 Great Britain were signed the 30th of November and contain nine articles, in substance as follows. 1 1st. The acknowledgment of our Independence and the relinquish ment of all rights, Claims &c. over us. 2dly. The Boundaries of the United States very Consonant to our Claim. 3d. A full and free right to the fisheries, with liberty to take fish on the several shores &c. 4. Creditors, on either side, to recover their just debts. 5. Congress to recommend the restoration of confiscated estates to British subjects, who have not born arms, and all others to be suf fered to endeavour to prevail on the States to restore their property on their paying the bona fide purchase money paid by the Possessor. This indulgence to last 12 Months. 6th. No future prosecution for any past crimes and all present pros ecutions to cease. 7. A firm peace, and hostilities to cease, on signing the Treaty. No plundering on the evacuation of Posts. All American Artillery to be left. All Prisoners of War to be set at liberty. All Archives, Deeds and papers taken by British Officers to be returned. 8. Navigation of Missisippi to be left open for both Nations. 9. Any place conquered by either party after the Articles shall arrive in America to be returned. As I have sketched out the substance of these Articles from hearing them read amidst a variety of papers and while attending to the duty of my office in Congress, your Excellency will see the impropriety of de pending greatly on their accuracy or suffering them to be made public. The preliminaries are to take place on the Treaty between France and Great Britain being perfected, the principal articles of which were agreed on, and the negotiation was going on when Capt. Barney left France, but not finished; and the Minister writes, that he rather thinks they will be soon finished. I have the honor to inclose a letter from the Marquis de la Fayette, 2 which came under cover to me, requesting it to be sent by an Officer. Your Excellency will be so kind as to excuse the extreme haste of this Scrawl, as the time obliges me to the greatest hurry. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & very humb. Servt, Elias Boudinot P.S. Capt. Barney came under the protection of a British Passport. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Boudinot. 1 Washington also received “the substance of these Articles” this date from the secre tary for foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston, who in addition sent him the complete texts of articles 5 and 6 of the preliminary treaty. Washington Papers, DLC. 2 Lafayette’s December 4, 1782, letter to Washington is in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:72-74.


[Page 42]
8 March 12, 1783 the 23d Decembr by which we are fully Informed of the Preliminary & other articles of Peace Between Great Britain & the United States of America are mutually agreed to and signed, tho not to take Effect till the Negotiation is fully setled with France which is expected would soon be Accomplishd that is in the Course of the Winter. Many arti cles between Great Britain & France were agreed to, others remaind Undetermined, tho still in Agitation, in General those agreed upon between Great Britain & France may be acceptable, tho possibly not every thing as we could Wish. I conclude they will in a Very few days be Communicated to the respective States, but at present as they are now in reading in Congress they cannot be Communicated. Indeed if I should attempt it might be Very Uncertain & Imperfect, on memory & catchd up in hast & while other Communications are in reading, therefore as the post hour is near at hand Am Confined to this short Sketch & am with great respect & Esteem Yr Excells most obedt hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (CtHi: Jonathan Trumbull Jr., Papers). William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 12th, 1783 Congress have for some time past been employed in endeavoring to restore public credit, and to fall on some plan for doing justice to, and satisfying of our Army. And as it is not possible to obtain a sufficient sum of money in any reasonable time to answer the above purposes, it is concluded that there is no mode in the power of Congress, and the several States, but only to establish funds that will be adequate to the payment of the interest of all debts due from the United States. What will be the most proper articles to recommend to the States, on which to lay duties is now before us. Many things have been pro posed, and many objections to each of them have been stated, and fi nally what we shall agree to, I am not able to even conjecture, (except that the impost of 5 per cent with a little variation, from what it was before, I believe will be one). We have had under consideration at the request from the Army a commutation for their half pay after the war; 1 we yesterday had the question after many days being spent thereon; it was lost by the vote of one single person: but I believe that it is a matter of so much conse quence to the Army, that the person (after consideration) will bring on the matter again and give his assent to it; in that case it will be car ried by nine States. 2 And if the Army agree to accept it, it will be


[Page 45]
March 12, 1783 11 I have the Honor to be. Your most Hum servt. John Taylor Gilman P.S. Please to inform Collo. Bartlett, that I have reed, his Letter of the 14th Ultimo. Want of time prevents my Answering it this Post. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear Sir Philada. 12th March 1783. A few hours since, Congress reed, from our Commissioners the arti cles agreed upon between them & the Minister appointed by the King of G.B. to negotiate a peace. They are to take place as soon as the genl. Peace is concluded between England & France; the articles in ful or in part will be communicated to the several states as soon as Congress has determined the propriety of making them or any part of them public at this time; & as the post may sit out before this gits to the office I can only add that they are considered here, so far as I can form judgment, in a favorable light, and I think I can say that they are as much in our favor as I ever expected. I have the Honr. to be with the greatest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient servant. P.S. From the appearance of the whole intelligence I find it uncertain when a Peace will take place. FC (PPIn: Americana Collection). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Arthur Lee to James Warren Dear Sir, In Congress. Deer. [i.e. March] 12th. 1783 1 I enclose you three Newspapers containing the Essays of Lucius, Va lerius, & Bellisarius which deserve your perusal & being reprinted in your Papers. 2 Barney is arrivd with Dispatches. He left L Orient the 17 Jany. He keeps strict silence & none of his Crew are allowd to come on shore. The Letters were all carried to Mr. Morris, from whom Con gress have not yet receivd any intelligence. When his speculations are settled we shall be favord with the news. All these restraints upon pub lic information & the engrossing all the Letters, are by his own order, Congress knowing nothing of it; & I verily believe for the sole purpose of speculation. I was persuaded when his friends proposd the purchas ing Barney’s vessel & dispatching her under his direction, that it was


[Page 46]
12 March 12, 1783 for the same purpose. Thro’ the whole war he has made his public trust subservient to his private Speculation, & has thereby become as rich as a Jew. You wish to have some observations on the manners of this place. They are as little worthy of panygeric as an awkward imitation of the French can make them. Broke suddenly loose from the simplicity of quaker manners, dress & fashon & affecting the vanity, & nonsense, if nothing worse, of french parade, you may conceive they are more fit subjects of redicule than of admiration. Mr. Morris, Mr. Bingham, Mr. Ross & others, who have made large fortunes during this war, employ their wealth in a manner not very consistent with that un-ostentatious virtue which ought to animate an Infant republic. Extravagance, osten tation & dissipation distinguish what are calld the Ladies of the first rank. There are however exceptions, these being prudent, amiable & worthy persons of both Sexes. But the generality seem to be intoxi cated with a sudden change of manners & unexpected elevation. I had not time to finish this Letter, being occupyed by attending to the Dispatches. The preliminary Articles are well enough, but being conditiond on the conclusion of Peace with France, which seems to me not probable this year; they still remain dependent on the issue of this campaign at least, which if very successful on the part of the Enemy may make them retract these conditions, & if ever so prosper ous on the part of our Ally, we cannot hope for any thing better, as the latter seems more averse to our participation in the Fishery, & our possessing the western Country, than the English themselves are. We are placd in this uncomfortable situation, by the ambition of our Ally, And by the obligation our Alliance is supposd to have imposd upon us not to make Peace without their concurrence. My latest Letters give the most sanguine expectations of speedy peace. 3 But from reasoning on all circumstances it appears to me at least very doubtful. I wish most sincerely that peace may take place, & give us an opportunity of arranging our governments & Finances & of paying our Debts. I receivd the two Joe’s you was so good as to send me for interest; & am very much obligd to you for your attention to my Affairs. When peace will permit the travelling in the extreme parts of your State, & I am freed from Congress, I shall revisit you, & take a view of the Coun try where the grant to me may be located. In the mean time I trust to your goodness & care to have the location made as advantageously as possible. 4 Mr. J. Adams is so persuaded, that Peace is settled that he has desird leave to resign & return home. 5 I am not of opinion that we can spare him yet. He & Mr. Jay have acted a spirited, independant, & therefore, in my judgment, a most laudable part; & will be necessary in Europe to counteract the treachery of old Franklin. I had drawn up a vote of thanks to Mr. Adams for the extraordinary Services he has renderd us


[Page 48]
14 March 12, 1783 licited his vote and to avoid the appearance of division over the appointment, Adams and Henry Laurens also signed Temple’s commission. See Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:38—39, 102—3; and Richard B. Morris, The Peacemakers: The Great Powers and American Independence (New York: Harper & Row, 1965), pp. 355-56. 8 That is, Thomas Lee Shippen, son of Dr. William Shippen, Jr., and Lee’s sister, Alice. Eleazer McComb to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 12th March 1783. I sit down to mention the news of the day, which you will be pleased to communicate to our friends in Dover. Captain Barney arrived this day from France, under the protection of a passport signed by the British King, and brought the Preliminary Articles of Peace, signed by the Commissioners on the part of Great Britain and the United States of America, on the 30th November last. The Preamble sets forth that they are not to take effect ’till a Peace with France is concluded, and that they are to be included in, and make part of, the definitive Treaty. By the 1st Article, the King of G. Britain, acknowledges the United States of America to be free, independant and sovereign States, and for himself, his heirs and Successors, forever relinquishes all right and title to them. By the 2d the boundaries are fixed, to begin at the North West Angle of Nova Scotia, and run to the North West head of Connecticut River—then down the River to the 45th degree of North Latitude—then thro’ the Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron, Superiour, long Lake, and Lake of the Woods; and from the North West end of the lat ter a due West Course to the river Mississipi—then down that river to the 31st degree of North Latitude—then to the river Apalachicola— from thence to the Flint river—from thence to St. Mary’s river, and down that river to the Atlantic Ocean. The line between New England and Nova Scotia to begin at the mouth of the river St. Croix, which empties into the Bay of Fundy, and run from thence to the first place of beginning, including all Islands within 20 leagues of the Land, ex cept such as were formerly known to belong to Nova Scotia. By the 3d we have a right to fish on the Banks of Newfoundland, and to cure the fish on certain uninhabited islands. By the 4th Creditors in either Country are to be allowed to recover their just debts contracted be fore the year 1775. By the 5th Congress is to recommend to the Sev eral States to restore confiscated property to real British subjects, and also to Persons resident within the British lines who have not borne Arms against the United States; and to suffer others of different de scriptions to go into any of the States and remain 12 Months in order to endeavour to recover their property—to revise their Laws for Con fiscation, so that the estates which have been sold may be restored to


[Page 50]
16 March 12, 1783 The terms granted to America appeared to Congs, on the whole ex tremely liberal. It was observed by several however that the stipulation obliging Congs, to recommend to the States a restitution of confis cated property, altho it could scarcely be understood that the States would comply, had the appearance of sacrificing the dignity of Congs, to the pride of the British King. 2 The separate & secret manner in which our Ministers had proceded with respect to France & the confidential manner with respect to the British Ministers affected different members of Congs, very differ ently. Many of the most judicious members thought they had all been in some measure ensnared by the dexterity of the British Minister, 3 and particularly disapproved of the conduct of Mr. Jay in submitting to the Enemy his jealousy of the French without even the knowledge of Dr. Franklin, and of the unguarded manner in which he, Mr. A. & Dr. F. had given in writing sentiments unfriendly to our Ally, and serv ing as weapons for the insidious policy of the Enemy. The separate article was most offensive, being considered as ob tained by G. B. not for the sake of the territory ceded to her, but as a means of disuniting the U. S. & France, as inconsistent with the spirit of the Alliance, and a dishonorable departure from the candor, recti tude & plain dealing professed by Congs. 4 The dilemma in wch Congs, were placed was sorely felt. If they sd communicate to the F. Minister 5 every thing, they exposed their own Ministers, destroyed all confidence in them on the part of France, & might engage them in dangerous factions agst. Congs, which was the more to be appre hended, as the terms obtained by their management were popular in their nature. If Congs, sd. conceal everything, & the F. Court sd. ei ther from the Enemy or otherwise come to the knowledge of it all confidence wd. be at an end between the allies; the enemy might be encouraged by it to make fresh experiments, & the public safety as well as the national honor be endangered. Upon the whole it was thought & observed by many that our Ministers particularly Mr. Jay, in stead of making allowances for & affording facilities to France in her delicate situation between Spain & the U. S. had joined with the enemy in taking advantage of it to increase her perplexity; & that they had made the safety of their Country depend on the sincerity of Ld. Shelburne, who was suspected by all the world besides, and even by most of themselves. See Mr. L ’s letter Dcr. 24. 6 The displeasure of the French Court at the neglect of our Ministers to maintain a confidential intercourse & particularly to communicate the preliminary articles before they were signed, was not only signi fied to the Secty. of F. A. but to sundry members by the Chevr. de la Luzerne. To the former he shewed a letter from Ct. de Vergennes di recting him to remonstrate to Congs, agst. the conduct of the Amr. Ministers; which a subsequent letter countermanded alledging that


[Page 53]
March 12, 1783 19 lantic, that the fisheries shall be exercised nearly as formerly; that Congress shall earnestly recommend to the States a restitution of Con fiscated property a permission to the refugees to come & remain for 1 year within the States to solicit restitution, and that in the most obnox ious cases restitution may be demanded of purchasers on reimbursing them the price of the property, that debts contracted prior to 1775 shall be mutually paid according to sterling value; that all prisoners shall be mutually set at liberty; troops withdrawn & all records & pa pers restored; that the navigation of the Mississippi from the source to the mouth shall be mutually free for the subjects of G. B. & the Citi zens of America, a proposition comprehending the W. I. was offered on the subject of Commerce, but not admitted on the part of G. B. In the course of the negociation G. B. contended for not only the lim its marked out in the Quebec Act, but all ungranted soil, for a contrac tion of the fisheries, and for absolute stipulations in favr. of the loyalists. The despatches of the 14th speak also of the principal preliminaries between F. & G. B. being settled; but of little progress being made in those between Hold. & Spn. & the latter; & of none between Spn. & U.S. A letter of the 24 Deer, from Dr. Franklin varies the scene some what. It says that uncertainties were arising from the unsettled state of minds in England & incloses a letter from Ct. de Vergennes observing that difficulties had arisen from the very facilities yielded on the part of France; & concluding with these words as well as I can recollect, “Je ne desespere pas, J’espire plutot; mais tout est incertain.” Franklin’s correspondence on this occasion denotes a vigor of intel lect, which is astonishing at his age, a letter to the British Minister on the case of the Tories in particular is remarkable for strength of rea soning, of sentiment & of expression. 2 He concludes his letter to Congs, with observing that he is now entering on his 78th year, 50 of which have been spent in the public Service; and that having lived to see like Simeon of old the salvation of his Country, his prayer is that he may be permitted to retire from public life. Mr. Adams has also transmitted a resignation. The arrival of this intelligence will probably procure from Congs, some final decision with respect to Mr. Jefferson. Having given you all the facts which hurry wd. admit I leave you to your own conclusion as to the object of them. Farewell. J Ma[dison Jr.] RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:339-41. I For the dispatches brought by Capt. Joshua Barney, see the preceding entry, note 1. 2 That is, Benjamin Franklin’s letter of November 26, 1782, to Richard Oswald.


[Page 54]
20 March 12, 1783 Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir Philadelphia 12th March 1783. Captain Barney arrived here this Morning from France—he left L’Orient the 17th ofjany. under a british passport and brought dis patches for Congress, they have not all been yet read—the latest we can at present inform you of are to the 25th of December at Paris. Considering the long delay of intelligence, and the anxiety which that and the importance of the Object under Negociation must have occasioned, we have concluded to forward what intelligence we are possessed of at present & therefore inclose a Copy of the provisional Articles signed by our Ministers and Mr. Oswald on the 30th Novem ber. We hope you will be able to make them out, time is not permitted to make a fair Copy. By the information under the 25th of Deer, there were some appre hensions, that matters between the other powers wou’d not be very soon concluded, but the hopes & Expectations on the contrary were most prevalent. France had made some progress in her Negociations, Spain & Holland but little. The King of Sweeden had given powers to his Minister at Versailles to enter on a Treaty of Amity & Commerce with the American Minister. We have been under the necessity of agreeing to give £8.0.0 to the Express to Baltimore. We have the honor to be Your Excellencys & Honors Most respect ful & Obt Servts, Tho. S. Lee Dani Carroll Wm. Hemsley RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Hemsley and signed by Carroll, Lee, and Hemsley. En dorsed by William Smith: “The Express who will have the honor to deliver this to yr. Exy will call on you for payment. I have made no agreement with him. Balto. Mr. 15. 1783.” Richard Peters to John Dickinson Dr Sir 12th March 1783 At the Instance of the other Delegates I have made a hasty Copy of the Provisional Treaty between Gt Britain & the U States which I have not time to compare. You will be pleased to communicate it for the Sat isfaction of the Hble Council & House of Assembly ’till a more com plete Communication can be made. The Letters accompanying the Treaty are too long to copy at this Time. It appears that Holland have done little—Spain not far advanced & the affairs of France not con-


[Page 59]
March 13, 1783 25 2 Actually the 12th. s See Collins to Greene, January 5, 1783. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear sir. Philadelphia 13th March 1783. I did myself the honor of addressing your Excellency yesterday (in haste) a few moments before the post set out, but as Mr. Brown is about returning to Boston, & may arrive before the post, I take the lib erty to inclose a newspaper which contains the most important part of the European intelligence, received here yesterday by captain Barney; by the articles you will perceive our right to fish secure & also the boundaries to the eastern parts of our State. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Arthur Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, In Congress Mar. 13th. 1783 In a Letter I recievd yesterday, dated Paris, Deer. 14 from a Gentle man exceedingly well acquainted with the Politics of St. James’s, 1 is this passage—“The acknowlegment of American Independency gives a right to Neutral Powers to trade directly to America. This will be a great advantage shoud the War continue, of which I think there is lit tle probability. Europe seems to be in a disposition for Peace; & it is absolutely necessary for England.” This necessity of England, seems pretty clear from the King’s Speech; & Mr. Jay writes that on the return of Count de Vergennes Secretary from London, whither Mr. Jay supposes he was sent to prevent the british Court from treating with us as an independent Nation, the Count told him he believd Ld. Shelburne was sincere in his desire of Peace. 2 If he is so, I am sure it must be from the neces sity mentiond by my Correspondent, as I am persuaded that is not his inclination. So far the prospect is fair for Peace; but Count de Vergennes writes that tho’ he has hopes, he has fears 3 —the preliminary Articles with France were not signed the 6th of Jany. Count d’Estaing & M. de la Fayette had saild for Cadiz apparently upon an expedition which woud hardly have taken place, if the Cabinet of France had not been determind upon a continuance of the war.


[Page 61]
March 13, 1783 27 Novia Scotia and Riming from thence to the 45th Degree of north Latitude to Conecticut River thence down Said river and alonge the midle of the Lakes Ontario, Erie, Huron, Superior, long lake and the Lake in the woods and from northwest End of Said Lake a west Course to the Massisipie and it said river to the River Apicahia from thenc to head of St marys River and Done the same to the Atalantic from thenc to the mouth of a River falling into the Bay of fundie and thence to the place of Begining. The full freedom of fishing on the Banks of Newfundland and of Dreing thire fish on the Shores of Sable Island and other places not inhabited by the English, a free trade to all the English ports in Eroupe. The franc and English had agreed on preliminarys before Capt Baney Saild but were not Signed. The English to Leve all the amirican Cannon that is now in the forts in thire Poss [ess] ion and not Desstroy any property when they [leave] those place[s] that they now Possess. The Du[t]ch have Done nothing as yet, the Spaniards have made pro- possalls the[y] want to have Gibaralter and offer west floridia and some Islands in the westindias in Exchange. We have No Doubt of peace but it may be some time before it is finaly Concluded. I am Sir with perfict Regard your Verry Humb Sert, John Montgomery RC (PHi: Irvine Papers). • Dr. John Rose (Gustavus, baron de Rosenthal) of the Third Pennsylvania Regiment, and one of the few Russians to serve as an officer of the Continental Army, had served as General Irvine’s aide-de-camp during the latter’s command at Fort Pitt and as Col. William Crawford’s aide during the ill-fated Ohio expedition of the spring of 1782. See John Rose, “Journal of a Volunteer Expedition to Sandusky, from May 24 to June 13, 1782,” PMHB 18 (1894): 129-57, 293-328; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 351. Richard Peters to Horatio Gates Dear Sir Philada. March 13. 1783 We have recieved official Accounts of the Signature of the Prelimi naries of Peace between Gt Britain & the United States to take Effect if the Affairs between France & Great Britain are adjusted. These Pre liminaries contain everything we ought to wish. The Boundaries are eligible as we have the complete Navigation of the Lakes & that of the Missisippi our Lines running thro’ those Waters. Our Fisheries are se cured in the most ample Manner. There are some Articles which were inserted to serve british Pride wherein it is agreed that Congress shall earnestly recommend to the States the Revision of their Confiscation Laws & endeavour to bring about a Restoration of Property to those Loyalists who have not taken up Arms. But the States will be left of Course to their own Way of thinking as to Compliance with this Rec-


[Page 66]
32 March 17, 1783 mote suggestions of the unreasonableness of our propositions, and perswading that Court of the possibility of obtaining concessions on the part of America, far more advantagious than what was insisted upon. The british Ministry taking the advantage of these blunders of the Court of Versailles, instead of indeavouring to reduce the preten sions of America, candidly (in Appearance) communicated this con duct of France to our Commissioners and thereby created a Jealousy in their Minds agt that Court, as insidious & inimical. This perhaps might have too great an Effect, in alarming & souring the Minds of our Commissioners and it would not be unnatural to suppose, that it was greater than necessity dictated, when we consider the interest the Court of London had in exaggerating on the Occasion. The whole is sued in our Commissioners signing the provisional Articles of Peace (a copy of which I shall endeavour to send herewith) 2 without the Knowledge of France, on the 30th Novr. and not till the next Day and after they were sent to the Court of London, were they anounced to Count De Vergennes, when he discovered great surprize, and covered his Chagrin by expressing his astonishment at our having obtained such advantagous Terms. Our public dispatches give us no Acct, of the Issue of the negotiations on the part of other belligerent Powers, except that some disputes had arose that delayed so desirable an Ob ject, and suggesting doubts of the real desire of Great Brittain to do more then what was concluded with us, hoping to draw off the united States from the War, by putting them in a Situation, which would leave them nothing to contend for. But by a very confidential Letter from good, tho’ private Hands of a later date it appears that the ne gotiations with France & Spain had gone on; and on this Authority I may almost venture to say, that I believe the Terms are fully digested, if not signed, between them. Spain insisted on the Cession of Gibral tar and offered to France, the Spanish half of Hispaniola, if she would obtain Gibraltar for her at the Expence of France. Count De Ver gennes thereupon offered to England the Island of Gaudalope in Ex change for that Rock, which was refused. She then added Dominica & the neutrality of St. Vincents. As this was the Ultimatum of France, it is supposed that it would be complied with. Holland demands three things—a restoration of her captured Pos sessions—Compensation for Damages unjustly sustained contrary to the Laws of Nations—and free navigation. A Commissioner is gone to Holland to settle these points, which are too unimportant to cause much difficulty, so that I hope a general Peace is not far off. But I do not mean by this, that there is so much certainty, as that any thing should be discontinued that is necessary for our defence. To be well prepared for War, is the surest way to make peace. A great deal has been suggested about the insidious Character of the English Minister, and that there is great reason to fear, as some think, by granting


[Page 68]
34 March 17, 1783 The Situation of our Army, as stated in your Excellency’s Letter of last Wednesday, 3 by no means lessens our Anxiety & Mortification, es pecially as we have been for five or Six weeks, past, most faithfully & honestly engaged in laying a Foundation for their future Security, as well as making provision for a present Supply. More is not in our power, and I fondly hope that in this last hour, they will not dishonor themselves, and forfeit that Glory which they have supported with so much dignity to themselves & advantage to their Country. Violent Measures will certinly tend to prevent the Success of those Endeav ours, Congress have been so laboriousty exerting, for their emolu ment & Security—and however they may think that they are the only sufferers, yet they may be assured, that our Shoulders are not free from the Burden. There is not a Man among them, who would envy us our Station, was he to be one week in Congress. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan take this Opportunity of presenting their most affectionate respects and kindest Love & good Wishes to Mrs. Washington, whom they remember with the highest Sentiments of Esteem, in which may I be permitted most cordially to Join those of mine. I have the honor to be with the most profound respect, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedt. & afft. Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot P.S. By some Conversation I have Since had with the Minister of France, I find that the King his Master is greatly offended with our - ' Commissioners, for signing the provisional Treaty without a confiden tial communication with his Ministers. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 12-15, 1783. 2 A copy of the provisional articles is filed under the date November 30, 1782, in the Washington Papers, DLC. 3 See James Madison’s Notes, March 17, note 1. William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 17th, 1783. Since writing to your Excellency by the last post in which I men tioned the Arrival of our packet from France with Dispatches, 1 and amongst other things the Articles to be Inserted in the Treaty for a General Peace (when that shall take place) as agreed to, and signed on the part of our Commissions and those of Great Britain, and as they are now made public I do my Self the pleasure to Inclose them to you. As to the Boundaries Contained in the Articles, they are not Quite so well in the Northwest part of the United States as we could wish, but I believe, and it is generally thought here, that they are as Exten-


[Page 70]
36 March 17, 1783 Since writing the above, Colo. Hamilton has Concluded to Joyn me in Enclosing the Articles, and as we have But one printed Copy have Inclosed it in our Joynt letter. With the Greatest Respect I am, Sir, your most obedt. and humble Servt, Wm. Floyd. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:86-89. 1 See Floyd to Clinton, March 12, 1783. 2 For the interest of Floyd and Ezra L’Hommedieu in the purchase of William Liv ingston’s claims to lands on the upper Mohawk River, see L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 16, 1783. Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia, March 17. 1783 I am duely honored with Your Excellency’s letter of the 4th and 12th instant. 1 It is much to be regretted though not to be wondered at, that steps of so inflammatory a tendency have been taken in the army. Your Excellency has in my opinion acted wisely. The best way is ever not to attempt to stem a torrent but to divert it. I am happy to find You coincide in opinion with me on the conduct proper to be observed by yourself. I am persuaded more and more it is that which is most consistent with your own (honor) reputation and the public safety. Our affairs wear a most serious aspect as well foreign as domestic. Before this gets to hand Your Excellency will probably have seen the provisional articles between Great Britain and these states. It might at first appearance be concluded that these will be the prelude to a gen eral peace; but there are strong reasons to doubt the truth of such a conclusion. Obstacles may arise from different quarters, from the de mands of Spain & Holl [and], from the hope in France of greater ac quisitions in the East, and perhaps still more probab[ly] from the in sincerity and duplicity of Lord Shelburn [e], whose politics founded in the peculiarity of his situa[tion], as well as in the character of the man will be suspected of insidiousness. I am really appr[ehensive] if peace does not take place, that the negotiation [s] will tend to sow distrusts among the allies and wea[ken] the force of the common league. We have I fear men [among] us and men in trust who have a hankering afte[r] British connection. We have others whose confidence in France savours of credulity. The intrigues of the former and the incau tiousness of the latter may be both, though in different degrees, inju rious to the American interests; and make it difficult for prudent men to steer a proper course. There are delicate circumstances with re spect to the late foreign transactions which I am not at liberty to re-


[Page 76]
42 March 18, 1783 transmitted to you an Account thereof, 1 but, then was not Able to give a Copy, which I now send you here Inclosed. The design, opperation & full Effect time will disclose. By the best Information we have re- cievd from our Commissioners at Paris the Prospects of a general Peace seem the most Probable, but it is possible we know that the Ne- gociation still may break off, & whether the provisional agreement as it is Stiled will signifye any thing or not is left a doubt, & by the De bates in Parliament we find it is not fully agreed what Construction to give them. Since my last I had the Honor of Receiving your favor of the 24th Ulmo by Mr Little with its Inclosures relating specially to the affair of Mr Smith.2 1 was happy in recieving them, as much had been said upon the matter here & a Variety of reports were Circulating to cast an odium on the State, but I am ready Armd on all Occasions for its Defense. In Connecticut, a full hearing & Consideration by the Legislature and all things Considered it was Judged proper to recieve him with his Effects, here I find a Gentn. may have been gone 7 years to the West Indies in Constant trade from thence to Great Britain & now returnd with his Effects, & tho Publickly known, yet no notice taken of it, nor animadversions thereon; tho’ I am not called upon to Judge of the propriety of the Resolutions of the Assembly on that af fair, neither would it be proper for me to do it as I did not hear the Cause, Yet I am Clear that when the Assembly on full Consideration had permitted him to become a Subject of that State & to bring in his Effects, thereby such a Confidence must be placed in the State that it would be highly dishonorable for them to suffer Any persons in the State in Contempt of their Authority, to frustrate their Intentions, Vio late their pledged protection, or pay any regard to the pretended Au thority of a Neighbouring State to Protect them therein. I hope the tumult & Combinations referrd to in Govr Bowens Let ter to your Excellency has Subsided, as we hear nothing further from either Rhodisland, or the Massachusetts, & that they will not be able to make any Impressions on Connecticut, tho when taxes press hard, and the prospects of success from our foreign Enemies Weakens & the common danger (the Strongest Cement to our Union) lessens, A large Debt Contracted both at home & Abroad, which must be paid tho gradually, our Army loudly calling upon us for Justice if not more, our Creditors Numerous & Clamourous, Our Credit sinking, our pledged faith failing, New dangers spring up from every quarter, States Jealous, people tumultuous, Counsels perplexed, then it is that the wi[s]dome & fortitude of those entrusted in publick affairs is brot to the Test, then they are called upon to exert themselves & with Pa tience and perseverance Indeavor to save the Sinking Ship tossed with Tempest, dashed with Angry Waves, suffering patiently ill report, keen reproaches, ingratitude & slander, Trusting in the supreme Governor of the Universe to direct the Storm, still the Waves, & Guide the Ship


[Page 77]
March 18, 1783 43 into a Haven Calm & safe. When I am attending Congress the De mands of the Army are Continually pressing; Unable to Relieve them, the difficulties attending every State to Contend with & secure our own. If I could have every thing done in Congress according to my own mind & opinion it would be far from remeding all the Evils, or accomplishing the good Wished for, but the Variety of Interests As well as Conceptions of measures producing different opinions not only delay, but obstruct our proceedings & perplexes those concernd that the mind is Continually filled with anxiety tho not with dispair. If I was to return home, the Acting within a smaller sphere yet am sensi ble I should have the same difficulties to encounter Unless they should cast me over board as a Jonas to appease the Storm, which if it will, & save the Ship I think I should be Very Content. The Officers of the Army have had a Comtee or Agents attending here this 3 months, Not only to sollicit justice, pay or Security therefor (which Congress have been ready to Comply with to the Utmost of their power) but to enforce their half pay for life (which is their darling object) or what they now move for, a commutation for whole pay for a Term of Years after the Close of the War, to be Computed at equal Value. I was in hopes, & which seemd till late the disposition of Congress, to have re- ferrd each line to their respective States for a Compensation, but it is represented by their Agents that the Army, especially the Connecticut line, are most averse to that, they think they have obtaind security from the States for their pay & depreciation & dare not or will not trust them for a further Compensation, their proposal on that head has met with difficulties in Congress, as it requires Nine States. 8 States & half Connecticut have agreed to it, but for reasons which I have & have offered I have been in the Negative 3 & which has hitherto stoppd the measure, New Hampshire, Rhodisland & Jerseys in the Negative, 4 tho I have proposed, if some alterations could be made in the formed resolve that might remove some special difficulties that now lyes in the way, that I would finally give my Vote for it as now the whole blame if any they say lyes upon me alone, against the Voice of 8 states & half Connecticut. We are lately Informed that the officers in the Army finding their measure obstructed on that Account have thrown out many Indecent threats, & a proposed Combination form ing to carry their points & do themselves Justice as they call it with their Arms & at the Point of the Bayonet threaten not to disband even if Peace is established, but to make themselves a Compleat Compensa tion by force of Arms, & Judge for themselves. This has been often held out as an Argument boldly on the floor of Congress; They have a prudent & discreet General at Head, & a wise Providence which su perintends, therefore fear ought not, & trust will not direct or Influ ence our Conduct, but the great principl[e]s of right & Justice lead us on our way.


[Page 79]
March 18, 1783 45 ditures as fast as possible, ascertain our Debt to the line of Justice, & pay as fast as we can, but we cannot pay the Principal, then the call is Secure our Interest and then a person can transferr his Debt at any time if he wants it for or near the Value; this will satisfy the Army & other Creditors; but the Question is how shall that be done by direct taxes on each state, justly proportioned? The People have been so har- rassed with taxes & Collectors, that they feel galled, fretted, Impatient, & many really unable to pay; must not a new mode then be adopted, which will leave every one pretty much at his Choice whether to pay or not? & when he does pay, not to know or feel it? By this is clearly seen is meant dutys or Impost on foreign trade or Importation to be paid by the Mercht in the first Instance, & then it must take its Chance. This is the mode projected, & for a limited time, & sacredly to be appropriated to the payment of Interest, & the Excess towards sinking the principal, the Debts made out & certifyd to each State, & a strict account yearly rendered of the Expenditure, Superfluous Arti cles or such as are mostly consumed by the rich & Wealthy to bear the greatest burthen. This is said in general to be the only plan which ap pears feasable; Congress have had this subject long under Considera tion to be ripened for the Approbation of the several States, for it is they alone can give it its sanction & seal. I only give the Sketch. I now Inclose the articles referrd to agreed upon between the Commission ers of Britain & America, with Mr Morrises state of expenditures to 1782 and the remainder are making out to be soon transmitted. Am with the greatest esteem & respect your Excellys. most obedt Hie Sert, Elipht Dyer RC (CtHi: Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., Papers). 1 See Dyer to Trumbull, March 12. 2 John Smith of Worthington, Conn., formerly of New York, had been granted per mission on January 22, 1783, by the Connecticut General Assembly to send his son Jus tus into New York to bring out “Negroes, Money etc.” Connecticut General Assembly Journal, DLC (ESR). 3 Dyer had voted on March 10 against the proposed commutation of half pay for life to full pay for five years, while his colleague Oliver Wolcott had voted for it. See JCC, 24:178-79. 4 Dyer appears to have added the names of these states as an afterthought. 3 See Dyer to William Williams, March 2, 1783, note 4. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philadelphia 18th March 1783. I should have done myself the honor of writing to your Excellency before now if my Colleague had not promised to communicate the in telligence received by Captain Barney, 1 and to forward a Letter ad-


[Page 80]
46 March 18, 1783 dressed to you from the minister of France. I have so little to mention at this time that I am scarcely justifiable in troubling you with a Letter. The report of the day is that General Carleton has informed the loyal ists that unless they take the advantage of the fleet soon to sail from New York he cannot promise them another opportunity. That, in con sequence of this, near 500 families were preparing to depart: but per haps the preliminary Articles, which allows them a residence of 12 Months, may prevent it at present. We are also informed that 60 Transports, with troops, have fallen down to the hook, suppos’d for the West Indies. A Minister from Holland is expected in a short time. There are great tumults in that Republic. A plot has been discovered for cutting off the Patriots, and there is a strong party for divesting the Prince Stadholder of all his authority. Since my coming to Town I have been informed that the remains of Colo. Haslet are interred in the Market Street Burying Ground, 2 within about 18 feet of the Wall of the Church. The spot is yet known, but will soon be forgotten unless it is perpetuated by something monumental. Would it not be proper for our State to pay respect to his Memory by ordering a Tomb Stone, at least, with a proper inscription, to be placed over his Grave? This would not Cost, in my opinion, more than ten pounds. If they chose to be more profuse, a monument might be placed against the wall of the Church, as plain, or as much orna mented as they pleased to order. Their Delegates in Congress would not think it a trouble to have their orders carried into execution. With respectful Compliments to your Lady and Family, I have the honor to be, Sir, your Excellency’s most obt & humble Servt E. McComb. RC (DeHi: McComb Papers). 1 See Gunning Bedford to Van Dyke, March 12, 1783. 2 Col. John Haslet had been killed during the battle of Princeton, NJ., in January 1777. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Teusday March 18 [1783], On the report of the Committee to whom the 3 paragraphs of the report on revenues 1 (see March 6). had been recommitted, the said paragraphs were expunged so as to admit the following amendment which took place without opposition, viz “Resolved that it be recommended &c &c (see 1st K) Upon all rum ofjamaica proof per Gallon Upon all other spirituous liquors Dolr. 4/90 3/90


[Page 81]
March 18, 1783 47 Upon Madeira wine Upon the wines of Lisbon, Oporto, those called Sherry & upon all French wines Upon the wines called Malaga or Teneriff Upon all other wines Upon common Bohea Tea perlb. Upon all other Teas Upon pepper perlb. Upon Brown Sugar perlb Upon loaf Sugar Upon all other Sugars Upon Molasses per Gallon Upon Cocoa & Coffee perlb Upon salt after the war per Bushel 12/90 6/90 5/90 4/90 6/90 24/90 3/90 >/ 2 /90 2/90 1/90 1/90 1/90 1/8 And upon all goods except arms, ammunition & cloathing or other arti cles 2 imported for the use of the U. S. a duty of 5 perCt. ad valorem: provided that there be allowed a bounty of Vs of a dollar for every Quintal of dried fish exported from these U. S. and a like sum for every Barrel of pickled fish, beef or pork, to be paid or allowed to the exporter thereof at the port from which they shall be so exported. The arguments urged by Mr. Wilson in behalf of his motion (see Journal) for a land tax of 14 of a dollar per 100 Acres, 3 other than those heretofore generally urged were that it was more moderate than had been paid before the revolution & it cd. not be supposed the peo ple wd grudge to pay as the price of their liberty what they formerly paid to their oppressors; that if it was unequal, this inequality wd. be corrected by the States in other taxes, that as the tax on trade would fall cheifly on the inhabitants of the lower Country who consumed the imports, the tax on land wd. affect those who were remote from the Sea & consumed little; On the opposite side it was alledged that such a tax was repugnant to the popular ideas of equality & particularly wd. never be acceded to by the S. States, at least unless they were to be respectively credited for the amount; and if such credit were to be given, it wd. be best to let the States chuse such taxes as would best suit them. A letter came in & was read from the Secry. of F. A. 4 stating the per plexing alternative to which Congs, were reduced by the secret article relating to W[est] F[lorida] either of dishonoring themselves by be coming a party to the concealment or of wounding the feelings & de stroying the influence of our Ministers by disclosing the article to the French Court: and proposing as advisable on the whole 1. that he be authorized to communicate the article in question to The French Minister in such manner as wd. best tend to remove unfa-


[Page 82]
48 March 18, 1783 vorable impressions which might be made on the Ct. of F. as to the sincerity of Congress or their Ministers. 2. That the sd. Ministers be informed of this communication, and instructed to agree that the limit for W. F. proposed in the separate ar ticle be allowed to whatever power the said Colony may be confirmed by a Treaty of peace. 3. That it be declared to be the sense of Congress that the prelimi nary articles between U. S. & G. B. are not to take effect untill peace shall be actually signed between the Kings of F. & G. B. 5 Ordered that tomorrow be assigned for the consideration of the said letter. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:350-52. 1 These three paragraphs were a revision of the first and third paragraphs of the com mittee’s original report with the addition of a recommendation for a bounty on certain exports. The second paragraph of that report, recommending a 5% duty on prizes and prize goods, had been deleted by the committee based on a March 8 response from Robert Morris. See Madison’s Notes, March 6-7 and March 11, 1783, note 2. 2 At this point in the manuscript Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: ‘The other exception as to Cards & wire for making them &c. was struck out unanimously on the motion of Mr. Clarke; being considered no longer necessary & contrary to the general policy of encouraging necessary manufactures among our selves.” Abraham Clark’s motion was not entered in the journals, but in Thomas FitzSi- mon’s draft of these three paragraphs, the provision exempting “Wool & Cotton Cards & Wire for Making them” from duty was struck out. See PCC, item 26, fols. 423-24. 3 For the defeat of James Wilson’s motion, see JCC, 24:191-92. 4 Robert R. Livingston’s March 18 letter, which was referred the following day to a committee of five chaired by James Wilson, is in PCC, item 79, 3:41-54; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:313-16. For the committee’s report, see Madison’s Notes, March 22, 1783, note 4. 5 At this point in the manuscript Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following observation: “This was meant to guard agst. a construction that they were to take effect when peace sd. be agreed on by those powers, & the latter be ready to sign, altho the former sd. be restrained untill the other parties sd. be ready for signing.” James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear Sir Philada. March 18. 1783 I reed, yesterday your favor of the 7 inst. together with that of the 22 Ulto. which ought to have been brought by the preceding mail. 1 I re gret much the uncertainty which attends your going into the Legisla ture. Is it possible that the difference between the amt. of your salary from the State and of the profits from which your office excludes you can form an essential article in your pecuniary plans? I am far from being singular in supposing that the business on the opposite side would be a much more productive fund.


[Page 84]
50 March 18, 1783 of the opposition for them portends violent altercations. The liberality of the articles to the U.S. will probably be the ground of Attack from the old Ministry; the omission of Commerce that of Fox’s division. Farewell. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:355-56. 1 See ibid., pp. 279-80, 318-19. 2 See Madison to Randolph, March 12, 1783. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 4 For the letters from the ministers abroad, see Madison’s Notes, March 12-15, 1783, note 1. 5 For Washington’s March 12 letter, see Madison’s Notes, March 17, note 1. 6 That is, Thomas Jefferson. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir, Philadelphia March 18th 1783. We have the honor to forward the enclosed copy of the Provisional Treaty which we received this Morning from the Secretary of foreign af fairs. A rough copy hastily made was sent by express last Wednesday Evening as far as Baltimore Town, from whence some Gendeman of that place was requested to give it a Speedy conveyance to your Excellency. 1 We are truly sorry to inform you that the discontents of our Army have risen to a very alarming height, in so much as to threaten fatal consequences. Anonymous addresses calculated to inflame the pas sions had been industriously & clandestinely circulated through the Army, calling a meeting at an appointed place on the 13th Inst, to de vise a mode of redressing their own wrongs, while it was yet in their power, declaring at the same time that no reliance was to be placed in the justice of Congress, from whom their unavailing applications had met with only inattention or contempt. The General interposed his authority as soon as he was apprised of this dangerous proceeding, and in general orders reprobated the measure, though in very gentle terms, he proposed, instead of the 13th that the meeting should be on the 15th & then by deputies from the General, field Commissioned & Staff Officers to state their grievances. 2 This proposition was acceeded to. The General hoped the step he had taken to dissipate a Cloud so hastily collected & which threatened to burst on a sudden, would meet the approbation of Congress, he has the best disposition to sup port their Authority with his whole influence & power; at the same time he relies on Congress taking the most efficacious & speedy mea sures their circumstances will admit of to comply with the reasonable claims of the Army.


[Page 85]
March 18, 1783 51 The Bill for £300 which the Intendent gave Mr. Carroll reason to expect by the Post of last week, is not received, and when it is, will not be adequate to our claims or necessities. 3 The extravagance of living in this place & the great scarcity of Money said to be felt by all, by us in particular, reduce us to the distressing alternative, of leaving Con gress or subsisting, at the expence of a Class of People who cannot af ford to give a credit. We have the Honor to be, with great respect & esteem, your Excel lency Mo. Hble servts. Tho. S. Lee Dani. Carroll Wm. Hemsley RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Carroll, and Hemsley. 1 See Maryland Delegates to Paca, March 12, 1783. 2 See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 17, note 1. 3 For the Maryland Council’s March 31 directive to the intendant, Daniel of St. Thomasjenifer, in response to this appeal, see Md. Archives, 48:393. John Francis Mercer to William Fitzhugh and George Weedon Dear Gentlemen: March 18th, 1783. I do not recollect writing you since the arrival of Capt. Barney. It was deemed proper by Congress to make the subtance of the commu nications received by him as public as possible, as well to give equal ground to retard the acts of speculation, as to satisfy the minds of the people at large, anxiously looking for peace. A letter of Mr. Laurens, of a date posterior to those of his colleagues, 1 conveys strong suspi cions of the designs of the Court of London. He speaks of very late ad vices received thence, which impressed him with an idea that their plans was to disunite the belligerent powers—and he says that the spirit of the nation is high for the prosecution of the war against France. This minister’s own reflections are wise, and merit great atten tion. He recommends ardently to adhere religiously to our engage ments with France, whose views he could discover no reason to sus pect, and cautions against trusting to our new and half made friends. The newspapers enclosed, which contain parliamentary debates, 2 discover an indecision even in the Cabinet Council of the King of Great Britain, as to the effect of the preliminaries signed with A., con sequently we have to apprehend that the L[ord] Shelburne has not disclosed all his ultimate views, even to them—for if he had, they could not have disagreed. He who cannot trust his own friends must not expect that his enemies will trust him.


[Page 90]
56 March 19, 1783 Samuel Holten to John Avery Dear Sir Philadelphia 19th March 1783. I wrote you the 11th ultimo, 1 but have not been favor’d with any from you. Congress have appointed a committee to prepare a recommenda tion to the several States to sit apart a day of fasting, humiliation & prayer, but I don’t expect it will be finished so as to go by this post; Therefore I thought it adviseable to give you this notice. 2 I suppose before this comes to hand, you will be well acquainted with the late intelligence from Europe; we are still in expectation of more important news from that quarter. I must beg leave to refer you to the inclosed for the intelligence of the day. I am, with perfect respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ’ Not found. 2 A committee consisting of Holten, Eliphalet Dyer, and Arthur Lee was appointed for this purpose on March 18, but Congress subsequently decided against such a commem oration and eventually discharged the committee on April 28. See PCC, item 186, fol. 89; and Holten to John Hancock, April 30, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday March 19 [1783]. A letter was read from the Superintendt. of Finance inclosing letters from Doer. Franklin accompd. with extracts from the Ct. de Ver gennes relative to money-affairs, the Supt. thereupon declaring roundly that our credit was at an end & that no further pecuniary aids were to be expected from Europe. 1 Mr. Rutlidge denied these asser tions & expressed some indignation at them. Mr. Bland said that as the Supt. was of this opinion it would be absurd for him to be Minister of Finance and moved that the come, on his motion for arranging the department might be instructed to report without loss of time. 2 This motion was negatived as censuring the Come, but it was understood to be the sense of Congs, that they sd. report. The order of the day viz the letter from the Secretary of F. A. was taken up. 3 Mr. Wolcot conceived it unnecessary to waste time on the subject as he presumed Congs, would never so far censure the Ministers who had obtained such terms for this Country, as to disavow their conduct. Mr. Clarke was decided agst. communicating the separate article, 4 which wd. be sacrificing meritorious Ministers, & wd. rather injure


[Page 91]
March 19, 1783 57 than relieve our national honour. He admitted that the separate arti cle put an advantage into the hands of the Enemy, but did not on the whole deem it of any very great consequence. He thought Congress ought to go no farther than to inform the Ministers that they were sorry for the necessity which had led them into the part they had taken, & to leave them to get rid of the embarrassmt. as to the sepa rate article in such way as they sd. judge best. This expedient would save Congress & spare our Ministers who might have been governed by reasons not known to Congress. Mr. Mercer said that not meaning to give offence any where, he should speak his sentiments freely. He gave it as his clear & decided opinion that the Ministers had insulted Congress by sending them as sertions without proof as reasons for violating their instructions, & throwing themselves into the confidence of G. B. He observed that France in order to make herself equal to the Enemy had been obliged to call for aid & had drawn Spain agst. her interest into the war: that it was not improbable that She had entered into some specific engage ments for that purpose; that hence might be deduced the perplexity of her situation, of which advantage had been taken by G. B.—an ad vantage in which our Ministers had concurred for sowing jealousies between F. & U. S. & of which further advantage wd. be taken to alien ate the minds of the people of this Country from their ally by present ing him as the obstacle to peace. The British Court he said havg gained this point may easily frustrate the negociation & renew the war agst. divided enemies. He approved of the conduct of the Count de Vergennes in promoting a treaty under the 1st Commission to Oswald as preferring the substance to the shadow & proceeding from a desire of peace. The conduct of our Ministers throughout, particularly in giv ing in writing every thing called for by British Ministers expressive of distrust of France was a mixture of follies which had no example, was a tragedy to America & a comedy to all the world beside. He felt inex pressible indignation at their meanly stooping as it were to lick the dust from the feet of a nation whose hands were still died with the blood of their fellow-citizens. He reprobated the chicane & low cun ning wch. marked the journals transmitted to congress, 5 and con trasted them with the honesty & good faith which became all nations & particularly an infant republic. They proved that America had at once all the follies of youth and all the vices of old age: thinks it wd. [be] necessary to recall our Ministers: fears that France may be al ready acquainted with all the transactions of our Ministers, even with the separate article, & may be only awaiting the reception given to it by Congs, to see how far her hopes of cutting off the right arm of G. B. by supporting our revolution may have been well founded: and in case of our basely disappointing her, may league with our Enemy for our destruction and for a division of the spoils. He was aware of the


[Page 98]
64 March 19, 1783 7 Neither the journals nor Madison’s Notes for March 12-15 mentioned an “injunc tion of secresy” being placed on the separate article at the time it was read, although Madison referred to it in his Notes of March 18 as “the secret article.” 8 The “British Memorial” and the “French answer” were undoubtedly Edward Gibbon’s The Justifying Memorial of the King of Great Britain, In Answer to the Exposition, Etc., of the Court of Erance (London, 1779), which had been written in reply to the French Expose des Motifs de la Conduite du Rai, Relativement a L’Angleterre (Paris, 1779), and Joseph Mathias Gerard de Rayneval’s Observations sur le Memoire Justificatif de la Cour de Londres (Paris, 1780). On September 11, 1780, Congress approved Madison’s motion to have the latter work pub lished and distributed. See JCC, 18:818-19; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:79-80. It appeared under the title Observations on the Justification Memorial of the Court of London (Philadelphia: F. Bailey, 1781). See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,093, where authorship is mistakenly attributed to Pierre Auguste Caron de Beaumarchais. 9 See JCC, 20:651-52. 10 See JCC, 24:194. 11 Bland’s motion violated the 15th procedural rule adopted by Congress on May 4, 1781, wherein a new motion could not be offered as an amendment to one on the floor until the latter was “postponed or disagreed to.” JCC, W-A19. 12 At this point in the manuscript Madison inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note: “The Committee who reported the instruction were Mr. Carroll, Mr. Jones, Mr Witherspoon, Mr. Sullivan & Mr. Mathews. Mr. Witherspoon was particularly prominent throughout.” John Witherspoon, who had drafted the paragraph of the in structions crucial to this day’s debate, was no longer in Congress. For his observations on his role in drafting the committee’s report, however, see John Witherspoon to Unknown, August ? 1782. Of the remaining members of that committee—Daniel Carroll, Joseph Jones, John Sullivan, and John Mathews—the latter two had also left Congress. 13 For the confirmation on May 31 and October 4, 1782, of the instructions of June 15, 1781, see JCC, 22:111-13, 23:638; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:302-4, 5:180-82. Madison was undoubtedly referring as well to repeated votes which negated attempts by Arthur Lee and others to amend or cancel the instructions, for which see Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 24, August 2 and 8; and Madison’s Notes, De cember 30, 1782. 14 At this point Madison keyed: “Mr. Bland, Lee, & Rutlidge.” 15 Madison further keyed: “Mr. Rutlidge; he formed in the Come first draught of the declaration made in Sepr. last & instruction abt. same time. This was considerably al tered but not in that respect.” Rutledge and Madison had served together on the com mittee appointed on September 24, 1782, and chaired by James Duane whose October 3 report served as the basis for Congress’ resolves of October 4. Madison would there fore have known Rutledge’s role in the committee’s work even though the final report was in Duane’s hand. See JCC, 23:603, 632—40; PCC, item 19, 2:245—48; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 5:180-82. 16 According to Charles Thomson’s committee book, the committee received: the “Report of the secy for foreign affairs on the communications from the Ministers for ne- gotiatg a peace, 3 motions thereon, the preliminary Articles, [and] the ministers letters & communications respecting the negotiations.” PCC, item 186, fol. 89. It reported on March 21 and its report was taken up the following day, for which see Madison’s Notes, March 22, 1783.


[Page 99]
March 19, 1783 65 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia, March the 19th. 1783 Incloased we Send you the articles of peace Stipulated between the Minesters of Great Britain and ouer Minesters, not to be Concluded untill peace takes place between Great Brittain and France, we fear peace is not so near at hand as we Could Wish. Nothing meterial has been Concluded in Congress Since ouer last, we Shall not omit forwarding to you anything that may Require your notice. We are with Great Respect, your Excellencys most obedient Humbe Servants, John Collins Jona Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Collins and signed by Collins and Arnold. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir Philadelpa. 19 March 1783 As I wrote to you yesterday 1 by Mr. Lamb late of Hartford, I shall Say but little to you at this Time, only will Observe that the State of our Finances are in a Very disagreable Situation. The Loan in Holland fills up Slowly, and no one who reflects that this Loan is made by indi viduals, and that the U States have not established any Fund to dis charge it, but must feel the deepest Regret at the exposed Honour of the U States, and the Ruin which Persons may be invovled in who have put a Confidence in Us. The Refusal of R Island to grant the Im post has as We hear extremely injured our Credit in Europe. Congress has the Subject of recommending to the several States to grant an Im post differently Modified, and inlarged. I hope that it will soon be sent to the States. We shall be in an unhappy Situation Very soon Unlesss our publick Credit shall obtain a Restoration, for as but little, Very little Money is reed by the States, and no money can be borrowed either at home or abroad, if the War shall be continued, the late Ecconomical System for Supporting the Army, will I Apprehend fail, unless immediate and Vigorous Measures Shall be adopted. I am Sir, yours, Oliver Wolcott


[Page 101]
March 21, 1783 67 Mr. Fitzimmons on this occasion declared that on mature reflection he was convinced that a complete general revenue was unattainable from the States, was impracticall in the hands of Congress, and that the modified provision reported by the Come, if established by the States wd. restore public credit among ourselves. He apprehended however that no limited funds wd. procure loans abroad, which wd. re quire funds commensurate to their duration. Mr. Higginson described all attempts of Congs, to provide for the public debts out of the mode prescribed by the Confederation, as nu gatory: sd that the States wd. disregard them, that the impost of 5 perCt. had passed in Massts. by 2 voices only in the lower, & one in the upper house; & that the Govr. had never formally assented to the law; that it was probable this law wd. be repealed; & almost certain that the extensive plans of Congress would be reprobated. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:370. 1 This December 17 instruction, which had been received by the Virginia delegates in January, was referred to committee in conjunction with the March 19 representation from the Pennsylvania Council concerning the debts stipulation in the preliminary arti cles of peace described in the following paragraph of Madison’s notes. See ibid., 5:409-10; JCC, 24:204n.l; PCC, item 69, 2:425-32; and Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, January 28, 1783, note 1. 2 Samuel Osgood’s committee reported on April 1, but its report was not considered until May 19 after Osgood had left Congress. See PCC, item 186, fol. 89; and Madison’s Notes, May 19, 1783, note 2. 3 By dividing Connecticut’s vote on March 10, Eliphalet Dyer had narrowly defeated the report of a committee on which he had served favoring the commutation of half pay for retired Continental officers. The report had been referred back to that committee, and this day Dyer reintroduced the proposal prefaced by a statement of justification. It was referred to a committee consisting of Alexander Hamilton, Dyer, and Gunning Bed ford whose report of the following day was taken up March 22. See JCC, 24:178-79, 202—3; PCC, item 186, fol. 89; and Madison’s Notes, March 10 and 22, note 2. 4 For Alexander Hamilton’s motion to postpone the report of the committee on the restoration of public credit and to consider an alternate plan, see JCC, 24:195-202. For the committee’s report, see Madison’s Notes, March 6-7, note 1, and March 18, note 1. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday March 21. [1783] The Report on Revenue was taken into consideration; and the 5 & 6 paragraphs after discussion being judged not sufficiently explicit were recommitted to be made more so. 1 A motion was made by Mr. Clarke 2ded. by 2 to complete so much of the report as related to an impost on Trade & send it to the States immediately apart from the residue. 3 In support of this motion it was urged that the Impost was distinct in its nature, was more likely to be adopted, & ought not therefore to


[Page 102]
68 March 21, 1783 be delayed or hazarded by a connection with the other parts of the Report. On the other side it was contended that it was the duty of Congs, to provide a system adequate to the public exigences; & that such a system wd. be more likely to be adopted by the States than any partial or detached provision, as it would comprize objects agreeable as well as disagreeable to each of the States, and as all of them wd feel a greater readiness to make mutual concessions & to disregard local considerations in proportion to the magnitude of the object held out to them. The motion was disagreed to: N. J. being in favor of it & several other States divided. 4 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:374. 1 SeeJCC, 24:171-72. 2 Madison later inserted “Mr. Bland.” 3 That is, those sections of the report that had been approved on March 18, for which see JCC, 24:188-91; and Madison’s Notes, March 18, 1783. 4 According to the journals, Abraham Clark’s motion was supported by only two states, six states opposed, three divided, and two unrepresented. Theodorick Bland to Baron Steuben March 22d. 1783 Mr. Bland presents his most respectfull Compts. to the Baron de Stuben, takes the liberty to commit to his care a letter to his Excelly. the Comr. in Chief, 1 wishes the Baron an agreeable Journey to Camp—and cordially felicitates him on the happy termination of a late meeting of the army—whose resolutions on that occasion must do them the highest honor to the latest posterity—as well as on the Pas sage this day of the vote for the commutation in Congress. Mr. Bland Ardently wishes, and thinks, he hopes not without foundation, that these resolutions will be followed, by measures which will give solidity to the establishments voted—& produce complete satisfaction to a Meritorious, a Brave & a Patriotic Army. RC (WHi: Gratz Collection). In Bland’s hand, though not signed. 1 Bland actually wrote two letters to Washington this date, for which see the following entries. Theodorick Bland to George Washington Sr Philadelphia March 22d 1783 That I have not availd myself of the liberty of writing to you, which your Excellency’s request, when you left this place would have Autho-


[Page 106]
72 March 22, 1783 dissipation of the cloud which seemed to have been gathering af forded great pleasure on the whole to Congress; but it was observable that the part which the Genl, had found it necessary & thought it his duty to take, would give birth to events much more serious if they sd. not be obvious by the establishment of such funds as the Genl, as well as the army had declared to be necessary. The report of the come, on Mr. Dyer’s motion in favor of a commuta tion for the half pay was agreed to. The preamble was objected to, but admitted at the entreaty of Mr. Dyer who supposed the considerations recited in it wd. tend to reconcile the State of Cont. to the measure. 2 The order passed for granting 35 licences for vessels belonging to Nantucket to secure the whaling vessels agst. the penalty for double papers. This order was in consequence of a deputation to Congs, rep resenting the exposed situation of that island, the importance of the Whale fishery to the U. S. the danger of its being usurped by other na tions & the concurrenc of the Enemy in neutralizing such a number of Vessels as wd. carry the fishery in an extent necessary for the sup port of the inhabitants. 3 The Come, to whom was referred the letter from the Secy, of F. A. with the foreign despatches &c reported 4 1. That our Ministers be thanked for their zeal & services in negoci- ating the preliminary articles. 2. that they be instructed to make a communication of the separate article to the Court of France in such way as would best get over the concealment. 3. that the Secy, of F. A. inform them that it is the wish of Congress that the preliminary articles had been communicated to the Court of France before they had been executed. Mr. Dyer said he was opposed to the whole report; that he fully ap proved of every step taken by our Ministers as well towards G. B. as to wards France, that the separate article did not concern the interests of France & therefore could not involve the good faith of the U. S. Mr. Lee agreed fully with Mr. Dyer, said that a special report of facts ought to have [been] made as necessary for enabling Congs, to form a just opinion of the Conduct of the Ministers, and moved that the re port might be recommitted. Mr. Wolcot 2ded the motion which was evidently made for the sole purpose of delay. It was opposed by Mr. Clarke, Mr. Wilson & Mr. Ghorum the 1st & last of whom had how ever no objection to postponing; by Mr. Mercer who repeated his ab horrence of the confidence shewn by our Ministers to those of G. B. 5 said that A. 6 was about to realize the case of those kicked down the ladder by wch. they had been elevated, & of the viper which was ready to destroy the family of the man in whose bosom it had been restored to life, observed that it was unwise to prefer G. B. to Spain as our Neig[h] hours in W. Florida.


[Page 109]
March 24, 1783 75 patrick), 26:228-32; and JCC, 24:204n, 210n. For his overall handling of this crisis, see Freeman, Washington, 5:430-37. See also the preceding entry, note 1. 3 See ibid., note 2. William Floyd to George Clinton My Dear Sir Philadelphia March 23d. 1783 I have only time to write one line as the Express is now at the Door. We have this moment Certain intelligence that a General peace is Concluded, Hostilities to Cease in America the 20th March—the packet is in the River a few Miles below. We have not Received the Dis patches nor any particulars—But only in General that peace is Con cluded and this Vessel Was Sent to bring the Dispatches that will Give us the particulars. I hope in two or three Days to give your Excellency the particulars. From Sir your Excellencys most obedt and very humble Servt, Wm Floyd 1 RC (PHC: Charles Roberts Autograph Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency, George Clinton Esqr., Governor of the State of New York. A General peace is Concluded. To be forwarded by Express.” Endorsed: “Pray forward this, Col Pickering, D Humphrys.” 1 Floyd also wrote a brief letter on March 24 to Udny Hay concerning the New York delegates’ finances: ‘The Draft which you made on Mr. Parker in favour of Colo. Hamil ton and my self for two hundred pounds York Currency is paid, I took one hundred and forty of it and Colo. Hamilton Sixty, as at this time my Necessity is Greater than his.” Signers Collection, MA. Gunning Bedford, Jr., to George Read Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 24th, 1783. I do myself the honor to inclose you a hand-bill, containing the most agreeable intelligence of the signature of the general preliminaries of peace. 1 We have to thank the Marquis Lafayette for the early information, who obtained leave that the sloop of war called the Triumph should touch here, though but the secondary purpose of her voyage. I most sincerely congratulate you upon the happy prospect of pub lic liberty and independence. The Superintendent of Marine is directed to call in all our cruisers, 2 and despatches are sent to New York, informing Sir Guy and Digby of the news, that they may take the necessary steps on their side. I am, with great regard, your obedient and very humble servant, Gunning Bedford, Junior.


[Page 110]
75 March 24, 1783 MS not found; reprinted from William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read (Philadelphia: J.B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 380-81. 1 For this March 24 David C. Claypoole broadside announcing “The principal articles of the preliminaries of peace, of the 20th of January, 1783” between Great Britain and France, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 18,234. 2 Based on a February 5 letter from the marquis de Lafayette “announcing a general peace" and “a copy of orders given by the Count D’Estaing... for the purpose of putting a stop to all hostilities by sea,” Congress this day directed the agent of marine, Robert Morris, “to recall all armed vessels cruzing under commissions from the United States of America.” Morris quickly completed this assignment sending a circular to the states on March 25 enclosing a copy of the recall order of Congress. See fCC, 24:210-11; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:84-88; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:632. Gunning Bedford, Jr., to Nicholas Van Dyke Dear Sir Philadelphia March 24th 83. I do myself the honor to inclose you extracts from some dispatches received last night, by a Sloop of war from Cadiz, under cover from the Marquis Le Fayatt informing us of the signature of the Prelimi nary Articles of a general peace among the belligerent powers. France keeps Tobago & Senegal, she restores to Britain Granada, St. Vincents, Dominique, St. Christophers. Britain restores to Holland St. Eustatius, Demarari, Esquebo, Barbrie. Britain restores to France Gorie, St. Lucia, St. Pier & Miquilon. The fisheries between Great Britain & France on the coast of New Foundland to continue as in the treaty of 1763, except from the coast of the Cape of Bonivisto to Cape St.John which is ceded to Britain. France to be established in the East Indies as well at Bengal as on the eastern & western coast of Prisque isle, as regulated by the treaty of 63. The article of proceeding treaties con cerning the demolition of Dunkirk shall be suppressed. Spain to re tain Minorca & West Florida. Great Britain to cede East Florida to Spain. An arrangement to be made between Spain & Britain about cutting of wood at Compeachy in the bay of Hondoras. Britain to re tain the Dutch settlement of Negapatmam in the East Indies. Great Britain to restore Trinquemala to the Dutch if not retaken. Britain ac knowledges the sovereignty & Independence of the thirteen United States. The limits of the United States to be as agreed upon as agreed on by the provisional articles, except that they shall not extend fur ther down the river Mississippi than the 32d degree of North latitude from whence a line to be drawn to the head of the river St. Mary & along the middle of that river to its mouth. The captn. of the sloop of war has written orders of Count D Estang to inform all cruisers of the signing the preliminaries & to call in all the French frigates & all other vessels belonging to his majesty.


[Page 111]
March 24, 1783 77 Gunning Bedford, Jr.


[Page 113]
March 24, 1783 79 french Sloop of War—from Cadix, sent by the Count D’Estaing at the request of the Marquis de La fayette, announcing that the Genl, treaty had been Signed on the 21st of Jany. last—the terms of which from Memory are these: America independt., Fishery, navigation of Mis- sisippi, France St. Lucie restored—Tobago—Gorie—all her posses sions in the East Indies restored, that may have been taken—Establish ments on the coast of Bengal, and the Peninsula in the East Indies. Great Britain St. Christophers, St. Vincent, Grenada restored in the W.I., Senegal on the African coast. Holland St. Eustatia, Birbice, Es- squebo in the W.l. and all her Settlements in the E.I. except one. Spain Minorca and the two Floridas to the 32d degree of N. Latitude. Hostilities have ceased and the Vessel which brought over the dis patches, has brought orders from Ct. d’Estaing in the name and under the Authority of the King his Master, to inform all Vessels he shall meet thereof. Similar orders are this day Issued from Congress to the American Cruizers. These are Jarring and discordant Nations once more bought to shake hands—may we continue my dear Sister to have peace in our time, and to enjoy the fruits of our Virtue & perservance in happy domestic tranquility. You told me you were turnd Politician. You see I have given you a dash of them. You tell Patsy you shall go to Bermuda in the fall. I will not dissuade you from it—because I know not the Urgency of yr. motive—but at any rate I hope you will not go untill I see you. I wrote this day to Tucker a short letter which goes by express containing the abstract of the above glori ous news. I think it wd. be prudent and now is the time for you to de mand the return of that Part of the Tobo. (which has not been drawn for) which was to be restored in one month after demanded. It will certainly rise to a price much superior which was my original motive for not selling it hastily and for having that Clause Inserted—if my name is necessary to making it—you have my permission to make use of it. Tell Tucker that I do not wish him to sell my Place near Bland ford until he hears further from me. I have no objection to Farmin dell being rented. God bless you and believe me to be yr. Sincerely af fectionate & loving Brother, Theok Bland [PS.] Tell Tucker a Bill of Exchange will do as well as Morrises Note for the money he wd. remit to me and this may be obtaind from J Short at any time, we are always in want at this cursed Place. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 The dating of this letter is clear from Bland’s references to the arrival ‘This day” of a “french Sloop of War... announcing that the Genl, treaty had been signed” and that he had written “this day to Tucker,” for which see the following entry. 2 Probably a reference to an Irish fiddle tune, rendered phonetically, which we have not been able to identify.


[Page 114]
80 March 24, 1783 Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dear Tucker Philada. March 24th 1782 [i.e., 1783] Peace is certainly concluded—a General Peace. Congress have been this moment informd of it—by a Corvette which arrived last night in this River, detachd from Count d’Estaings fleet at Cadiz—at the re quest of the Marquis de La Fayette—the Sailing of that fleet is coun termanded—and the Capt. Brings orders for a Cessation of Hostilities, and to afford all Friendly Succour to all British Vessels &c. &c. in the Usual Form. Now let me felicitate you & my Country. America has ob tain’d every thing that can be wish’d—the news affected my poetic or gans in such a manner as to draw from me the following Extempore written without correction, therefore very imperfect but such as it is you Shall have it—it will perhaps set your Poetical Mill to work, which I know produces super fine flower. The Work is done Now War Shall Cease And Much Eyed Peace Shall Bless our Happy land Our Union Strong Shall last as long As we go hand in hand Our great Ally We greet with Joy And Hail the God like Youth His timely Aid Shall be repaid with Friendship—Honor—truth Our Sails Unfurld Shall Ope a World of Commerce wealth & Power And Nations Proud Shall hither Crowd To Sip the new Blown flower Our Heroes Blest Shall now have rest Reposed in Beauties Arms The Warlike Drum Shall now be Dumb And arts Succeed to Arms Great Washington Heav’ns Chosen Son Shall future Ages Bless his Patriot Name


[Page 117]
March 24, 1783 83 of peace between all the belligerent powers have been concluded. I congratulate your Excellency on this happy conclusion of your labours. It now only remains to make solid establishments within to perpetuate our union to prevent our being a ball in the hands of European powers bandied against each other at their pleasure—in fine to make our independence truly a blessing. This it is to be lamented will be an arduous work; for to borrow a figure from me chanics, the centrifugal is much stronger than the centripetal force in these states—the seeds of disunion much more numerous than those of union. I will add that Your Excellency’s exertions are as essential to accom plish this end as they have been to establish independence. I will upon a future occasion open myself upon this Subject. Your conduct in the affair of the officers is highly pleasing here. The measures of the army are such as I could have wished them and will add new lustre to their character as wel[l] as strengthen the hands of Congress. I am with great truth & respect. Yr. Excellency’s Most Obed ser. A Hamilton RC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday March 24th. [1783] On the day preceding intelligence arrived which was this day laid before Congs, that the preliminaries for a general peace had been signed on the 20th of Jany. This intelligence was brought by a French cutter from Cadiz despatched by Ct. d’Estaing to notify the event to all vessels at sea, and engaged by the zeal of the Marquis de la Fayette to convey it to Congress. This confirmation of peace produced the greater joy, as the preceding delay, the cautions of Mr. Lauren’s Letter of the 24 of Deer. 1 and the general suspicions of Ld. Shelburne’s sin cerity had rendered an immediate & general peace extremely prob lematical in the minds of many. A letter was reed, from Genl. Carlton thro’ Genl. Washington in closing a copy of the preliminary articles between G. B. & the U.S. with the separate article annexed. 2 Mr. Carroll after taking notice of the embarrassment under which Congs, were placed by the injunction of secrecy as to the separate article after it had probably been disclosed in Europe & it now appeared was known at N. York, called the attention of Congs, again to that subject.


[Page 118]
84 March 24, 1783 Mr. Wolcot still contended that it would be premature to take any step relative to it, untill further communications should be reed, from our Ministers. Mr. Gilman being of the same opinion, moved that the business be postponed. Mr. Lee 2ded it. Mr. Wilson conceived it indispensably necessary that something should be done; that Congs, deceived themselves if they supposed that the separate art. was a secret at N. York after it had been announced to them from Sr. Guy Carlton. He professed a high respect for the character of the Ministers which had received fresh honor from the remarkable steadiness and great abilities displayed in the negocia- tions, but that their conduct with respect to the separate article could not be justified. He did not consider it as any violation of the instruc tion ofjune 15th, 1781. The Ct. de Vergennes having happily released them from the obligation of it; But he considered it with the signing of the preliminaries secretly as a violation of the spirit of the Treaty of Alliance as well as of the unanimous professions to the Court of France, unanimous instructions to our Ministers, & unanimous decla rations to the world, that nothing should be discussed towards peace but in confidence and in concert with our ally. He made great al lowance for the ministers, saw how they were affected, and the reasons of it, but could not subscribe to the opinion that Congs, ought to pass over the separate article in the manner that had been urged. Congs, ought he said to disapprove of it in the softest terms that could be de vised & at all events not to take part in its concealment. Mr. Bland treated the separate article with levity and ridicule; as in no respect concerning France, but Spain with whom we had nothing to do. Mr. Carroll thought that unless some thing expressive of our disap probation of the article & of its concealment was done, that it would be an indelible stain on our character. Mr. Clarke contended that it was still improper to take any step, ei ther for communicating officially, or for taking off the injunction of secresy, that the article concerned Spain, and not France, but that if it sd. be communicated to the latter she would hold herself bound to communicate it to the former that hence an embarrassment might ensue; that it was probably this consideration which led the Ministers to the concealment, and he thought they had acted right. He de scribed the awkwardness attending a communication of it under pre sent circumstances; remarking finally that nothing had been done contrary to the Treaty, and that we were in possession of sufficient 3 materials to justify the suspicions wch. had been manifested. Mr. Rutlidge was strenuous for postponing the subject, said that Congs, had no occasion to meddle with it, that the Ministers had done


[Page 119]
March 24, 1783 85 right, that they had maintained the honor of the U. S. after Congress had given it up; that the manoeuvre practiced by them was common in all courts & was justifiable agst. Spain who alone was affected by it; that instructions ought to be disregarded whenever the public good required it; and that he himself would never be bound by them when he thought them improper. Mr. Mercer combated the dangerous tendency of the Doctrine maintained by Mr. R. with regard to instructions, and observed that the Delegates of Virga, havg been unanimously instructed not to con clude or discuss any Treaty of peace but in confidence & in concert with his M. C. M. he conceived himself as much bound as he was of himself inclined to disapprove every other mode of proceeding, and that he should call for the yeas & nays on the question for his justifica tion to his constituents. 4 Mr. Bland tartly said that he of course, was instructed as well as his colleague & sd. himself require the yeas & nays to justify an opposite conduct; that the instructions from his constituents went no farther than to prohibit any Treaty without the concurrence of our ally; 5 which prohibition had not been violated in the case before Congress. Mr. Lee was for postponing & burying in oblivion the whole transac tion; he sd that delicacy to France required this; since if any thing should be done implying censure on our Ministers, it must & ought to be done in such a way, as to fall ultimately on France whose unfaithful conduct had produced & justified that of our Ministers. In all national intercourse he said a reciprocity was to be understood; and as France had not communicated her views & proceedings to the American Plenipotentiaries, the latter were not bound to communicate theirs. All instructions he conceived to be conditional in favor of the public good; and he cited the case mentioned by Sr. Wm. Temple in which the Dutch ministers concluded of themselves an act wch. required the previous sanction of all the members of the Republic. 6 Mr. Hamilton said that whilst he despised the man who wd. enslave himself to the policy even of our Friends, he could not but lament the overweening readiness which appeared in many, to suspect every thing on that side & to throw themselves into the bosom of our ene mies. He urged the necessity of vindicating our public honor by re nouncing that concealment to which it was the wish of so many to make us parties. Mr. Wilson in answer to Mr. Lee observed that the ease mentioned by Sr. Wm. T. was utterly inapplicable to the case in question; adding that the conduct of France had not on the principle of reciprocity jus tified our Ministers in signing the provisional preliminaries without her knowledge, no such step having been taken on her part. But whilst he found it to be his duty thus to note the faults of these gentle-


[Page 121]
March 24, 1783 87 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:389. ■James Maury (1746-1840), a merchant of Fredericksburg, Va., was Madison’s business agent and later served from 1790 to 1830 as U.S. consul at Liverpool. Ibid., l:114n.8. 2 Madison undoubtedly wrote this letter in the morning before attending Congress because he had learned of the probable “day of the signature” by the time he appended his postscript and was able to state it with certainty when he wrote to Edmund Ran dolph, for which see the following entry. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. March 24, 1783. The express by whom I send this conveys to the Governor the wel come event of a general peace. 1 The preliminary articles were signed on the 20th of Jany. The day to which hostilities are limited is omitted in the abstract of the preliminaries transmitted to Congs. This intelli gence altho’ not from our Ministers is authenticated beyond all possi bility of doubt. For the outlines of the Articles I refer to the letter to the Govr. & for the articles themselves as red. by Congs, to my letter by tomorrows post. 2 I am &c. J. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:390. 1 See the Virginia delegates’ letter to Benjamin Harrison, this date. 2 See Madison to Randolph, March 25, 1783. John Francis Mercer to William Fitzhugh and George Weedon Dear Gentlemen Phila. March 24th. 1783 At length mine eyes have seen my salvation. The negociations in Eu rope, have at length happily terminated in a general pacification. The Triumph a french frigate dispatched by the Marquiss of Fayette, & the Comte de’Estaign, with a proclamation of the cessation of Hostil ities, arriv’d here last night. The Ch’ du’Quine who commands her brings with him the heads of the Preliminary Articles of the general Peace, which were signed at Paris the 20th of January. To add to the most happy event the late confusion of the Army has terminated in a manner which reflects additional honor on that band of Patriots. By these Articles an alteration in our Southern boundary as affixed in the partial preliminaries between G.B. & A. has taken place & we are restricted to the 32 Degree.


[Page 122]
88 March 24, 1783 France gains a small Island or two, Spain the Floridas & Minorca, & the Dutch loose Negapatam. Adieu. Thank God, John F. Mercer RC (PPAmP: Weedon Papers). Addressed: “The Honble Brigadier General Weedon or William Fitzhugh Esqr., Fredericksburg.” John Montgomery to Robert Magaw My Dear Sir Philada 24th March 1783 By a Cutter arrived here Last night in 35 day from Cadiz we have the important accts that on the 20th Janry last the articles of peace was Signed by all the Contending Powers. Our articls stand nearly as before agreed on. France Keeps Tobago and Senegall. France re turns Granada, St Vincent, Dominque, St Kitts, St Eustahia. Dema- rau, Essequibl, Barbirie are to be restored to Hollan. England re stores to France Gorrie, St Lucie, St Peerie, Miguelon. The fishers on the Banks of newfoundland to Continue as in the treaty of 1763 Except from the Coast of the Cape St Johns which is to be ceded to Great Britian. Franc is to be restablished in India as well at Bengali on the Eastren and westren Coasts of Presque Isle as regulated by the treaty of 1763. The articls of proceeding treaties concerning the Demolition of Dunkirk to be suppressed. Spain to retain Minorca and West Floradia and England to cede East Floradia to Spain the arrangment to be made between Spain and great Britian about the Cutting of Wood at Compeachey in the Bay of Honderas. Great Britain to retain the Duch Setlement of Nega- gatemm in the East india. Great Britian to restore Trangumal to the Duch if not retaken. St Eustahia, Dimeira and Issquliba to be restored by the franch to the Duch. Great Britian accknowladges the Independency of the united States of Amirca, the limits of the united States as agreed on in the Provi sional articles Except that they Shall not Extend farthur down the River Mississapia then 32 Degrees of north Latitude from thence a line to be Drawn to the head of the river of St Marys and Down the midle of that River to the m[outh]. Now my Dear frind the Sun riases bright in this our Western world. Happey Shall we be if by a wise and prudent Conduct we improve this happey Event. I am, Dear Sir your assurd Frind and Humbl Servant, John Montgomery RC (PHi: James Hamilton Papers). Addressed: “Col. Robert Magaw at Carlisle.”


[Page 123]
March 24, 1783 89 New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, March 24, 1783 We have the happiness to inform your Excellency that yesterday ar rived the Triumph a Cutter from Cadiz, with letters from the Marquis La Fayette announc[ing] the certainty of the preliminaries of a gen eral peace signed between all the belligerent powers the 20th. of Jan uary. There are letters from the Count D’Estaing to the French Minis ter to the same effect, and an instruction from him to the Captain of the Cutter to advertise all British and French vessels of the event, with an order to the latter to cease hostilities. The preliminaries for America we have already had the honor of transmitting. We mean the provisional articles. The French are reinstated in the East Indies as in 63—mutual ces sions of all conquests during the war are made, except of Tobago & Senegal which remain to France. France has in substance the same share in the Fisheries as before the war. Spain has acquired Minorca and the two Floridas. The Dutch lose Negapatam 1 to the English. [... ] on this happy occasion [... ] hopes. It only remains to pro vide for internal tranquillity—and by drawing the links [of] the Union closer to prevent those states from becoming [the] foot ball of Euro pean politics. We have the honor to be With perfect respect Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servants, Wm Floyd A Hamilton RC (N: legislative Papers). Written by Hamilton and signed by Hamilton and William Floyd. 1 A town in Madras, India. North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin Sir, Philadelphia 24th March 1783 Your Excellency will doubtless lay before the general Assembly a Letter from their Delegates of 22d October 1782 with some papers to which it refers, also a Communication that was made us on the 10th of January by the minister of France, by order of the King his master, a Copy of which we forwarded some time ago. 1 We expected that before this time we should have been able to have furnished you with the particulars of a plan of funding the Public debts or at least a Considerable part of them, but this business meets with such delays from incidental occurrences and the great diversity


[Page 124]
90 March 24, 1783 of Opinions that prevails among the States, we fear it will not arrive during the first Session of the General Assembly; in the mean while we count it our duty to furnish the State with some account of the chief objects that have lately drawn the attention of Congress, for if we are not mistaken concerning their importance they must on some occa sion demand its most serious Deliberations. On the 6th of January a Committee from the army presented a Memorial to Congress, explaining many substantial grievances.2 A Copy is enclosed. We have promised but have not yet been able to pay them one months pay. After much time employed in discussing the subject of commutation for half pay, two days ago the question was fully agreed to by nine States. Promises even those which are spacious, are found by experience to be very light food. Our Army and all other public creditors wish for something more substantial, for whatever has been fabled concerning the Camelion, it is generally believed that no animal can live on the air. Money or good Securities are desire’d. We have neither. But securities may be given, that is to say, the debts may be funded. By good & permanent funds the credit of the United States would be restored. Perhaps there are no possible funds that would be pleasing to all. We have been attempting with much pains to fix on some mode by which the quota of the several States might be determined according to the 8th Article of the Confederation, i.e. according to the value of located Lands & their improvements. The Rule is good and plain but the question is extremely difficult; How shall the value be fixed? Let the appropriated Lands and their improvements be valued by the In habitants of the respective States and we have great reason to believe, from proofs before us, that the valuation would be unequal and un just; for instance, The average value of lands as they are now rated for the purpose of taxation in the State of Virginia is one third higher than the value of Lands as they are rated in Pennsylvania though it is certain that Lands in Pennsylvania are at an average worth one third more than the Lands in Virginia. If such valuation should be made in fixing the continental Quota, Pennsylvania when compared with Vir ginia would not pay quite half the sum she ought to pay. We have many other Arguments which either prove the different frauds or the diversity of opinions respecting the value of Lands which prevail in different States. It is presumed that the valuation would be more uni form and just if it was made by a Set of Commissioners who should view all the lands and buildings in the United States. But there is rea son to believe that such process, like estates entailed, would be perpet ual and, it would be an even chance which would come first The fix ing the quotas or the day of Judgment. The eastern States, who consider the valuation Scheme as impracticable, talk much of fixing the quota’s according to the number of Inhabitants, making


[Page 125]
March 24, 1783 91 considerable allowance for slaves. Some of them propose to exclude all Slaves under 16 Years, which would be rating two slaves for one free men. We presume that the Southern States would meet them upon this ground or even upon ground somwhat lower for the sake of prevent ing Jealousies, a Contention and delay but we fear that if an attempt should be made to alter or amend the mode of fixing the quota, those very men would again talk of a Slave being equal to a white man. The Plan which is now recommended to the States, the only one on which we could agree having regard to the Spirit of the confederation may probably lead us to value the Lands according to the number of Inhab itants, that is, to suppose that a thousand acres of Land which main tains ten families is worth Ten Times as much as a thousand acres which maintains only one family. As the valuation is to be made by a grand Committee consisting of a member from each State we presume that the several States will take care to be represented at that time. Congress has been attempting to modify the impost of 5 per Cent so as to make it acceptable to the States who have complained. In the mean while attempts have been made to lay a general Tax on Lands, houses &ca as you will see by the Journal No . We presume that no such Tax will be recommended to the States because we think that the States should be left to tax Lands & other permanent property in such man ner and at such rates as they think best. On the 24th of January Mr. Morris who is financier, from a view of the bad State of our finances informed Congress that he proposed to resign. Congress however did not take any public notice of that com munication, because they expected in a few weeks to be able to adopt a system of Finance which might revive public credit. Some weeks passed and nothing material could be done when a second Letter was received from the Financier, both of which he published without the previous knowledge of Congress. 3 A Copy is inclosed. The Letters cer tainly refer to a want of disposition in the States to provide funds, evi denced in the recent case of Rhode Island & Virginia, but they are In cautiously worded & might involve a suspicion that Congress or the States at large did not mean honestly. If public credit had been alive the publishing those Letters would have proved a sickening dose, but there are times when nothing can hurt. It has been hinted from differ ent quarters that there is danger of our borrowing too much money. The whole sum that has been borrowed from the beginning of the war in France, Spain, or Holland does not amount to eight millions of Dollars, and by accounts received by the last packet we have great rea son to believe that we shall not be able to borrow a single farthing more. Whether we shall submit to beg is another question. The Public Creditors, that is to say, the loan officers Certificates in the State of Pennsylvania have been extremely importunate for Pay ment. Their clamor orriginated last summer in the Stoppage of Inter-


[Page 128]
94 March 24, 1783 hoods & frauds of Tories had continued the war & might prevent a Peace, but we should not accept Peace on the humiliating Terms of cherishing the Plunderes of our Property and murderers of our friends. It was fortunate that those Renegadoes had not so many sub stantial Friends in England as the Merchants had, else it is questioned what the consequence might have been. At present nothing is given them but the promise of a recommendation. Light food: however the reward is quite equal to the Service. Yesterday morning the Triumph a French Corvet arrived here in a short passage from Cadiz. By this vessel we have assurances that the preliminaries for a General Peace were signed by all the belligerent powers on the 20th January. On this fortunte & happy event we sin cerely congratulate our fellow Citizens of North Carolina, that se cures a perfect Peace on the most liberal Terms with the full injoy- ment of Liberty. May they continue to enjoy and deserve the blessing; It is the greatest that Heaven in its Bounty has ever be stowed on so large a Nation. We presume that Sir Guy Carlton has not yet received the Prelimi naries of the General Peace, for he sent us Yesterday, and not sooner, the Copy he had received from England of the Preliminaries signed on the 30th of November. 5 Inclosed are the outlines of the General Terms of Pacification by which you will observe that we got a degree less on the Bank of the Mississipi than had been first marked off. The Marquis de la Fayette had prevailed on the Count d’Estaing to send the vessel mentioned, from the mere hope that she might chance to bring the first news of Peace. But you will observe by her pasport, a Copy of which is enclosed, that hostilities are to cease at whatever places she may touch immediately on her giving the notice. As we pre sume that we shall gain as much as the Enemy by this measure, we did not loose a minute in giving Sir Guy Carlton and Admiral Digby the proper Information; by this we hope that some Vessels and, what we value more, some lives may be saved. Attempts have lately been made to excite Sedition in our main army; anonimous, enflammatory papers were circulated by Persons unknown. The Commander in chief hearing of this measure called a meeting of the officers some days ago. The whole proceedings on this occasion will be laid before you in time, from which you will certainly infer that our Army consists of the best Citizens as well as the bravest soldiers that ever drew a Sword. Before we disband our army and make some other necessary arrange ments for Peace some very interesting matters must be submitted to the States; for this reason we presume that another meeting of the General Assembly of North Carolina will be necessary at an early Day. We have the honor to be &ca, Hu Williamson Benjamin Hawkins 6


[Page 131]
March 25, 1783 97 Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My dear Sir, Philadelphia March 25 1783 E’er this I hope the Joyful Tidings of a general Peace has reached you. I wrote by Major Pierce as soon as possible after the arrival of this glorious Event. I am so weary of writing, that I am almost sick of a Pen & Ink, shall therefore only say that we are all well & very happy. I am much surprized at Pangburn sending the Cows to you, as he took them for the Year, and was bound to keep them at his own risque— hope you will set down the day they came, as I will charge him with them. If Pangburn chooses to retake them I would choose it—but if not, let them go to others, on the Terms Mr Southard has His viz—25 lb Butter per Year & to return them safe. Mr Southard must have the large Cow, but the brindle one is certainly the best. Let no Hay go to any body, that you think will be wanted for our own Creatures. As to John Breene if you give him an Inch, he will take an Ell, therefore you had best leave that matter to be settled by me. It would ease my mind greatly if you could sell all the Horses at any reasonable rate, as I know not what to do with them. I would wait for the money. My Head is perfecdy wild. Love to Mrs P. & Johnny. Am Yours Affecly, EB [PS.] I send you 10 Lima Beans pray send me a few stringless Beans. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). Committee of Congress to George Washington Sr. [March 25, 1783] i Many Events have lately occurrd which have occasiond me to trou ble your Excelly. with my Correspondence of a Private nature. I now take the Liberty of Writing to you by desire of a Committe of which I have the Honor to be one, to whom your Very Interesting dispatches to Congress of the 15th of this month were committed. 2 You will without doubt have been informd Sr. & have received with Pleasure the Intelligence of the Vote for the Commutation having passd Congress the Same day on which Yr. Excellency’s dispatches contain ing the truely sensible and Patriotic Resolutions of the Officers of the Army convened by Yr. Excellency’s Authority were received. 3 On that happy event I most Cordially Congratulate you Sr. and my Quon dam Brother officers. I think it must give the most sensible Pleasure to every Friend of this Country—that an event so interesting shd. take place at the very moment that a Certainty of Peace was announced—


[Page 132]
98 March 25, 1783 And that the Civil and Military at that Critical Juncture shd. so har monize on the Capital object of their Wishes. This event will I trust Eradicate from the minds of every Generous & thinking Man in the United States in whatever station he may be every Vestige of Suspi cion which those of an opposite Complexion might have endeavord to Implant. If my Conceptions of the Sense of Congress are right—I think I can assure Your Excellency—that all those Suspicions which may have been entertaind—of want of Gratitude to the Army or a desire to do them complete and ample Justice, are totally ground less. Your Excellency I hope knows too well my Candor to Imagine I wd attempt to deceive. If I have built my opinions (on this head) on an erroneous Idea of Congress, the Moment Such error is discoverd by me I shall think myself unpardonable not to disclose it. You Will perceive Sr. by the Enclosed Rough Copies No. 1 & 2 4 which the Committe have had Under their Consideration what is their Sense and what they have reason to think is the sense of Congress. We have thought it necessary to make to you Sr. a Confidential communica tion of our Sentiments in hopes that you will favor us with your opin ion thereon at large. Our doubt arises solely from this Consideration—viz that the Enor mous Expence of keeping the whole Army in the field untill their “Ac counts are Liquidated—the Ballances accurately ascertaind, and Funds Established for the Payment,” would be productive of the most Ruinous Consequences to the United States—might occasion Clamors among the Citizens—Embarrass the measures which Congress mean to take and so effect their Finances as to render it impossible to comply with what the Army most desire viz a punctual discharge of the debt due to them, on settlement. Your Excellency will I think require no Argu ment to shew the force of these observations. I will say nothing of the effects which ever have and ever will arise from keeping a large Army in the Field in a state of Inactivity, without any other object to employ their minds on, than their past sufferings and present distresses a re lief of which must be inevitably removed to a further distance by the very means they appear to point out to procure it. Altho the resolu tions of the Army on the Address to them by Yr. Excellency are per fectly explicit and breathe the most entire confidence in the Justice of Congress and the Sincere Intentions of that Body towards them. Yet lest some latent Spark of Suspicion undiscoverd by the Convention shd. unexpectedly discover itself, and laying hold of an ambiguous Ex pression, or even the Silence of Congress on some material point— does not Yr. Excellency conceive an Explicit and full declaration of Congress not only of their Intentions to do Ample Justice but of the mode by which it is to be done as far as depends on them, will be proper? Shd. you Sr. think proper to offer any amendment to either


[Page 133]
March 25, 1783 99 of the Enclosed resolutions or to start any new Idea—that may be thought more effectual than those they contain—you may be assured of their being laid before the Committe in the most Confidential manner and of receiving all possible attention. 5 Altho I write now at the request of the committe you will be pleased to consider this com munication, as not of a Public or official nature and communicable only to those in whom the most entire confidence is reposed. I need not inform your Excelly. of the earnest desire which the Committe have to make their report on this Subject as speedily as possible as you are fully apprized of the necessity of it, renderd, in my opinion, the more necessary by the great and Glorious event which has been so lately Announced to us of a General Peace. On which occasion I most Cordially and Sincerely Congratulate Yr. Excellency—with an assur ance, that Peace or War will never change in me the Unalterable affec tion and Esteem with which I am, Yr. Excelly’s most obedt. & most Humb. Svt. Theok. Bland P.S. You will excuse Sr., the hasty manner in which this has been writ ten—as a fear of loosing the opportunity by the Post has deprived me of the power of revising it. ENCLOSURES No. 1 That they be further informed that Congress will Take the most Speedy and effectual measures to Settle the accounts of the whole Army as well for the half Pay, or commutation if accepted as for the ar rearages due to them in the most ample and Satisfactory manner— and will devise the best and most efficacious means of Providing funds for the discharge of the Interest and Principal found due to them on such Settlement—and assure the Army that Congress will not direct any Line or corps to be disbanded untill they be respectively Marchd to a Rendevous within their respective States, and their accounts shall be finally settled & adjusted. No. 2 That he be further informed it is the Intention of Congress to effect the Settlement of the accounts of the Respective lines previous to their reduction and that Congress are doing and will continue to do every thing in their Power towards procuring Satisfactory securities for what Shall be found due on such Settlement. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Endorsed by Washington: “From The Hon Theodk. Bland, Supposed 25th March 83.” 1 This date is taken from the endorsement. Washington apparently received this letter at the same time he received the two letters of this date from Bland’s fellow committee- man, Alexander Hamilton.


[Page 134]
100 March 25, 1783 2 For the appointment of this committee, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 22, 1783, note 1. 3 See Elias Boudinot to Washington, March 23, 1783. 4 See the enclosures below. 5 In his April 4 reply, Washington advised Bland and the Committee that it was “an indispensable Measure, that previous to the Disbandg the Army, all their Accounts, should be compleatly liquidated and settled; and that every person shall be ascer tained of the Ballance due to him... .with the Army in its collected Body, without any dispersion of the different Lines to their respective States.” It was also “univer sally expected” and “absolutely indispensable,” he continued, “that three Months pay at least, must be given them before they are disbanded,” but that “if the whole can not be obtained before they are dispersed, the Receipt of One Month in Hand, with an absolute Assurance of havg the other two Months in a short Time, will be satisfac tory; should Mr Morris not be able to assure them the two last Months from the Treasury, it is suggested that it may be obtained in the States, by Drafts from [him] upon their several Continental Receivers.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:286-87. See also Bland to Washington, and Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, April 16, 1783. William Floyd to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, March 25th 1783. On the 23d the Vessel arrived with the Intelligence that the Pre liminary Articles for a General Peace was Signed at Paris the 20th Jan’y. On the Verbal accounts which we Reed from on board the Ves sel before she could get up to the town with her Dispatches, Mr. Car- tor was Sending an Express to Wadsworth, which I got knowledge of two Minutes before he went of, in which time I wrote your Excel lency a line on the Subject. Yesterday in our Joynt Letter we were Something more particular. In this I have the honour to Inclose to, your Excellency a Copy of the Marquise’s Letter to our Secretary of foreign Affairs, and the Articles Sent by him, with the passport or In structions given by Count D’Estaing to the Captain which brought the Intelligence. The Marquis being at Cadiz nearly Ready to sail with the Count D’Estaing for the West Indies, on the Signing of the Articles at Paris, Express was sent to Cadiz to stop them, his Attention to and anxiety for this Country induced him to solicit the Count for a Vessel to bring us the Intelligence, which was readily Granted. In order to Save the lives and Vessels of the people we have thought proper to Direct the Secretary of Foreign Affairs to Send to Genl. Carlton, a Copy of Count d’Estaing’s Instructions, with the Other In telligence which we have Reed, and to propose to him that all Hostili ties Should Cease and the Cruisers on both sides Should be Called in. Mr. Lewis Morris is sent to New York on the Business. 1 Altho it is important to us that we Should be in possession of our Capital, I fear that many weeks will elapse before the Event can take


[Page 141]
March 25, 1783 107 not be many days before Congress will officially receive the definitive treaty, & we expect that hostilities will soon cease in America. We have the honor to be, with the highest respect, for your Excel lency & the honorable Council, your most obedient servants, FC (MHi: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Gunning Bedford to George Read, March 24, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir In Congress. March 25th. 1783. Having dispatched an Express yesterday, by whom we communi cated to your Excellency, the substance of the important & happy ad vices, receiv’d by the Ch. du Quesne, We now enclose yr. Excellency the days papers, in which you will no doubt, find many interesting par ticulars, & have to add, that the Ch. du Quesne, informs us that he has a table, ascertaining the different periods, established for the ces sation of Hostilities in different Quarters—viz. in Europe & thence to the Azores within 10 Days after the signing the Preliminaries on the 20th of January, within two months in America & within four months in the East Indies. 1 We have the honor to be, with much respect, Yr Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servts, 2 John F. Mercer Theok. Bland Jr. J. Madison Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer, Bland, and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:390-91. 1 This information was in error. According to the terms of the Anglo-French and Anglo-Spanish treaties, the periods established for the cessation of hostilities at sea fol lowing their ratification (rather than their signing on January 20) were twelve days in the North Sea and English Channel, one month from the North Sea to the Canary Is lands (including the Mediterranean), two months from the Canaries to the equator, and five months in the remaining parts of the world. See European Treaties Bearing on the History of the United States and Its Dependencies, ed. by Frances G. Davenport and Oscar O. Paullin, 4 vols. (Washington, D.C.: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1917-37), 4:148-49, 151. See also James Madison to Edmund Randolph, June 10, 1783, note 6. 2 The Virginia delegates also wrote to the state’s auditors on March 27 notifying them that they had “received in consequence of two bills of Exchange remitted by J. Ambler Esq. each of us one hundred pounds Virga, currency; and request the Auditors of the Commonwealth of Virginia to issue warrants to that amount and charge the same to us in part of our Salaries as Delegates to Congress.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:405.


[Page 142]
108 March 25, 1783 Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Dear Sir, Philada 25th March 1783 From the Length of a public Letter which is inclosed 1 with this you will presume it is at least probable that I am pretty well tyred with writ ing. I had written by last Post to Petersburg 2 & desired a gentleman there to keep an Express in readiness on the Arrival of the Post which set out from this to Day, that he might carry our Dispatches as far as Coll. Long’s at Halifax. Our State Being one of the few who gave their Delegates no Instructions to hire Expresses at the public Expence, we thought that sending from Petersburg was sufficient at our private Ex pence. However a young gentleman from Flanders has just an nounced to us that he will set out to morrow morning by day light for S. Carolina & having led Horses expects to reach Chas Town in 17 days. He offers to carry our Letters, we thought such a Jehu was preferable to the Post as more Expeditious. Your Excellency recollects that by the dates of our Commissions our Seats are vacant in Congress on the 13th of May. 3 There are now 12 States represented, but Georgia is not of that number & we fear she may not be represented for some Time, by her absence the southern Interest is weakened. I need not inform you that the Business in Congress for some Time must be extremely difficult & interesting. Arrangements are to be made for a Peace Establishmt. and such Settlemt made if possible con cerning past Transactions and the great debt contracted as may give general Content & secure that Union in Peace which has been so ef fectual in War. I foresee the difficulty of this Business & heartily wish that if mistakes are to be committed some Person was in my Place who can more easily make them acceptable to the State. I never feard a public Enemy half so much as I fear the Risque of political Blunders. Mr Hawkins and myself will be very anxious to know what the Assem bly is engaged in as soon as a House is formed and Business is fully taken up. I presume the Election for public Officers may be between the 20th & 25th of April, in that Case an Account of it may reach us before the 12th of May. The Post which leaves Petersburg on Friday morning reaches this on the next Monday week. An Express from Hilsbro on Monday morning will easily reach Petersburg on Thursday Evening in Time to meet the Post. In this Case your Letters would reach us in 14 days. As soon as Congress receive their Official Ac counts of Peace with the Definitive Articles & shall have confirmed the same, they shall be forwarded to you by Express. I have the Honor to be, Your most obedt hble Servt, Hu Williamson


[Page 143]
March 25, 1783 109 P.S. I have taken the Liberty to propose to Mr Ph. Hawkins 4 a Plan for disposing of the Western Lands so as to produce a solid Revenue to the State, or to discharge a very weighty Debt. RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, March 24, 1783. 2 Not found. 3 See JCC, 22:401-2. 4 No letters from Williamson to Hawkins have been found. Both Philemon Hawkins II and III were members of the Council of State at this time. See Did. of N. C. Biog., 3:74-75. Oliver Wolcott to Heman Swift Sir 1 Philadelphia. 25 March 1783 When I wrote you my former Letters 2 in answer to that which I reed, from you I did not know that the Secretary at War had in Octr. informed Congress that a Brigadier ought to be appointed for the Connecticut Line. 3 I mention this Circumstance as the Secretary has shewn me a Letter from you to him wherein you mention that you had receved a Treatment which you had no Reason to expect and Mention that you had been informed from a Delegate in Congress that a Plan had been adopted by which you could not at present be promoted or words to this Effect. I have no copys of the Letters which I sent you upon this Subject, but so farr as I recollect I gave you a general Abstract of the Act of Congress respecting the Appointment of Brigadiers, and mentioned in general that this System had been adopted upon advice. I wish Sir to recal your Attention to the Tenor of my Letter, for altho you do not Suggest and I am confident that you never meant to Suggest that I had given you the least Intimation that I supposed that the Secretary at War had any unfreindly disposition towards you—yet as you men tion to the Secretary that you had reed. Information upon this Subject from a Delegate in Congress and appear to be disappointed in your Expectations from him, an Opinion might in some measure be formed from these Circumstances that the Manner of my Writing to you had induced you to have the unfavourable Opinion which you Appear to entertain. As I know your Candor, I wish that you would State in your Letter to that which the Secretary tells Me he shall Send to you, wheither this Opinion has been founded upon any Sugges tions of Mine, not that I doubt what your Answer will be, but to obvi ate any Misapprehensions. In my letter I believe that I was explicit in saying that I was perswaded that the Candor of the Secretary at War, his Friendship for you, and His Regard for the Merit of your Services,


[Page 144]
110 March 25, 1783 would dispose him to do every Thing in his Power which he consis tently could, to gratify your Wishes. I am Very sorry Sir that you have not had that publick notice taken of your Services which I beleive that nothing but some particular Cir cumstances, totally unconnected with your own personal character, has prevented. Injustice to the Secretary at War I must say that I always considered him as a Gentleman impartial and candid in his Administration and I believe that he has not had any Design to do you an Injury. The Secretary at War never intimated to me that he imagined that I had wrote to you any Thing that was improper, but as such an Idea may possibly exist in his mind, if it does so, I wish that it was removed as I do not wish to have it thot that I meddle with a Department which does not belong to me. I congratulate you upon the Establishment of our independence and the Restoration of a general Peace, and hope that We shall soon hear that the Definitive Articles are signed by the belligerent Powers. I think that the Articles so farr as they respect America will give Univer sal Satisfaction. I am Sir with much esteem and Regard, your most Obedt. Servant Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi: Wolcott Papers). i Hernan Swift, who had served as a colonel in the Connecticut Line since 1776, had been recommended for promotion to brigadier general by General Washington on February 5, 1783. He was appointed a brigadier general by brevet in September. Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:101; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 390. 2 Not found. s See JCC, 23:648-51. Oliver Wolcott to Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Sir. Philadelpa. 25 March 1783 I congratilate you upon the Restoration of Peace. I think that it is established in a Manner which will be agreable to America. A small Al teration you will perceive has been made in our Southern Line upon the Mississippi in favour of Spain. They are harmless Neighbours it is therefore a Circumstance of but little Consequence. No Official Infor mation from our Minister, has yet been reed, as to the general Peace but the Event may be depended upon as certain—wheither the Arti cles as agreed upon by the belligerent Powers are definitive is not know[n] and it is but of little Consequence how this Matter is. Neither is it known when Hostilitys were to cease in the Various Parts of the world—but I take it it was intended to be as soon as possibly it could be effected without limiting the time for doing it.


[Page 150]
116 March 27, 1783 the period at which they were made.” On a question for striking out, the original paragraph was agreed to without opposition. On the ques tion to insert the amendment of Mr. M, the votes of the States were 5 ays—6 noes viz N.H. no—Cont. no—N.J. no, Delr. no, Maryd. no, S.C. no. The rest ay. On (10) paragraph relative to expences incurred by the States with out the sanction of Congs. Mr. Clarke exclaimed agst. the unreason- bleness of burdening the Union with all the extravagant expenditures of particular States: and moved that it might be struck out of the Re port. Mr. Helmsly 2ded the motion. Mr. [Madison] said that the ef fects of rejecting this paragraph wd. be so extensive that a full consid eration of it ought at least to preceede such a step, that the expences referred to in the paragraph were in part such as would have been previously sanctioned by Congs, if application cd. have been made; since similar ones had been so with respect to States within the vicinity of Congs, and therefore complaints of injustice would follow a refusal, that another part of the expences had been incurred in support of claims to the territory of which cessions were asked by Congs, and there [fore] these cd. not be expected, if the expences incident to them should be rejected; that it was probable if no previous assurance were given on this point, it would be made a condition by the States ceding, as the Cessions of territory would be made a condition by the States most anxious to obtain them; that by these mean[s] the whole plan would be either defeated, or the part thereof in question be ulti mately forced on Congs, whilst they might with a good grace yield it in the first instance; not to mention that these unliquidated & unallowed claims would produce hereafter such contests & heats among the States as wd. probably destroy the plan even if it sd. be acceded to by the States without this paragraph. Mr. Dyer was in favor of the paragraph. Mr. Rutledge opposed it as letting in a flood of claims which were founded on extravagant projects of the States. Mr. Higgenson & Mr Ghorum were earnest in favor of it, remarking that the distance of Massachusetts from Congs, had denied a previous sanction to the Militia operations agst. General Burgoyne &c. The Penobscot expedition also had great weight with them. Mr. Williamson was in favor of it. Mr. Wilson said he had always considered this Country with re spect to the war, as forming one community; and that the States which by their remoteness from Congs, had been obliged to incur expences for their defence without previous sanction, ought to the placed on the same footing with those which had obtained this secu rity; but he could not agree to put them on a better which wd. be the case if their expences sd. be sanctioned in the lump: he proposed therefore that these expences sd. be limited to such as had been in-


[Page 157]
March 31, 1783 123 ings; 2 & that if the motion were free from those objections, it ought to be so varied as to oblige the office of Finance to report the infor mation periodically; since it would otherwise depend on the memory & vigilance of members, and wd. moreover have the aspect of suspi cion towards the Officer called upon. N.B. as the motion was made at first, the word “immediately” used; it was changed for the words “as soon as may be” at the instance & Mr. Holten. The object of the motion of Mr. M[adison] 3 was to define & com prehend every information practicable & necessary for Congs, to know, & to enable them to judge of the fidelity of their Minister: and to make it a permanent part of his duty to afford it. The clause re specting copies of receipts was found on discussion not to accord with the mode of conducting business & to be too voluminous a task; but the question was taken without a convenient opportunity of correcting it. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:410-11. 1 For Arthur Lee’s motion that Superintendent of Finance Robert Morris render an immediate financial accounting to be followed by monthly reports, see JCC, 24:216. Mor ris had submitted his accounts for 1781 on November 18, 1782, and completed those for 1782 on January 31, 1783, although he did not receive corrected proof sheets from printer Eleazer Oswald until April 3. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:62-63, 386, 669. 2 A committee “to enquire fully into the proceedings of the Department of Finance” had been appointed on January 6, 1783, and was renewed on March 31. Its June 10 re port was read and entered on the journals on June 17. See JCC, 23:334, 24:37, 222, 387, 396-99; PCC, item 186, fols. 78, 91; and Madison’s Notes, June 17, 1783. s For Madison’s motion this day, see JCC, 24:218; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:409. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday March 31. [1783] A letter was reed, from the Govr, of R. Island with resolutions of the Legislature of that State justifying the conduct of Mr. Howell. 1 On the arrival of the French Cutter with the acct, of the signing of the general preliminaries, it was thought fit by Congress to hasten the effect of them by calling in the American Cruisers. 2 It was also thought by all not amiss to notify simply the Intelligence to the British Commanders at N.Y. In addition to this it was proposed by the Secy, of F. A. and urged by the Delegates of Pa., by Mr. Lee, Mr. Rutlidge & others, that Congress should signify their desire & expectation that hostilities sd. be suspended at sea on the part of the Enemy. 3 The ar guments urged were that the effusion of blood might be immediately stopped & the trade of this Country rescued from depredation. It was observed on the other side that such a proposition derogated from the dignity of Congs.; shewed an undue precipitancy; that the intelli-


[Page 158]
124 March 31, 1783 gence was not authentic enough to justify the British commanders in complying with such an overture; and therefore that Congs, would be exposed to the mortification of a refusal. The former considerations prevailed & a verbal sanction was given to Mr. Livingston’s expressing to the sd. Commanders the expectation of Congs. &c. 4 This day their answers were reed, addressed to Robt. R. Livingston Esqr. &c&c&c. de clining to accede to the stopping of hostilities at sea, & urging the ne cessity of authentic orders from G.B. for that purpose. 5 With their let ters Mr. Livingston communicated resolutions proposed from his office, “that in consequence of these letters the orders to the Ameri can Cruisers sd. be revoked; and that the Executives sd. be requested to embargo all vessels. [”] Congs, were generally sensible after the rect. of these papers that they had committed themselves in proposing to the British Commanders at N.Y. a stop to naval hostilities; & were ex ceedingly at a loss to extricate themselves. On one side they were un willing to publish to the world the affront they had reed, especially as no written order had been given for the correspondence and on the other it was necessary that the continuance of hostilities at sea should be made known to American Citizens. Some were in favor of the revo cation of hostilities. Others proposed as Col. Bland & Genl. Mifflin, that the Secy, of F. A. should be directed verbally to publish the letters from Carlton & Digby. This was negatived. The superinscription was animadverted upon particularly by Mr. Mercer, who said that the let ters ought to have been sent back unopened. Finally it was agreed that any member might take copies & send them to the press & that the subject should lie over for further consideration. 6 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:420-21. 1 For William Greene’s March 18 letter, see Elias Boudinot to Greene, January 16, 1783, note 2. 2 In this paragraph, to the sentence ending “expressing to the sd. Commanders the expectations of Congs. &c.,” Madison continued to summarize proceedings in Congress that occurred on March 24. See Madison’s Notes, March 24, 1783. 3 For Congress’ directive to the agent of marine, see Gunning Bedford to George Read, March 24, 1783, note. 4 Acting on “verbal" rather than written orders, Robert R. Livingston had suggested in letters of March 24 to Sir Guy Carleton and Admiral Robert Digby that they emulate Congress’ order of that day by recalling all armed vessels thus preventing “the further effusion of blood at sea.” PCC, item 79, 3:103-5; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:336-37. 5 Carleton’s and Digby’s letters of March 26 and 27, respectively, refusing to withdraw British cruisers without express orders from London were addressed to Livingston who submitted them to Congress this day under a covering letter dated March 30. He fur ther proposed that Congress revoke its March 24 resolution recalling American cruisers and recommend to state executives that they prevent, as far as possible, the sailing of any vessels pending receipt of official accounts of the cessation of hostilities. See PCC, item 79, 3:97-98, 101—2, 107—8, item 119, fols. 261-64, item 185, 3:59; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:346.


[Page 160]
126 April 1,1783 of this Epocha, almost overcomes me at times. It opens a new Scene to Mankind, and I believe is big with inconcievable Effects in the politi cal & I hope in the moral world. I rejoice that the Conclusion of the Negotiations will be particularly serviceable to you, and as far as it lays in my Power consistent with my Duty to my Country, nothing shall be wanting to advance your Interests, on every Occasion. Congress are so oppressed by the ill timed parsimony of the States, that they are turn ing all their Attention to lessen the Comon Expences; and among other means, are reducing their Ministers in Europe. Messr. Franklin, Adams & Laurens & Dana have resigned & are returning home, as soon as the Treaty is perfected. Several Efforts have been made to appoint Charge des Affairs at some of the Courts & residents & consuls at others, but Congress are determined not to make advances at present to any other European Court, as they think they have already gone too far in this Business al ready. But if any such Appointments should be proposed for Lisbon, I shall be mindful of my Friend. 1 I am totally ignorant of what you refer to in the latter part of your Letter, having never heard any thing from that Quarter, that can lead me to the least Clue, to find your Meaning—am therefore perfectly clear of the least improper Impression from any misrepresentation whatever from any thing you may refer to. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan (who is just getting up from a slight ill ness) join in the kindest & most affectionate remembrance. Am My dear Sir, Your sincere Friend & very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot [PS.] It gave me pain that I was from home when Mr Borden called with your Letter—and when I sent to enquire for him he had left Town. My Compliments to him. RC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). 1 Searle’s thoughts were actually on a consular appointment to Madeira, where he had lived 16 years as a young man in the employ of his brother’s firm, John Searle & Co. For Searle’s financial difficulties at this time, after his return from a mission to Eu rope on behalf of Pennsylvania, see Mildred E. Lombard, ‘James Searle: Radical Busi ness Man of the Revolution,” PMHB 59 (July 1935): 292-93. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear sir. Tuesday morn, Philada., April 1st, 1783. I understand that Mr. Jones sits out for Boston this morning, there fore, I embrace this first opportunity to acquaint your Excellency, that a resolution passed in Congress yesterday, in your favor, for 3248 dollars, 1


[Page 161]
April 1, 1783 127 which I hope will be agreeable, the Financier is directed to take order respecting the same, & no doubt you soon will be officially notified. Congress have not yet received the definitive treaty respecting Peace, but are expecting it every hour. I have the honor to be, with the highest sentiments of respect, your Excellency’s most obedient servant; FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Congress had directed the superintendent of finance to pay Hancock $3,248 “for household and other expences for two years and five months, being the time he acted as President of Congress.” JCC, 21:219-20. See also Samuel Osgood to John Lowell, November 20, 1782, note 1; and Holten to Hancock, February 12, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Tuesday April 1. 1783. Mr. Ghorum called for the order of the day to wit the Report on Revenue &C. 1 and observed as a cogent reason for hastening that busi ness that the Eastern States at the invitation of the Legislature of Massts. were with N.Y. about to form a convention for regulating mat ters of common concern, 2 & that if any plan sd. be sent out by Congs, during their session, they would probably cooperate with Congs, in giving effect to it. Mr. Mercer expressed great disquietude at this information, consid ered it as a dangerous precedent, & that it behoved the Gentleman to explain fully the objects of the Convention, as it would be necessary for the S. States to be otherwise very circumspect in agreeing to any plans on a supposition that the general confederacy was to continue. Mr. Osgood said that the sole object was to guard agst. an interfer ence of taxes among States, whose local situation required such pre cautions: and that if nothing was defi[ni]tively concluded without the previous communication to & sanction of Congs, the confederation could not be said to be in any manner departed from; but that in fact nothing was intended that could be drawn within the purview of the federal articles. Mr. Bland said he had always considered those Conventions as im proper & contravening the spirit of the federal Governmt. 3 He said they had the appearance of young Congresses. Mr. Ghorum explains as Mr. Osgood. Mr. [Madison] & Mr. Hamilton disapproved of these partial conven tions, not as absolute violations of the Confederacy, but as ultimately leading to them & in the mean time exciting pernicious jealousies; the latter observing that he wished instead of them to see a general Convention take place & that he sd. soon in pursuance of instructions


[Page 162]
128 April 1,1783 from his Constituents, propose to Congs, a plan for that purpose. The object wd. be to strengthen the federal Constitution. Mr. White informed Congs, that N. Hamshire had declined to ac cede to the plan of the Convention on foot. 4 Mr. Higginson said that no Gentleman need be alarmed at any rate for it was pretty certain that the Convention would not take place. He wished with Mr. Hamilton to see a General Convention for the pur pose of revising and amending the federal Government. These observations having put an end to the subject, Congs, re sumed the Report on Revenue &c. Mr. Hamilton who had been ab sent when the last question was taken for substituting numbers in place of the value of land, moved to reconsider that vote. He was 2ded by Mr. Osgood. See the Journal. 5 Those who voted differently from their former votes were influenced by the conviction of the necessity of the change & despair on both sides of a more favorable rate of the Slaves. The rate of % was agreed to without opposition. On a prelimi nary question The apportionmt. of the sum & revision of the same refd. to Grand Come. 6 The Report as to the Resignation of Foreign Ministers was taken up 7 & on the case of Mr. Jefferson. 8 See Journal. The Eastern delegates were averse to doing any thing as to Mr. Adams, untill further advices sd. be reed. Mr. Laurens was indulged not with out some opposition. The acceptance of his resignation was particu larly enforced by Mr. Izard. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:424-25. 1 See Madison’s Notes, March 21, and March 28, note 1. 2 A call had been issued by Massachusetts to the New England states and New York to send commissioners to a convention at Hartford on April 30 to consider “such General & uniform system of Taxation by import & excise as may be thought advantageous to the Said States,” for which see Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:65. 3 Perhaps in the sense that it would violate the section of Article VI of the confedera tion specifying that “No two or more states shall enter into any treaty, confederation or alliance whatever between them, without the consent of the united states in congress as sembled,” although such regional conventions had actually been held in 1777, 1778, 1779, and 1780 before the confederation had been ratified. 4 See N. H. Stale Papers, 8:971-72. 5 See JCC, 24:222-24; and Madison’s Notes, March 28, 1783. For the failure of this vote by the margin of 6 to 5 because of Hamilton’s absence on March 28, see JCC, 24:215-16. 6 For the “proportions” reported by this committee, see Madison’s Notes, April 2-5? 1783; and JCC, 24:230-31. 7 For the report of this committee, which was appointed on March 15 to consider let ters of John Adams of December 4 and Henry Laurens of December 15, 1782, begging “leave to resign,” see JCC, 24:225-26; PCC, item 25, 2:187-88, item 84, 4:301-2, item 89, fols. 241—44; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:106, 138—40. It is endorsed: “Re port. .. On the letters from Ministers in Europe, Mr Adams, Mr H Laurens, Mr Jeffer son & Mr Dana respecting their retiring from Office. Delivered April 1, 1783.” “Passed except the first Paragraph [on Adams]—April 1st 1783.”


[Page 164]
130 April 1, 1783 further particulars relative to them. Your surmize as to the dangerous phraseology which may be used in designating our limits, may be real ized, if our Ministers are not cautious or sd. yield to improper consid erations. But I trust that no such defaults will happen on that side; & that even if they should, the language used by Congress in all their own acts on that head will overpower any arguments that may be drawn from acts of their Ministers. Mrs. Randolph’s & your good wishes were reed, by Mrs. House & Mrs Trist with marks of unfiegned affection. The latter will however speak for herself. Doer. Lee sets off to day or tomorrow for Virga, but talks of return ing hither before the meeting of the Legislature, which however he means to attend. His immediate object I suppose is to attend the County election. 5 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:429-30. 1 See ibid., pp. 380-81. 2 For Arthur Lee’s March 11 letter to Randolph, see Lee to James Warren, March 12, 1783, note 6. 3 That is, Benjamin Franklin. 4 For this exchange, see Madison’s Notes of Debates, March 31, 1783. 5 Arthur Lee apparently left Philadelphia this day to participate in Virginia assembly elections, returning on April 23. He departed again on May 12 to serve as an assembly delegate, resuming his seat in Congress on July 16. See JCC, 24:276, 435; Bland, Papers (Campbell), 2:108-9; Lee to Abigail Adams, April 23; and Madison to Randolph, May 13, 1783, note 1. The Lee faction in the Virginia House of Delegates was weakened dur ing the May session, however, when opponents revived a law in effect from 1777 to 1779 making congressional delegates ineligible to sit in either house of the assembly, thus denying Arthur Lee’s re-election. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:47n.8, 78n.4. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir, Philadelphia April 1st. 1783. Since We had the honor to write your Excellency last Week, no fur ther intelligence has been received on the subject of peace. Last Mon day Congress directed the Agent of Marine to recall the American cruizers & the Secretary of foreign affairs sent a Copy of the resolu tion to Genl. Carelton & Adml. Digby together with the Communica tions from the Count D’Estaing & the Marquis la Fayette at the same time requesting the measure of calling in their Cruisers to be adopted. The General & Admiral both Answer’d that they had no Of ficial or other information of the signature of the Preliminary treaty, than what Mr. Livingston gave & that until orders were received they should not think themselves justifiable in Acceeding to the proposi tion. Admiral Digby recommended the detention of all Vessels in the


[Page 166]
132 April 1, 1783 miral Digby the intelligence. This in the event has proved the insin cerity of those protestations which they have heretofore been so lib eral of, their disposition to prevent the further effusion of human blood. Their protestations appear then to have been a part of their system of political insincerity and delusion, which has disgraced the British Councils throughout this war. They write Mr. Livingston in return, that they do not think them selves authorized to take any steps which might facilitate the sus pension of hostilities. So that, as yet we remain in statu quo, waiting impatiently the arrival of official information from our ministers. In New York they cannot yet relinquish that insolence which they have on all occasions manifested, and the security which the articles give the Tories, I understand, will induce them all to remain, without inspiring them with those dispositions which can alone induce their countrymen to forget their transgressions. This is a partnership affair. I am yours with real affection, John F. Mercer. MS not found; reprinted from Balch, Papers Relating to the Maryland Line, pp. 206-7. 1 See Mercer to Weedon, March 24, 1783. 2 See Mercer to William Fitzhugh and Weedon, March 18, 1783. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sr. Philadelphia April 1st 1783 Your Excelly. will have received by our Express the important Intelli gence brought by the Triomphe. 1 That Intelligence (together with Authenticated Copies of Count D’Estaings dispatches relating to Peace which were received by the Minister of France) was sent into New York immediately by An officer in the department of foreign Affairs—and proposals, founded on the presumption of their Authenticity—were made to Sr. Guy Carleton and Admiral Digby by Congress—that a Suspension of Hostilities should immediately take place both by Sea and Land—that a Stop might be put to the further effusion of Human Blood. However Humane the motives might be which dictated these proposals—we find—the Appli cation has not Succeeded. The British Commanders have Informd Congress that no Authority has reached them from their Court—they could not therefore think themselves Justified in taking such a step— thus Untill that shall arrive, every thing remains with the British in Statu quo—altho the Hands of the French Naval Force in America are tied. Your Excelly will no doubt Judge it proper that this Intelligence may be conveyed as speedily as possible to our Sea Ports, to prevent the Risque which Vessels Sailing in this Critical Juncture might run. 2


[Page 167]
April 2, 1783 133 We sincerely wish that your Excelly wd. be pleased to urge to the As sembly at their next meeting—the making a provision for Establishing a Credit for the Delegates in this Place or where Congress may sit—so that they may be Enabled to draw their Salaries as they become due— that they may no longer be Subject to that uncertainty which they have hitherto Experienced—which lays them under every disadvan tage in their expenditure—Exposes them to be obliged to borrow fre quently on the most Humiliating terms to supply their real necessities, and consigns them to the Hands of Extortionate Usury. 3 We received no Public letter by the last Post. 4 We are with the most perfect respect, Yr. Excellys most obedt. svts Theok. Bland Jr. J. Madison Jr A. Lee Jos. Jones. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Bland and signed by Bland, Jones, Lee, and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:428-29. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, March 24, 1783. 2 There is no evidence that Harrison carried out this suggestion, although the Vir ginia Gazette of April 12 carried a notice that Carleton and Digby would not follow Congress’ lead without authorization from London—information that came “from good authority.” 3 For Harrison’s April 12 response to this appeal, see Madison, Papas (Hutchinson), 6:455. 4 For speculation that Harrison’s March 20 letter was lost in transmission, see ibid., p. 372n.4. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia April 2nd 1783 I recievd your two last favors togeather by last post. Am oblidged to you for your ready Complyance with my order in favr of Mr Brown. I feel my self very Unhappy at the Misfortunes which attend your Cause. 1 I could not have thought the Assembly at Rhodisland could have hesitated a moment to suspend the Execution in the present sit uation of the Cause. Genii Varnum who appeard here last Novr the time the Cause was Assigned for Trial, when we were dissappointed by the failure of Mr Paca one of the Judges Attending, I then Urged for an Adjournment to be made to sometime, in the Winter or beginning of March by which time I supposed a New Judge would be appointed in the room of Mr Paca who was about to resign, & he might Attend but Genii Varnum who appeard as attorney for Stanton &c opposed it objecting that they could not Travail at that time in the extremity of Winter urging it to be delayd to the beginning of April & finally to Gratefye him & the appellants it was put off to April and it seems they now take the advantage to press on the Execution. But sir I have met with New troubles here. Mr Lowel of Boston who was appointed last


[Page 175]
April 7, 1783 141 is, exceedingly afraid of such a connection. She wishes, if possible, to prevent it, especially since she finds that Britain has wisely determined to give us every advantage in trade. 4 But shall we neglect to avail our selves of such an opening? It is our business to cultivate a friendly in tercourse with every trading nation, and to secure to ourselves as great and extensive advantages, in the way of commerce, as possible. The extravagant ideas which Europeans have formed of the advantages that they will derive from a trade with us, we certainly ought by no means to root out, but rather to make the most we can of them all. To lose so lucky a moment, and to neglect the improving such impres sions to our own benefit, would surely argue a great want of discern ment, and show a great deficiency in our political character. The ad vices from Mr. Dana discover a knowledge of mankind and the interests of the powers in Europe, which does him honor; but the same leaven has leavened the whole lump. He is so restrained by the French Minister at Petersburg, that I am afraid he will derive no ad vantage to us from his mission. Being bound to consult him, he dares not make any direct and explicit overtures, though persuaded that ev erything in that court was ripe for negotiation. I wish he may follow the example of Jay and Adams, and show the world that no dishonor able bands can fetter Americans. We are still hammering on a strange, though artful, plan of finance, 5 in which are combined a heterogeneous mixture of imper ceptible and visible, constitutional and unconstitutional taxes. It con tains the impost, quotas, and cessions of Western lands, and no part of it is to be binding unless the whole is adopted by all the States. This connection and dependence of one part on another is designed to produce the adoption of the whole. The cessions are to serve as sweet eners to those who oppose the impost; the impost is intended to make the quotas more palatable to some States; and the receiving it in whole is made necessary to secure the adoption of the whole, by work ing on the fears of those States who wish to reject a part of it only. It may happen that a State, strongly impressed with the necessity of pub lic taxes, may be thereby induced to receive it in whole, though op posed to some part of it, lest, through the failure of public funds, great evils may result; but I cannot imagine that such a plan will suc ceed—the artifice is not complete. The States will see, I trust, that Vir ginia and New York mean only to give them what is of no value, and not their property to dispose of, in order to secure to themselves a valuable territory which they now have no good claim to, and oblige the continent hereafter to guarantee and defend it for them. Madison has clearly, I think, shown that such is their intention in this scheme; this he did in an unguarded moment. Rhode Island has approved in the fullest and strongest terms of Mr. Howell’s conduct. South Carolina and Massachusetts have repealed


[Page 182]
148 April 8, 1783 Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Sir, [April 8, 1783] ‘ I have received your Excellency’s letters of the 31st of March & 4th of April, the last to day. 2 The one to Col Bland as member of the Com mittee has been read in Committee confidentially and gave great satis faction. 3 The idea of not attempting to separate the army before the settlement of accounts corresponds with my proposition. That of endeavouring to let them have some pay had also appeared to me in dispensable. The expectations of the army as represented by Your Ex cellency are moderation itself. To morrow we confer with the Superin tendant of Finance on the subject of money. There will be difficulty, but not we hope insurmountable. 4 I thank your Excellency for the hints you are so obliging as to give me in your private letter. 5 I do not wonder at the suspicions that have been infused, nor should I be surprised to hear that I have been pointed out as one of the persons concerned in playing the game described. But facts must speak for themselves. The Gentle men who were here from the army; General McDougall who is still here will be able to give a true account of those who have supported the just claims of the army, and of those who have endeavoured to elude them. There are two classes of men Sir in Congress of very Different views—one attached to state, the other to Continental politics. The last have been strenuous advocates for funding the public debt upon solid securities; the former have given every opposition in their power {to the measure) and have only been dragged into the measures which are now near being adopted by the clamours of the army and other public creditors. The advocates for Continental funds have blended the interests of the army with other Creditors from a conviction, that no funds for partial purposes will go through those states to whose cit izens the United States are largely indebted—or if they should he car ried through from impressions of the moment would have the neces sary stability; for the influence of those unprovided for would always militate against a provision for others, in exclusion of them. It is in vain to tell men who have parted with a large part of their property on the public faith that the services of the army are intitled to a prefer ence. They would reason from their interest and their feelings. These would tell them that they had as great a title as any other class of the community to public justice, and that while this was denied to them, it would be unreasonable to make them bear their part of a burthen for the benefit of others. This is the way they would reason & as their in fluence in some of the states was considerable they would have been able to prevent any partial provision.


[Page 184]
150 April 8, 1783 sonal enemies, who by playing upon the passions of others have drawn some well meaning men into the cry against him. But Mr. Morris cer tainly deserves a great deal from his country. I believe no man in this country but himself could have kept the money-machine a going dur ing the period he has been in office. From every thing that appears his administration has been upright as well as able. The truth is the old leaven of Deane & Lee is at this day working against Mr. Morris. He happened in that dispute to have been on the side of Deane & certain men can never forgive him. A man whom I once esteemed, 6 and whom I will rather suppose duped than wicked is the second actor in this business. The matter with respect to the army which has occasioned most al tercation in Congress and most dissatisfaction in the army has been the half pay. The opinions on this head have been two—one party was for referring the several lines to their states to make such commuta tion as they should think proper—the other for making the commuta tion by Congress and funding it on Continental security. I was of this last opinion and so were all those who will be represented as having made use of the army as puppets. Our principal reasons were 1st by referring the lines to their respective states, those which were opposed to the half pay would have taken advantage of the officers necessities, to make the commutation far short of an equivalent. 2dly. The in equality which would have arisen in the different states when the offi cers came to compare (as has happened in other cases) would have been a new source of discontent. 3dly. such a reference was a continu ance of the old wretched state system, by which the ties between Congress and the army have been nearly dissolved—by which the re sources of the states have been diverted from the common treasury & wasted; a system which Your Excellency has often justly reprobated. I have gone into these details to give You a just idea of the parties in Congress. I assure you upon my honor Sir I have given you a candid state of facts to the best of my judgment. The men against whom the suspicions you mention must be directed are in general the most sen sible the most liberal, the most independent and the most respectable characters in our body as well as the most unequivocal friends to the army. In a word they are the men who think continentally. I have the honor to be, With sincere respect & esteem, Yr. Excellcys Most Obed servt. A Hamilton [PS.] I am Chairman of a Committee for peace arrangements. 7 We shall ask Your Excellency’s opinion at large on a proper military peace establishment. I will just hint to Yr. Excellency that our prejudices will make us wish to keep up as few troops as possible. We this moment learn an officer is arrived from Sir Guy Car[1] eton with disptaches, probably official accounts of peace. 8


[Page 185]
April8, 1783 151 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Although undated, this letter was almost certainly written on April 8. The meeting mentioned by Hamilton in the first paragraph as planned for “tomorrow” did take place on April 9. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:323-24n. Moreover, the postscript records the arrival of an express with “official accounts of peace,” which arrived on April 9. 2 Washington’s March 31 and April 4 letters to Hamilton and to Theodorick Bland are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:276-77, 291-96. s For the congressional reaction to Washington’s April 4 letter, see Theodorick Bland to Washington, April 16, 1783. 4 See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:682-84, 701-2. 5 That is, Washington’s April 4 letter to Hamilton. 6 Not identified, but perhaps Stephen Higginson, who opposed Robert Morris’ finan cial plans. See Higginson to Theophilus Parsons, April 7—10, and to Samuel Adams, May 20, 1783. 7 See Committee of Congress to Washington, April 9, 1783. 8 This express arrived in Philadelphia on April 9. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Tuesday April 8th. [1783] 1 Estimate of the debt of the U.S. reported by the Grand Committee: 2 Foreign debt To the Farmers General of France To Beaumarchais To King of France to end of 1782. To do for 1783. Reed, on loan in Holland Borrowed in Spain by Mr. Jay Int. on Dutch one year at 4 prCt. . Total for. debt Livrs. 1,000,000 3,000,000 28,000,000 6,000,000 Dollars Livrs. 38,000,000 = 7,017,037 Florins 1,678,000= 671,200 150,000 26,848 7,885,085 Domestic debt. Dollars Loan office 11,463,802 Int. unpaid for 1781 190,000 do 1782 687,823 Credit to sundry persons J 6$g 0^2 on Treasury books J army debt to 31 Dr. 1782 5,635,618 unliquidated do 8,000,000 deficiencies in 1783 2,000,000 Total dom. debt ... 28,615,290 Aggregate debt ... 36,500,375 Interest Dollrs. On for. debt, 7,885,085 at 4 PerCt 315,403 On dom. do. 28,615,290 at 6 do 1,716,917 On Com. '/z pay, estimd. 5,000,000 at 6 do 300,000 Bounty to be pd estimd. 500,000 at do 30,000 2,362,320 Aggreg. of Int.


[Page 186]
152 April8, 1783 A motion was made by Mr. Hamilton who had been absent on the question on the 9th parag. of report on Revenue to reconsider the same. 3 Mr. Floyd who being the only delegate from N.Y. then present on that question, cd. not vote, 2ded the motion. For the argts. re peated see the former remarks on the 7 Api. 4 On the question the votes were Mas. no, R.L no, Cont. no, N.Y. ay, NJ. no, Pa. ay, Maryd. no, Virga, ay, S.C. no. MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:436-37. 1 There is no entry for this date in the journals of Congress. 2 Madison apparently copied these estimates from a document filed with the grand committee report submitted April 4 and adopted the 7th, which is in PCC, item 26, fol. 403, and for which see Madison’s Notes, April 2-5, 1783. 3 For a similar attempt by Hamilton, see Madison’s Notes, April 1, note 5. 4 See Madison’s notes for the 7th. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. Api. 8. 1783. Your favor of the 29th ult. was duly reed, yesterday. 1 Your apprehen sions from the article in favor of British Creditors, correspond with those entertained by all whose remarks I have heard upon it. My hope is that in the definitive treaty the danger may be removed by a suspen sion of their demands for a reasonable term after peace. The publication of Mr. M’s letters was neither previously assented to nor known by Congress. Whether it was the act of Mr. M. himself is even unknown to them. After the injunction of secresy was taken off, the curiosity of any individual, or the interest of the printer might ob tain copies for the press. 2 The imperfect information brought by the French Cutter is all that we have yet reed, relative to peace. It is reported from N. York that similar intelligence has been brought thither by a vessel from Lisbon. Hostilities however continue to devour our commerce. The report on revenue of which I gave you the outlines 3 is still in an unfinished State; but in a way I flatter myself of being ultimately & substantially adopted. The admission into the common mass, of all ex- pences of the war not authorized by Congress is the remaining article of difficulty. 4 Even this however under some qualifications is so re spectably patronized & so intimately linked with the art[i]cle concern ing the back lands that I do not despair altogether of seeing that also finally comprehended. A change of the valuation of Lands for the number of Inhabitants deducting % of the Slaves, has reed, a tacit sanction & unless hereafter expunged will go forth in the general rec ommendation, as material to future harmony & justice among the members of the Confederacy. The {proportion) deduction of % was a


[Page 188]
154 April 8, 1783 until the latter part of May, if Occation requires it, although greatly against my inclination, (otherwise than to serve the State)—if any thing should happen that Mr Foster should not be likely to come on immediately I should be glad to know it, & to have leave to return sooner than I proposed. I have nothing to Communicate at present of Importance. I shall take it as a favour if you will send me a Deprecia tion Table for the State of N.H. Please to give my Regards to the Hon- ble. Committee. I remain Sir your sincere Friend & Humble, Servt, P White P.S. I had like to [... ] that unless I ha[... ] I shall not be a[... ] nor return home. April 9th. The news from New York sence I wrote the above I shall in close to the Honble. President, which Doubtless you will see. P W RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See White to Bartlett, February 5, 1783. 2 The New Hampshire General Assembly had declined the invitation of Massachusetts governor John Hancock to send delegates to an economic convention of the northern states in Hartford, Conn. N. H. State. Papers, 8:971-72. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir Philadelphia, April 9th. 1783 Congress having appointed a Committee consisting of Messrs. Mad dison, Osgood, Wilson, Elseworth and myself to consider what ar rangements it will be proper to adopt in the different departments with reference to a peace; 1 I am directed by the Committee to address your Excellency on the subject of the military department. The Committee wish your Excellency’s sentiments at large on such institutions of every kind, for the interior defence of these states as may be best adapted to their circumstances and conciliate security with oeconomy and with the principles of our governments. In this they will be glad you will take as great latitude as you may think neces sary; and will therefore omit entering into any details. 2 The Committee apprehend it to be the intention of Congress to lay down a general plan to be carried into execution as circumstances will permit; and that in attending to such dispositions as the immedi ate situation of the Country may require, they are chiefly desirous of establishing good principles, that will have a permanently salutary operation. I have the honor to be, yr. Excellency’s Most obedient servant Alx Hamilton Chairman.


[Page 193]
April 10, 1783 159 2 The following quotas, which differ from those approved on April 7, were adopted by Congress on April 18. See JCC, 24:230-31, 259. Although this fact is difficult to reconcile with the letter’s April 9 date, White’s first two paragraphs appear to have been written in a different ink, suggesting that he may have begun the letter on April 9 but completed it no earlier than April 18. Elias Boudinot to Elizabeth Ferguson My dear Madam, Philadelphia Aprill 10th. 1783. Having this moment reed your very kind & affectionate Letter, I cannot omit scribbling a few Lines in answer, altho’ it is very late at Night, and I have attended Congress twice to day on Business of Im portance. I am too much flattered by your good Opinion, not to wish that you might think that every recommendation of yours, recieved my utmost attention; but really what I did for poor Roberts was so small, that it did not deserve to be mentioned. Mr Mede has mentioned the Terms on which you have rented the Farm, which I think not very bad, as the Taxes will not be near half of what they were last Year. 1 You will pardon me madam for detaining you so long before I most heartily congratulate you on the glorious News of an honorable & I hope a lasting Peace. This Morning we reed the official Confirmation of the Cessation of all Hostilities and the signing the Preliminary Arti cles between all the belligerent Powers. I suppose the cessation of Hostilities on our Part will be proclaimed to morrow or next day. This great Event is big with the most affecting and important Con sequences. A new Empire rising into Existence with such extensive Views, must attract the attention of the whole World. This Subject is too prolific for the hour of the night and my spent Spirits. May God bless you. I wish I had a prospect of snuffing the refreshing Breezes of Graeme Park. It would be a relaxation, that might give me new Life. Mrs. B. & Susan present the most affectionate Compliments not for getting Miss Stedman, to whom I beg my respectfull wishes. I am my Dr Madam with the greatest Esteem, Yours most Afftly, Elias Boudinot P.S. Our good General Washington is almost in raptures on acct of the good News. RC (CtY: Franklin Papers). Addressed: “Mrs. Elizabeth Ferguson, Graeme Park.” 1 For Mrs. Ferguson’s financial difficulties, see these Letters, 18:373-74.


[Page 194]
160 April 10, 1783 Elias Boudinot to John Hanson My dear Sir, Philadelphia Aprill 10th 1783 Your Favour of the 2d inst. was the most agreeable surprize that I have reed, for some time past, not Sir altogether on acct, of your kind congratulations on the glorious Event of a Peace so honorable to our common Country, in which I most heartily reciprocate every affection ate wish, but to find after mourning & regretting your Loss to your Friends & your Country & Sympathising with Mrs. Hanson who I sup posed in a most distressed State, that you was still in the Land of the liv ing & once more restored to Health & to usefulness in Life. In short Sir, we having had your Death anounced in the public news Papers, 1 con cluded with the Children, that what was printed must be true & really considered the Fact as beyond a doubt. Permit me Sir to rejoyce with your other friends on the agreeable mistake, and to wish you long to enjoy the Blessings of that Peace you have so long struggled for. To this misinformation has been owing my Silence since your leaving this City. Yesterday Sr. Guy Carleton sent by Express the King of Englands Proclamation for the Cessation of all Hostilities, and this morning we reed from France by an Arrival here the official Information of the same Circumstance on our part by a separate Instrument of accession, under the same Terms as those of France & Spain, and shall proclaim a Cessation of all Hostilities on the part of America tomorrow. I know you will rejoice greatly with me on this important News, and join in rendering Thanks to the great Governor of the universe who has thus continued his interposing Providence & at last crowned all our Labours with a Success far beyond our sanguine Expectation. We want now nothing but wisdom & union to perfect the glorious work. Mrs. Boudinot (tho unknown) joins me in the most respectful Com- plimt to Mrs. Hanson. Believe me to be, with the most unfeigned Esteem & respect, My D Sir, Your most Afft. & very Hble Servt, E B RC (IHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Hanson’s death—“Last week ... at his seat in Frederick county, Maryland”—had been announced in the March 29 issue of David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylvania Packet. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday Api. 10. [1783] Letters red. from Genl. Carlton & Admiral Digby inclosing British proclamation of cessation of arms &c, also Letters from Doer. Franklin


[Page 197]
April 10, 1783 163 not yet signed, the terms not yet having been adjusted between the Court of Great Britain & the Seven U. Provinces. The British Prints inform us that in a Division on a debate in their House of Commons, on a Paragraph in their address to their King for approving the Peace a Majority of Sixteen were against the approba tion—North & Fox violently opposing the Ministry. The vote for ap proving was carried in the Lords—how this temper of the Commons may effect the Politics of Europe, or the Ministry of Great Britain time must determine. With the most perfect respect we are, Yr. Excelly’s most obedt. Serts. (Signed in behalf and at the request of the Delegates) Theok. Bland Jr. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written and signed by Theodorick Bland. Madi- son, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:446-48. 1 In addition to copies of Carleton’s and Digby’s letters, for which see James Madi son’s Notes of Debates, this date, note 1, the delegates enclosed an April 9 supplement to the Pennsylvania Packet which included copies of the Anglo-French and Anglo-Span ish treaties of January 20. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 2 See New York Delegates to George Clinton, April 9, 1783, note 1. 3 In opposing the offer of Kingston, N.Y., Bland and the other Virginia delegates were joined temporarily by Maryland delegates Daniel Carroll and Thomas Sim Lee in advo cating a site to be chosen as the seat of the Continental government. But Maryland had long been divided between Potomac River and upper Chesapeake Bay supporters and the latter proved to be better organized. As early as November 17, 1782, George Lux, a Baltimore merchant, had written the following letter to Bland, enclosing three copies of a broadside submitted to the Maryland legislature under the pseudonym “Aratus” which promoted Annapolis as the future seat of Congress. “I beg leave to refer the enclosed to your attention, and will take it as a very great favor if you will give me your opinion candidly on it by the next post. The author has, at the request of several members of our Assembly, written and published it, in order, if possible, to induce them to take speedy and effectual steps to accomplish the purposes therein specified. A few copies are distributed among them; and the remainder I shall send to my acquaintances in the different parts of the continent, Pennsylvania, Jersey, New York and Delaware excepted, which states, it is natural to suppose, will be averse to the measure. The author did not insert the piece in the paper, because the mere com monalty cannot understand the subject; and he is averse to run the hazard of being in volved in disputation, being in his noviciate as a writer. You are to consider the piece is addressed to a legislature, in which undoubtedly there must be many weak men, and therefore must be adapted to their genius and capacity; consequently many things are in it which would not have been, had none but men of understanding been expected to peruse it. “The matter will come before the Assembly during their present session, and I have not the least doubt of success, if they think Congress are disposed to accept their offers. It is certainly the duty of our Assembly to make the first advances; but the pride of many of the members is piqued, lest Congress would not close in with them. I could wish your body to be sounded upon the subject, and a judgment may with some certainty be formed whether the powers granted them, and an elegant Stadthouse, will prompt them to render Annapolis the permanent metropolis of America. Perhaps the powers therein specified will not be approved of; and I could wish to know in what points. I think the city of Annapolis ought to be laid off as a distinct independent territory, to-


[Page 198]
164 April 10, 1783 tally under the government of Congress; but so narrow in that respect are the preju dices of most of the states, that I think such a measure cannot be effected in any one of them. I suppose it could be so managed that Congress can have every real and substan tial power, only reserving to Maryland a mere nominal superintending control in Annapolis. Congress were cruelly treated by the state of Pennsylvania in 1779, in regard to the sloop Active; and, for want of efficient local powers in Philadelphia, were liable to be in sulted by the mob in regard to the payment of the interest of loan-office certificates. Mr. Sergeant in 1776 was beaten by Mr. Gunning Bedford for something that he did in Congress; which honorable body, by remaining in the capital of any state, must be ever exposed to the danger of jangling with the executive branch of it, and I always wish to obviate any possible jealousies between the continental and state governments. “Four years ago I was pretty generally acquainted with all the members of Congress, but now with very few of them. 1 have a slight acquaintance with Mr. Daniel Carroll, but know not any other delegate from Maryland, even by sight. Were I well acquainted with any of our delegates, I should have written to him on the subject; but I request you will show them all this letter and the enclosed. I transmit three copies to be by you given to any of your acquaintances among the eastern and southern delegates of Congress; and shall take it as a very great favor if you will candidly inform me whether you think Congress will accept, in case Maryland offers Annapolis, with substantial local powers. I am confident, from what I have heard from our assembly, that they would in such case be enacted, and granted with very little opposition. “From what I can learn, Annapolis is one of the most central places in the union in point of distance; and, though it is not in the relative situation of the different states, yet it would be but just that the inconveniences in attending Congress should be shared among the different states as equally as may be. The southern states have suffered more than any others by the ravages of the enemy, and are entitled to more consideration from those to the eastward than to be put to greater inconveniences than they, merely because they are unfortunately the minority. I have a better opinion of their patriotism and liberality of soul, than to suspect that they would be actuated by local selfish views, when it is their duty to promote the general good of the continent. “The constitution of Maryland being stable, agreeable to all ranks of its inhabitants, and opposite to every principle of anarchy and levelism, Congress would be more agree ably fixed in it than in Pennsylvania, where an unlimited democracy (the most horrid of all governments) prevails, and of course no one can be secure of personal safety under it. Annapolis being but a small place, Maryland could safely grant the Congress local and substantial powers in it, without missing them; whereas in Philadelphia they are ci phers, and cannot have the powers requisite to render them respectable, without injur ing the commerce of the place. And, to every thinking man on the continent, the prospect must be very disagreeable, when it is considered that congress may possibly be in danger of being mobbed, if they do not flatter the prejudices of the majority of the lower class of citizens, and the measures they may wish to be adopted, may not constantly be right and proper. “Our delegates can describe the situation of Annapolis, its advantages and disadvan tages. 1 will just observe, that under our old government, it was chiefly inhabited by men of fortune, who held lucrative posts, and the most eminent practising lawyers in the state; most of whom since the present revolution, not having the same inducements to con tinue there, have removed elsewhere; and a number of elegant houses are thereby in some measure rendered useless; which might be purchased by the ministers of finance, foreign affairs, war, and marine, and the other leading officers on the general civil estab lishment, much cheaper than they could be built in any part of the continent. The mar ket would be well supplied when there was a constant demand for provisions; and fish and oysters would be brought thither in great abundance, as well as all kinds of wild fowl. “I have scribbled a long letter to you, chiefly upon the motive of promoting the gen eral good, and therefore I am confident you will excuse a liberty I have taken, and an-


[Page 199]
April 11, 1783 165 swer candidly and fully as soon as leisure from your public duties will permit... Bland, Papers (Campbell), 2:95-97. For the Maryland assembly’s adoption of this position in late May, see Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783, note. 4 For letters received from John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Henry Laurens, rather than John Jay, see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, this date, note 1. Theodorick Bland to St. George Tucker Dr. Tucker Philada. April 11th 1783 A confirmation (official) yesterday arrived here of the ratification of the Preliminary Articles of Peace between France, Spain & Eng land—which gives effect to those between England & the U. States of America—in consequence of which proclamation will this day be made by order of Congress for a Suspension of Hostilities. This has al ready been done in N. York without one Symptom of Approbation. The Public Prints will soon announce to you the Particulars—we have sent these to the Govr. God Bless you, Theok. Bland, Jr 1 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 Bland also wrote the following letter to George Weedon this date: “I have just time to tell you, that an official confirmation of the ratification of the pre liminaries between the French, Spanish, and English Courts, arrived here yesterday, and I believe a cessation of hostilities will be this day proclaimed, by order of Congress. The public prints will soon give you the rest.” Balch, Papers Relating to the Maryland Line, p. 207. Joseph Jones to James Hunter Dr. Sr. Philada. 11th Apr. 1783 I reed, your late favor inclosing some bills drawn upon Mr. W. Smith of Baltimore and protested by him. This Business is not within the ju risdiction of the Agent of Marine here or immediate measures wod. be taken for their payment. Monsr. Marbois who is the Consul general and agent of Marine informs me that if Poquet comes out from New York to this place which he expects he will do that upon his giving some instrument of indemnification the money shall be paid withot. returning the bills. As the packet has arrived at N. York from England with the preliminary Articles signed and a proclamation of the Kings suspending Hostilities (which were to cease on this coast the 3d of this month,) I imagine Poquet will soon be at liberty. Shod, he arrive here I will endeavour to get satisfaction for the Bills. Billy Miner has I sup-


[Page 203]
April 12, 1783 169 by your prudent & Zealous attention to afford her the earliest Infor mation of the glad Tidings of an Event the most glorious to her Fame as well as essential to her Interests. 1 Capt. Duquesne, whose conduct & despatch does him great honor, anounced to us in the first Instance the happy Issue of our negotiations. The Joy afforded to America on this Occasion was too great for utterance and you had the universal Thanks of the Friends of this Country. The early Intelligence saved our Mercantile Interest greatly, as the long cessation of News from our Ministers had shaken the Faith of many as to the Issue. The glorious struggle, blessed be God, is now over, and I am happy that you have so great a Share in her Laurels. Our worthy General is not the least sharer in the general Joy. We have now leisure I hope to turn our attention to consolidating the general Union & perfecting our Government. Congress are perfectly satisfied with your remaining in Europe, and I have the honor & Satisfaction of enclosing you a Copy of their Vote on this Occasion. 2 Congress are very sensible of the very obliging Conduct of his Ex cellency the Compte de Estaing in so readily & generously devoting the Triumph to the benevolent Purpose of being the bearer of the im portant Intelligence. As soon as Capt DuQuesne arrived, certified Copies of the Intelli gence was transmitted to Genl Carleton & admiral Digby—the last of whom most ungenerously affected to consider it as a design in Compt de Estaing to mislead him, while he was accomplishing some stroke in the west Indies. However he was in a few days convinced of his Error by the arrival of an English Packett. We are anticipating the Pleasure of your Arrival here with Anxiety. I take the liberty of inclosing copies of the Vote of Congress in Favour of Compte De’ Rochambeau, & of my Letter addressed to him on that occasion. My reason for this is, to beg the Favour of your endeavouring to know the reason for the Compte’s leaving America without taking the least Notice of it, or even answering my Letter. I do this merely in my private Character, for altho’ it has been noticed by the Members of Congress, yet Congress has made no Observations on it, and I men tioned it to you as a private Friend, who I know will be prudent on the Occasion, at the same time will satisfy my individual Curiosity. I add to the enclosed for your satisfaction some proceedings in the Army, occasioned by the last Efforts of the Enemies of this Country, to raise a Commotion. Their resolutions as well as the Generals Address, gave a finishing Stroke to the Character of our officers. They do them the utmost honor, and the General appears like himself. The Terms of Peace give universal Satisfaction except that no Time is mentioned for the american Merchts. paying their English Debts. Having the greatest part of their Estates in the public Funds, and hav ing suffered greatly by the depreciation of the money, inevitable ruin must be their Portion if they have not three or four Years to accom-


[Page 204]
170 April 12, 1783 plish the Business. This is a Matter of very considerable Consequences to which I hope our Ministers will pay attention in the definitive Treaty. This should also be an Object with France, as if not remedied, will throw our Merchts too absolutely into the Hands of the English Creditor. Shall I ask your Attention to this Subject if not too late as it will be adding greatly to the obligations, already laid on the Citizens of these States. I have the honor to be with every Sentimt of respect & Esteem, My d[ear] Marquiss &c FC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. Endorsed: “Private.” 1 For Lafayette’s February 5 letters to Boudinot to which this is a response, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 5:84—85; and JCC, 24:210—11. 2 For this April 10 resolve, see JCC, 24:234. Elias Boudinot to George Washington My dear Sir, Philadelphia 12th April 1783 You can only judge from your own feelings on this occasion, with what peculiar joy I congratulate your Excellency and the Army on a constitutional cessation of hostilities by the public Act of Congress, I have the honor to enclose. 1 Thus far we may truly say, that we have passed thro’ the wilderness by a series of Miracles, which nothing short of the over ruling Providence of God could ever have wrought. I most heartily reciprocate your Excellency’s good wishes on this oc casion, and am much obliged by your very polite letter of the 30th Ul timo. 2 By a vessel that arrived yesterday from France we received the offi cial copies of our accession to the cessation of hostilities; but altho’ this vessel sailed on the 4th of March our latest advices were of the 23d of January. We are just informed that there is a Packet in the River with public dispatches in 36 days from France. If any thing should turn up worthy of notice 1 will add it to this letter. Mrs. Boudinot and Miss Susan unite with me in the most affection ate compliments to Mrs. Washington and your Excellency, and are contemplating with great pleasure the prospect of a joyous interview on your return to your long wished for retreat. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect & Esteem, Your Ex- cellencys Most Obedt & most Hble Servt Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Boudinot. 1 Boudinot undoubtedly enclosed a copy of the proclamation adopted by Congress on April 11, for which see JCC, 24:238-40, 25:984—85. 2 Washington’s March 30 letter to Boudinot is in PCC, item 152, 11:191-92; and Washington, 'Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:273.


[Page 205]
April 12, 1783 171 Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia April the 12th 1783 I most sincerely Congratulate your Excellcy and the State—On the Great & Important Event of Peace now fully Confirmed and Proclaimed. God Almighty in His Unmerrited goodness by His Great power and outstretched Arm has wrought Salvation and Deliverance for this his oppressed People Erected and Established a new and extended Em pire in this Western World. Through Eight Years severe Conflict, And many Dark & gloomy seasons, His Wise And Unerring Providence has manifestly pointed out the Means, the Times, And Seasons, for those Various Exertions, Efforts, and operations which were Necessary in the doubtfull Contest, And with that Vicissitude of adverse dissapoint- ments, and prosperous Success, as might Guard us against Vain Pre- sumsion on the one hand, and secure us against hopeless despair and dispondency on the Other, till at length, When the burthen of our Ex- pences seemed almost too heavy any longer to be borne, our Loads of Debt Accumulating, our publick Credit failing, The People Complain ing, God has graciously Calmed the Storm, inclined and Composed the Contending Nations to Peace, Disposed Great Britain (after long & Vain attempts) to Relinquish Her Unjust Claims, Submit to the Manifestations of Divine Providence, And to acknowledge the 13 United States of America Free, Sovereign And Independent. I heartily rejoice Sir that in the Laborious part you have taken in your advanced Years, in The Important Station in which Providence has assigned you, that through Unremitted Diligence & fidelity in which with Unwea ried application you have exerted your Utmost Abilities, with Pa tience, hope and Perseverance in the Cause & Service of your Coun try, and in the greatest Trials & darkest hours of our Conflict with a firm & Unshaken reliance on Divine Providence, That God has Sup ported and continued your Valuable life at length to see the Joyfull day of her Deliverance. Rewards you will not too much expect here except in conscious rec titude, but wait with Patience for those Superior with which God will abundantly remunerate his faithfull Servants: I know your Country owe you their Esteem, their respect, and their Gratitude—whether they make you that Remittance, or forbear the just Tribute which is your due. I now expect by the leave of Providence soon to return to my family. My Utmost & faithfull Indeavors to serve the State, and my Country have not been Wanting, I have only to Lament they have been of no more effect, and so little productive of real benefit. Ever since I have been here, the pressing demands of our Army and loud Complaints of our other Numerous Creditors, have continually attended us, without payment, without Stable funds for Principle or


[Page 216]
182 April 14, 1783 have breath I know you will rejoice & feel a divine pleasure in recount ing the interpositions of providence by which this great & wonderful revolution has been affected. Your health, Sir, I hope will be benefit- ted by the opening of the spring & in due time perfectly restored. You will not wonder, Sir, at the anxiety of your friends for your recovery, since for them your stay is so necessary tho for you indeed it might be great gain to depart. With my best compliments to Mrs. Perry, & wishing you every divine support, I am Revd. & dear Sir with much esteem, your obedt. huml g ervt Oliv. Ellsworth [RS.] I will thank you, Sir, to present my best respects to Capt. Grant & Son, if you have opportunity. RC (CtHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “The Revd. Mr. Joseph Perry, East Windsor, Connecticut.” i Ellsworth had just resumed his seat in Congress on April l./CC, 24:222. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday April 14. [1783] The Committee on the report of Secretary of foreign affrs. reported as follows, Mr. Hamilton dissenting: 1 1. That it does not appear that Congress are any wise bound to go into the ratification proposed. “The Treaty” of which a ratification is to take place, as mentioned in the 6th of the provisional articles, is de scribed in the title of those articles to be “a Treaty of peace proposed to be concluded between the Crown of G. B and the said U. S. but which is not to be concluded until terms of peace shall be agreed upon between G. B. & France;” 2 The act to be ratified therefore is not the provl. articles themselves; but an act distinct, future, and event con tingent. Again altho’ the Declaratory act entered into on the 20th Jany. last, between the American & British Plenipotentiaries relative to a cessation of hostilities, seems to consider the contingency on which the provl. articles were suspended as having taken place, yet that act cannot itself be considered as the “Treaty of peace meant to be con- cluded["f, nor does it stipulate that either the provl. articles or the act itself should be ratified in America; it only engages that the U. S. shall cause hostilities to cease on their part, an engagement which was duly fulfilled by the Proclamation issued on the 11th instant—lastly it does not appear from the correspondence of the American Ministers, or from any other information either that such ratification was expected from the U. S. or intended on the part of G. B., still less that any ex change of mutual ratifications has been in contemplation.


[Page 218]
184 April 15, 1783 Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Si r, Philadelphia, April 15. 1783 There are two resolutions passed relative to the restoration of the British Prisoners and to making arrangements for the surrender of the posts in the possession of the British troops, the first of which is to be transacted by you in conjunction with the secretary of War—the latter by yourself alone.i I will explain to you some doubts which have arisen in Congress with regard to the true construction of the provi sional treaty—which may be of use to you in transacting the business abovementioned. The sixth article declares that there shall be no future confiscations &c after the ratification of the treaty in America; and the seventh article makes the surrender of prisoners, evacuation of posts, cessation of hos tilities &c. to depend on that event to wit—the ratification of the treaty in America. Now the doubt is whether the treaty means the provisional treaty already concluded or the definitive treaty to be concluded. The last construction is most agreeable to the letter of the provisional articles the former most agreeable to the usual practice of nations; for hostili ties commonly cease on the ratification of the preliminary treaty. There is a great diversity of Opinion in Congress. It will be in my opin ion adviseable, at the same time that we do not communicate our doubts to the British, to extract their sense of the matter from them. This may be done by asking them at what periods they are willing to stipulate the surrender of posts, at the same time that they are asked in what manner it will be most convenient to them to receive the prisoners. If they postpone the evacuation of the different posts to the defini tive treaty we shall then be justified in doing the same with respect to prisoners. The question will then arise whether on principles of hu manity oeonomy and liberality we ought not to restore the prisoners at all events without delay. Much may be said on both sides. I doubt the expedience of a total restoration of prisoners ’till they are willing to fix the epochs at which they take leave of us. It will add considerably to their strength, and accidents though improbable may happen. I confess however I am not clear in my opinion. I have the honor to be yr. Excellency’s Most Obed serv A Hamilton [PS.] The provisional or preliminary treaty is ratified by us—for the greater caution. 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Congress this day directed General Washington to prepare “for receiving possession of the posts in the United States occupied by the troops of his Britannic Majesty," and to “take proper arrangements for setting at liberty all land prisoners. See JCC, 24.242-43, 251-52. 2See/CC, 24:243-51; and James Madison’s Notes of Debate, this date.


[Page 221]
April 16, 1783 187 Richard Peters to Baron Steuben Dear Sir, 15th Api 1783 I wish you to be so good as to send me by the very first Opportunity your Opinion as to the Conduct of Nations so far as you are ac quainted with it in respect to Prisoners of War at a Peace. Can they be forced to go from the Country in which they were Captives if they choose to remain & of Course is it a Breach of the Treaty (where there is no express Stipulation) by Implication if Government taking no ac tive Measures to keep them do not interfere for their Delivery to the late Enemy. All Passports, Means of Transportation &c should be fur nished but our Treaty says Nothing more than that they should be set at Liberty & 1 do not see what Congress can do if the States admit any of them to be Citizens. I wish you to be so obliging as to furnish me with your Opinion as I believe you & I think alike & I want to corroborate my Sentiments by the Authority of yours. 1 I am in Haste, yrs afftely, R Peters RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 In his April 22 reply to Peters, Steuben explained that “on the conclusion of peace, all persons are liberated; & without a particular agreement to the contrary, the Govern ment in whose hands they were, concern themselves no farther about the matter.” Pe ters Papers, PHi. Theodorick Bland to George Washington Sr Philadelphia April 16th 1783 I have been honord with your Excellencys two favors of the 31st Ul timo and the 4th Inst 1 —the latter accompanied with your full and ex plicit answer on the Subject on which I addressed your Excellency in my last at the request of the Committe. 2 It has been according to your desire communicated to Col. Hamilton and the other Members who compose the Committe confidentially and is now under consideration. We have conferred with the Superintendant of Finance, 3 and be as sured our utmost endeavors shall not be wanting to bring to a Speedy (and I hope happy conclusion) the objects Your Excellency has pointed to with so much clearness, candor & Energy. Confident I am that there is every disposition in Congress to Appre ciate the Services and sufferings of the Army. Unquestionably the most meritorious Class of Citizens in this long & at length, Successful Contest. I am not less persuaded in my own mind, that what depends on the States respectively to put the finishing hand to a complete compensation of their long and meritorious Services and Sufferings will be cheerfully complied with; But these Sr. are the Expectations or


[Page 224]
190 April 16, 1783 first months pay from a want of knowledge of the resources which now actually exist under your controul, which have not been already antici pated either by Engagements for subsisting the army or for other pur poses, and what will be the amount of the Continental Stores which may with propriety be disposed of they wd. be glad to be inform’d in as full and explicit a manner as your information on those points will admit. The Committee think it necessary to acquaint you 1st further that in a Conference they have held with the Secy, at War who is just return’d from Camp that it is the wish of the officers in General to re ceive orders for the two Months Pay on the Receivers of their respec tive States for the payment of which they are willing to run the Chance as they express themselves. I have the Honor to be with perfect Respect, by order of the Com mittee, Sir, your most obedient Servant (Sign’d) Theok. Bland 2 Tr (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 Before receiving Morris’ letter, the committee had met with the superintendent on the 9th “relative to certain propositions contained in Genl. Washington’s letter to Colo Bland,” for which see Committee of Congress to Washington, March 25, 1783, note 5. Although Morris took the matter under advisement, he reported on the 14th that it was “utterly impractible” to raise the estimated $750,000 needed for three months pay, given the poor performance of the states in meeting their obligations, and that the only real alternative was “to risk a large Paper Anticipation.” While Morris considered “issu ing my Notes to the required amount,” he did not think he should be expected to put himself in “so desperate a Situation.” See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:682-83, 701-2. 2 Bland also had “a Long Conference” with Morris this day, after which the superin tendent prepared a letter informing the committee that he did not expect to command resources “more than sufficient to comply with the engagements already taken as they fall due.” See ibid., pp. 707, 711-12. See also the preceding entry. Oliver Ellsworth to Abigail Ellsworth Dear Nabby, Philadelphia, Apr. 16, 1783 I wrote you two days ago 1 & have little now to add. I am yet without information from home, which you will easily believe I am extreemly anxious & impatient to receive. The enclosed newspaper shows that they are much less satisfied with the Peace in Great Britain than we are & they have much less rea son to be—after you have read it I wish you to send it with my compli ments to Mr. Hinsdale to whom I know it will be highly amusing. All our prisoners in the hands of the British are set at liberty—& an order yesterday passed in Congress to release all the British prisoners in our hands. I expect the British will in a few weeks leave New York & that our Army will then be disbanded. The Proclamation of peace is to be


[Page 227]
April 16, 1783 193 most heartily do, & what adds to this happy & glorious event, is that we have obtained all that cou’d reasonably be expected. I don’t know any one man, that I think, this Country is under greater obligations to than our worthy friend Mr. J. Adams, I am not unacquainted with the situation he has been in, in his negociations both in Holland & France, & I suspect you are not altogether a stranger to the difficulties he has had to encounter; we may expect his return in June next, ’tho’ Congress have not yet accepted his resignation. Mr. Laurens & Mr. Dana has leave to return at their request, Mr. Jefferson is not to pro ceed. Two days since I observed a letter directed to Dr. Lee, which di rection I suppos’d to be in your hand writing & I immediately for warded it to him, as the Dr. is returned home. I am, &c FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand ol Samuel Hoken. 1 Presumably Gordon’s promised history of the American Revolution, which was eventually published in four volumes under the title The History of the Rise, Progress, and Establishment, of the Independence of the United States of America.... (London: Printed for the Author, 1788). Samuel Holten to Joseph Read Sir, Philada. Api. 16th, 1783. The particular respect shown me when at your house, on my Journey, is not forgot by me, & for which I consider myself under obligations. I have now oppertunity to congratulate you, as I wish to do every sin cere friend to Our Country, on the return of Peace, & what adds to this happy & glorious event, is that we have obtained all that could reason ably have been expected; but we have yet difficulties to encounter, a large national debt & but little money to pay, or funds to secure pay ment. It is my opinion, that imposts & excises must be complied with, for a given time. The common mode of taxation will not answer the purpose, the land is too high taxed already, the Small farmers can’t live & pay their taxes, & it wou’d be the want of policy if (not unjust) in our present circumstances, to drive the good people to pay what they are not able & can’t do injustice to their families, & after they have so lately made so many exertions against the Common enemy. We have no intelligence here that deserves your notice, more than what is contained in the public prints. I am, with great respect, your most obedient servant. FC (DLC: Samuel Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Addressed: “Colo. Joseph Reed.” Apparentlyjoseph Read of Uxbridge, Mass., formerly colonel of the 13th Continental regiment of the Massachusetts Line.


[Page 228]
194 April 16, 1783 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday April 16th. [1783] Mr. Hamilton acknowledged that he began to view the obligation of the pro [visiona]! Treaty in a different light and in consequence wished to vary the direction to the Commander in cheif as his motion on the Journal states. 1 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:466. 1 For the failure of Hamilton’s motion this day, see JCC, 24:252-53. For his explana tion of the two resolutions Congress had adopted the 15th “relative to the restoration of the British Prisoners and to making arrangements for the surrender of the posts in the possession of the British,” see Hamilton to Washington, April 15. See also Madison’s Notes, April 14 and 15, 1783. North Carolina Delegates to Congress April the 16th 1783 The undersigned delegates in Congress from the State of North- Carolina beg leave to represent, that some time in the year 1780 appli cation was made by the honourable Abner Nash esquire then Gover nor of the State of North-Carolina to the British Commandant at Charlestown for leave to send cloathing and other articles which might be acceptable and afford relief to the North-Carolina prisoners who were confined there; That leave for that purpose was obtained from General Patterson the then British Commandant as appears by two letters which we have the honour to lay before Congress. That in consequence of such permission a Flag schooner, called the Adventure, loaded with thirty six hogsheads of tobacco and sundry other articles, having on board some British prisoners of war, sailed from Beaufort in North Carolina on the 9th of June 1781 for Charlestown (This was the third vessel that had been sent with similar supplies the two first were properly recieved) That on the 20 of the said month, near the bar of Charlestown, the said Schooner was seized by a British ship of war, the Cormorant; and sent into the harbour no regard being paid to the Flag under which she sailed nor the permis sion that had been granted; and altho complaint thereof was made to the Commandant (who we believe on enquiry will be found to have highly disapproved the seizure) yet no part of the Schooner or her cargo was recovered. The Delegates are persuaded that by the original and other authen ticated papers which they have the honour to lay before Congress 1 it will fully appear that the whole proceedings in this business were, on the part of the State, fair and Candid incapable of any possible con-


[Page 229]
April 17, 1783 195 struction that could violate the honour of a Flag or the faith of a State, and that nothing could have been intended but what was pro fessed, The relief of distressed prisoners, that too, in the manner which had been agreed on. Wherefore the Delegates, in persuance of their instructions, re quest, that Congress would be pleased to direct the Secretary for for eign affairs to forward the necessary documents to the British General and Admiral at New York and Claim compensation for the said vessel and cargo. 2 Benjamin Hawkins Hu Williamson RC (DNA: PCC, item 43). Written by Hawkins and signed by Hawkins and Williamson. Endorsed: “Representation of the Delegates of No. Carolina respectg a flag sent by the State to Charlestown & Captured by the Cormorant. Laid before Congress April 16th 1783—referred to Mr Gorham, Mr Fitzsimmons, Mr Holten. Acted on May 1st 1783.” 1 These eleven documents pertaining to the seizure of the Endeavour, not Adventure as stated by Hawkins, are in PCC, item 76, fols. 7-35. 2 For the disposition of this case, see JCC, 24:318; and North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin, June 17, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Lewis Pintard My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Aprill 17th 1783 I sent you by an Express 1 our Proclamation for the Cessation of Hostilities, which is proclaimed here in Form this Day. The Proclama tion for Peace at New York you mention, was no more. Altho’ Peace is really taken Place yet it cannot be proclaimed till we recieve the defini tive Treaty, which we expect every Day. Last Night we had advices of a Vessel being arrived at Boston from France in 20 Days, perhaps we may have News by her. We also expect to hear in a few Days from Sr. Guy when he is to leave NYork. You will percieve that the King of Britain in his Answer to the address of the Lords, says he is deter mined faithfully to execute every article of the Treaty. I fancy all the british Prisoners will be discharged this week. I have not heard from Elisha but rejoice in his having an addition to his family, altho’ I think the Family rage of Girls, very Extraordinary. 2 I also join with her ExcyA & the rest of the Family in sincerely congrat ulating you on the happy success you have met with in the addition to your Family, especially as it is of the Male kind, and as all rejoicings are put off till the definitive Treaty, beg you will not trouble Martin to bring it with him till then—but on second Thought, as I know your fondness for Peace, and the great desire you will have to testify some external signs of Joy and how difficult that is with an empty concavity, and that there is no filling vacuums without materials, which are very difficult to be obtained at the ridge, I beg you will in my Name, but for your own Use, adorn your Board with all the Male & Female gen-


[Page 230]
196 April 17, 1783 eration, of Calves, Pig’s, devouring Sows, Birds, Fowls & Fishes (if any are yet left from the voracious Jaws of your inveterate Enemies) and once in a Way, by Chance, as a great rarity rejoice in the Good Things of this Life, that the glorious Epoch may be remembered throout the great Swamp as long as the Ridge shall Endure. Your last Letter has lessened your Character here greatly as being neither a Farmer, nor Hog Raiser. Her E. having as she says predicted all those dreadfull Evills that have happened from your want of Skill, Knowledge & Understanding in the Trade, Art & Mystery of Pig Feed ing, tho’ she fully & plainly anounced the possibility, probability & Certainty of the prolific Nature of the female unlawful Animal whereby you might have added roasters to your joy on the day of your eating & drinking in your younger Brothers House. I hope you wont sell the old Stack of Hay to Mr Van Zandt, as it will be worth haling to Morris Town & only decieve him. 1 would not let Mr B. have it without the Cash—it had better be fed out in the dung yard. He once charged me with Dicks borrowing a Yoke of his & breaking the wood part of it, which might have been made in half a Day & never cost more than 4 or 5/—but at the same time having borrowed our large Iron Kettle & broke off one of the feet, on being told if I paid for one, he must pay for the other, I never heard more of it—and the payment in Hay, never thought of untill this Occasion, as it was well [... ] I never be fore this winter had Hay to dispose of, and [that] was three Years ago. I would rather you should delay renting the Lott a few days, then rent it to Lewis unless he would pay the rent at once. May be you may yet stay there all Summer, and want it yourself. You can however mention the possibility & that rather than rent it on any uncertainty you will keep it. Perhaps Mrs. Morton may rent or sell her Farm, & then it would suit the Purchaser better than any body. Sister remains here very low, having had a relapse. As to the Horses I wish to sell them all, as I shall purchase a pair here to go home with & Horses are becoming cheap. I wish to know your determination, about going to N Rochelle that Hanny may prepare to go to the Ridge in Time. I am Dr Sir, Yours &c RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot, April 22, 1783, note. 3 That is, Boudinot’s wife, Hannah.


[Page 231]
April 17, 1783 197 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday April 17th [1783], Mr. M[adison] with the permission of the Come, on Revenue, re ported the following clause to be added to the 10 in the first report 1 viz “And to the end that convenient provision may be made for deter mining in all such cases, how far the expences may have been rea sonable, as well with respect to the object thereof as to the means for accomplishing it, thirteen Commissioners namely one out of each State, shall be appointed by Congress, any seven of whom (having first taken an oath for the faithful & impartial execution of their trust) who shall concur in the same opinion, shall be empowered to determine finally on the reasonableness of all claims for expences incurred by particular States as aforesaid: And in order that such de terminations may be expedited as much as possible, the Commis sioners now in appointment for adjusting accts, between the U. S. and individual States, shall be instructed to examine all such claims & report to Congs, such of them as shall be supported by satisfactory proofs, distinguishing in their reports the objects and measures in which the expences shall have been incurred; provided that no bal ances which may be found due under this regulation or the Resolu tions of the day of shall be deducted out of the preceding Revenues; but shall be discharged by separate requisitions to be made on the States for that purpose.” In support of this proposition it was argued that in a general provi sion for public debts and public tranquility, satisfactory measures ought to be taken on a point wch. many of the States had so much at heart, & which they wd. not separate from the other matters proposed by Congress: that the nature of the business was unfit for the decision of Congs, who brought with them the spirit of advocates rather than of Judges, and besides required more time than could be spared for it. On the opposite side some contended that the accts, between U. S. & particular States sd. not be made in any manner to encumber those between the former and private persons—Others thought that Congs, could not delegate to Comrs. a power of allowing claims for which the Confedon. reqd. nine States—Others were unwilling to open so wide a door for claims on the Common Treasury. On the question Masts, divided, Cont. ay, R. Id. no, N.Y. no, NJ. no, Pa. no, Maryd. no, Va. ay, N.C. no, S.C. no.


[Page 233]
April 18, 1783 199 counts were “recommitted” on May 14. JCC, 24:268, 339-40; and PCC, item 19, fols. 179-81. The latter had a curious history, as the committee’s report on them was resub mitted on June 10 and “filed" on November 1, but they remained unsettled as late as 1787 after having been referred “to the consideration of the next Congress” in 1784 and to the “Commissioner for setding the hospital accounts” in 1785. See ICC, 24-388 27:401,29:690,890,33:754. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Friday April 18. [1783] Application was made from Council of Pa. for determination of Congs, as to the effect of the acts terminating hostilities, on Acts to be inforced during the war. Congs, declined giving any opinion. 1 The motion of Mr. Bland 2 raised a long debate. In favor of the mo tion it was urged by Mr. Rutlidge that the proposed Cession of Va. ought to be previously considered & disallowed; that otherwise a re newal of the recomendation wd. be offensive; that it was possible the Cession might be accepted in which case the renewal wd. be im proper. Virga, he observed alone could be alluded to as having com plied in part only. Mr. Wilson went largely into the subject. He said If the investigation of right was to be considered, the U.S. ought rather to make cessions to individual States then receive Cessions from them, the extent of the Territory ceded by the Treaty being larger than all the States put to gether; that when the claims of the states come to be limited on prin ciples of right, the Alleghany Mountains would appear to be the true boundary—this could be established without difficulty before any Court—or the Tribunal of the World. He thought however policy reqd. that such a boundary sd. be established as wd. give to the At lantic States access to the Western Waters. If accomodation was the ob ject, the clause ought by no means to be struck out. The Cession of Virga, could never be accepted because it guaranteed the country as far as the Ohio, which never belonged to Virga, [here he was called to order by Mr. Jones]. 3 The question he sd. must be decided. The inde cision of Congs, had been hurtful to the interests of U. S. If compli ance of Va. was to be sought she ought to be urged to comply fully. For the vote see Journal. 4 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:471. 1 For this “Application” and its context, see Thomas FitzSimons to John Dickinson, April 12, 1783. 2 Madison later interlined at this point: “for striking out recommendation to States which had agreed to cede territory to revise & compleat their Cessions.” 3 Brackets by Madison. 4 See JCC, 24:256—57. Madison later added: “in the affirmative, with exception of Virga. & S. Carol.”


[Page 236]
202 April 22, 1783 As to the Lands, I can see no need to sell them unless they will bring at least 40/ per Acre, some of them I would not take under £10 per Acre. They are Lands of the highest Quality. When you want the Cash I have a number of Bonds & Mortgages of Ld. Drummonds that I will call in & pay your Debt. As to the Wines, they will be all confis cated and your only remedy will be an Application to the Legislature on the circumstances of the Case, and these are not favourable, as they are the Property of Thompson. You had best have them assigned to you in Security for the Debt & Ship them immediately to this City, before the Evacuation. Auth can do this in your Name—and you can be here to recieve them. I have got a Letter from Marsden also. I wish to see you on his Acct. If you go in, Permission must be had from Govr Livingston. If you should go, you had best see me first. Sir Guy has applied to Congress to send in Commrs. to superintend the evacu ation &c as he is preparing. 1 He wishes to have it known that the Arti cles of the Peace is fully complied with. Mr. Forman is in New York. If you purchase a Vessel she must be sent away previous to the Evacua tion. I wish Cong, was able to get a Pipe a piece &c.—but they think they do great Things to get good Cyder. As to my Brother C. I believe it hurts the finer strings of his Heart to see too much Luxury. A Vessel arrived here express from France this day. Her Passage 35 Days; but brings no News that has come to hand as yet. , Mrs. B. & S. join in Love &c. Patty sends her Love & Duty tho greatly mortified that she does not hear from you. Am Dr Sir, Yours Afftly, ® [PS.] Mrs. B. sent by Jacob Morton some few Things for Prince as he is not to be canonized. RC (PHi: Boudinot Papers). 1 An April 14 letter from Sir Guy Carleton to Robert R. Livingston—recommending the appointment of commissioners to assist in implementing “the seventh article of the Provisional Treaty” concerning the evacuation of New York “without causing any de struction, or carrying away any negroes or other property of the American inhabi tants”—was referred to a committee of Congress this day. Its recommendauon to refer the matter to the commander-in-chief to “take such measures... as to him shall seem expedient”—was adopted April 24. As a meeting between Washington and Carleton had already been scheduled for May 6, the subject was merely placed on the agenda of that conference, and in the aftermath Washington appointed Egbert Benson Daniel Parker, and William Stephens Smith “to carry fully into execution, the [April 24] Instructions of Congress.” See JCC, 24:274; PCC, item 78, 6:171-73; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:377; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:402-14. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. Api. 22. 1783. Your favor of the 14 inst. written on the Susquehanna with the sev eral letters inclosed were safely delivered to me. I did not fail to pre-


[Page 241]
April 23, 1783 207 you all in their power. As for my own part I can only wish you well, & in this point of duty I certainly am not deficient. Our Hartford acquaintance here I see almost every day—they are all well & frequently enquiring after you, & it will be a great pleasure to them I doubt not to have so good an account of you as I hope it will soon be in my power to give them. I went last evening to Mr. Laws singing entertainment which was per formed before a great concourse of people assembled upon a general invitation. The performance was decent & a considerable improvement on the singing here; but not equal to what we have in many parishes in Connecticut. He has not met with proper encouragement—his schol- lars are but few—the young folks here are more fond of dancing than singing—& many of the old ones who care any thing about publick wor ship are alarmed at the Idea of admitting new tunes & a brisker air. By the time this reaches you I suppose you will begin to think of gar dening. Bissel with a little of your direction will I dare say well per form all that is necessary in that branch. Let him put a little manure on the beads he makes in the new ground & in the hills he plants. The few seeds I sent I hope you have reed. If the time I spend in walk ing for my health could be employed in making you an elegant gar den it would please me much better. Most of the Tories are gone from New York to the cold region of Nova Scotia which their royal master has provided for them. The British Troops are also beginning to ship their effects & will I hope in a few weeks take their final leave of us. I can hardly realize it that the war is over, tho’ I had long expected it & from my knowledge of the State of publick affairs was convinced that the war could not continue much longer. You will remember me to mother & all other friends & beleive me to be with the tenderest affection your O.E. RC (Ct: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 In a May 7 letter to Abigail, Ellsworth wrote of his joy on learning of the birth of their son: “I hope to hear it yet once more, & that from under your own hand, & that you will tell me also something about this new comer, how he looks & how he conducts. I hope he will not prove very troublesome especially nights, & that I shall find him a very good boy when I come. As to my other poor little boy I think much about him & more so as I suppose you are obliged pretty much to neglect him. If I was at home I should be very happy to divide the babies with you, at least the trouble of taking care of them for I fear you have more than your hands full.” Ellsworth Papers, CtHi. Oliver Ellsworth to Oliver Wolcott Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 23d. 1783. I hope you got safe home, & found your family well; & your self also in better health than is possible to be enjoyed in the fog of this city.


[Page 242]
208 April 23, 1783 Your recess from business, after long confinement, must, I think, af- foard you some pleasure, & to see the fruits of your labors, peace & in dependance, much more. Congress, since you left it, has ratifyed the provisional treaty & or dered the prisoners to be released, & also that the publick Horses & other now useless property be sold; & have passd the report on rev enue with the alteration of the duty on Salt to 5 Per Ct. & the Duty on all wines, except Mideira which stands at 12/90, to 6/90 of a Dollar. We hear nothing more yet of the Definitive Treaty. Late private letters from Europe mention that preliminaries were not signed by the Dutch, but that they had at last reed, such offers from the british as the french court advised them to accept & there was no doubt but they would, also that they had appointed a Mr Van Bercle, their Am bassador to these States. A letter has been reed, from Mr. Dana at Pe tersburg of the 15th of Jany. He had not then assumed a publick character nor made any advances towards a treaty of commerce, nor indeed could make any to purpose till he should first pave the way according to the nigardly custom of that court, with about £10,000 Sterlg in presents to her ministers. He also thot. it very probable that a war would take place between Russia & the Porte, on account of the Khan of the Crimea who had been deposed by the Tartars of that Independancy. Sir Guy Carleton has written to Congress to appoint a person to at tend at N York to see the 7th article of the treaty relating to American property duly observed, as he expects soon to begin an embarcation. The Tories are mostly gone from there to Nova-Scotia, cursing their King all the way. I enclose you some newspapers & two letters brot. for you by the last eastern post. Col. Dyer I suppose is well—with Mrs. Trumbul & his new Span 1 & Doct. Holton as an aid, he set off last Saturday for an air ing to Wilmington & is not yet returned. I shall be happy to hear from you. With Compliments to Mrs. Wol cott & your two Daughters, I am, Dear Sir, with much esteem, your obedt. Huml. Servt. Oliv Ellsworth RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Jr., Papers). 1 That is, a pair of horses. OKI). Arthur Lee to Abigail Adams Dear Madam, In Congress April 23d. 1783 I arrivd in Philadelphia this day 1 & had the honor of receiving your Commands of the 9th. Tho’ we were exceedingly desirous of the assi- tance of Mr. Adams in what yet remains to be done in Europe; yet his


[Page 243]
April 23, 1783 209 Letters were so pressing, that the Committee to whom they were re- ferrd coud not resist reporting in favor of his resignation. Congress have not yet considerd that report; but I think, Madam, you may rely upon it, that leave will be given as he requests. 2 I shall participate with you in the pleasure of his return, after so long a sacrifice as he has made to the peace & prosperity of His Coun try. Her gratitude will I hope never forget, the essential services he has renderd. A french frigate, that left France, the beginning of March, arrivd here two days since; but did not bring one line for Congress. We learn however, that the general Treaty was not then settled. I have the honor to be with the truest sentiments of respect & es teem, Dear Madam, Yr. most Obedt. & most humbl. Servt. Arthur Lee RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For Lee’s recent trip to Virginia and return to Philadelphia, see James Madison to Edmund Randolph, April 1, 1783, note 5. 2 Congress had considered the committee’s report on April 1, but had postponed ac cepting John Adams’ resignation, for which see James Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 1, note 7. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesday April 23. [1783] 1 The resolution permitting the soldiers to retain their arms was passed at the recommendation of Genl. Washington. See letter in the files. 2 The resolution for granting furloughs or discharges was a compro mise 3 between those who wished to get rid of the expence of keeping the men in the field, and those, who thought it impolitic to disband the army whilst the British remained in the U. S. 4 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 6:486. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote: “Teus Api. 22, see Journal.” 2 That is, Washington’s April 18 letter to Congress recommending that the “non Commissd Officers and Soldiers [be permitted] to take with them as their own property, and as a Gratuity, the Arms and Accoutrements they now hold,” which is in PCC, item 152, 11:219-226; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:330-34. 3 For the adoption of these resolutions, see JCC, 24:269-70. See also Madison’s Notes, May 20, 1783. 4 Following this paragraph, Madison made only the following brief entries in his notes before May 5. “Api. 24. See Journal. “Friday 25 Api. {No Congress.) “Saturday April 26. Address to States passed nem. con. [It was drawn up by Mr. Madi son: The address to Rd. Isd. referred to as No. 2 had been drawn up by Mr. Hamilton.] “The writer of these notes absent till Monday May 5th.” It is clear from the physical evidence that the remarks printed here in brackets con cerning the “Address” to the states were inserted by Madison at a later date.


[Page 245]
April 23, 1783 211 1 See ibid., p. 155; and JCC, 24:241-43. 2 On April 24 Congress did refer Sir Guy Carleton’s April 14 letter to General Wash ington with the directive “that he take such measures for carrying into effect the several matters therein mentioned, as to him shall seem expedient.”/CC, 24:274. 3 Egbert Benson, acting under instructions from Governor Clinton, had journeyed to Philadelphia to brief the New York delegates on his recent conference with Sir Guy Carleton concerning the evacuation of New York City. Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:134-35, 139-44. 4 Floyd also wrote another letter to Clinton this date, of which only the following ex tract survives: “The Principle part of the Business which particularly kept me here so long is now got through [i.e., the revenue plan adopted April 7S], and will in a few days be officially transmitted to your Excellency by the President.” Burnett, Letters, 7:142n. And on April 29, just before leaving Philadelphia, he wrote the following note to Clinton: “Please to pay unto Mr. Egbert Benson the Sum of One hundred and fifty Dollars and Charge the Same to the account of Sir your most Obedt. and humble Servt., Wm. Floyd.” Doheny Collection, CCamarSJ. Richard Peters to Baron Steuben My dear Sir 23d Api. 1783. I have received your Plan 1 & so far as I have had Time to attend to it I am much pleased with it. I have only given it a cursory reading & there being a Comittee to consider of Peace Arrangements I have taken the Liberty to give your Scheme to a Member of that Commit tee. 2 This Gentleman will make a discreet Use of it & return it to me. I hope you will not be displeased with my Conduct. I fear there will be much Difficulty in the Business of the Army as our Means of Sending them Home satisfied are small tho our Wishes are favourable & sincere. Our Circumstances afford an odd Contrast to those we have heretofore experienced. The Difficulty which hereto fore oppress’d us was how to raise an Army. The one which now em barrasses is how to dissolve it. Every thing Congress can do for the Sat isfaction of our deserving Soldiers will be done. But an empty Purse is a Bar to the Execution of the best Intentions. We have just under Con sideration a Plan for establishing a Mint. All we want to put it in Exe cution is the necessary Metal. But this you will no Doubt think a trifling Impediment. Justice to our Creditors & alacrity in paying Taxes are the best Mines we can spring. But I fear we have not yet found the Vein in which those precious Ores are lodged. I have no material News. A Frigate arrived yesterday from France but she brings Nothing but some Communications about Business except an Account from the French Ministry that the Definitive Treaty is in Train the Prelimi naries being transmitted to the mediating Powers more by Way of Compliment than from any Apprehensions of Difficulties flowing from them. On the contrary—the Compte de Vergennes writes to Monsr la Luzerne that no Obstacles will be in the Way of a happy Con-


[Page 246]
212 April 23, 1783 elusion of the great Work. Holland had not concluded her Treaty the 24th of Feby but Matters were in the fairest Train of adjustment. Yours very affectionately, Richard Peters RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 For Steuben’s “Projet” and “Observations Generales” on the establishment of mili tary academies, see PCC, item 38, fols. 443-67. In the undated letter to Peters enclosing the plan, Steuben explained that he had been prompted to draft it as a result of a query from General Washington, soliciting his “sentiments on a peace establishment,” in re sponse to a letter from Alexander Hamilton, for which see Committee of Congress to Washington, April 9, 1783; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:315-16. The plan Steuben sent to Washington on April 21 is in the Washington Papers, DLC, for an analy sis of which see John M. Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven, Conn.: Yale University Press, 1937), pp. 308—10. 2 This committee, mentioned in the preceding note, consisted of Alexander Hamil ton, chairman, Oliver Ellsworth, James Madison, Samuel Osgood, and James Wilson. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia April 23d. 1783. Congress on the 18th instant completed their Resolution for recom mending to the several States to pass Laws for granting an Impost, an Excise, and to change an Article of the Confederation—a Copy of which we do ourselves the Honor to enclose. 1 To produce this in its present Form has been a Work of Time. It has engaged the Attention of Congress chiefly, since the commencement of the Year everything has been suggested and done to endeavor to take off the Objections, and render it palable to the several States which could be done consistently with a fixed Determination of preserving to Congress a Power to Collect and Appropriate the Revenues; the latter is restrained to particular Objects, and the whole limited as to Time. It would have been less exceptionable to us, had the Officers for collecting the Revenues been under the Controul as well as the Ap pointment of the State; And we conceive the Appointment of Offi cers for Twenty-five Years incompatible with the Constitution of the State, which requires all Officers to be chosen annually. We are also at a loss to reconcile the Idea of Appointing Officers; which when made immediately become independent of their Makers, with the Principles of Liberty. But we are happy that it will be submitted to the Consideration of an Assembly, whose Deliberations on former Occasions have been marked with wisdom, and discovered a thorough knowledge of their Constitutional Rights, as a most striking and honorable Testimony of which we appeal to the difference between the present and former Resolution on this Subject.


[Page 247]
April 23, 1783 213 If it should be the Opinion of the Assembly to adopt the Resolution generally, we take the Liberty to mention that a Deviation so far as re lates to the Controul of the Officers may be made, with a probability of its being acquisced in—by Congress; and if this was to be done in the New-England States, it would be a grand additional guard to the Rights of the States—a matter of the highest Importance, and which requires to be kept in constant view. During the Time the Resolution was maturating, a Land-Tax of 6/, 3/ and 1/6 per hundred Acres was proposed and much contended for to make a part of the Act, but it met with such warm Opposition from the Western and largely Landed States, as prevented its being in serted and the Delegates from some of them explicitly declared that they never would consent to a Land Tax of any kind, but what should be to their own separate Advantage. The Affair of the Western Lands is a Subject which begs to force the Attention of Congress. Memorials for Grants have been already pre sented, it must be necessary therefore soon to ascertain the Line be tween the United States, and the individual States. Virginia yet continues her tender to cede the Land North of Ohio with some restrictions and Conditions. And We expect Congress will Accept it. The Massachusetts and Connecticut States will be again addressed on the Subject of Ces sions, and also the Carolina’s. Georgia is curtailed by the Treaty in favor of Spain so as to be able to spare little or none of her territorial Claim. The definitive Treaty has not yet arrived; several matters are before Committees relative to Arrangements which are deemed necessary to adopt upon its Arrival—particularly the forming Treaties with the In dians (who have lately been troublesome on the Frontiers, and have kill’d & taken about Thirty of the Inhabitants near Fort Pitt) and the fixing Military and naval Establishments during a Peace. This last is a very important matter, and of which we shall give the earliest Advice, as soon as the Report is given in. The disbanding the Army, is a matter of great Consequence. Those inlisted during the War, are already impatient to be discharged. The want of Money in the public Treasury to satisfy their moderate Claims on being discharged is a perplexing Circumstance, and throws Congress into a very disagreeable Dilemma, and must cause them un avoidably to incur very considerable extra Expences. However, we have reason to rely on the wisdom and goodness of that directing Hand, which has hitherto led through every gloom, re moved every difficulty, and at length crown’d our Efforts and our wishes with Liberty and Independence to guide and direct us thro’ the present puzzling mazes in which we are involved. We are with the highest respect for your Excellency & the Honor able Assembly, Your Excellency’s Very humble servants, John Collins Jona Arnold


[Page 248]
214 April 24, 1783 RC (R-Ar Letters to Governors). In a clerical hand and signed by Collins and Arnold. 1 JCC, 24:256-63. See also Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. John Francis Mercer to Daniel Morgan Dear General Philadelphia April 24th. 1783. Colo. Wood dissapointed me & left Town without my answer to the favor which you did me the honor to write me some time since, & the casual conveyances which chance offers to your part of the Country have not compensated for his neglect. The change in our circumstances which the late pacification has made, will now permit the Secretary of War to carry into immediate Execution a Resolve of Congress directing him to furnish the medals, voted to those whose distinguished merit has drawn that mark of Ap plause & gratitude from their Country during the late War. 1 You may depend on my attention to yours, & if I have any talents at (which by the way I doubt extremely) it shall be aided by the assistance of those, whose imagination I esteem as elegant as correct & I hope will eventu ally produce what ought to equal your expectation from the hands you have committed it to, if it does not merit your approbation. A late communication from the Comte de Vergennes, gives us every reason to expect a speedy completion of the definitive Treaty. The paper however which I do myself the honor to enclose contains a very interesting debate. You will observe that the supplies are voted for the ensuing year upon the War establishment, & it is plainly to be discov ered that no orders had been sent to Sr. Guy Carleton for the evacua tion of NYork, on the 3d of March. This corroborating suspicions which a studied ambiguity of expression & marked reserve in the com munications of that Officer had before suggested—it will become a very serious step our compliance with the stipulations of the provi sional Treaty on our part, particularly that Article which directs the liberation of Prisoners, the performance of which Sr. Guy presses with incessant ardor. The reinforcement of so formidable a force as they now hold in the heart of our Country with 6 or 8000 Men, woud be a perilous measure in the present disorder’d nay distracted state of our political systems. If we find that they hover over us to seize the first advantage which the paroxisms of dissapointment & disgust will occasion, it will then require every exertion of the real patriots to strengthen the hands of Government relaxed to a degree that borders on anarchy. The Councils of the United States are devoted to the grand objects of satisfying the demands of the Army & those public Creditors whose Zeal & confidence have animated them to exertions ruinous to themselves altho’ contributing to the preservation of Amer ica. If they are properly supported, Union & harmony may spring


[Page 250]
216 April 28, 1783 I have the Honor of inclosing a Letter from the Commander in Chief,2 which he has committed to my Care. We are in daily and anx ious Expectation of the Definitive Treaty, having been a long time without advices from our ministers abroad, our last Letters being dated in February. The terms of Peace give universal Satisfaction here, except the arti cle relative to English Debts, remaining silent, as to the time allowed our Citizens to make the payments. The situation of our Country— The property of the Whigs being in the Public Funds, not a farthing of which can be had—The great Losses from the depreciated money, and the stagnation of Trade for years past—make it absolutely neces sary that three or four years should be allowed, for this purpose, on giving security for the Debts. If an immediate payment should be re quired, it will cast our Merchants so entirely into the power of the British Creditors as to be very injurious to the interests of France. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect & Esteem, Your Ex cellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Sert, Elias Boudinot RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Boudinot. I That is, Matthias Ogden, colonel of the First New Jersey Regiment, whose April 16 request for “leave to go to Europe” had been granted by Congress on April 21. See JCC, 24:263; and PCC, item 78, 17:353-56. 2 For Washington’s April 23 letter to Franklin, introducing Claude, baron de L’Estrade, who had served with the French forces at Yorktown, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:354-56. Daniel Carroll to Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Dear sr. Pha. Api. 28th. 1783 Your favor of the 25th Instant is just come to hand—please to apply to Mr Calhoun for yr Shoes to whom I shall forward them by next Wednesdays Stage. By this opportunity I have requested the G & C to apply for £150 in the manner you have mentiond. I flatter myself means may be procur’d on my return for what may remain due on the order. Measures are taking for a supply of three months pay to the Army— which I think promise success as the financier will remain I Believe in office untill the arrangements for that purpose are made & com- pleated. The 6 Milin of Livres and more are anticipated. The State in my opinion would suffer a material injury, if the System of each State paying their own line, was adopted. It is now certain we have been much overrated. But there are still more material objections. An Ad dress is agreed to by Congress to accompany the System of finance. It will probably be down the beginning of next week—to that I beg leave to refer you. 1


[Page 259]
April, 1783 225 and have urged that Instructions should be given to enter into no treaty nor even Conversation on the Subject. Dana might have fin ish’d a very advantageous one long ago, but for the French Minister, whom he was bound to obey. Every opposition from the same quarter was made to Mr. Adams in Holland, and it was their Policy which so exceedingly embarrassed Mr. Jay at the Court of Madrid. In a word, it is clear, by the advices from all our Ministers, except Dr. F that they oppose our Connection with any power but themselves. They meant to save us, but it was to themselves and for their own use. We are now told that they are justly entitled to a Monopoly of our To bacco Trade—that ‘tis the smallest Compensation we can make for their kindness and their Expence in saving us—and that their Farmers have made Arrangements, counting on the Benefits to arise from this exclusive Trade. But shall we give ourselves up to the Devil in this manner? Shall we neglect to avail ourselves of the Advantages within our Reach? Shall the Great Council of America discover less knowledge and less Virtue than their Servants have done in every line and every Character? Shall they at this stage of the business be the first to betray or relinquish the Interest of their Country? God forbid! For the honor of America, I hope it cannot happen. Our true Interest consists in avoiding too close a Connection with any Nation, and by pacific perseverance to derive commercial Benefits from all. And I trust there is still a Major ity in Congress who think with me, and who, preferring the Interest of this Country, to that of any other, will pursue those measures that promise the advancement of it. 1 Tr (PRO: C.O. 5, 110:205-10; and P.R.O. 30/55 [Carleton, or British Headquarters, Pa pers], No. 8492). This letter was sent (with extracts of three others) by Sir Guy Carleton to Lord North in a letter of August 1, 1783. Carleton also sent a similar one of August 5 (apparently from Higginson to Nathaniel Gorham) to Lord North on August 29. Al though the British had captured a number of letters from congressional delegates dur ing the war which were transmitted to England, these five were probably not inter cepted but supplied by the writer. They were written over a period of four months, and share a strongly pro-British and anti-French point of view suggesting common author ship, one that is almost precisely mirrored in Higginson’s letter to Theophilus Parsons of April 7-10? 1783. The letters enclosed in Carleton’s August 1 letter to North are printed in this volume under the heading Stephen Higginson? to Unknown. The first three extracts are dated only “April,” “May," and “May.” The fourth, dated July 21, 1783, concludes with the following arresting observation that makes strikingly clear Higgin son’s frustration with French influence in America and determination to help Ameri cans realize that their future interest lay in restoring good relations with Britain. “The Interest of America and Britain are so clearly one in my mind, that their joint Efforts should be exerted in opposition to the French. Without this, there is great Danger that, thro’ the medium of unprincipled Individuals in the States, the Interest of America and Britain will be highly injured. I should not therefore hesitate at taking an active part in concert with them, so far as our Interest and theirs should coincide.” 1 For the next in this series of letters that Carleton sent to North, see Higginson? to Unknown, May 1783.


[Page 260]
226 May 4, 1783 Thomas FitzSimons to John Dickinson Sir, May 4. 1783 I have the honor to hand to Councill an Act of Congress passed the 1st Inst. & I hope in a few days, other Measures will be adopted to give farther satisfaction to the state upon Indian-Affairs. 1 I have the honor to be, Yr Excellys Mo Obdt hble servt, Thos. FitzSimons RC (NN: United States Congress Collection). 1 President Dickinson had directed Pennsylvania’s delegates on April 3 to urge Congress to make peace “without loss of time ... with all the Indian nations,” and, in re sponse to continued reports of casualties incurred in clashes with the Indians on the state’s frontiers, he repeated the instruction on April 28. For Dickinson’s letters, see PCC, item 69, 2:435-38, 447-50; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:25, 45 (where they are dated April 4 and 29 respectively); and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, April 2-5, 1783, note 6. The enclosed May 1 resolve, directing the secretary at war to “take the most ef fectual measures to inform the several Indian Nations, on the frontiers of the United States, that Preliminary articles of peace have been agreed on and Hostilitys have ceased with Great Britain,” is in JCC, 24:319-20. Virginia Delegates to Bernardo de Galvez Sir Philada. May 4th. 1783 We have the honor of Enclosing to your Excellency a Resolution of the General Assembly of our State, by which your Excellency will see that the Accounts of Mr. Oliver Pollock, are Liquadated, and the bal ance put into a due Course of payment. 1 We think it proper to give your Excellency this Information for the benefit of such of the subjects of the King of Spain as are in Posses sion of the Bills drawn by the said Mr Pollock on Penette, Dacosta, Freres & Co. These Bills will be paid agreeable to the Inclosed Re solve, upon thier being presented at the Treasury of Virginia. We beg leave to recommend Mr Pollock to your Excellency’s protec tion, as one who has suffer’d much and who has discharged his duty both to the Publick & to his Creditors with Zeal & Integrity. We have the honor to be with sentimen[ts] of the highest respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedient and Humble Servts. { Arthur Lee Theok. Bland Ir J. Madison Jur. John F. Mercer delegates in Congress from the State of Virginia.


[Page 261]
May 6, 1783 227 Tr (Archivo General de Indias: Cuba, legajo 2370). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:9-10. 1 For this December 27, 1782, Virginia resolution and a review of the state’s efforts to settle Pollock s claims against it, see ibid., pp. 8—9, 10—12. On an earlier attempt to settle Pollock’s accounts as commercial agent for Congress and Virginia in New Orleans, see also John Hanson to Estevan Miro, October 31, 1782, note 1. In the meantime, Pollock had again presented a memorial and his accounts against the United States to Congress on February 24, 1783. They were assigned to a committee chaired by Thomas FitzSimons that reported March 26. Considering the report on April 10, May 1 and 2, Congress ordered Robert Morris to pay Pollock that portion of his ac count that could be authenticated as soon as “finances will permit.” On May 1 Congress also allowed Pollock $5,000—half the sum he requested—for his five years of service as agent at New Orleans and on May 30 appointed him as an unsalaried U.S. commercial agent at Havana. See JCC, 24:234-38, 266, 318, 323, 372, 376-77; and Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:385n.2. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Monday May 5. [1783] Mr. Bland & Mr. Mercer moved to erase from the Journal the reso lution of Friday the 2d instt. applying for an addition of three Millions to the grant of six millions by H. M. Xn Majesty, as in part of the loan of four Millions requested by the Resolution of Sepr. 14. 1782. 1 As the resolution of the 2d had been passed by fewer than nine States, they contended that it was unconstitutional. The reply was that as the three Millions were to be part of a loan heretofore authorized, the sanction of nine States was not necessary. The motion was negatived. The two movers alone voting in the affirmative. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:14. 1 For these resolutions, see JCC, 23:577-79, 24:325-26. 2 In addition to Theodorick Bland and John Francis Mercer, Benjamin Hawkins also supported this motion. JCC, 24:328-29. Elias Boudinot to the States Sir, (Circular) Philadelphia May 6th 1783 I have the honor of inclosing to your Excellency a certified Copy of an Act of Congress, of the 2d Instant. 1 The universal importance of the Object, and the true interests of the United States in general & your State in particular, being so obvi ously ingaged in support of this recommendation, make it unneces sary to add any arguments to inforce the attention of your State to so desirable a Subject. I have the Honor &c, E. B.


[Page 268]
234 May 6, 1783 nified its acquiescence in the limits fixed by the provisional articles be tween the U. S. & G. B. The navigation of the Mississippi remains to be discussed. Yesterday was fixed for an interview between Genl. W. and Sr. G. Carlton for the purpose of taking arrangements for carrying the stipu lations of the provisional articles into effect. The interview was pro posed by the former, who intimated that as the evacuation of the post of N. Y. was particularly interesting to the State of N. Y, Govr. Clinton would accompany him on the interview. The answer of Carlton im puted that he did not decline the proposition, but suggested that as Genl. Gray was expected with final orders it might be best to postpone the conference; adding that he should be attended by Lt. Govr. Elliott and Chief Justice Smith. The sample you give of the new Assembly is a flattering one. The plan of revenue with an address & sundry documents enforcing it is in the press & will soon be ready for them. Mr. Jones proposes to set out this evening, & will make but a very short stay at home. Mr. Lee enters on his journey tomorrow & proceeds without a halt to Richmond. 3 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:20-21. i See ibid., 6:499-500. 2 That is, the ceasefire proclamation drafted by Robert R. Livingston that Congress adopted on April 11. 3 Arthur Lee did not leave Philadelphia until May 12, for which see Madison to Ran dolph, May 13, note 1. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir Philadelphia 6th May 1783 We have not any thing material to communicate. General Washington & Sir Guy Carleton were to meet on yesterday at Tappan, in consequence of a Resolve of Congress directing Genl Washington in Conjunction with the Secretary at War to enter on proper Arrangements for the restoration of prisoners and the Evacua tion of the several posts in possession of the British in the united States. 1 From Sir Guy Carletons Letter to the Genl, it appears that Sir Charles Gray is hourly expected with the final Orders, from the british Ministry. We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys & Honors most Obedt. Servts. Dani. Carroll Wm. Hemsley


[Page 269]
May 6, 1783 235 RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Hemsley and signed by Hemsley and Carroll. 1 See Maryland Delegates to Paca, May 13, note 1. Richard Peters to Baron Steuben My dear Sir, 6th May 1783 You continue to complain I find by Mr Depentiere that I do not write to you. I thought you knew me better than to expect it. Shall I be perpetually telling a Man I have an Esteem for that my Respect & Af fection for him continues. This would be supposing such reiterations necessary & this I will not suppose. As to your Plans I have received them & have given them to the Committee for Peace Establishments. 1 You know how much I value all your military Opinions & therefore I need not tell you that I find much to commend in this. But if I were to go into the Details my Answer would be wordy & possibly not well grounded. All of them will not be adopted but they will furnish very respectable Parts of any Building we may erect. We are all well at Belmont. I wish you & your Neighbours at Camp were as well satisfied. It is the Thing nearest my Heart that the Army should be satisfied. Every thing in the power of Congress is doing but how our plans will succeed a short Time will determine. Yours afftely, Richard Peters RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 See Peters to Steuben, April 23, 1783, note 1. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. 6 May 1783. Your Excellency’s favor of the 25th Ulto 1 came duly to hand yester day. A commercial intercourse is under present circumstances carried on freely from other States with our late Enemy, and as far as an ad vantage can be drawn from it, Virginia must certainly be equally enti tled to share in it. Congress have reed, no further intelligence relative to the final treaty of peace, nor any other material intelligence from Europe. The plan to be recommended to the states for funding the national debt, has been at length concluded, and with the documents proper to explain & urge it, will be forwarded as soon as the whole can be duly prepared. We inclose your Excelly. a letter addressed to us from Coulougnac & Cie. representing their transactions with Penet. 2


[Page 270]
236 May 6, 1783 We have the honor to be with sentiments of due respect Yr. Exclly’s Obt. & hbl servts. J- Madison Jr. John F. Mercer Arthur Lee RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Lee, and Mer cer. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:17. 1 Not found. 2 Not found, but for the request of Coulignac et Cie to be reimbursed for military supplies ordered by Gov. Thomasjefferson on behalf of the state, see ibid., p. 17n.4. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 7th. 1783. I have duly reed, your Excellency’s several public dispatches of the 9th, 18th & 30t of Aprill and 3d May, all which have from time to time been laid before Congress. 1 We are without any farther advices from Europe than what your Ex cellency has already received, except that Compte De Vergennes in a Letter to the Minister of France of the 27th Febry,2 mentions that there are no difficulties in the Way of the definitive Treaty—that they were waiting for Answers from the Courts of Petersburgh & Vienna, as the Emperor & Empress had been invited to attend the signing of that Treaty in the Character of Mediation, I suppose as a Compliment. I shall be careful to transmit the first Intelligence we receive from Europe, without delay. I have the Honor to be with every Sentiment of regard & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. & very Hble Servt Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 11:211—14, 219—26, 237—40, 249—52; and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:308, 330-34, 370, 398-400. 2 Vergennes’ February 27 letter to the chevalier de La Luzerne is in Archives du Min istere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondence politique, Etats-Unis, 23:188—90. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir Philadelphia May the 7th 1783 I have once more to Inform you of a small delay in the Trial of your Cause in my Next hope to Acquaint you with a favourable Issue. I had pushed the matter to the Extreem to prevent Judge Griffins resigna-


[Page 279]
May 13, 1783 245 An interview has been had between General Washington & Sir Guy Carleton at Orange-town, for sundry purposes relating to the execu tion of the 7 th article of the provisional treaty. Every assurance is given by the Latter that New York with Penobscot shall be evacuated as soon as the Shipping necessary for that purpose can be procured, which he has sent for. Commissioners on the part of the United States are ap pointed to superintend, with others on the part of the british, the em barkation, to prevent any property being carried away which by the treaty is stipulated to be left. It is not probable that our Army will dis band till the embarkation takes place. The Army are like to be furnished with three months pay at the time of disbanding. Part of it must be a paper anticipation. M r Morris will continue in office until the engagements necessary to be entered into for that purpose shall be discharged. The troops of the southern Army composing the Pennsylvania, Maryland & Virginia Lines are sent for to be brought into their respective States, in order to their being discharged. Congress are now busyed in reducing as fast as may be the publick expenditures, & selling the necessary peace arrange ments. A plan of revenue for funding the publick debt, which has taken up much time in Congress, will be immediately forwarded for the consideration of the States, accompanied with the documents nec essary to give information relating to that important subject. 2 As was natural to expect at the close of so long a war, we find a considerable debt on our hands, which, all will agree, it much concerns our na tional Character & prosperity to provide for, how various so ever may be the opinions as to the mode of doing it. It is, I think, Sir, also of much importance at this time that the accounts of the several States with the United States should be liquidated & brought to an equitable adjustment. Unless this is done it will be impossible to preserve mu tual confidence & a good understanding among them, or to obviate the objections which almost every one in its turn makes against com plying with the requisitions necessary for the common interest & safety. Commissioners for liquidating those accounts are now gone & going into the States. The necessary instructions to the one nomi nated for Connecticut, I understand by Mr Morris, are sent forward, & hope, if he is approved by the State, he will be able immediately to proceed to business. 3 We are not yet, Sir, favoured with the definitive treaty of peace, which is now daily expected. The completion of it is supposed to have been somewhat delayed to consult the approbation of the Emperor of Germany & the Emperess of Russia, who particularly interested them selves in the restoration of a general peace. By the enclosed paper your Excellency will perceive that another change has taken place in the british ministry. Not seeming in a hu mour to be satisfied, that fickle nation one day sacrifices a premier


[Page 280]
246 May 13, 1783 for continuing the war, & the next day another for putting an end to it. The truth perhaps is, that Great Britain, not having been able to accomplish her purposes either by figting or treating, finds it more convenient to charge the failure on a dificiency in her ser vants, than to acknowledge, what the world perceives to be the case, a deficiency in her resources & power. It is no secret that her debt is so increased as to require, together with her peace establishment, a million & a half annually more than her revenue amounts to. This circumstance alone made it necessary for her at all events to pur chase peace—and will probably be a sufficient security for her good behaviour for a long while yet to come. Neither the safety of this country, or the ballance & peace of Europe requires that Great Britain should be at all more reduced than she in fact is. And it is by avoiding that distraction of counsels & corruption of manner which have brought her down that America can hope to rise; or long enjoy the blessings of a revolution which under the auspices of Heaven she has gloriously compleated. I am informed by Col°. Dyer that he expects Judge Huntington will soon come forward to Congress to releive him. I have to request, Sir, that some Gentleman of the Delegation may also soon come forward to releive me. I expect to be under the necessity of returning in the month ofjune at farthest. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect & consideration, Your Excellency’s most obed 1, humb 1 Serv 1. Oliver Ellsworth. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to Trumbull, April 12, 1783. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. 3 That is, William Thompson, who had been nominated to the post upon the resigna tion of Melancton Smith, and was approved by the Connecticut Assembly during its May 1783 session. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:441, 450. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philada. May 13. 1783. (Marbois lately took occasion in our family 1 to complain of ungen erous proceedings of the British against individuals as well as against their enemies at large and} 2 finally signified that {he was no stranger to the letter transmitted to Congress which he roundly avered to be spurious. His information came from Boston} where the (incident is said to be no secret} but (whether it be the echo of letters from Philadelphia or has transpired from the correspondence of Mr. Adams to his private friends is} uncertain. 3 This (conversation passed during my absence in New Jersey but was related to me by Mr. Carrol.


[Page 281]
May 13, 1783 247 A project for a treaty of commerce with Britain has been reported by Secretary foreign affairs and is now in the hands of a committee. 4 The objects most at heart are first a direct trade between this country & the West Indies. Second a right of carrying between the later and other parts of the British empire. Thirdly a right of carrying from West Indies to all other parts of the world. As the price of these} ad vantages, jit is proposed that we shall admit British subjects to equal privileges with our own citizens. As to the 1st object it may be ob served that the bill lately brought in British parliament renders it probable that it may be obtained without such a cession.} As to the {sec ond that it concerns eastern states} cheifly and {as to the third that it concerns them alone.} Whilst the {privilege to be ceded} will cheifly if not alone {affect the southern states.} The interest of these {seems to require that they should retain at least the faculty of giveing any} en couragement {to their own merchants ships or mariners which may be necessary to prevent relapse under scotch monopoly or to} acquire {a maritime importance.} The {eastern states need no such precaution.} Genl. Washington & Genl. Carlton have had an interview on the subject of arrangements for executing the provisional Treaty. It was in terrupted by the sudden indisposition of the latter. In the conversa tion which took place he professed intentions of evacuating New York & all the posts in the U.S. held by British Garrisons as soon as possi ble, but did not authorize any determinate or speedy expectations. He confessed that a number of Negroes had gone off with the Refugees since the arrival of the Treaty, and undertook to justify the permission by a palpable & scandalous misconstruction of the Treaty, and by the necessity of adhering to the proclamations under the faith of which the Negroes had eloped into their service. He said that if the Treaty should be otherwise explained, compensation would be made to the owners and to make this the more easy, a register had been & would be kept of all Negroes leaving N.Y. before the surrender of it by the British Garrison. This information has been referred by Congs, to a Committee. 5 But the progress already made in the discharge of the prisoners, the only convenient pledge by which fair dealing on the other side could be enforced, makes it probable that no remedy will be applied to the evil. I have sent Mr. Randolph a pamphlet comprehending all the papers which are to be laid before the States relative to the National debt &c. and have desired him to let you have the reading it. 6 The fewness of the copies made it impossible for me to get one for each of you. I am Dr Sir your sincere friend, J Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:39-40. 1 That is, Madison’s fellow boarders at the lodgings of Mrs. Mary House, among whom was Daniel Carroll mentioned by Madison at the end of this paragraph.


[Page 282]
248 May 13, 1783 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in a variation of the of ficial Virginia cipher. 3 For speculation on the circulation in Massachusetts of the marquis de Barbe-Mar- bois’ intercepted letter of March 13, 1782, critical of the American peace ultimata, see ibid., p. 40n.2. See also Madison’s Notes of Debates, December 24, 1782. 4 See Madison’s Notes of Debates, May 6, note 3. 5 Washington’s letter of May 8 enclosing copies of his correspondence with Sir Guy Carleton and the “Substance of the Conference” they held on May 6 had been referred on May 12 to a committee of three chaired by Madison which apparently returned the documents to Charles Thomson on May 21 without reporting. See JCC, 24:340n.l; PCC, item 152, 11:253-74, item 186, fol. 101; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:402-6,408-9,410-12. 6 For this pamphlet, see Elias Boudinot to the States May 9, 1783, note 1. James Madison to Edmund Randolph Dear Sir Philada. 13. May. 1783. By Mr. Lee who set out yesterday afternoon I sent you a pamphlet col lecting into one view all the acts & documents relative to the National debt &c, which Congress have prepared for the Legislatures. 1 For still more minute information on the subject, I refer you to Mr. Jones who is now on his way to Virga, and will be at Richmond a few days after Mr. Lee. I refer you to him rather than to the latter gentleman because the task will coincide more with his sentiments as to the measure. Genl. Washington & Genl. Carlton have had an interview on the subject of the provisional treaty which was interrupted by the indispo sition of the latter. It wd. seem from the conversation which passed that altho’ a sincere intention is professed of evacuating N.Y. & all the other posts, the time at which it may be expected is very uncertain; and that a shameful evasion of the article for restoring the slaves will be practiced. Carlton did not deny that numbers of them were going off from N.Y. and attempted to justify the indulgence by a most outra geous misconstruction of the Treaty; and by the [professed?] necessity of adhering to the tenor of the proclamations under which the Ne groes had resorted within the British lines. He said that in case a dif ferent construction of the Treaty sd. be established a compensation would be made to the suffering owners, and that the precaution of keeping Registers of all Negroes which should leave N.Y. would be ac cordingly observed. An ominous sample of candor & good faith in our New friends! We have no further advices of the definitive Treaty. The sweets of peace begin to be amply enjoyed notwithstanding its delay. All foreign commodities have fallen to a price, almost below example, whilst the produce of the Country has proportionally risen beyond former prices. Salt is already down at 'A Dr. per bushel & wheat up at 8/. per do. I hope a removal of all legal obstacles to a share of these blessings,


[Page 283]
May 13, 1783 249 will claim the first attention of the Assembly. Their proceedings on that & other matters will furnish you with ample means I trust for re suming your correspondence as soon as your forensic labours will admit of a respite. With great affection I am Dr. Sir Yr. fr[i]end & Sert. J. Madison Jr. [PS.] The letter from the Govr. signifies that the territorial cession of Virga, has been revoked. Is this the fact? Ascertain it & let me know. 2 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:42-43. 1 See Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783, note 1. 2 In his letter of May 3, 1783, Gov. Benjamin Harrison had mistakenly informed the delegates that the Virginia assembly had revoked its land cession of January 2, 1781, a mistake which he corrected in his letter of May 9. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:4, 30-31. See also Charles Thomson to Harrison, April 22, 1783. Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sir Philadelphia 13th May 1783 General Washington & Sir Guy Carleton had a meeting on the 5th instant; the interview was short, owing to Sir Guy being taken ill. The following is an extract of what passed between them. 1 With respect to the Evacuation of New York, Sir Guy Carleton informed the General that every preparation which his Situation & circumstances wou’d per mit was making. That an additional Number of transports, & which were expected, were necessary to remove the Troops & Stores. And as it was impossible to ascertain the time when the Transports wou’d ar rive, their passages depending on the Casualties of the Sea, he was therefore unable to fix a determinate period within which the British forces wou’d be withdrawn from the City of New York. But that it was his desire to exceed even our own wishes in this respect & that he was using every means in his power to effect with all possible dispatch an Evacuation of that & every other post within the United States occu pied by the British Troops under his direction. That he Considered as included in the preparations for the final departure of the Troops, the previously sendg. away those persons, who supposed that, from the part they had taken in the present War, it wou’d be most eligible for them to leave the Country, and that upwards of 6,000 persons of this Character had embarked & sailed—and that in this embarkation a number of Negroes were comprised. Genl Washington thereupon expressed his surprized, that after what appeared to him an express stipulation to the contrary in the treaty, Negroes the property of the Inhabitants of these States shou’d be sent off. To which Sir Guy Car leton replied, that he wished to be considered as giving no construc tion of the Treaty—That by property in the treaty might only be in-


[Page 289]
May 19, 1783 255 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:44. 1 Madison originally wrote only “Thursday May 15. See Journal,” and apparently after discovering that the journal did not mention the report later crowded this sentence into the small space available. For the report at issue, which had been submitted to Congress on May 8 and was taken up again on May 23, see Madison’s Notes, May 23, note 3. Elias Boudinot to John Searle Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia May 19th. 1783. I am honoured with your very polite & friendly Letter of the 3d Ultimo, by our worthy Friend Capt. Pintard, whose dangers & dis tresses on his Passage to this Place, I make no doubt will be fur nished you by himself. Your very affectionate & kind congratulations on the very happy State of our public Affairs & the establishment of our Indepen [den] cy & Sovereignty, are accepted in the most pleasing Terms & recipro cated with the warmest Affection. The Family here, feel most sensibly, the very singular Kindness & Hospitality with which their Friends Capt Pintard & his Family, have been honored by Mr & Mrs Searle for so long a series of Time, and of which they return the most lively remembrance. I have been very fortunate in preserving the two Pipes of Wine you were so kind as to ship for me by the Sea Nymph, and which I doubt not but will answer my highest Expectations. Our excellent Friend Mr L. Pintard will write you particularly of the remittance I have made by this Opportunity of 45 Barrells of flour, which he thinks may Ballance the acct. These were shipped before the Capt’s arrival, in order to ac complish the business which has been so agreeably anticipated by your kindness. Some of my Friends, Delegates in Congress have also sent for a few Pipes, which I hope you will be particularly careful to supply of the best Quality, as it will be a means of raising the Credit of your House in future here. Permit me Sir, in the most cordial manner to wish you every Bless ing this world can afford, and particularly those of the most perma nent & substantial nature. I must beg the favour of your honoring me by making my most re spectful Compliments [and] best wishes acceptable to your good Lady and my old Friend Miss Searle with all your agreeable Family, in all which My Dr Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan most sincerely join. I have the honor to be with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, D Sir, Your &c FC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. Endorsed: “To John Searle, May 19, 1783.”


[Page 300]
266 May 20, 1783 fiscated, We shall increase the number of Our Subjects, We shall de prive the British of their property & labours, & We shall perhaps take a good step to defeat the Views of the French. On the other hand if we prohibit their return, the sixth Article if complied with will deprive us of the whole of their property, the British will probably have the benefit both of their labours & Estates, & the French will have the greater means of creating uneasiness & distrust between us & Brittain. I have taken the liberty of throwing out these scattered thoughts on the Subject, and I flatter myself that if they should not coincide with yours, you will consider them as proceeding from an honest disposi tion to promote the public interest. I wish I had time to copy this Let ter, to write it fairer & to methodize in some degree my Ideas—your candor will apologize for me I know as I have not time. With respect I am Dr Sir you most humle Servt. S. Higginson Sir May 22. The report on the old money has been several times called up, but the disposition of Congress is clearly not to decide upon the matter at present 9 —nor will they come to any Question as to the former requis- tions & supplies. Every thing of the kind is opposed & by some means or other set aside. Many motions have been made since I have been here to bring forward Questions of that kind & have failed. The rules of Congress make it easy to get rid of disagreable motions. There are so many States that are delinquent, such a variety of Senti ments as to what is right or eligible, that I very much doubt whether any of those Questions will be ever settled. They seem to be afraid of promoting dissensions & uneasiness among the States by deciding on such Subjects, but I think much more danger will arise from a delay of such decissions. It has been Our intention to push them to some decis- sion as to the old money, but no good opening has presented since the business of finance has been finished, & while that was on the Table they would not attend to any other matter. We can not muster nine States above one day in a Week, there being but just nine States in Town. The Financier has given permission to Mr. Hillegas to receive the April & May money remaining in Our Treasury. Mr. Osgood has got with him the State of all the different emissions & can give you every information respecting the several situations of the States as to money matters. I am Sir respectfully yours &c. S. H. RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Higginson’s letters to George Cabot and Jonathan Jackson have not been found, but one to Theophilus Parsons has been printed above under the date April 7-10? 1783. 3 That is, Robert Morris. 4 That is, the fifth article of the preliminary treaty of peace with Great Britain, con cerning the restitution of loyalist property and their rights.


[Page 304]
270 May 20, 1783 public good will be ad[v]ocates for the plan. The greatest danger is to be apprehended from the difficulty of making the latter class sensible of the impracticability or incompetency of any plan short of the one recommended; the arguments necessary for that purpose being drawn from a general survey of the federal system, and not from the interior polity of the States singly. The letter from the Delegation by the last post to the Govr. appri[sed] the legislature thro’ him that negociations for a Treaty of Commerce with G. B. might be expected soon to take place and that if any instructions should be deemed proper no time ought to be lost in giving the subject a legislative discussion. For my own part I wish sincerely that the commercial interests of Virginia were thor oughly investigated & the final sense of the State expressed to its representatives in Congress. 4 The power of forming Treaties of Commerce with foreign nations is among the most delicate with which Congs, are intrusted, and ought to be exercised with all possible circumspection. Whilst an influence might be expected from them on the event or duration of the war, the public interest required that they should be courted with all the re spectable nations of Europe, and that nice calculations of their ten dency should be dismissed. The attainment of the object of the war has happily reversed our situation and we ought no longer to enslave ourselves to the policy of the moment. The State of this Country in re lation to the Countries of Europe, it ought to be observed, will be con tinually changing, and regulations adapted to its commercial & gen eral interests at present, may hereafter be directly opposed to them. The general policy of America is at present pointed at the encourage ment of Agriculture, and the importation of the objects of consump tion. The wider therefore our ports be opened and the more exten sive the privileges of all competitors in our Commerce, the more likely we shall be to buy at cheap & sell at profitable rat[es.] But in propor tion as our lands become settled, and spare hands for manufactures & navigation, multiply, it may become our policy to favor those objects by peculiar privileges, bestowed on our own Citizens; or at least to intro duce regulations inconsistent with foreign engagements suited to the pesent state of things. The relative situation of the different States in this respect is an other motive to circumspection. The variance of their policy & inter ests in the article of commerce strikes the first view, and it may with great truth be noted that as far as any concessions may be stipulated in favor of foreign nations they will cheifly be at the expence of those States which will share least in the compensations obtained for them. If for example, restrictions be laid on the Legislative right of the States to prohibit, to regulate or to tax as they please their imports & exports, & to give such preferences as they please to the persons or


[Page 305]
May 20, 1783 271 vessels employed in them, it is evident that such restrictions will be most felt by those States which have the greatest interest in exports & imports. If on the other side the Citizens of the U.S. should in return for such a stipulation be allowed to navigate & carry, in forbidden channels, is it not equally evident [that] the benefit must fall to the share of those States which export & consume least, and abound most in resources of ships & seamen. Nor should it be overlooked that as uniform regulations of the Commerce of the different States, will so differently affect their {differ ent) several interests, such regulations must be a strong temptation to measures in the aggrieved States which may first involve the whole confederacy in controversies with foreign nations, and then in con tests with one another. I may safely suggest also to your ear, that a vari ety of circumstances make it proper to recollect that permanent en gagements entered into by the Confederacy with foreign powers, may survive the Confederacy itself, that a question must then arise how far such engagements formed by the States in their foederal character, are binding on each of them separately, and that they may become pre texts for quarrels with particular States, very inconvenient for the lat ter, or for a general intrusion into American disputes. On the other hand candor suggests that foreign connections, if founded on princi ples equally corresponding with the policy & interests of the several States might be a new bond to the foederal compact. Upon these considerations I think it would be advisable to form all our commercial Treaties in future with great deliberation, to limit their duration to moderate periods, & to restrain our Ministers from acceding finally to them till they shall have previously transmitted them in the terms adjusted, for the revision & express sanction of Congress. In a Treaty of Commerce with G. B. it may be the policy of Virga, in particular to reserve her right as unfettered as possible over her own commerce. The monopoly which formerly tyrannized over it, has left wounds which are not yet healed, 8c the numerous debts due from the people, & which by the provisional articles they are immedi ately liable for, may possibly be made instruments for reestablishing their dependence. It cannot therefore be for the interest of the State to preclude it from any regulations which experience may recom mend for its thorough emancipation. It is possible that experience may never recommend an exercise of this right, nor do my own senti ments favor in general, any restrictions or preferences in matters of commerce, but those who succeed us will have an equal claim to judge for themselves and will have further lights to direct their judgments. Nor ought the example of old & intelligent nations to be too far or too hastily condemned by an infant 8c inexperienced one. That of G. B. is in the science of commerce particularly worthy of our attention; And did she not originally redeem the management of her Commerce


[Page 308]
274 May 21, 1783 Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dr Sir, Philadelphia May 21st. 1783 I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency two Letters that have been committed to my Care. 1 Not a Word of News from Europe, but what is taken from the New York Papers. Have the Honor to be with great respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed & very Hble Servt. Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Perhaps the May 20 letters written by General Armand-Tuffin and Lt. Col. Jean-Bap tiste Ternant from Philadelphia concerning the latter’s claims to promotion, which are in the Washington Papers, DLC, and which Washington answered May 28. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:456-58. Eliphalet Dyer to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, May 21st, 1783 I have been Impatiently waiting some Weeks in hopes & expectation that some Gentleman in Delegation from the State of Connecticut would arrive to my relief, and with Mr. Ellsworth represent that State in Congress. I most Sincerely wish Connecticut & every other State to be represented; I wish the New England States to be represented; I wish they had not Suffered for want of a full representation. When I Consented to attend Congress the last time I understood it to be the mind of the Assembly that 3 should attend from that State in so Criti cal a season, but that has been the Case but for a little time in the Course of the Year. It is unhappy to have a State divided, which some times must be the Case when but two, or yield & Condescend the one to the other. It is very inconvenient that a Member cannot be absent, whatever the Occasion may be, but it leaves the State unrepresented. I have been urged, I have tarried, I have never heretofore left the State Unrepresented, tho it has frequently been done, & I believe to good satisfaction; but I begin to be Apprehensive that as long as I tarry no Gentn will come forward, for I believe no one is fond of being here, am therefore determined by the leave of Providence to set out on my return in a very few days. 1 I think I cannot be blaimed, I hope & trust I shall be excused, & as I expect to be at Hartford before the Assembly rises, renders it unnecessary for me to enlarge in this letter, and noth ing New of Importance to Communicate. Am, with the greatest Es teem and regard, Your Excellcy most Obedt, Hie Servt Elipht Dyer. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Dyer left Philadelphia on May 29. See Dyer to Thomas Shaw, June 3, 1783.


[Page 309]
May 21, 1783 275 Oliver Ellsworth to Benjamin Huntington Dear Sir, Philada. May 21. 1783. I expect to leave Congress next month at farthest & must call on you & Mr. Strong to agree between you which shall come forward to take a Seat—that the State may not be without a representation at a time when it is so indespensible as at the present. I have written to Mr. Strong 1 who I think has never taken a tour tho’ chosen a number of years; if his health will admit it perhaps he will have no objection to come forward at this time. You will how[ev]er please to confer with him & adjust the matter between you as shall be most convenient. Col. Dyer proposes to leave us next week & expects Mr. S. Huntington will soon be here in which I hope he will not be disappointed. 2 We have nothing material from Europe later than you have. Con gress are now busy in adjusting the necessary arrangements for peace & reducing as fast as may be the publick expenditures. I am Dr Sr. yr. obed. H Sert. Oliv Ellsworth RC (NRom: Huntington Autograph Collection). 1 Ellsworth’s letter to Jedediah Strong has not been found. 2 Dyer’s proposed return to Connecticut is also documented in the following brief let ter that Ellsworth wrote to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull on May 28. “I have to beg the favour of your Excellency, if it shall be consistant, that the neces sary orders may be given for forwarding to me by Jesse Brown or some other safe con veyance a sum not less than sixty pounds on account of my expences in attending Congress; which sum I shall probably have occasion for if as I fear will be the case I shall have to remain here to the last of June. “Colo. Dyer expects to set out tomorrow & will I hope reach Hartford before the as sembly rises.” Trumbull Papers, Ct. Nathaniel Gorham to Timothy Dwight Dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia May 21 1783 I was in great hopes to have seen you at Greenfield upon my return home—but I having been detaind rather longer than I expected and finding by conversation with Mr Simpkin that you would probably leave Greenfield about this time I in [c] lose to Mrs Dwight for you at North Hampton a pamphlet—containing the resolutions of Congress relative to finance—which when you have read I wish you to circulate among your friends. I hope you have by this time got ready an affirma tive answer to the Parish in Charlestown—but if not I hope Mrs. Dwight will be our advocate. I think she will form connections there at Boston, which will be very agreable. I wrote her a few lines on the subject—hope you & she will excuse hast—& be assured that I [am] your sincere friend & very humble servant, Nath Gorham


[Page 318]
284 May 27, 1783 here to judge of and take the Security, and draw Bills in my Favour for the Money. I am, with much Regard, dear Sir, Sincerely yours, James Wilson P.S. You will be good enough to write to me on the Subject of this Let ¬ ter as soon as possible, J.W. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742-1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 160-61. Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock Sir, Philadelphia, May 28th, 1783. We have not been inattentive to the letters of instructions which we have been honored with from the General Court respecting the old paper money, but have not been able to procure a determination of Congress upon the subject; for sometime past there has been only nine States represented in Congress, when all the members in town at tended, & by reason of indisposition of one Gentleman, & sometimes others not attending, that, when there has been nine states present, business of the greatest importance, press’d so hard, that it was diffi cult to determine, which ought to be attended to first; However, Mon day last was assigned for the further consideration of the matter, 1 but there not having been nine States represented, in Congress, since, it still lays as the order of the day, to be taken up as soon as there is a sufficient number present; And your Excellency and the Honorable Court may be assured of our greatest attention to the same, & we hope to be able to give you further information, upon this subject, be fore the end of the present session of the General Court. Agreeably to our instructions, we have the honor of inclosing, sev eral official accounts, respecting the emissions of continental money. 2 We have, with perfect respect, the honor to be, your Excellency’s most obedient servants, S. Holten Nath Gorham S. Higginson N.B. The accounts mentioned, above can’t be compleated before the post will sit out, but will be forwarded with our next. 3 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Holten, and signed by Holten, Gorham, and Higginson. 1 See JCC, 24:357-58. 2 Not identified. 3 See Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock, June 9, 1783.


[Page 319]
May 29, 1783 285 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir. Philadelphia May 28th. 1783. We have to acknowledge receipt of your Excellys. Letter of the 13th Instant. 1 From principle as well as to comport with the sense of Our Constituents, we should not fail to embrace the first, and every favorable Opportunity to obtain the Repeal of a Resolution so re pugnant in its Spirit (& Operation, if carried into effect), to those Principles, which form the Basis of Our Foederal Constitution—and which we believe would never have existed, had the Delegates of every State pursued the Instructions, or general Wishes of their Constituents. But the present time is unfavorable to attempt it, New Hampshire, is unrepresented—and whose Delegates, have ever been hearty in Opposition to it, Connecticut’s Delegation is not yet changed— which we have reason to hope would be a change in our favor; Those States—together with New Jersey, and Rhode Island, were the only ones which ever acted against such a Measure since our being in Congress. There have been for some time past but Eight States represented. This confines the business to a very narrow Circle, as a principal part of it which should now engage their Attention requires the voices of nine States. We have had no late advices from Europe, our last gave encourage ment of the Completing the definitive Treaty some time in April. With the highest respect for your Excellency and the Honorable As sembly, We have the honor to be Your very humble servants, John Collins Jona. Arnold RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Collins. 1 In the letter to the delegates printed under a May 10 date in Staples, Rhode Island, p. 440, Governor Greene explained the Rhode Island Assembly’s instructions directing them to seek repeal of Congress’ March 22 commutation resolution allowing Continen tal officers “whole pay” for five years in compensation for their “half pay” for life. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philadelphia 29th May 1783 I now forward by Mr. Darrach 12 Copies of the Recommendations of Congress, 1 for the use of the Delaware State. An additional number are order’d to be printed, of which our proportion will be sent for-


[Page 320]
286 May 29, 1783 ward when received. I also take the liberty to inclose to your Excel lency the News Papers of yesterday and to-day. A ship arrived last evening in 35 days fron France, but has brought no public dispatches. The Captain says he saw a fleet of Transports going into New york, to assist, as is supposed, in the evacuation of that City. He also says that he understood the Definitive Treaty was in great forwardness, and would be compleated in a very short time. On Monday last Congress came to a Resolution to give furloughs to the army, and the soldiers are permitted to take their arms with them, and are promised dis charges as soon as the definitive Treaty arrives. 2 As this Letter is writ ten in Congress where I am almost deafened with the noise of speak ers, your Excellency will excuse its inaccuracies. I am sir, your most obt. Servt, E. M:Comb. 3 RC (DLC: Nicholas Van Dyke Papers). 1 That is, the April 26 Address and Recommendation to the Stales, for which see Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. 2 See JCC, 24:364; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, May 26, 1783. 3 McComb also wrote the following note, addressed to “Mr. Solomon Maxwell, Chris tiana Bridge,” on May 28. “On the 29th March last a small Box and a Demy John, directed to Dr. James Ander son, of Chester Town, was forwarded to you. The box was by mistake put down as a Keg in the freight list, which it is probable has prevented its being sent on. The demy John has arrived safe, but there is no acount of the box. Be pleased to enquire into this mat ter, and if it is in your Store I wish it were return’d to Mr. Hollingsworth because I pre sume there are now no opportunities by land from Christiana to Chester Town.” Levi Hollingsworth Papers, PHi. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Thursday May 29. [1783] 1 The report of the Committee concerning the Interest on British debts was committed after some discussion. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:94. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote: ‘Tuesday 27 May. Wednesday 28 May. No Congress.” 2 For the origins of this report, which was originally drafted by Samuel Osgood and recommitted to a committee consisting of John Francis Mercer, Thomas FitzSimons, and Theodorick Bland on May 20 to “Report on a letter 19 March 1783 from Su- pr[eme] Execut[ive] of Pensylva. & resolutions of Assembly of Virginia” concerning stipulations in the preliminary peace treaty on the recovery of debts, see PCC, item 20, 2:153-56; item 186, fol. 103; and Madison’s Notes, March 20, note 1, May 19, note 2. For the adoption of the report’s recommendations “concerning Interest on British debts,” see Madison’s Notes, May 30, note 3.


[Page 321]
May 30, 1783 287 Ralph Izard to Arthur Middleton Dear Sir Philadelphia 30th. May 1783. By Mr. Beresford 1 I was favoured with your Letter of 15th instant; & he at the same time delivered me 320 Dollars from you. Your drafts in favour of Walker, & Reedle amount to no more than 260 Dollars; so that I am at a loss to know why you have [in the language of the Chief Magistrate of a very respectable State] 2 superadded Sixty Dollars: I shall however keep them, & be ready to pay them to your order. My House, you say, is in a very ruinous condition. And this, in spite of my Lares; those beautiful & elegant plaster-headed household Gods, who could have been posted on the outward Wall, for no other purpose, but that of affording protection. I hope it will not be incon sistent with the plan to be formed by you, and Dr. Drayton, to have them dismissed, the old bricks rubbed from the top of the House, to the bottom, & the interstices new pointed. My intention is to have a Piazza in each Front, & an Area sunk; to give light to the Offices under the House. I have written to London for a Carpenter, & Builder. If I am so fortunate as to get such a one as McKenzie, or Bernard Elliott had, he will be very serviceable, & save me a great deal of expence. I am sorry to learn that so many of your Negroes are still missing; & the more so, as I fear that it will not be an easy matter to re cover them. Sr. Guy Carleton has very explicitly given it as his opinion that the Negroes within the British Lines can not be claimed by virtue of the Preliminary Treaty, as property belonging to the Citizens of the United States, because they have been declared free by Proclamations, issued by Officers acting under the authority of the King of Great Britain. This is a most impudent evasion of the Treaty; & yet we are not in a condition to help ourselves. The conduct of the States re specting Revenue, has so totally annihilated all Continental Strength, & credit, that no Enemy need be afraid of insulting us. If the most Southern States do not in the course of a few years exhibit some melancholy proofs of the truth of this observation, I shall be greatly mistaken. The Delegates from those States which are most immedi ately interested in Carleton’s affected misconstruction of the Article in the Treaty, respecting the Negroes, have attempted everything in their power to obtain redress. A majority of Congress were afraid to make an express declaration that the British had violated it. It was said that a renewal of hostilities might be the consequence of such declara tion, & the case of General Burgoyne was adduced as a proof of the danger of declaring a Treaty broken. It is most certain that without money, and without credit we are by no means in a condition to con tinue the War: but bad as the British Ministry are, I can hardly think it


[Page 330]
296 June 1,1783 Those who consult only their passions might choose to construe what I say as too favourable to a set of men who have been the ene mies of the public liberty; but those for whose esteem I am most con cerned will acquit me of any personal considerations and will perceive that I only urge the cause of national honor, safety and advantage. We have assumed an independent station; we ought to feel and to act in a manner consistent with the dignity of that station. I anxiously wish to see every prudent measure taken to prevent those combinations which will certainly disgrace us, if they do not in volve us in other calamities. Whatever distinctions are judged neces sary to be made in the cases of those persons who have been in oppo sition to the common cause, let them be made by legal authority on a fair construction of the treaty, consistent with national faith and na tional honor. I have the honor to be with perfect respect, Yr. Excellency’s Most Obed servant [PS.] Your Excellency will have been informed that Congress have in structed General Washington to garrison the frontier posts when sur rendered with the three years Continental troops. 3 This is more for the interest of the state than to have them garrisoned at its particular expence—and I should wish that permanent provision might be made on the same principle. I wait to see whether any Continental peace es tablishment for garrisons &c. will take place before I engage the con sent of Congress to a separate provision. I cannot forbear adding a word on the subject of money. The only reliance we now have for redeeming a large anticipation on the pub lic credit already made and making for the benefit of the army is on the taxes coming in. The collection hitherto is out of all proportion to the demand—it is of vast consequence at this juncture that every thing possible should be done to forward it. I forbear entering into details which would be very striking upon this subject. I will only say that unless there is a serious exertion in the states public credit must ere long receive another shock very disagreeable in its conse quences. &c. FC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. 1 That is, of May 14. 2 In response to Hamilton’s letters and President Elias Boudinot’s June 3 appeal to the states then unrepresented in Congress, Governor Clinton wrote on June 9 to New York’s non-attending delegates—James Duane, Ezra L’Hommedieu, and John Morin Scott—concerning their obligation to keep the state represented. Clinton, Papers (Hast ings), 8:202-3. 3 See JCC, 24:337-39.


[Page 331]
June 3, 1783 297 Elias Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 2d 1783. The Bearer Dr. Waring 1 a Gentleman of exceeding good Connec tions in South Carolina, having served his Country very faithfully & honorably during the War, is about making a Voyage to Europe for his advancement in medical Science. At his earnest request, I must beg leave to introduce him to your Ex cellency, and to request your Notice of him, as one who has deserved so well of his Country, as to entitle him to the respect, of all its well wishers. I have the honor to be with every Sentiment of respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Sevt, Elias Boudinot RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). 1 Apparently Thomas Waring, who graduated from the medical school of the College of Philadelphia in 1783. See David Ramsay, Selections from His Writings, ed. Robert L. Brunhouse, Transactions of the American Philosophical Society, new ser., v. 55, pt. 4 (1965): 59n.l3. For the difficulties involved in identifying the various Thomas Warings of South Carolina, see Bio. Dir. ofS.C. House, 3:746n.59. Pennsylvania Delegates to the Pennsylvania Council 2June 1783. The Delegates of Pennsilvania present their respectful Compliments to The Honble Council & inform them that the Secretary at War is au thorized By Congress 1 to repair & deliver the New Prison to such Per son as Council shall please to appoint to receive Possession thereof. RC (PHarH: RG 27). In the hand of Richard Peters; the Pennsylvania delegates attend ing Congress at this time were Peters, Thomas FitzSimons, Thomas Mifflin, John Mont gomery, and James Wilson. 1 This congressional decision was not recorded in Secretary Charles Thomson’s journals. Elias Boudinot to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 3 June 1783 The great importance of the present conjuncture of affairs and the clamours of the good Citizens of these States from a want of business


[Page 332]
298 June 3, 1783 being perfected which requires the consideration and assent of Nine States, have obliged Congress again to press the attention of your State immediately towards the compleating the Representation of the United States in Congress. It is extremely humiliating to us, as well as disadvantageous to the union, that the public business is so retarded by the delinquency of many of the States in so momentous a concern. The greatest part of the business now before Congress, or which will be necessary previous to an adjournment, requires the assent of nine States; so that unless a fuller Representation can be accomplished, the most dangerous and destructive delays must unavoidably take place. It is in consequence of the most positive instructions of Congress 1 that I again trouble your Excellency on this subject, the importance of which will be a sufficient excuse. &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable President of the Council of New Hampshire. Note. The same verbatim was sent to the Governors of Connecticut, New- York, Maryland & Georgia." 1 No such “instructions” were recorded by Secretary Thomson in the journals of Congress, but see also Boudinot to the States, May 9 and June 10, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Bernardo de Galvez Sir, Philadelphia 3d June 1783 Congress having thought proper to appoint the Bearer hereof Oliver Pollock, Esq. their Commercial Agent at the Havanna, he pro ceeds immediately for that City in order to take upon himself the du ties assigned him by that Commission. 1 Your Excellency will permit me to recommend him to your attention and notice in those matters of the United States in which it may be nec essary for him to claim your Excellency’s patronage and interposition. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect consideration &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For Pollock’s commission and election to this post, see JCC, 24:372, 376-77. Eliphalet Dyer to Thomas Shaw Sir New York June 3d 1783 I have at length Succeeded in the Labourious task I have had to go through in your Cause which was not finished till Thursday last when I


[Page 335]
June 4, 1783 301 more certain. If a reduction of the number of Delegates should take place it will be still more essential not to include me. I have reed, from Mr. Webb £100 refd. to in yours. The remittance of £1000 havg. been shared not equally as heretofore but according to our respective arrears, this sum will somewhat overpay me. You will therefore not apply for other warrants in my behalf. I wish you had re served the £50 which you advanced for me sometime ago & that you wd. now draw on me for it if it be more convenient for you to receive it here, or you can readily sell a bill where you are. It will be perfectly convenient for me to pay it. 3 Being somewhat indisposed in my head & also pressed for time I beg leave to refer to Mr. Jones instead of repeating what I have written to him. 4 Adieu My dear sir & be assured that I am yr. sincere friend, J- M. [PS.] I have a letter from a Correspondt. of Mazzei at Nantz, which informs me that, [he] was at Paris in Feby. and wd. sail for America in March or April. 5 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:107-8. 1 See ibid., pp. 72—74. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, May 20, 1783, note 5. 3 See Madison to Randolph, May 27, note 1. 4 Madison’s June 3 letter to Joseph Jones has not been found, but for the condition from which Madison occasionally suffered, “somewhat resembling Epilepsy, and sus pending the intellectual functions,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 1:164, 8:270. 5 See ibid., 6:243. Gunning Bedford, Jr. to Nicholas Van Dyke Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 4th. 83. I do myself the honor to inclose you the Papers of the day, which contain all the news here. Mr. McComb transmitts the grants of NYork & Maryland to Con gress; 1 I wish our State may be generous, & not loose so fine an op portunity of aggrandising herself. I have mentioned to you in person my idea on the subject, I will repeat it, that we should grant in fee sim ple two or three hundred acres to Congress including all the Hill back of Wilmington with a jurisdiction of six or eight miles up between the Christiana & Brandywine, or around include New Castle &c. I have wrote to Wilmington 2 inclosing the cessions of the corporations of Kingston & Annapolis, & requesting the proprietors to fix a moderate price for their respective shares, which I make no doubt (unless they are blind to their own interests) they will comply with. It is a matter of


[Page 338]
304 June 4, 1783 Nathaniel Gorham to Caleb Davis Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia June 4. 1783. You have undoubtedly before this seen the resolutions of Congress relative to impost &c. in which the States are requested to cede their vacant lands to congress to establish a fund so far as they will go to ward the extinsion of the publick debt, it is certainly best it should be done, but it behoves Massachusetts to be very carefull in their grant if they see fit to make any or other way, then may be in danger of giving land to New York instead of giving it to the general stock—but I think no danger will arise if it is made in the same form as the cession of NYork which may be found in the Journal of Congress. March 1781— page 48. We are daily in expectation of the definitive treaty and if it ar rives soon I am in hopes Congress will adjourn for three or four months which I think will answer good purposes. This place is exceed ingly expensive and will undoubtedly encrease in that way—as foreign ministers increas. The Dutch minister has wrote to Mr Livingston de siring him to hire for use the best house in Town—& to buy him the most elegant carriage & six of the best carriage horses that can be bought—& if the dutchman rides with six horses the ministers of France England &c. will not chuse to ride with less. New York & Mary land have made offers of Towns for the use of Congress—you will see them as they are to be sent to the States, 2 in order that may all be rep resented, when the question is considered on the first monday of Oc tober next. I am in hopes I shall be at home before your Session ends and in the interim I remain Your friend & very humble Sert, Nath Gorham RC (MHi: Caleb Davis Papers). 1 Caleb Davis, who has been identified in these Letters, ll:288n.l, was speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Philadelphia 4th June 1783. A few days ago I had the honor to inclose to your Excellency 1 a copy of an Act of the Legislature of Newyork confirming a Grant made by the Corporation of Kingston; 2 since which the offer made by the State of Maryland, mentioned in my last, has been read in Con gress, and I now do myself the honor to inclose a copy of it. The pro ceedings of the Corporation of the City of Annapolis have been trans mitted to Wilmington, in hopes that with so good an example before


[Page 339]
June 4, 1783 305 their eyes, the inhabitants of that Borough, especially the owners of the Land in question, will enable the Legislature to make a generous offer to Congress. As Mr. Bedford incloses the News Papers of the day, I need not give you the trouble of another copy. Mr. Van Berkel, minister from the United Provinces of Holland is to sail early in June, and may be expected here the last of July, or early in August. Our charge des affairs at that Court, has written to our Minister for Foreign Affairs, requesting that an elegant House, in a pleasant part of the City, may be taken, and a Coach and six Horses, provided for him. The States of New Hampshire, Connecticut, New york, Maryland & Georgia are now unrepresented. An order passed yesterday, desiring the President to write to these states for an immediate Representation, and to the others to continue theirs, in order that there may be a full Congress to take up some business of importance, 3 (principally relat ing to the back Lands,) on the completion of which Congress may, and I suppose will, adjourn for several Months. I am sir, your Excellency’s most obt and very humble servant, E. McComb RC (DLC: William Kent Gilbert Collection). 1 See McComb to Van Dyke, May 31, 1783. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783. 3 See Elias Boudinot to Certain States, June 3, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Wednesdayjune 4. [1783] The Report of the Committee for giving to the army certificates for land was taken up. After some discussion of the subject, some mem bers being for and some agst. making the certificates tra[n]sferrable it was agreed that the Report should lie on the table. 1 For what passed in relation to the Cession of vacant territory by Virga, see the Journal. 2 Whilst Mr. Hamiltons motion relating to Mr Livingston Secretary of For. affrs. was before the House, Mr. Peters moved, in order to detain Mr Livingston in office, that it be declared by the Seven States present that the Salary ought to be augmented. To this it was objected 1. that it would be an assumption of power in 7 States to say what 9 States ought to do, 2. that it might ensnare Mr. Livingston, 3. that it would commit the present States, who ought to be open to discussion when 9 States should be on the floor. The motion of Mr. Peters being with drawn, that of Mr. Hamilton was agreed to. 3


[Page 351]
June 10, 1783 317 should have free liberty &c”, & the last clause, are absolute & obliga tory. Seven States were not then in favour of passing any resolution re specting those Articles, & no recomendations will probably be made by Congress to the States till the definitive Treaty arrives. In the mean time the States will not I hope proceed in the confiscation of refugee Estates in opposition to the sixth Article, nor take any measures that may hereafter be Barrs to the admission of certain descriptions of the Refugees. I can not but think that some of them may be admitted not only with safety but with advantage to the States—it surely then must be good policy to do that which will be beneficial in an interested View to Ourselves, & which will greatly conciliate & perhaps excuse a departure in some other point from the Treaty. We can in such cases with a good grace comply with the Treaty without any danger. Should the sixth Article not be complied with, may we not lose all those important advantages secured to us by the Treaty, & will it not reflect great dishonour upon Our Comissioners who have really per formed Wonders in obtaining such a Treaty? Will any man say that the Treaty is not a good one & highly honorable to us? Is not Our interest in the most important & essential points compleatly established? Could We reasonably or did the most sanguine man expect that noth ing disagreable to Us would be inserted into the Treaty? Could We presume that in a Revolution like this We should have succeeded in every possible point, that no interest, no Views should be attended to but Ours?, surely not. Should the sixth Article be violated by us Brit tain may perhaps declare the Treaty void in all its parts. She may tell us that She shall still consider us as a separate independant Nation, but that She will not allow us to fish on the Banks & She will renew her claim to a great extent of Territory ceded to us by the Treaty. Our situation would in such case be very disagreable. We should then be again involved in a War with her without any Ally, any prospect of as sistance, or We might tamely give up those two great points—we should then be precisely in the situation which France & Spain wish to see us. Every important Object almost would be lost to the eastern States beyond all hope of recovery. We know that the extent of Terri tory & the right to the Fishery confirmed to us by Treaty was by no means agreable to France or Spain, Our being an independent Na tion satisfies them, the poorer & more confined we are in Our limits & means of growing powerful, the more agreable to them. When We consider the characters that compose the new ministry We may rea sonably expect that any opening We may give them to set aside the Treaty will be eagerly embraced. If therefore the Treaty is upon the whole a good one for us & secures to us Our most important interests, We ought to be very careful that we do nothing which can endanger its efficacy or involve us in a new dispute with Brittain. I have no rela tion, no friend among the Refugees, whose return I am anxious to


[Page 352]
318 June 10, 1783 bring about or whose Estate I wish to save from confiscation—I feel no interest operating in my mind but that of the public, this only I am at present anxious about, it is this I wish to secure. I see no object of sufficient importance, to induce us to run any hazard of losing the benefit of the Treaty—the Estates of the refugees surely can not be One. The expence of a small Army for one Season only will infinitely almost overbalance all those that yet remain unconfiscated. We have sent to the Governor, the States of the old money, the April & May emissions & the new emission 2 —by them you will see that a very great proportion of the old money is yet outstanding. They give you all the information required in your Letter of last October. I have no expectation that Congress will come to any resolution as to the old money—many gentlemen think that it would be very improper & dan gerous for Congress to do any thing, it ought rather say they to be re ceived from individuals by the State & charged by the State to the Continent, but will they not dispute hereafter that charge as being wholly wrong or because it was called in by the State at an improper rate? Congress should in that case at least determine they will allow the charge & the rate of redemption. Others think that it ought to die in the hands of the posessors; their States are greatly or wholly delin quent & their Citizens have little of it by them, it is natural therefore for them to think thus. We have been prepared ever since I have been here to bring the matter forward, but we have never had an oppy of doing it with success, there has been no period that the States have been all represented or when more than six States could have been expected to vote for the redemption of it at any rate. We have there fore delayed making any motion for a decission in hope that other States might be represented or that something might turn up to favour the motion & give greater prospect of Success—but as the Court is now sitting & it is time they should know the sense of Con gress on that Subject, we have determined to push for a decission as soon as nine States are represented—for some time past we have had only eight States. The alteration in the rule proposed by Congress for determining Quotas is I think a good One, 3 it is much more simple & easy to prac tice upon than the former rule, but the allowance made for the Blacks is much too great—the same number of Souls in the Southern States support themselves, & furnish an excess for exportation by their labour much greater, than the Inhabitants in the northern States can possibly do, & in proportion to that excess is their Ability to pay Taxes. A comparative View of the northern & southern States, their Soil, cli mates, produce &c will easily account for the difference. It is a com mon thing for a man in So. Carolina to make from 20 to 30 guineas a head by the labour of his Negroes in a year, & that clear of all ex- pences including their subsistance. I have this information from


[Page 359]
June 10,1783 325 The offers of N. Y. & Maryld. of a seat for Congs, are postponed till Ocr. next in order to give time for other offers & for knowing the sense of the States on the subject. Copies of those acts are to be sent to the Executives of each State. 10 I have forgot the request of Mr. Mercer for several weeks to make his apology for failing to open a correspondence with you. The regu lar one maintained between yourself & me, he supposes, would leave little but repetition to him, and his other correspondents, I suppose give him competent employment. Congress have resumed at length the Cession of Virga. The old ob noxious report was committed, and a new report has been made which I think a fit basis for a compromise. A copy of it is inclosed for the Govr. I have also transcribed it in my letter to Mr. Jones. 11 As it tacitly excludes the pretensions of the Companies, I fear obstacles may arise in Congs, from that quarter. Clarke from N. Jersey informed Congs, that the Delegates from that State being fettered by instructions, must communicate the plan to their constituents. If no other causes of delay should rise the thinness of Congs, at present will prove a material one. I am at some loss for the policy of the Companies in opposing a com promise with Virga. They can never hope for a specific restitution of their claims, they can never even hope for a cession of the Country be tween the Alleghany & the Ohio by Virga, as little can they hope for an extension of a jurisdiction of Congs, over it by force. I should suppose therefore that it wd. be their truest interest to promote a general ces sion of the vacant Country to Congress, and in case the titles of which they have been stript sd. be deemed by them reasonable, and Congs, sd. be disposed to make any equitable compensation, Virga, wd. be no more interested in opposing it than other States. I inclose different papers to you & to Mr. Jones, & recommend an interchange. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:133—35. 1 See ibid., pp. 44—46. 2 Not found. s See ibid., pp. 74n.l2, 112. 4 For explanations of Thomas Paine’s December 1782 “Mission” to Rhode Island to combat anti-impost sentiment in that state, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:78-93; and Irwin H. Polishook, Rhode Island and the Union, 1774—1795 (Evanston: Northwestern University Press, 1969), pp. 76-78. 5 Cyrus Griffin, John Lowell, or George Read. 6 On April 11 Congress had adopted a proclamation establishing the cessation of hos tilities in American waters as occurring one month after the February 3 ratification of the provisional treaties of peace by France and England, although a two month “epoch” was observed by the British navy in America. See JCC, 24:238-40. See also Virginia Dele gates to Benjamin Harrison, March 25, 1783, note 1. 7 See the preceding entry, note 9. 8 See the preceding entry, notes 1-3.


[Page 363]
June 13,1783 329 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:140. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Wednesdayjune 11. See journals, secret and public.” 2 See JCC, 24:392-94. 3 There is no mention of this “difficulty” nor of the number of states in attendance in Secretary Thomson’s journals. Charles Thomson to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, IJune 12, 1783] I have the honor to enclose to your excellency the resolutions of Congress relative to the complaint against Church and Hayden and the decree of the Court of Appeals in the Case of the Brig San An- tonio. 1 I hope that it meets with your full satisfaction and that it con vinces you of the sincere disposition of Congress not only to procure justice for the injured parties but also to avenge the honor of the flag of His Catholic Majesty and to establish the strictest harmony between his subjects and those of the United States. I have the honor &c. (signed) Charles Thomson Tr (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 23:388). A retranslation of the French translation of Thomson’s letter enclosed in La Luzerne’s letter to the comte de Vergennes of June 19, 1783, No. 334. Ibid., 24:363-65. 1 For the enclosed April 4 and June 10 resolutions, see JCC, 24:227—28, 386-87; and Elias Boudinot to John Hancock, June 11, 1783. James Madison’s Notes of Debates Fridayjune 13. [1783] The mutinous memorial from the Sergeants was reed. & read. It ex cited much indignation & was sent to the Secretary at war. 1 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:141. 1 This memorial, which has not survived, was a response to Congress’ May 26 resolves for furloughing and discharging Continental troops. Although furloughed troops were to be “allowed to take their arms with them,” the resolves were silent on the point of the arrears of their pay, and aroused fears that demobilization would destroy their prospects for a just settlement of their accounts. As John Armstrong, Jr., secretary of the Pennsylvania Council, explained to Gen. Horatio Gates on June 16: “The late unquali fied resolve of Congress [i.e., of May 26], discharging or furloughing as they are pleased to call it, all those men who have been engaged for the war, without even a Settlement of Accounts, was taken up very spiritedly by the little Corps at this place, consisting of but 300 Men. They Addressed themselves to Congress upon the occasion in language very intelligible—‘We will not accept your furloughs & demand a Settlement.’ Accomoda-


[Page 369]
June 17,1783 335 James Madison’s Notes of Debates Tuesday June 17. [1783] 1 The day was employed chiefly in considering the Report on the Journal relative to the Department of Finance. Some thought it ought to lie on the fdes: some that it ought to receive a vote of approbation, and that the Superintendant, should, for the period examined, be ac quitted of further responsibility. Mr. Gorham particularly was of that opinion. Finally the Report was entered on the Journal without any act of Congress thereon, by a unanimous concurrence. 2 MS (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:154. 1 Immediately preceding this entry Madison wrote “Monday June 16. No Congress.” 2 This report, the product of a committee appointed on January 6, 1783, “To enquire fully into the proceedings of the department of finance,” and renewed March 31, had been submitted and read on June 10. See JCC, 24:396-99; and PCC, item 19, 4:405-8, item 186, fols. 78, 91. For the work of this and other congressional “oversight” commit tees appointed to investigate Morris’ administration of Continental finances, see Mor ris, Papers (Ferguson), 5:386-89, 578-79, 7:664-65, 668-69, 721. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend, Philada. 17 June 1783. Your favor of the 4th, the second from Williamsburg, 1 was red. yes terday. I have reed, nothing from Mr. Hay during your absence from Richmond, but omission has been supplied by Mr. Ambler whose let ter by yesterday’s mail inclosed the Journals from the beginning. 2 Per haps this supply was known to Mr. H. The definitive Treaty is not yet on this side the wa[te]r; nor do we yet hear what stage it is in on the other side. Mr. Dana informs us in a letter of the 17 Feby. that in consequence of proper encouragement he had finally announced himself at the Court of Petersbg. but does not gratify us with a single circumstance that ensued. 3 The gazette of this morning inclosed contains the latest intelligence from the British Parliamt. which I have seen. 4 The measure of furloughing the troops enlisted for the war has been carried into effect with the main army, and will save a great expence to the public. The prospect which it presented to the officers who were to retire from their subsistance with out receivg. the means of subsistance elsewhere produced a very pathetic representation to the Commander in chief. His answer by rectifying some errors on which it dwelt, and ex plicitly giving it as his opinion that Congress had now done every thing wch. could be expected from them towards fulfilling the engagements


[Page 376]
342 June 18,1783 membered that some years since Congress promised the officers half pay for life, & tho’ I was not in Congress at that time, yet, I consid ered myself bound in Honor & justice to make good the promise, & after great deliberation, I was of opinion, & still am, that we had bet ter give them five years ful pay, than half pay for life. This Congress has agreed to & the officers have also agreed to accept the same; the exchange made with the officers will be much in favor of Mas sachusetts for we shall now pay only our part of the sum, which if it had not been done by Congress, but referred to the states to pay their own officers, such states as did not comply, their officers, no doubt, wou’d have been paid out of the continental Treasury, & it wou’d have been very difficult to have got such accounts adjusted & settled hereafter, as the states that are most forward to make grants are not always the first to pay. Have I, my dear sir, ever made you my congratulations on acct, of peace being restored to our country; if I have not please to accept it at this time. What adds to this agreeable event is peace upon such hon orable terms. I am, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 That is, in the House of Representatives of the Massachusetts General Court. Hutchinson is identified in these Letters, 15:68. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir. Philadelphia, 18th. June, 1783. Some time since, I reed, a letter from you requesting my attention in procuring a power of attorney to put in suit the bonds of the Cap tains or commanders of two private armed Vessels; I immediately waited on Mr. Hillegas, & he informed me there had been but one such application, & that produced a Special resolution of Congress, & therefore he did not consider himself at liberty to comply with your request without their permission; Accordingly I prepared a reso lution that wou’d have answered your purposes & moved it in Congress, ’tho I was of opinion at that time that a Genl, resolution was most proper & mentiond. it; a Committee was appointed to take into consideration my motion, & at length I got a resolution passed, a Copy of which I inclose; 1 together with a power of attorney, & the copies of the bonds you sent forward; & I wish you to consider the length of time it takes to get business done in such a body as Congress, & afterwards attended to in the great offices of State, & then I think you will not be of opinion that I have neglected your business, by not giting it compleated before. I am, with perfect respect, your most obedient.


[Page 378]
344 June 19,1783 that He do immediately send an Express to Major General St Clair, di recting him to repair to this City without delay. 1 The assistant Secre tary will not communicate this measure to any Person whatever. RC (O: Arthur St. Clair Papers). In Boudinot’s hand, though not signed. 1 There is no mention of this order in the journals of Congress, but for the context of this directive, see James Madison’s Notes of Debate, this day, notes 3—5. Committee of Congress to William Jackson Sir, Philadelphia, June 19. 1783 Information having been received, that a detachment of about Eighty mutineers are on their way from Lancaster to this place, you will please to proceed to meet them and to endeavour by every pru dent method to engage them to return to the post they have left. You will inform them of the orders that have been given permitting them to remain in service ‘till their account shall have been settled, if they prefer it to being furloughed—and of the allowance of pay which has been made to the army at large & in which they are to be included. You will represent to them, that their accounts cannot be settled with out their officers whom they have left behind them at Lancaster. You will represent to them with coolness but energy the impropriety of such irregular proceedings, and the danger they will run by persisting in an improper conduct. You will assure them of the best intentions in Congress to do them justice; and of the absurdity of their expecting to procure it more effectually by intemperate proceedings. You will point out to them the tendency which such proceedings may have to raise the resentments of their country and to indispose it to take effectual measures for their relief. In short you will urge every consideration in your power to induce them to return; at the same time avoiding what ever may tend to irritate. If they persist in coming to town, you will give the earliest notice to us of their progress and disposition. Should they want provisions, you will assure them of a supply, if they will re main where they are, which you are to endeavour to persuade them to do in preference to coming to town. I am Sir, Yr. most Obed serv. A Hamilton In behalf of the Committee 1 FC (DNA: PCC, item 38). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. JCC, 24:415-16. 1 This committee, consisting of Hamilton, Oliver Ellsworth, and Richard Peters, was appointed this day “to confer with the Executive Council of Pennsylvania and to take such measures as they shall judge and find necessary,” in response to intelligence re ceived from Richard Buder and William Henry on the march of mutineers from Lan caster to Philadelphia, for which see JCC, 24:405n; and the following entry, note 3.


[Page 388]
354 June 21,1783 careful of myself. For I confess, though I never despaird of the State, there has been a Time when disasters crowded so thick upon us, that I held Life very cheap; but the bullets pass’d by & a brighter Sun dis- pelld the Clouds. How strangely has the Storm thundered through every State in the Union, & the whole is succeeded by a fine Horizon. After the Capture of Cornwallis’s Army & the pretty general Expulsion of the enemy from the Southern States, & returning to civil Life, I took my Seat in the general Assembly & on May last was a Year I was chosen one of the Delegates in Congress of the State of No. Carolina. On the last Month I was re-elected and tho I have wished that with the War my Attention to public Business might cease, I have entered on the second Year of the Delegation. You I think was one of two or three to whom I confided the Secret that I was coming immediately for America when I left London. You know that I happened to fall among Thieves on my Way or what is as bad, among Traitors & Scoundrels. One of the Junto has since given me personal Satisfaction and the others have fully satisfyd the world that they are what I have just styled them. I confess I have found that more fortitude was required, coolly to despise an unjust charge than to face an Enemy, It was the exercise of practical Philosophy & the severest Tryal of Patriotism I ever experienced. I think I committed to your Care a small Packet of Papers sealed up. They were, some of them, of value. And having no particular Atten tion to the rest of the Articles I left in London, I flattered myself those Papers would be safe in your Hands. Be so good as cover them as a Packet of Letters and direct them to this Place for me. As I have not for a considerable Time seen my family and may probably be absent from this three or four months, towards the beginning of Winter, in order to pay some attention to my private Affairs. You will be so good as inclose the whole Packet under another Cover directed to the Dele gates in Congress for the State of North Carolina. If I should be out of Town when it arrives, my Collegues will receive it and retain or for ward it as they may judge proper. I suspect Dr Ewing is not a very punctual Correspondent; however I shall drop a Line to your father & to yr Sister & try to secure an An swer to your Letters of which I shall assure them care shall be taken. You it seems have been unfortunate; for I cannot suppose you have neglected your duty, you have but two children. I hope Mrs. Ruston is in good Health. I hope she retains her Enthusiasm for America. I wish she could come to it & had a Dozen boys to bring with her. Be pleased present her wth my Respects. I have the Honor to be, with the utmost Consideration, yr obdt hble Serv, Hu Williamson P.S. The Spirit of Emigration we have Reason to believe will again pre vail in difft. Parts of Europe in which Case I presume that Pennsylva


[Page 389]
June 23, 1783 355 will not as formerly be the only Place of Resort. It is certainly more easy to live in a southern Climate, for Planters especially, where the Winter is more moderate. N. Carolina is generally accounted sickly and it has some Claim to that Character along the sea Shore in the flat Country, but the rest of the State is second to no Part of America in Point of Health. I have not ventured on this Assertion from strong prejudices in favour of that State, to which I am strongly attached nor from the Desire of improving my own Property which is consid erable in that State, but from attentive observation in the Course of several Years. And by the way unless I am mistaken & unless I shall be greatly disappointed N Carolina will in the Course of a few Years be a Place of great Trade. RC (PHi: Coxe Papers). 1 Dr. Thomas Ruston (1739?-! 804) of Chester Co., Pa., had graduated from the Col lege of New Jersey (1762) and the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh (1765) where Williamson and Benjamin Rush were fellow students. He remained in Great Britain for the next twenty years during which he married Mary Fisher, daughter of William Fisher and niece of John Fisher, a governor of the Bank of England. He en tered his father-in-law’s brokerage business in London before the war, but resumed the practice of medicine at the Devon and Exeter Hospital, 1777-84. Ruston returned to Philadelphia in 1785 where he practiced and published several works on medicine and plunged into speculative bank and land schemes that eventually led to personal disaster. See the Ruston Collection, DLC; and Lyman Butterfield, ‘The Milliner’s Mission in 1775; or, The British Seize a Treasonable Letter from Dr. Benjamin Rush,” WMQ 8 (April 1951): 198-201. Theodorick Bland to James Madison Dear Sr. [June 23-25? 1783] i In consequence of the determination of Congress on Saturday, 2 I took the necessary measures, to put myself in a Situation, to fulfill their intentions as far as concernd myself & Family. I wrote to the President, and to Mercer 3 —from the former I have got no decisive answer, from the latter none at all. I shall look on it as inglorious, and shamefull to quit my station whilst the majority of Congress shall maintain theirs in Philadelphia—and however imprudent, I as an In dividual may deem it that Congress or the members shd. trust their persons in the hands of a Mutinous army—without support—if they determine so to do—I on my part shall without hesitation share their fate. 4 It is my wish therefore that you wd as soon as possible let me know their final determination on this point—and particularly how matters stand respecting the determination of the Exe. Council &.c. that I may either return or send for my family accordingly—it being personally perfectly indifferent to me which I do—& you’ll oblige


[Page 390]
356 June 23, 1783 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Signature clipped. Madison later wrote “Theodk. Bland” at the close of this letter and endorsed it “Bland Theodk. June 22. 1783.” Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:187. 1 Although Madison may have docketed this letter ‘June 22” at a later date, it appears to have been written between the 23rd and 25th before Bland had received word of Elias Boudinot’s June 24 proclamation summoning Congress to meet in Princeton. Since Bland preferred living in the countryside and had rented a plantation near Philadelphia called Fairy Hill in 1781, it is reasonable to conjecture that he was residing at an estate some distance from the city. See these Letters, 17:573-74. 2 See JCC, 24:410. 3 Bland’s letters to Pres. Boudinot and John Francis Mercer have not been found. 4 For a contrary opinion on Bland’s response to the mutiny, see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, July 4, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Elisha Boudinot My dear Brother Philada. 23 June 1783 I have only a moment to inform you, that there has been a most dangerous insurrection and mutiny among a few Soldiers in the Bar racks here. About 3 or 400 surrounded Congress and the Supreme Ex ecutive Council, and kept us Prisoners in a manner near 3 hours, tho’ they offered no insult personally. To my great mortification, not a Citi zen came to our assistance. The President and Council have not firm ness enough to call out the Militia, and allege as the reason that they would not obey them. In short the political Manoeuvres here, previous to that important election of next October, entirely unhinges Govern ment. This handful of Mutineers continue still with Arms in their hands and are privately supported, and it is well if we are not all Pris oners in a short time. Congress will not meet here, but has authorized me to change their place of residence. I mean to adjourn to Princeton if the Inhabitants of Jersey will protect us. I have wrote to the Gover nor particularly. I wish you could get your Troop of Horse to offer them aid and be ready, if necessary, to meet us at Princeton on Satur day or Sunday next, if required. I would not wish any thing to be made more public than is neces sary for the above purpose. I wish Jersey to shew her readiness on this occasion, as it may fix Congress as to their permanent residence. The Express will call for an Answer. Am in great Haste with Love to all, Yours Afftly. Elias Boudinot RC (NjP: Thorne Boudinot Collection).


[Page 400]
366 June 24,1783 diately appointed a committee} to {confer with the executive council} & {concert} measures for {preventing a junction. The committee re ported} from {the executive} that they were {indisposed to call on the militia as they were doubtful whether a call would be obeyed. The troops arrived, formed a junction} when their {officers were obliged to retire}. On {Saturday the state house} whilst {Congress were sitting was surrounded by a mutinous and menacing force to the amount of three hundred while detachments took possession of the arsenal and magazine. 4 They sent in a written demand} to {be allowed to appoint officers to redress their grievances} requiring a favorable answer {in twenty minutes} or they {would let in enraged soldiery}. This altho di rected to the {executive council was certainly meant} ultimately {for Congress to whom a memorial had} been previously {presented} signed by {sergeants of so insolent} a {nature as to forbid any answer}. In this situation {Congress thought it most becoming their character} to take no public {notice of the insult} but to forbear any official {act whatever. By the exertions of General Sinclair and of} individual {members} of {Congress} they were gradually {diverted from their pur pose}, altho’ inflamed by misrepresentation & {intoxicated with liquor} furnished by {the rabble present}. This {scene continued about twelve to three oclock} when {Congress} retired thro {the soldiers} who themselves shortly after {retired to their barracks}. At {six oclock Congress reassembled and resolved that the commit tee} should again wait on {the executives} & {demand a categorical an swer} whether they would make exertions to {support government} & to {inform that unless satisfactory measures should be taken to re store the authority to government} (of which {the committee and president were to be judges in the recess of Congress) that then busi ness} shou’d be {summoned to meet at Princetown} or {Trentown in New Jersey. Of} these {steps General Washington was informed and} directed to {detach a select force for the purpose of quelling the mutiny. The committee found the executive} wholly {indecisive} & at their request, gave ’em a {day to deliberate} at the end of which they remained, either {incapable or indisposed to exert the necessary force}. In this state {things now remain the temper and views of muti neers are not yet ascertained} as little are known [of] {the root or ex tent of the evil}. J- Madison J F Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer and Madison. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:189-90. i Words printed in braces in this text were written by Mercer in the official Virginia ci pher. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, June 17, note 3. 3 Mercer mistakenly encoded Friday rather than Thursday. See James Madison’s Notes of Debates, June 19, 1783. 4 See Madison’s Notes, June 21, 1783.


[Page 401]
June 26,1783 367 Elias Boudinot’s Draft Statement on the Mutiny Philadelphia, [ca. June 26, 1783] 1 On Saturday the 21 June, being informed by Coll Hamilton, that there was reason to believe that the Soldiers in the Barracks who had mutinied & cast off the Command of their Officers, was premeditat ing a Scheme for plundering the Bank the following Evening, and that it would be prudent to summon the Members to meet in Con gress—at 12 oClock I issued Summons’s to meet in half an hour. At tended Congress, when 6 States with several individual Members being present upwards of 300 Armed Soldiers of the Pennsylvania Line appeared before the State House & surrounded the same. Congress sent for Genl St Clair & requested to know the meaning of so hostile an Appearance round the House. He informed, that the Soldiers at the Barracks had cast off all authority of their Officers & had marched under the direction of a number of Sergeants to the State House in a mutinous & menacing manner. The President of the Sup. Ex. Council of the State came in & pre sented a Paper he had reed from the sd Sergeants purporting that they requested to be authorized to appoint Officers from their own Body in the room of those who had deserted them, 2 that they would wait 20 Minutes for an Answer, and if not reed they would turn in an enraged Soldiery on them & they must abide the Consequence. On reading this, Congress determined that they would not deliber ate on or determine any Business while Surrounded in so menacing a Manner—but directed Gen St. Clair by such Means as were in his Power, to remove the mutineers to the Barracks immediately. Genl. St. Clair soon after returned & informed Congress that he hoped they would return to their quarters quietly. Congress left the House & passed thro’ the ranks of Mutineers without opposition. When the President had got half way home—6 or 7 of the Men followed him with their Arms & requested his return, but on his way one of the Sergeants met him & desired him not to regard the Men who had gone without order. The Mutineers returned to their Barracks with Drums beating & fifes playing. Before the Members left the room they directed The President to send an Express to the Comr in Chief, informing him it was their request that he should advance a Body of Troops towards Philadelphia for the purpose of supporting the dignity of the Govern ment. The President wrote accordingly. Saturday Afternoon—Sum moned Congress to meet at 6 oClock. Met accordingly & came to sev eral resolutions. 3 print resolutions. Sunday Morning forwarded resolutions by Express to the Comr in Chief. 4


[Page 402]
368 June 26, 1783 It being reported that the Mutineers had it in Contemplation to seize the Members of Congress at their Lodgings the next night, the Presid gave Notice to the Members of the report. Genl St. Clair reported that the Mutineers had taken Possession of the Powder House & public Magazines by placing Centinels over them. Monday Morning wrote by Express to Gov Livingston 5 & vice Presid of New Jersey informing of the Transaction of Saturday & the design of Congress in Case of the Contingencey mentioned in resolu tion of removing into Jersey. Monday Evening—Coll. Humpton, Coll Porter, Coll Robinson & officers of the Penns. Line called on the Presidt. & in formed him that they were appointed a Committee by the Body of Officers of that Line to wait on him and to assure him of their utter Abhorrence of every part of the Conduct of their men (the Muti neers) That they were determined at all Events & risques; never to take the Command of them again on any Terms without the appro bation of Congress. That they were ready to act under the direction of Congress in any way and in any Manner Congress should think Proper and therefore were instructed to wait the Presid orders which they would strictly obey. That their not offering their Services sooner arose from the Suddeness of the Emergency & the Confusion that ensued. Tuesday Morning—Coll Robinson reported in Presence of Genl St. Clair that the Evening before the Sergeants had presented a Comis sion to &c. 6 print. That the officer refused, & it was sent a 2d Time but again refused, when they threatned instant Death if he did not accept it, which he did. That this Morning the Troops were getting Drunk very fast it being issuing day, and made a very riotous appearance. Tho it was said by the Sergeants that they were designing Submission by a Paper then drawing up. Tuesday 2 oClock The Committee reported. 7 print The Presid immediately summoned the Members to meet at Prince ton on Thursday next agreeable to resolution. He also issued a Procla mation,8 print, & had it put in all the Papers & set off for Princeton. Wednesday Noon, reed, the address of the People of Trenton by the Hands of the Vice Presid of the State to Congress assuring them of their Support, print—and a Certificate of Lodging provided for about 60 Persons. 9 MS (DLC: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. 1 Although no printed copy of this statement has been found, Boudinot obviously wrote it for publication as he inserted instructions to “print” various documents men tioned therein at five points in his draft. Because the last event noted occurred on June 25 “Wednesday Noon”—it seems probable that he drafted this explanation of Con gress’ response to the Philadelphia mutiny soon thereafter.


[Page 403]
June 26,1783 369 2 This document is in PCC, item 38, fol. 27; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:655. s See JCC, 24:410. 4 Apparently Boudinot’s June 21 letter to Washington written at “11 O’clock P.M.” 5 That is, Boudinot to William Livingston, June 23, 1783. 6 This “Commission” from the “Board” of non-commissioned officers to Capt. James Chrystie of the Second Pennsylvania Regiment is in PCC, item 38, fol. 26; and Pa. Coun cil Minutes, 13:663. 7 See Committee of Congress to Boudinot, June 24, 1783. 8 That is, Boudinot’s Proclamation of June 24. 9 These two documents, dated June 24 and June 25, respectively, are in PCC, item 46, fols. 83-88. See also Boudinot to John Cox, July 3, note 1. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Princeton June 26t. 1783 Dear Sir, 9 °Clock in the Evening I take the first Moment of Leisure since our Arrival here, to inform your Excellency that Congress have removed to this Place. The rea sons of our Conduct, I cannot delay the Post to give you in full. They are in short contained in the enclosed Proclamation. 1 I think my last was on Monday, 2 the Committee appointed to Confer with the Presi dent & Council of the State, could not prevail to have the Militia called out to suppress the Rioters. They delayed till Tuesday 2 “Clock in hopes of the good Sense of the Council finally prevailing, but find ing all ineffectual & being told by the President as the Opinion of Council, that unless the Mutineers should go farther than they had done (viz. the making Congress & Council Prisoners) the Militia would not turn out, the Committee advised me to summon Congress agreeable to the resolution of Saturday. I accordingly issued the en closed Proclamation & left the City. This Measure roused & alarmed the Council & Citizens and they began to see their own danger. On being informed that a Plan was in Contemplation to attack the Bank, the Militia to the amount of 100 were called out & kept under Arms all Tuesday Night. In the Morning the Proclamation getting among the Soldiers they also were alarmed, and began a Negotiation and many of them have laid down their Arms and it is said have empeached 5 of their Offi cers as at the Bottom of the Business. I wish some Citizens of Note may not be among the Number—two of the former viz Capt. Car berry & Lt. Sullivan made off as soon as they heard of the Submis sion. I am in hopes the Mutiny will be crushed. However at all Events the Members of Congress here, wish to see the detachment called for by Congress, come on. I write this as an Individual that your Excy. may be duly informed of what has passed. I should be glad to see your Excly with the detach ment if consistant with your other Duties.


[Page 405]
June 27, 1783 371 RC (O: St. Clair Papers). 1 Internal evidence indicates that this Thursday evening could only have been June 26, just shortly after Congress’ decision to remove to Princeton and before the inten tions of “the Lancaster Soldiers” were known. Belmont (modern Fairmont Park) was the Peters estate located on the west bank of the Schuykill approximately a mile and one half below the Falls. 2 That is, Peters’ company of Philadelphia militia. PMHB23 (October 1899): 394. John Rutledge to Jacob Read Sir, 1 Philada. Thursday Eveng [June 26, 1783] 2 I would have been at Princeton, before this will reach you, but, one of my Feet is much swelled, & very painful—some people wd. call it a Touch of the Gout. Therefore, &, as I think it doubtful, whether a suffi cient Number of Members will meet to form a Congress, or, whether they will stay at Princeton, above a few days, (for, it seem’d to be the opinion of the Members whom We saw at the President’s on Tuesday, that Congress wd. return when a proper Force was procured to suppress the Revolt, & preserve the Peace,) &, as travelling in such hot Weather, is very disagreeable, I shall deter setting off, till I hear from you. Be pleased to inform me, by To Morrow’s Stage, what States have met, & whether they purpose to remain at Princeton, & for how long a Time—that I may make my Arrangements, accordingly. If you should want only one Member, & will send to Bristol, for Mr. Beresford, I sup pose he will attend, till I get up. 3 Pray give your Letter, for me, to Major Jackson. I have directed him how to forward it. Sir, yr. most obedt. servt, J. Rutledge RC (NN: Miscellaneous Folders). 1 Read, a South Carolina delegate, had first attended Congress on June 17. See JCC, 24:396. 2 Rutledge clearly wrote this letter two days after Pres. Elias Boudinot issued his June 24 proclamation summoning Congress to Princeton, N.J. 3 South Carolina delegate Richard Beresford had gone to nearby Bucks Co., Pa., for reasons of health and did not attend Congress until the end of July. See Beresford to Read, July 6, 1783. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Princeton 27th. June 1783 The news of the removal of Congress from Philada. to this place will no doubt have reached you before now. It is a step they were obliged to take by the scandalous neglect of the Executive of Pennsylvania, to


[Page 409]
June 29,1783 375 sioned officers to represent their grievances and they were at last glad of a pretext for going away. Congress judged it proper to use coertion upon the occasion & hav ing sent an order to the Commander in Chief for a detachment of troops, at the same time called for the assistance of the militia. The conduct of the executive of this state was to the last degree weak & dis gusting. In short they pretended it was out of their power to bring out the militia, without making the experiment. This feebleness on their part determined the removal of Congress from a place where they could receive no support; and I believe they will not easily be induced to return. The removal and a proclamation by the President announcing to the mutineers that extremities would be persued against them have intimidated them into a submission. They have impeached two of their officers Carbury & Sullivan, who immediately fled. A few others are suspected. It is to be lamented that the offers from our state have not been upon a more acceptable plan; 1 it is probable if they had been, the scales would incline in our favour. I wish the Legislature were sitting and would enlarge them. To your Excellency I need not urge the advantages that will accrue to a state from being the residence of Congress. I have the honor to be Yr. Excellency’s Most Obed serv A Hamilton RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:407-8. 1 For New York’s invitation to Congress to locate the Continental government at Kingston, see Elias Boudinot to the States, June 10, note. Alexander Hamilton to James Madison Dear Sir Princeton June 29th. 178[3] I am informed that among other disagreeable things said about the removal of Congress from Philadelphia it is insinuated that it was a contrivance of some members to get them out of the state of Pensylva- nia into one of those to which they belonged—and I am told that this insinuation has been pointed at me in particular. Though I am persuaded that all distinterested persons will justify Congress in quitting a place where they were told they were not to ex pect support (for the conduct of the Council amounted to that) yet I am unwilling to be held up as having had an extraordinary agency in the measure for interested purposes when the fact is directly the re verse. As you were a witness to my conduct and opinions through the whole of the transaction, I am induced to trouble you for your testi mony upon the occasion. I do not mean to make a public use of it;


[Page 410]
376 June 29, 1783 but through my friends to vindicate myself from the imputations I have mentioned. I will therefore request your answers to the following questions: Did that part of the resolutions which related to the removal of Congress originate with me or not? Did I as a member of the Committee appear to press the departure; or did I not rather manifest a strong disposition to postpone that event as long as possible, even against the general current of opinion? I wish you to be as particular & full in your answer as your memory will permit. I think you will recollect that my idea was clearly this: that the mutiny ought not to be terminated by negotiation—that Congress were justifiable in leaving a place where they did not receive the sup port which they had a right to expect; but as their removal was a mea sure of a critical and delicate nature—might have an ill appearance in Europe—and might from events be susceptible of an unfavourable in terpretation in this country—it was prudent to delay it ’till its necessity became apparent, not only ’till it was manifest there would be no change in the spirit which seemed to activate the council, but ’till it was evident complete submission was not to be expected from the troops—that to give full time for this, it would be proper to delay the departure of Congress ’till the latest period which would be compati ble with the idea of meeting at Trenton or Princeton on Thursday— perhaps even ’till Thursday morning. I am Sir, Yr. most Obed serv 1 FC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). In Hamilton’s hand, signature clipped. 1 Hamilton apparently did not send this letter, but upon returning to Philadelphia the following week sent a considerably revised version instead, for which see Hamilton to Madison, July 6, 1783. John Rutledge to Jacob Read Dr. Sir, Philada. Sunday Evening [June 29, 1783] 1 I have, just now, reed, your Letter of Friday. I am sorry to tell you, that the Pain & Swelling, of which, in my Letter by Major Jackson, I complained, have produced a regular & severe Fit of the Gout, which has prevented my getting out of Bed to day, nor can the doctor give me any Assurances when I may expect to be rid of this Complaint. However, as soon as I can travel to Princeton I certainly will be pleased to tell this to Mr. Izard. I am much concerned that my Illness makes it necessary for him to stay there, in order to have the State repre sented—but, it cannot be expected, that he shd. remain after the Ar rival of his Family, tho’ the State shd. by his Absence, be, for a short Time, unrepresented. This Afternoon, a Mr. Crowley arrived here


[Page 411]
June 30, 1783 377 from Charles-Town, & brought the inclosed Letter & Gazettes—no Letter for either you, Mr. Izard or myself. The publick Papers are at my House, & shall be delivd. to Crowley, whenever he is ready to take ’em. Mr. Readhead will sail for Chas. Town, in 4 or 5 days. I wish you & Mr. Izard wd. write to the Governor by him. If you will send your Letter to me, I will deliver it to Mr Readhead. I write this in Bed & in great Pain. My Complimts. to Mr. Izard. I am, Sir, yr. most obedt. Servt, J. Rutledge RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 For the dating and context of this letter, see Rutledge to Read, June 26, 1783. Rut ledge did not attend Congress again until September. Elias Boudinot to Robert Morris Sir, Princeton 30th June 1783 I have the honor of informing you, that I laid your letter of this morning before Congress, 1 and as there was no entry on our Journals relating to your leaving the City they thought it sufficient to direct me to inform you, that they had no objections to your returning to Philadelphia and resuming the business of your department. On this information I doubt not but that you will immediately proceed to the City accordingly. 2 I shall be glad of a line now and then, if any thing turns up worth communicating. I have the honor &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Morris’ letter to Boudinot of this date is in PCC, item 137, 2:593-94; and Morris, Pa- pers (Ferguson), volume 8, forthcoming. 2 Morris’ activities and meetings with various officials and members of Congress dur ing and following the mutiny of the Pennsylvania troops are recorded in the following revealing entries from the official diary of the superintendent of finance. “June 20th. The Honble. Mr. Peters, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Elsworth committee of Congress respecting the Mutineers from Landcaster, we had a long Conference and I agreed that such as have not received the Months Pay for January shall be paid in Specie and the three Months Pay shall be delivered in Notes—but the Mutineers to be paid in Landcaster only.... “Various other applications and a great deal of Time consumed in Consultations re specting the Mutineers.... “June 21st. His Excellency The President of Pennsylvania & Colo. Humpton called to communicate the intelligence they had received of the designs formed by the mutinous Souldiers. I advised as I have constantly done from the first information on this Subject a general call on the Militia.... “I sent for Thomas Willing Esqr. President of the Bank and informed him of the dan gerous Temper of the Soldiery in order that such precautions might be taken as the Di rectors should judge proper, just as Mr. Willing was going from the Office Word was brought that the Soldiers are under Arms and Marching for the State House.


[Page 412]
378 June 30, 1783 “The Honble. Mr. Hamilton & Mr. Fitzsimmons called at different Times this day to confer on the present state of Things. “Major Genl. St. Clair, Major Jackson, Mr. Gorham and others on the same business. When the Soldiers marched up Market Street I went over to my own House to apprize my family and prevent improper alarms, from thence I went to a Friends House to wait the Event and after the Soldiers departed from the State House I returned to this Of fice, sent to the President of the Congress to know if Congress had any Commands, there being none I went agreable to engagement to Club, returned in the Evening waited on the President of the State and Strongly urged the calling out of the Militia to quell the Riot &c. “June 23d. His Excy. The Minister of France, Honble. Colo. Hamilton, Charles Thompson Esqr., Tench Francis Esqr. at different Times to consult respecting the re volted Soldiers.... “June 24th.... The Honble. Mr. Fitzsimmons, Mr. Wilson, Mr. Hamilton & Mr. Peters, on the business of the revolted Soldiers, these Gentlemen gave me notice to prepare myself for departure from this City with Congress as it appeared probable that they will remove this afternoon, no steps being taken or promised by the Executive of the State to protect them from a repetition of Insult. “Charles Thompson Esqr. came to consult on the business of removing and to apply for Cash. “Majorjackson on the same Subject. “Colo. Hamilton called to inform me that the Committee had reported to his Excel lency the President of Congress that it is necessary for Congress to adjourn to Prince Town. His Excellency the President of Congress also called at my House to give me no tice and wrote to me likewise. Colo. Hamilton observed that this movement must be kept secret as the Soldiers if it came to their knowlege might be tempted to Seize either mem bers of Congress or myself as Hostages to Treat for their Pardon &c. in obedience to these Sentiments Mr. G. Morris and myself departed in the Evening for Prince Town— first Committing my Office and all the Papers therein to the care of Mr. Samuel Lyon the Secy, with Orders to keep constantly in the Office during my absence and in Case the Soldiers came with Mischievous intent to inform them that the whole Army are inter ested in those Papers and indeed all America and that they must expect the resentment of the whole if any distruction is Committed. I also desired Mr. Lyon to inform Mr. Mille- gan and the other Officers of my Department that the President of Congress and myself are of opinion that the public Business shall stop un till further Orders. “June 25th. This day we arrived at Tren Town and took our Quarters There—and by the Secretary’s Register it appears there were sundry applications at the Office. ‘June 26th. Went from Trenton to Prince Town but Congress did not make a House so we returned to Trenton and remained there Friday, Saturday & Sunday. ‘June 30th. Paid another Visit to Congress at Prince Town and wrote to His Excel lency the President for leave to return to Philadelphia and resume my Official Business, after which returned to Trenton, and on Tuesday July the first Received a Letter from his Excellency the President with leave to return, then set out and arrived on Wednes day. ” Robert Morris Papers, DLC. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir Princeton 30th June 1783. I had the honor of addressing a long Letter to your Excellency from this place a few days ago, 1 which I hope you will receive. The events which have taken place since are easily recounted. I informed you that


[Page 413]
June 30, 1783 379 the mutineers had begun to give way. The whole of them have since laid down their Arms, but have been suffered to resume them. The Party from Lancaster have been Marched back again under their offi cers, and the rest, (as we are informed,) are dismissed on furlough. This is a new way of settling such business. How the officers will ac count for it I am at a loss to know. Eleven hundred men from head Quarters will be here this evening, on their way to Philadelphia, under the command of Major General Howe, to enquire into this Business. Some Gentlemen want Congress to follow them, but others are extremely averse to return to Philadel phia again. This Town is too small for our Accommodation, tho’ the People are very obliging. I wish to know whether the inhabitants of Wilmington would be pleased with such guests, and whether the Academy might be had for them to sit in. If good Accommodations could be had I would move that we should adjourn to that place. If the hill above the Town has been, or is to be, offered for their perma nent residence, perhaps such a motion, on such information, might be carried. Several flattering addresses have been read in Congress to day, 2 (the first day of our doing business here,) from the Governors of the College, the Inhabitants of Trenton & Princeton, and the Gover nor of the State. I am told the Batallions in the State, or at least in the neighbourhood, are preparing addresses, and I submit it to your Ex cellency whether such a Measure, if pretty generally adopted, would not have a happy effect both at home and abroad. The dignity and au thority of the United States have been grossly insulted. It is natural therefore for those who are favourers of the federal Government to declare their readiness to support and maintain it. If this had been done in Philadelphia, and accompanied with corresponding exer tions, we would not have left that City; but instead of this Congress was shamefully neglected, and no measures taken for their protection ’till after they had left the City. Then the Militia was called out to defend private property, but it seems few of them obeyed the call. I am here alone Neither Mr. Bedford nor Dr. Tilton have made their appearance. I expect Mr. Bedford here every day. There are but seven states on the floor, so that perfect unanimity is requisite in order to do any business. Your Excellency will pardon the imperfection of this dispatch, which I have no time at present either to copy or correct, and believe me to be with great sincerity, Your most obt. & most humble sevt, E. Me.Comb RC (DLC: Nicholas Van Dyke Papers). 1 See McComb to Van Dyke, June 27, 1783. 2 See JCC, 24:411-12n.2; and Elias Boudinot’s letters to John Cox and to Samuel Smith ofjuly 3 and to Smith and George Morgan ofjuly 4.


[Page 414]
380 June 30, 1783 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. June 30. 1783. My last informed you of the mutinous insult which was offered to Congs, on the Saturday preceding. 1 On the Evening after the insult Congs, met and resolved that the Executive Council sd. be informed that in their opinion effectual measures ought to be immediately taken for suppressing the mutiny & supporting the public authority— that a Come. sd. confer with the Executive and in case no Satisfactory grounds sd. appear of adequate & prompt exertions for those pur poses, the Presidt. sd. with the advice of the Come, be authorized to summon the members to meet at Trenton or Princeton in N.J.—that an Express be sent to Genl. Washington for a detachment of regular troops. The Conference with the Executive produced nothing but doubts concerning the disposition of the Militia to act unless some ac tual outrages were offered to persons or property. They even doubted whether a repetition of the insult to Congs, wd. be a sufficient provo cation. Neither the exhortations of the Friends of Presidt. Dickenson nor the reproaches of his enemies could obtain an experiment on the temper of the Militia. During the attendance on the ultimate determi nations of the Executive reports from the Barracks were in constant vi bration. At one moment the Mutineers were penitent and preparing submissions: the next they were meditating more violent measures. Sometimes the Bank was their object; at other times the seizure of the members of Congress, with whom they imagined an indemnity for their offence might be purchased. On Teusday about two OClock, the efforts of the Govt, being despaired of, and the reports from the Bar racks being unfavorable, the Committee advized the President to sum mon the members to meet in N.J. which he did verbally as to the members present, leaving a general proclamation behind him for the Press. 2 I left Princeton on Friday evening when six States only had met. Rhode Islad. made a seventh on Saturday. To day I suppose they will be on business. I shall set out this afternoon, on my return. 3 Since Congress left the City the Mutiny has been entirely extin guished; the Mutineers having submitted, and most of them accepted furloughs under the Resolution of Congress on that subject. At the time of submission they betrayed their leaders, the chief of whom prove to be a Mr. Carbery, a deranged officer, and a Mr. Sullivan a Lieutenant of Horse, both of whom made their escape. Some of the most active Sergeants have also ran off. The precise object & plan of the Conspiracy are unascertained. When I left Princeton no answer had been reed, from Genl. Washington. 4 The removal of Congs, under the circumstances which gave birth to it, is a subject of much conversation and criticism. Many of those who


[Page 418]
384 June 30, 1783 Nassau Hall


[Page 419]
June 30, 1783 385 again on Monday. He then told me he expected my company to dine with him. I said I understood the gentlemen had agreed to dine to gether at a tavern, and as their coming to this place must have been very unexpected, I fancied Mrs. Stockden (his sister at whose house he lodged) 7 could not be prepared to receive company and I had rather be excused. He told me he did not know whether the gentle men had fixed their plan or taken arrangements for dining together though they talked of it & must certainly adopt some such measure if they continued in this place, But that he would expect my company to dine with him that day. I then enquired what plan they had adopted, & found they had yet come to no determination. Some had received invitations to dine with the president, others from private gentlemen, & some purposed to go to a tavern. I then conversed with individuals to know what steps they meant to take. Bland’s dignity was so hurt that he would never return. Izard could never think of returning unless the citizens of Philadelphia would make reparation for the wounded honor of Congress. Hamilton’s resentment was wholly bent against the president of the state and nothing but his ruin would satisfy him. I wished them to consult their reason and not their passions, to con sider the interest of the Union and not private resentments. That a good use might be made of the late occurrence, if improved solely to the purpose of impressing the states with the necessity of taking speedy and effectual measures to comply with the obligations & per form the promises which Congress had made on their behalf. That the honor of Congress was safe if they returned speedily to their for mer place of residence and did not mix private passion with public measures. That the object which some seemed to have in view would I feared not answer their purpose. That an attempt to ruin the Prest. & criminate the council might foment the divisions & party animosity which unhappily too much prevailed in the state but would be far from strengthening the Union & supporting the federal government. That by directing their resentment against the Pres. & council, or at tempting to set the citizens against them, they might raise up friends & rather strengthen than ruin them. They could not be ignorant that there were many in Philada. who were unfriendly to our cause, who though they did not love the presidt. hated Congress & would espouse his cause against them or their cause against him not from a regard for one more than the other but from private resentments & with a view to embarrass public measures & that such a crop of dissensions might be sown in the state as might in the end involve it in the dispute or at least incapacitate it from pursuing those measures that were es sential for the public safety. That in my Opinion the fate of America hung by a slender thread & it behoved Congress to act with caution. That I never had seen a period in which there was a greater necessity for the exercise of prudence & a temperate Conduct, & I was glad considering the temper of the members that they had not yet been


[Page 420]
386 June 30, 1783 able to proceed to business. I told Hamilton freely that I entirely dis approved his plan, that I saw clearly it would give pain to the true friends of America and pleasure to its enemies: that the step Congress had yet taken required no justification of themselves or crimination of others. It was sufficient that they thought themselves in danger & re moved out of the way of it & then returned to their duty and business when it was removed, and only pursued wise measures to present the like in future. And I wished him to reflect how far he might hazard the private characters of the present members who had but lately come to Congress, & who, it might be said, had by their rash, unwise & intemperate conduct dashed in pieces & overturned a fabric begun by their wiser predecessors & raised to such a height by the blood of so many thousands. I found myself at times warm, however I deter mined to unburthen my mind. I cannot forbear reprobating the conduct of our friend in Market Street, 8 and much I fear that his cursed pride will undo his country. He has his virtues but they are suited to other times. Could he have submitted to the least soothing language I am persuaded he would have found or at least the situation of affairs here would very soon have created a conciliating disposition in Congress. And affairs might have been restored to their former channel. But his passions are too ungovernable and his pride too great to acknowledge an error, till I fear it will be too late. After a good deal of Conversation with individuals & sometimes with several together, and no determination yet come to, where to dine, the presidents servant came to inform me that dinner was ready & the president waited for me. I therefore went and dined with him. There were three or four members who dined there. After dinner I had an Opportunity of conversing with the president and found he was de sirous of returning. He said freely that this place would not do. The people had exerted themselves & put themselves to inconveniences to accommodate the members but it was a burden which they could not bear long. That there was no place where the Minister could be accom modated. In short it would not do. And that Congress must either go back to Philada. or remove to some other place. But that the members were not yet in temper, that they must have time to cool. Yesterday we had news that Major genl Howe is advancing with about Eleven hundred troops. They will be in this town to day. Ellery and Arnold arrived late on Saturday evening so that to day they may proceed to business. In my next I shall be able to give you some ac count of their disposition. I have written with more freedom because Mr Bond 9 carries this & will deliver it. Peter behaves well, his horses are just under my Eye in Mr Morgans stables & he lodges & diets with the family. My carriage is also safe under cover. I hope you and the family are well and that Page is a good boy. I am afraid you will have some trouble with the cow. I think


[Page 422]
388 July 1, 1783 self the honor of enclosing to your Excellency the copies of your let ters agreeably to your request, 1 and should be much obliged by the like favour with regard to the Message sent in to you by the Serjeants on Saturday 21st June. 2 I also have the honor to enclose a copy of an Act of Congress of this day, 3 and by their directions to inform your Excellency that Genl. Howe, with a detachment of seven or eight hundred men, is marching into your State, and I expect will reach the City by the latter end of the week. Congress think it absolutely necessary to make a strict investigation into the late mutiny, as far as rests with them, and they depend on the exertions of the Executive in case it should reach beyond the military Jurisdiction. I have the honor &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 This letter, which Dickinson misdated ‘July 27th,” is in PCC, item 38, fols. 143-44. It contains no such request, but the following postscript suggests that Dickinson may sim ply have communicated it orally through Charles Thomson. “Mr Thomson who does Me the Honor of charging himself with this Letter, will deliver to Congress a Copy of the last proposals of the soldiers to Council, & of the Act of Council thereon.” 2 Dickinson enclosed this document with his July 3 reply to Boudinot, for which see PCC, item 38, fols. 27, 147; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:655. ’ See JCC, 24:412-13. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton July 1st. 1783 I do myself the Pleasure of enclosing a Line to your Excellency from Major General Howe, who arrived with his detachment, in this Neigh bourhood last Evening. 1 By the last Accounts from Philadelphia the Mutiny was entirely quelled and the Lancaster division had marched to that Town; but it is reported that after their Submission, Coll Humpton furloughed the greatest part of them. I hope it is not true, as Coll Humpton himself waited on me and in the Name of the Line, assured Congress that in no Case would they ever accept the Command of the Mutineers again without the express directions of Congress. This Satisfied Us so far as to prevent any prudential order of that kind. I have the Honor to be with the most perfect respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Ser Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Concerning Gen. Robert Howe’s troops at Princeton, Boudinot also wrote the fol lowing brief note to William Jackson, the assistant secretary at war, the next day.


[Page 423]
July 1, 1783 389 “The Presid. of Congress presents his most respectful Comps, to the Ass. Secry at War and informs him that it is the Sense of the Members of Congress present here making 7 States, that the detachmt under Ma. Gen. Howe be furnished with an additional ration of rum for the 3d & 4 days of July Instt. It is meant an additional ration for each day.” Colbourn Collection, MHi. Oliver Ellsworth to Joseph Reed Dear Sir Princeton Istjuly 1783 I am favoured with your Letter of 25th Ulto. How it came to be de layed I know not, but it did not get to my hands till yesterday Morn ing. That some people should affect to Believe that the departure of Congress was hasty is not surprising; their own justification depends upon propagating that opinion. I am however, fully perswaded that no honest, disinterested man in the World who is acquainted with the cir cumstances, can be of opinion that we could with propriety have staid longer in the City, after having been surrounded by an armed, & men acing Banditti, & after having applied in vain to the Executive Author ity for protection. I can not help thinking that if the Militia had been called upon, or if application had been made to the most virtuous, & respectable part of the Citizens, such a dishonour would never have been suffered. I hope your information may prove true, that the Mili tia Officers intend to vindicate their own characters. Until that is done, & a full assurance given to Congress that they may depend on protection, I am of opinion they will not return to Philadelphia. Some interest making and caballing has been among the Members, but a great majority feel the indignity which has been offered them, & shew a great disinclination to return. Genl. Howe is arrived here with about Eleven Hundred of the Massachusets Line & proceeds with them to morrow towards Philadelphia. The very extraordinary conduct of Col. Humpton in furloughing the Mutineers, at the very time he knew, from the Proclamation of the President, that Congress were ad journed to this place for the purpose of suppressing the Mutiny will embarrass us not a little. That proceeding, I hope, will be the subject of military investigation. We were not able to make a House until Monday, because both of the Rhode Island Members chose to con tinue in Philadelphia, to shew their courage; & we have now only seven States on the Floor; so that we must have unanimity, which is hardly ever to be expected, or we can do nothing. The Report of the Committee (Hamilton, Elsworth, & Peters) which had the repeated conferences with your President, & Council, has been made. 1 Some certain party Gentlemen object to it’s being printed by order of Congress. The Facts which are therein stated will exhibit the President & Council of Pennsylvania to the World, in such colours as will not be


[Page 424]
390 JulyI, 1783 very pleasing to the brave & virtuous part of the community. If the lat ter do not make their sentiments very explicitly known, I shall be much disappointed. I am determined the Report shall be printed ei ther with, or without the order of Congress. 2 Your precaution respect ing your Letter was very proper. The party politicks of Philadelphia are very plainly to be seen here; & therefore when you do me the hon our of writing to me again, it will be better to follow the example I now give you, as I know your hand. I am Dr. Sr., with great regard, Your most Obt. Servt. RC (NHi: Joseph Reed Papers). In Ellsworth’s hand, though not signed. 1 Actually this committee submitted three reports this day, but Ellsworth is referring to the third of these. See JCC, 24:412-21. 2 It was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on July 10, in the Pennsylvania Journal on July 12, and in the Freeman’sJmimalon]\i\y 16. James McHenry to John Henry Dr. Sir. Princtown 1 July 1783 You will have no reason to blame me for my silence, and yet my be ginning with an excuse seems to imply its justice. I left you in Annapo lis and when I left Baltimore I understood you were still there, and had proposed to go down the Bay with the governor; from all which I conclude this letter will be fortunate should it even now find you at home enjoying that retirement which I long to experience. I had scarcely entered Congress when the cession of territory by Virginia was taken up. 1 You have seen the conditions. There had been a report on these conditions and this was to be argued. Congress hav ing embraced a conciliatory system, the question of right could not be opposed to the conditions. All that remained was to bring them down to what was reasonable. I carried an amendment to the second, which stripped Virginia of a source of charges against the United States, the extent of which it was impossible to ascertain. Finding that no other amendments would succeed, I had its further discussion postponed. To get as much as we can of this territory with the consent of Virginia seems to be the preponderating sentiment and indeed it may be, all things considered, the most prudent measure at present in our power. The United States are without force to support their claims. And should we delay receiving what Virginia is willing to give she may re voke the cession and open a land office. In this case there is no doubt but she will find purchasers, and that these will assert their claims. But without such an act the north west banks of the Ohio must in a little time be covered with the claims of adventurers, who will hold upon the title of occupancy. On the whole I am inclined to think, that we at


[Page 425]
JulyI, 1783 391 least risque advantages by delay, that may not be counterbalanced by any cession to be expected hereafter. You know the land Virginia re serves to herself, and to which she has no right by the King of G. Britain’s proclamation of 1763, lays between the Alleghany mountains and the Ohio. This it is said added to Virginia will make her too pow erful. But it appears to me, that in a very short time it would secede from the dominion, and become what Congress would make it, an in dependent republic. The laws enacted at Richmond would either not be known—have no efficacy, or be laughed over the Alleghany. No doubt you will have heard before this of our adjournment. You would be surprised at the event, and puzled for the cause. The en closed proclamation offers at a solution, which if unsatisfactory you must wait for a statement of the whole affair that will soon be pub lished by Congress. 3 I will only say, that the danger from the muti neers was real, that no support could be obtained from the Executive and that the citizens discovered no disposition [to] take arms. I know not whether this event will convince the States of their real situation, of the weakness of the confederation, and how very near we have approximated to anarchy & bankruptcy. It is time however, that all men should know, that a breath of wind would break the few fret ted threads that remain of the union; and that it is folly of the first rank [to] keep representatives responsible without their being pro vided with the means to discharge th[eir] trusts. How far this event may be favorable to the removal of Congress to Annapolis, I will not pretend to predict. To be out of Philadelphia is not to be in Annapolis, altho’ it brings Congress a step nearer this point, by lessening the chances for that place. In this question, private considerations will act contrary to the general good. The Southern delegates [have] a leaning to a cold climate, and the northern gentle men dread a warm one. I will work however, but it would be presump tion to suggest a favorable issue to my labors. The present instant is promising as it respects the votes of Virginia, North & South Carolina, but then Georgia and Maryland is unrepresented, so that nothing can be done but shuffle the cards and be patient. Write me on this perplexing western territory business and believe me most cordially and sincerely your friend & hble St James McHenry [PS.] No definitive treaty. RC (MdAA: Henry deposit). 1 McHenry had taken his seat on June 11, 1783. See JCC, 24:389. 2 See JCC, 24:406-7; and James Madison’s Notes of Debates, June 20, 1783. 3 McHenry is referring to Elias Boudinot’s June 24 proclamation and Alexander Hamilton’s June 20 and July 1 committee reports, describing negotiations between con gressional representatives and the Pennsylvania government, which were entered on


[Page 426]
392 July 2,1783 the journals this day and distributed as Congress’ official explanation of the mutiny and its results. See JCC, 24:413-21; and Boudinot to Washington, July 5, 1783. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sir, Princeton July 2d. 1783 We think it our Duty to inform your Excellency & The Honble Council from Time to Time of any Transactions in which the State may be thought particularly concerned. I have therefore taken the earliest Opportunity of transmitting the enclosed. 1 We shall be happy to receive any Communications you may think proper to make on this or any other Occasion. We have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, your very obedt Servants, John Montgomery Richard Peters RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by Peters and signed by Peters and Montgomery. 1 Apparently the committee of Congress report on the Pennsylvania mutiny entered on the journals of Congress on July 1 and read by the Pennsylvania Council on July 5, for which see JCC, 24:413-21; and Pa. Council Minutes, 13:619. Elias Boudinot to Certain States Sir Princeton 3d July 1783 I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency an Act of Congress of yesterday on a subject of more real importance to the United States than seems generally supposed. 1 I am sorry to trouble your Excellency so often on this subject, but the encreasing distress of many of the Citizens of these States, arising from the want of a fuller Representation in Congress, will justify every exertion to remedy so growing an Evil. I have the honor to be &c. &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of the State of New-York.” Endorsed: “The like verbatim was sent to the Executives of the States of New- Hampshire, Connecticut, Maryland and Georgia.” 1 For this request to the unrepresented states to “send forward a delegation to Congress,” see JCC, 24:422.


[Page 434]
400 July 5,1783 We have laid before Congress the Several Resolutions enclosed in Yr. Excellences letter and also the application of Mr. Cooper the Pilot, and shall in due time inform you of the Steps which Congress may take thereon. 3 We are with the most perfect respect, Yr. Excelly’s most obedt. Serts, Theok. Bland RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written and signed by Bland. Endorsed: ‘Theo Bland one of the Virginia Delegates, justifying the adjournment of Congress to prevent their invasion by the Mutineers." Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 1:211-12. 1 Ibid., pp. 172-73. 2 Bland actually enclosed the two committee reports that Congress ordered to be en tered on the journals on July 1 plus the resolutions adopted by Congress on June 21. See JCC, 24:410, 413-21. 3 For the Virginia Assembly’s June 4 instructions relating to Continental contracts ne gotiated in Virginia and its June 17 request for funds to level French fortifications at Yorktown and Gloucester, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:113-14, 162. On July 3 Congress referred the June 4 resolve, and the governor’s June 20 letter enclosing Ed ward Cowper’s claims for pilotage, to Robert Morris as superintendent of finance and agent of marine. See JCC, 24:425; and PCC, item 71, 2:365—70, item 186, fol. 110. See also Virginia Delegates to Harrison, August 14, 1783, note 2. The June 17 instruction on French fortifications was read on July 31 and referred to a committee chaired by Jacob Read which reported on September 3 that Congress could not comply with the request given “the state of the public finances.” See JCC, 24:483n.2, 25:533; and PCC, item 185, 3:70, item 186, fol. 116. James Wilson to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir Philadelphia 5th July 1783 The Bearer Doctor Macmahan is introduced to me by the inclosed Letter. He wishes to lay his Proposals before Congress; provided they will engage to give him a Reward in Lands, if his Discovery shall, on Experiment, be attended with Success. 1 He informs me that he has no Acquaintance with any Member of Congress. I, therefore, give you the Trouble of advising him concerning the Steps which it will be proper for him to take in the Prosecution of his Design. I know you will, with Pleasure, contribute your Assistance to every Thing which may have a Tendency to promote the Interest and Improvement of the United States. I am, with much Regard, dear Sir, Yours very sincerely, James Wilson RC (NNPM: Signers of the Declaration Collection). 1 James McMechen had developed a scheme for building a mechanical boat capable of navigating upstream while carrying five tons freight, which he was promoting as a boon for western trade. A memorial containing his proposals was read in Congress on July 9 and referred to a committee which reported against the plan on the 11th. No fur ther action seems to have been taken on McMechen’s memorial, although according to the journals he supported a similar proposal on behalf of James Rumsey in 1785. See JCC, 24:433-34, 27:401, 28:349-50; and PCC, item 78, 16:359-63.


[Page 452]
418 July 15,1783 In the evening Congress met and made a House and came to the resolutions contained in No. 5 5 and broke up without adjournment. The Committee not being able to meet the Council till Sunday morn ing were then prevailed on to wait for an answer till monday morning and then received the answer contained in the 2d Report No. 6. 6 However hoping that the Council would change their sentiments, the Comittee did not think proper to give me their advice till Tuesday at two O’Clock in the Afternoon. In the mean time the Mutineers kept in arms, refusing all obedience to their Officers, and in possession of the powder House and Magazines of Military Stores. On Tuesday morning the Officers reported to me that the preceding evening the Serjeants, notwithstanding some talk of a submission and return to their duty, had presented six officers with a commission each as on No. 7; 7 and on one refusing to accept it they threatened him with im mediate death—and that, at the time of the Report, they were getting very drunk and in a very riotous state. By the second Report of the Committee you will be acquainted with the particulars of the transac tion, with the addition that the behaviour of the six Officers was very mysterious and unaccountable. At two O’Clock agreeably to the ad vice of the Committee, I summoned Congress to meet at this place on Thursday the 26th of June; issued the Proclamation No. 8 8 and left the City. As soon as it was known that Congress was going, the Council were informed, that there was great reason to expect a serious attack on the Bank the night following, on which the President of the State col lected about One hundred Soldiers and kept Guard all night. On Wednesday it was reported that Congress had sent for the Comman der in Chief with the whole Northern Army; and the Militia of New- Jersey, who were to be joined by the Pennsylvania Militia, in order to quell the meeting; which was no otherwise true than ordering a de tachment of a few hundred men from the North River. The Serjeants being alarmed, soon proposed a submission, and the whole came in a Body to the President of the State, making a most submissive acknowl edgement of their misconduct, and charging the whole on two of the Officers, whom they had commissioned to represent their grievances, A Capt. Carbery and Lieutenant Sullivan, who were to have headed them, as soon as they should have proceeded to violences. These Offi cers immediately escaped to Chester and there got on board of a Ves sel bound to London. The Serjeants describe the plan laid by these Officers as of the most irrational and diabolical nature, not only against Congress and the Council, but also against the City and Bank. They were to be joined by straggling parties from different parts of the Country, and after executing their horrid purposes were to have gone off with their plunder to the East Indies. However incredible this may appear the letters No. 9 & 10 9 from Sullivan to Colo. Moyland, his


[Page 453]
July 15, 1783 419 Commanding Officer, from Chester and the Capes clearly shew that it was a deep laid scheme. It appears clearly to me that next to the con tinued care of divine Providence, the miscarriage of this plan is owing to the unexpected meeting of Congress on Saturday, and their de cided conduct in leaving the City, until they could support the fcederal Government with dignity. It is also said that two of the Citizens have been concerned in this wicked plot, but they are not yet ascertained. They were certainly en couraged by some of the lower class as well as by the general supine ness in not quelling the first movement. Some very suspicious circum stances attending the conduct of the other four Officers, who were commissioned by the Serjeants have caused them to be arrested. The whole matter has so far subsided. The detachment under Genl. Howe from the Northern Army has arrived in the vicinity of the City and a Court of enquiry is endeavouring to develope the whole affair. The Citizens are greatly chagrined at the predicament in which they stand and endeavour to lay the blame on the Council for not calling on them and proving them, while the Council justify themselves by the advice of the Militia officers, whom they called together for that purpose. The Citizens are universally petitioning Congress to return to the City, assuring us of their constant protection. You will excuse me for tiring you with so circumstantial an account, which nothing but the necessity of preventing the many falsehoods that are generally propagated on these occasions and the propriety of your being well informed, would ever have justified me in. I do myself the honor to send herewith the Newspapers, and par ticularly a Circular Letter of Genl. Washington to the different States, 10 which in my opinion gives the finishing stroke to his inim itable Character. I have committed this letter to the care of my younger Brother, who is bound for London, having been in the Merchant service at that port for several years, but who, I have the best evidence is well at tached to the interests of this Country, and who can inform you of many particulars relating to the State of things here. I have the honor to be &c. E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable The Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United States &c. at Paris.” 1 Actually June 13. 2 At this point the following note appears in the margin: “letters from Colo. Buder & Colo. Henry, on the files of Congress.” These and the following enclosures (Nos. 1-10) have been printed with Boudinot’s letter in Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:6-29. 3 The following note appears in the margin: “See Journals of Congress July 1, 1783.” JCC, 24:413-15. 4 In the margin: “Message to Council by the Serjeants.” 5 In the margin: “Resolutions of Sat. 21 June.” 6 In the margin: “Seejournalsjuly I."JCC, 24:416-21.


[Page 454]
420 July 15,1783 7 In the margin: “See files of Congress.” 8 In the margin: “See page 47, this Book,” for which see Boudinot’s Proclamation, June 24, 1783. 9 In the margin: “See files of Congress.” See also Boudinot’s first letter to Washington of July 8, note 2. 10 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 26:483-96. Samuel Holten to John Swanwick Dear Sir. 1 Princeton 15th July 1783. I have been favor’d with your kind attention of the 4th instant. Your favorable opinion of me from a short acquaintance is highly flattering, & lays me under obligations, which it is not in my power to return, unless you will be pleased to accept the like address, which I Sincerely offer. I am sorry to see some publications in your newspapers from Philada. respecting the removal of Congress, they will answer no valuable pur pose, for Congress have ordered no publication upon the matter, & I trust never will, they only ordered the report of their committee to be entered on their Journals, & that was done even without a debate; it might be agreeable to some individuals to get Congress into a dispute with the state of Pennsyla. but I believe they will be disappointed. You will please to accept my thanks for your engagement to honor my notes, which the bearer will present: I am with particular respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 John Swanwick (1740-98), a long time employee of Robert Morris, was cashier of the Office of Finance and receiver of Continental taxes in Pennsylvania, and became a partner in the firm of Willing & Morris in September 1783. See Morris, Papers (Ferguson), l:8n.l. Samuel Holten to Winslow Warren Dear Sir. Princeton 15th July 1783. I have been favor’d with your attention of the 2d instant, & have observed the contents, your submitting to my consideration the in closed directed to the President lays me under obligations; I have deliver’d the same, as I cou’d not have the least objection, & it has been read in Congress, & filed, & will be attended to when the ap pointments for the places you are pleas’d to mention comes under consideration; 1 If it shou’d be in my power to render you farther services it will give me pleasure. I am, with particular respect, your most obedient


[Page 455]
July 15,1783 421 FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Winslow Warren, son of James Warren, had written a July 2 letter to Pres. Elias Boudinot, which was read in Congress on July 8, offering himself as a candidate for the post of consul in Portugal. See JCC, 24:428n.l; and PCC, item 78, 24:399-402. See also Arthur Lee tojames Warren, August 13, 1783. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear Sir Philada. July 15. 1783. Yesterdays post brought me no letter from you. The Contents of the inclosed paper make up every thing of consequence which I have for a subject at present. The enquiry into the Mutiny has not advanced far enough to bring forth any discoveries. An Address is circulating & will be generally signed by the Citizens here reciting to Congress the proofs they have heretofore given of attachmt. to the federal govt, professing a continuance of that attachmt. and declaring their readiness to support the dignity & privileges of Congs, in case the conveniency of this place for transacting the public affairs sd. give it a preference to others untill a final resi dence shall be fixed. 1 Mr. Lee arrived here the day before yesterday and goes to Princeton today. 2 Mr. Mercer’s indisposition, carries him to the Sea board of N. Jersey. My absence not producing any chasm in the Representation, and some private business requiring my stay here, I shall not return to Princeton for 7 or 8 days. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:225. 1 For this “Address of the Citizens of Philadelphia,” which was submitted to Congress on July 23, see Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons, July 23, 1783. 2 Arthur Lee took his seat in Congress on July 16. See JCC, 24:435. Richard Peters to Oliver Wolcott Dear Sir, Princeton July 15, 1783 I recieved your Letter of the 1st inst. I will procure a Search to be made for the Papers 1 in the Secretary’s Office as I was sure of there being there but was always told the contrary. I am so much used to such Accounts of the Backwardness of the States to comply with confederal Plans of Finance that I am not sur prized at the Intelligence you are pleased to communicate. Some


[Page 459]
July 16,1783 425 and that alone was sufficient to excite reflexions inexpressibly painful. Well aware that you would not wish me to be accused of levity in business, or suffer me to be suspected of preferring even the gratification of my heart, to the interests of my country, I said to myself—a public station is an enemy to peace, and there is no happiness but in the arms of my Peggy; I will therefore renounce its vain consequence to others; I will over come my fears, and speak to her parents to-morrow; she shall be mine, and the rest of the world may belong to the disciples of folly or the dupes of ambition. An instant, how ever, told me, that to please you, I must not desert the station in which I had been placed, and incur a public censure, but relying on the promise you had made to sweeten absence with an intercourse of letters, forbear to be precipitate, or to hurry you into a new condition of life, before I could render it agreeable to the sole guardian of my fate. Thus my amiable and beloved charmer, I felt, and I thought, till the appear ance of the punctual Davy informed me it was time to commence my journey. I stole softly to your room door, and gently kissed it, and prayed that your slumbers might be light, and your hours tranquil till I again lost my speech in looking at my Peggy, and again felt from her head tenderly reclined on my arm, more substantial pleasure, than a monarch experiences when first seated on his throne, or a conqueror enjoys, in the mo ment of his victories. “Ah’ my dear Peggy, till then, enliven the dull drudgery I must be engaged in by your cordial letters. You are too sensible, after my plighted faith, to think writing to me im proper; and I am too much interested in whatever you do, to require, what if done, would diminish my regard. Will my Peggy too, penetrate the disposition of her mother respect ing my passion, and hasten to remove a suspence which she must know is insufferably dis tressing. Let me but read your letters and have ease on this point, and I shall count the hours of absence as only interposed to heighten the happiness that awaits my return. Adieu my dear and beloved Peggy, and believe me unchangeably yours, James McHenry. “This is tuesday night, but as I cannot trust a letter to my Peggy in the common Stage box, I must keep it for a conveyance to which I can confide a name so very dear to my present and future felicity. Your brother will give it to you.” Steiner, Correspondence of James McHenry, pp. 59-60; and McHenry Papers, MdHi. 2 The following note, apparently in Caldwell’s hand, appears just below McHenry’s signa ture, and indicates that Jack could not resist the temptation of showing this letter to Peggy. “You will at my request return this in the morning—and give no intimation of your see ing it. Sorry I am to thus produce proofs of my knowledge of your Affairs—to authorize my writing on them.” James Madison to John Francis Mercer Dr Sir Philada. July 16 1783 The lucky arrival of our brother Lee who is gone on to Princeton has relieved me from the necessity of obeying your summons by Mr. Hawkins. 1 You will not therefore expect any Congressional news by this conveyance. A letter by the post from Mr. Ambler repeats his request that war rants in form may be sent by all the Delegates for the amount of their respective shares of his remittances. He adds that two bills one for £500, the other for upwards of £600 Va. Curry, have unexpectedly come into the Treasy. & that the Delegates may have the benefit of the good fortune by authorizing their friends in Va. to take out warrants for such


[Page 461]
July 17, 1783 427 ing Nagle’s rhetoric and conduct during the mutiny, see PCC, item 38, fols. 57-63. For additional documents concerning Nagle’s arrest, trial, and pardon, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:63, 67, 69; JCC, 24:509-10, 517n, 25:564-66; and Boudinot to Robert Howe, September 13, 1783. 3 Pennsylvania delegate James Wilson also wrote the following brief, cryptic note to Tench Coxe this day. “I am just going to Princeton; but will return on Saturday or Sun day next; and will then adjust the Matter you mention.” Coxe Papers, PHi. This is the only evidence that has been found to indicate that Wilson was in Princeton during July. That he attended for a time in August and September is clear from the journals (JCC, 24:493, 505, 507, 509, 25:537), although in Burnett, Letters, 7:lxxiv, he is not recorded as attending in Princeton until October 6. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton 17th July 1783 I had the honor of receiving your Excellency’s favour relative to the promotions in General Hazen’s Regiment, 1 which was referred to the Secretary at War to report. The Assistant Secretary has accordingly re ported, 2 that there is no record of any such promotions in his Office. I informed Congress how the matter stood, but they chose to have an official report from the Secretary. The fact is that some time last April Genl. Hazen brought a number of Commissions promoting the Offi cers of his Regiment for me to sign; but finding a Report of a Commit tee of some Months’ standing relative to the reduction of this Regi ment, and that it had been referred to the Secretary at War to report and was then under consideration, I did not choose to sign them with out mentioning the matter in Congress. This I did and was directed by Congress not to sign them till further orders. A Committee was then appointed to consider this matter, who conferred, I believe, with Genl. Hazen and reported, and it is now under consideration. I mentioned this matter to General Hazen in April and assigned the order of Congress as the reason for my not signing them. The Commissions yet remain with me. I also received and laid before Congress your Excellency’s favour relative to the Commissioners in New York. 3 Yesterday Congress came to the Resolution, a copy whereof is enclosed 4 —But failing to make a House this morning by the sickness of one of the Members, it could not be read the second time so as to be compleat. However as I did not choose to miss the post, I have enclosed a copy that you may be apprised of it. It will be liable to an alteration in the diction tomorrow, tho’ from the unanimity of Congress, I think no alteration will be made. I have the honor to be, with the most perfect consideration and es teem, Your Excellency’s Obedient & very humb. Serv, Elias Boudinot


[Page 467]
July 19, 1783 433 and that I do not hate. This it is probable will operate against the in creased attentions you recommend, unless the encreased charms of the fair one you discribe, should shake my fealty to the one I conceal. Now will you swear that I am in love; and swear that I am going to desert the order [of| batchelorhood, which I have acquired with so much honor and so few scars; and swear that it is criminal in me to marry out of Maryland; nay perhaps, swear for there is no saying where a man will stop swearing who enters heartily into it—that I should not marry at all—not one word of which shall I contradict were it only for the pleasure I sometimes take in pu[rsuing] whom I love. To-day is an idle day being Saturday, besides several of our gentle men having gone to Philada. we could have no Congress were we even inclined to hold one. No doubt you hear many sarcasms on our re moval. It was said by a wag the other day that Congress at Princetown were like fish out of water, they could only live in Philadelphia. They might be more aptly compared, said another, taking him up short, to the whale, that every now and then is obliged to rise to the surface of the water; as Congress men go to Philadelphia, in order to suck in fresh air and spout a little. Notwithstanding such jokes I can assure you that the atmosphere of this place is very wholesome; but then some persons think it extremely distressing not to be suffocated with the smoke of four or five thousand chimnies and the dust raised by nearly as many thousand carts and carriages. Besides we have here an excellent concert on every tree, which one can enjoy without going to the door; but this is likewise thought a poor substitute for the bells that are incessantly tolling to bury the dead. The want of asiatic din ners is another grievous complaint, and not to be compensated by the hospitable tables of plain healthy farmers, who placed at a distance from two large cities are as yet exempt from the [corr]uptions of ei ther. For my own part, I am [ver]y well satisfied with the good lamb, mutton, beef, fouls, hams, beans and cabbages which the country af fords in great plenty. But there is another reason for my being pleased. I lodge about a mile from Princetown at a Mr Taylors where there happens to be on a visit a very pretty quaker lady, who makes tolerable verses. To this verse-making quality is added—bashfulness— youth—innocence—good sense—and good nature. You will think per haps the people of the house as innocent as their visitor, inasmuch as they have taken the Lock off her room door and put it upon mine; al though I cannot open mine without almost touching hers. But, sweet innocent! thou art not less safe than if thy door was bolted by iron bars of adamant and guarded by a dragon. Sleep therefore in peace and tranquil be thy slumber—for hadst thou no protector in thine own virtue—thou wouldst find one in my honor. I hope this letter will convince you—that I have not taken much pains to write it—that I cannot tell you the price of cloth in Philad.—


[Page 470]
436 July 21, 1783 time, you will oblige me by taking such legal measures as may compel him. I Enclose you a Note for a small Sum long due from Capt. Wm. Green, son of Col. Green, the payment of which I beg you will obtain. Congress are yet at Princeton. The Citizens here are signing an Ad dress intended to effect their return to this City. As Mr. Robert Mor ris’s undue & wicked influence depends so much upon the residence here, it is presumd that he will use his utmost authority for that pur pose. But his influence has manifestly diminished since the removal from Philadelphia, & the fixing of Congress in any other place will I hope restrain it within due bounds. It is much suspected that he & his friends have been the prime movers of all the disturbances in the Army, for the purpose of enforcing the 5 per Ct. in the shape most parental of a corrupt influence in Congress of which he with reason expected to be the prime Minister. Naturally, I conceive, the Soldiers, had they not been otherwise tutord, woud have made their attempt upon him, as it is notorious that all the funds of the U.S. are in his hands. Potomac & Delaware are the Competitors for the permanent resi dence of Congress. The offer of jurisdiction in two States, is, in rea son, a very strong circumstance in favor of Potomac. 1 But unhappily reason very rarely governs in these decisions. No account of the definitive treaty. Adieu RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). In Lee’s hand, though not signed. 1 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, April 10, note 3; and James McHenry to William Hindman, July 19, 1783, note 3. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada. July 21. 1783. This will serve merely to prevent a chasm in my correspondence, having nothing whatever of consequence to make a subject of it. We hear nothing from our Ministers abroad. The Court Martial on the parties to the late Mutiny have come to no decisions as yet. The Ad dress from this City to Congress is I believe gone up pretty generally signed. My next will probably communicate the result of it. Among other conciliating steps they have by voluntary subscriptions given a very splendid & cordial entertainment to the Officers of the detach ment under Genl. Howe. 1 The Legislature of Massachusetts have in their election for the ensuing year left out all their Delegates now in Congs, as a penalty for their concurrence in the provision lately adopted relative to half pay. 2 Yr. favr. by the post is this moment handed to me. 3 I am on the point of setting off for Princeton to re place Col. Bland whose business keeps him here for a few days. Farewell. J-M-


[Page 471]
July22,1783 437 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:242. 1 Pres. John Dickinson had hosted an “elegant entertainment” at the State House on July 18 which is described in the Pennsylvania Packet of July 21 and the Gazette and the Journal of July 23, 1783. 2 See Stephen Higginson to Unknown, this date, note 1. 3 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:220-21. Elias Boudinot to the States Sir, Circular. Princeton 22djuly 1783 Since my letter of the 10th ult. enclosing the propositions of the States of New-York and Maryland to induce Congress to fix their per manent residence in one of those States 1 —propositions from the States of New-Jersey and Virginia, for a like purpose, have been re ceived; 2 copies of which I do myself the honor of enclosing for the in formation of your Excellency, and beg leave to remind you, that the period assigned by Congress for the determination on this subject, is the first Monday in October next. I have the honor &c. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See Boudinot to the States, June 10, 1783. 2 For the various letters from New Jersey read in Congress on June 30 and July 1, see PCC, item 46, fols. 35—38, 67—87, item 68, fols. 613—15; for the June 28 proposal from the Virginia Assembly read on July 16, see PCC, item 46, fols. 55-58. 3 In the presidential letterbook, Boudinot’s secretary appended the following “pri vate” note at this point. ‘The following was added to the letter Addressed to the Gover nor of the State of New-York, viz. “The humiliating situation that Congress is in for the want of a Representation, even for seven States, leads me to urge your Excellency, in the most earnest manner; to send on a Delegate for your State, which has not been represented, but about two or three days, for near two months past. Mr. Duane has just arrived, but Colo. Hamilton has left Congress. The definitive Treaty, we hear, has arrived at New-York, but should it be sent forward to us, we can do nothing with it for want of nine States.” Notwithstanding Boudinot’s assertion that “Colo. Hamilton has left Congress,” he ap parently attended the 22d when Congress convened at 10:00 a.m., although he wrote a letter to his wife later in the day from “Philadelphia.” Secretary Thomson’s journal records that New York was represented this day, and Hamilton and James Duane were the only New York delegates attending at this time. See PCC, item 16, fols. 225-26; Clin ton, Papers (Hastings), 8:219—20; JCC, 24:442; and the following entry. Alexander Hamilton to Elizabeth Hamilton Philadelphia, July 22d. 1783 I wrote you my beloved Betsey by the last post, 1 which I hope will not meet with the fate that many others of my letters must have met


[Page 475]
July 23, 1783 441 RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston had written to James Madison to inquire if he might be permitted to sign the definitive treaty of peace in his former character as secretary for foreign affairs, and asked Madison to inquire of his friends in Congress, such as Hamilton, Ralph Izard, and John Rutledge, whether this favor might be extended to him without impropriety. In a letter to Livingston of August 13, written after he had returned to Albany, Hamilton ex plained that he and Madison had “attended to” this request but that “nothing could be done in it.” See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:234-37; and Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:415n.2, 431. Ralph Izard to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir Princeton 23d July 1783 I am just favoured with your Letter of 21st instant, & am sorry to find that any objections should have been made to the payment of the Bill belonging to Col. Pinckney; especially as the informality you speak of is not to be found in that Bill. I should be very sorry to send the Bill back protested, as I am sure it would have a bad effect; at the same time I do not think myself authorized to receive anything but money in payment of the Bill. Col. Pinckney desires me to send him a pair of Bay Horses not exceeding five years old, & has limited me to 308 Dol lars. The passage, & other expences he will pay in Charles Town. He desires me to apply to Hiltzeimer if I should not be able to purchase the Horses myself. It is very probable that Mr. Morris’s Notes may be as acceptable to Hiltzeimer, as money; I should be obliged to you if you would take the trouble of consulting him, & if the Horses can be procured that they may be shipped for Charles Town, & that you would write a Letter to Colonel Pinckney, informing him of it. I am obliged to Mr. Morris for the trouble he has taken about my New Lon don Bill, & for his offer to pay me the amount of it. I can not however conceive a good reason why Mr. Morris’s Correspondent has not given him an account of the fate of the Bill. As soon as Mr. Morris receives an account of the payment of the Bill I should be glad that he would inform me of it. I am Dr. Sr., Your most obt. Servt. Ra. Izard. P.S. Pray write to me as soon as possible respecting the Horses, as I must give Colonel Pinckney an account of the business by the first op portunity. If Hiltzeimer can not undertake to send the Horses for Mr. Morris’s Notes, & if you can not get the money for Mr. Dart’s Bill, I beg the favour of you to have it protested regularly, & sent to me immediately. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection).


[Page 481]
July24, 1783 447 refugees were adopted on August 9, for which see PCC, item 78, 12:271-78; and JCC, 24:496-98. 2 For this resolution of thanks to Reuben Harvey for the relief he had provided Amer ican prisoners in Ireland during the war, whose services Washington had called to the attention of Congress in a letter of June 23, see JCC, 24:439-40; and Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 27:28-29. For documents pertaining to Harvey’s activities in Ireland, see PCC, item 46, fols. 339-64. Samuel Holten to Samuel Dexter Dear Sir. 1 Princeton, State of New Jersey, July 24 1783. I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write, but it did not come to hand ’till the 15th instant. What caused so long a delay, I am not able to say; but it happened at the very time I reed, it, that my ser vant was about sitting out to Philada.; I immediately wrote to Dr. Martin 2 & inclosed your letter, & three days after I reed, his answer, which I do myself the honor to inclose; but shall make no observa tions upon it, as it speaks itself. Upon consideration of the matter; I did suppose that several Gen tlemen of the faculty, members of Congress, [...] were likely to be ac quainted with Dr. Martin or his method of practice; I accordingly waited upon them & made careful inquiry as to their knowledge of Dr. Martin or his method of curing Cancers; the accounts they gave me of the man were much the same as you will discover from his letter; & as to his medicine, as he calls it, or his method of practice, they could say little more than this, that they understood he had cured bad ulcerous sores, or cancerous ulcers, as some called them, & after other sur geons had failed; but it was thus doubtful with them, whether he had cured one real Cancer; and that they understood, that he had failed in some cases in attempting to cure them; one of the Gentlemen added that he lived a number of months in the same house with Dr. Martin, & he understood that he used causticks. You will please, sir, to make my best compliments to your Lady, tho’ unknown, and acquaint her that it gives me concern for her indisposi tion, and that I wish it was in my power to render her services. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your most obedient servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Samuel Dexter (1726-1810), a former Boston merchant who had also represented Dedham in the Massachusetts General Court while Holten was representing Danvers, was at this time living in Woodstock, Conn. DAB. 2 Dr. Hugh Martin of Philadelphia had aroused attention for his claimed cancer cures. See also Holten to Dexter, September 21; Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 430-32; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:281.


[Page 484]
450 July 25,1783 be put into the Scale agt every other part of 13 States—but your Citi zens do me an honor I am not entitled to. I had not even a Voice in the removal of Congress from the City, tho’ I assure you it met my most hearty Approbation, and since our removal here, on the most candid & impartial Consideration, I never was more satisfied with any measure Congress have taken. It was done without Passion—with Con sideration & unanimously, not excepting the State of Pennsylvania, whose bare negative would have prevented the Measure. We conceive the matter to lye in a narrow compass. The Council had a Right most certainly to refuse the aid asked for, if they thought proper, and Congress had as certainly a Right on such Refusal to remove to such other Place of Residence, as should appear to them more likely to concur in Sentiment with them and to assign the Reason for their Conduct. The Proclamation I am told gives particular offence—for this I am certainly alone Answerable—but this Charge is an additional Evidence of local prejudices, warping the good Sense of the Objec tors. Can any Man in his Senses suppose that such a Body as Congress was to be privately adjourned from one State to another, as if no Body had any Business with them, but a few individuals who could be pri vately notified? Pray what would the Minister & Servants of foreign Powers have said—what would the Officers of Congress & the daily ap plicants that attend on Business of Importance have said? What would the several States, with the Contractors, the public Creditors & Corre spondents of Congress have said, if they had meanly & privately slipped off or escaped by Flight, as some of your Citizens have even now thought proper to term it, without announcing to the world in an open public Manner to what Place they had adjourned? Who was to inform the Citizens of the united States & Foreigners having Business with Congress, where they were to be found? How indeed the infa mous advertisement offering a Reward to take up the Congress of the united States that appeared in your City, might have been Justified? Is one of the assemblies of a State called together or adjourned by the Executive of a State, or even a special Court held in a City or County, without being anounced to the Public either by Proclamation or something equal to it, and is the Sovereign Power of the united States, so sunk in the opinion of the Citizens of Philadelphia, that they should suppose them capable of skulking from Place to Place as if they were ashamed to let their removal be known? But it is the Lan guage of the Proclamation that gives Offense. This I am not answer able for. It is but a bare Recital of the Acts & Language of Congress, and I think entirely unexceptionable, as it is setting Forth the Facts as they happened. Congress appear to me to have no Dispute with the State of Pennsylvania. She has exerted herself greatly & in a most re spectable Manner in the Comon Cause, and she does now & will still continue to reap the advantage of it as much as & even more than any


[Page 485]
July 25, 1783 451 State in the Union. Congress have reed many Instances of attention from her and she has been richly repaid in return. Congress & her at tendants have for some Years past spent near £150,000 Per Annum in ready money in your City. This is no small Matter—but surely had we only represented the union without any farther advantage to the State, we certainly were entitled to protection from Insult. But what gives one the greatest Satisfaction on this subject is that we are now fully assured that the destruction of private property, if not the City it self was the Object of this Mutiny, and that it was prevented from tak ing effect by our leaving the City in the manner we did, we are all well convinced of. The private Letters from Sullivan & Carbarer we have in possession are satisfactory on this Subject to every unprejudiced Mind. On the whole, I thought proper as an individual to give you my private Sentiments on this Transaction, tho I wished to be as silent as possible—but as it is designed for your private Consideration & not to increase any ill will that may have already have taken Place in any un informed Mind I thought it could give no Offence. As the Time of our framing our permanent residence is so near, I could wish to return & settle matters with order & decorum before we make that determina tion, but as I before observed the thinness of Congress, I am afraid will altogether prevent it. 3 FC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). In the hand of Elias Boudinot. 1 Not found. 2 That is, the address to Congress from the citizens of Philadelphia received July 23, for which see Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons, July 23, note 1. 3 Rush’s August 2 response to Boudinot is in Rush, Papers (Butterfield), 1:307-9. Alexander Hamilton to John Jay Dear Sir Philadelphia, July 25. 1783. Though I have not performed my promise of writing to you, which I made you when you left this country, yet I have not the less interested myself in your welfare and success. I have been witness with pleasure to every event which has had a tendency to advance you in the esteem of your country; and I may assure you with sincerity, that it is as high as you could possibly wish. All have united in the warmest approbation of your conduct. I cannot forbear telling you this, because my situation has given me access to the truth, and I gratify my friendship for you in communicating what cannot fail to gratify your sensibility. The peace which exceeds in the goodness of its terms, the expecta tions of the most sanguine does the highest honor to those who made it. It is the more agreeable, as the time was come, when thinking men began to be seriously alarmed at the internal embarrassments and ex-


[Page 488]
454 July 25, 1783 necessary used to chastise & compel it into the eastern Confederacy. New Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware and Maryland will form another Union. They are all states whose boundaries are fixed and confined and who have one common strong desire to possess a share of the great Western territory, which they now claim as their right and as an acquisition which the present confederacy has obtained by the ex pense of their blood and treasure. The haughtiness of Virginia, its great extent and its boundless claims will induce it to set up for itself. And if ever royal government is set up in N. America, here it will first erect its throne. Her first quarrel will be with the middle confederacy about the western Country. Un less perhaps the people beyond the Allegheny Mountains should be induced first to set up for themselves and to claim an exclusive right to that country. In that case Virginia may attempt to subjugate them & the middle confederacy will support them against her. She may then attempt to form an alliance with the Eastern confederacy or the three Southern states which it is not improbable may league together but without any close confederacy. For such is the fiery pride of South Carolina, such the dissipation of her morals & her insolence occa sioned by the multitude of slaves that she will not cordially join in any Union till she is taught wisdom by sore suffering. In this conflict America may be a theatre of war & her councils become famous for brigues 2 & intreagues of policy. But where am I wandering. I sat down only to tell you I am well and am hurried on I know not how into scenes of fairy land from which I am recalled by Miss Nancy’s invita tion to breakfast. So I bid you Adieu. Take care of your health. I am, with sincere Affection, your loving husband Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 No Philadelphia “address” with Joseph Reed’s “emendations” has been found or is recorded in the journals or papers of Congress, but for mention of such a document by one of Reed’s correspondents, see Oliver Ellsworth to Joseph Reed, August 7, 1783. 2 “Strife, quarrel, contention. Obs. ” OED. Elias Boudinot to Sir Guy Carleton Sir, Princeton 26th July 1783 I have the honor of acknowleging the receipt of your Excellency’s letter of the 24th instant, with the several papers enclosed, which have just come to hand. They shall be immediately laid before Congress, and whatever Reso lutions shall be adopted on the subject-matter of them, I will do my self the honor of transmitting to your Excellency without delay. 1 I have the honor to be, with the most perfect consideration and respect, Your Excellency’s &c. E.B.


[Page 489]
July 26, 1783 455 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Carleton’s letter, informing Boudinot that six suspected counterfeiters of “Morris’s Notes” had been arrested at New York and that perhaps Congress would like to send a representative to the court martial about to be convened, was referred this day to a committee consisting of James Duane, Stephen Higginson, and Arthur Lee. The com mittee’s report, adopted by Congress August 1, ignored Carleton’s invitation, but ex pressed the hope that such suspects as were citizens of the United States would be “de livered up ... to be tried under the Jurisdiction to whom the cognizance of their crimes belongs,” for which see Boudinot to Carleton, August 1, 1783; JCC, 24:451n, 485—86; and PCC, item 186, fol. 115. Carleton subsequently announced that four of the suspects had been acquitted, that one was a British subject, and that William May of Connecticut “shall be turned out of our lines by Kings’s bridge.” For Carleton’s letters of July 24, Au gust 13, and September 1 on this subject, along with numerous enclosures and the pro ceedings of the court martial held August 13-23 to try these cases, see PCC, item 52, fols. 1—154. For Carleton’s purposes in inviting an American representative to attend this court martial, recorded by the royal chief justice of New York who was advising Car leton on this matter, see William Smith, Historical Memoirs from 26 August 1778 to 12 November 1783 of William Smith, ed. William H. W. Sabine (1958; reprint ed., New York: Arno Press, 1971), pp. 597—98. Elias Boudinot to Congress Princeton July 26t. 1783. 1 The President begs leave to inform Congress, that the present Situa tion of his Family is extremely disagreeable, as well as unnecessarily expensive to the united States, two Households being kept up instead of one. That he cannot remain here in reputation much longer, with out removing the Family & Furniture from Philadelphia to this Town, 2 which he intends doing without delay, if not disagreeable to Congress, and which he thought it necessary previously to acquaint them with. A House should be provided in this Town, and it will be a consider able saving in the Expences, to give up the House in Philadelphia. The President wishes that a Committee may be appointed to consider & report on this Subject, or some other Measure taken for the Pur pose more agreeable to Congress. 3 RC (DNA: PCC, item 59). In Boudinot’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Information of the President to Congress, July 26, 1783. July 31, Referred to Mr. Williamson, Mr. Izard, Mr. Clark. August 14th 1783, Referred to the President to take order.” 1 Boudinot apparently first dated this letter ‘July 21st, 1783” and subsequently wrote over the “1st,” a conclusion also suggested by Secretary Thomson’s endorsement—‘July 26. 1783.” 2 Boudinot was staying with his sister, Annis Boudinot Stockton, at her “Morven” es tate just outside Princeton. See Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, June 30 and July 4, 1783. 3 There is no record of this matter in Secretary Thomson’s journals, but for the Au gust 11 report of the committee to which Boudinot’s letter was referred, recommend ing that Boudinot take a house “near the place where Congress sits," and that the super-


[Page 494]
460 July 26, 1783 partial Motives {Motives liable to be construed into Resentment, Pique or in tended Design not only in the Body but) either in the Body but even in any Members whose Decision may give the Turn to a Question, And the late Removal from Philadelphia to Princeton being avowedly for a temporary Purpose [as appears not only by the Spirit & Tenor of the Act of the 21st of June last but from the Declaration of the Mover of that Part of the Resolve which respects the Removal; such Declaration being at the Time uncontradicted, by all & now ready to be proved by Members present] a longer Residence out of the State of Pennsilvania may be supposed to flow from the Motives before stated; especially as no Conveniencies to render it an eligible Place of Residence are or can be speedily provided at Princeton for the Accommodation of Congress, foreign Ministers & the Officers in the civil Departments who are now separated from Congress by the Inconveniencies attend ing their present Situation to the great Injury of the public Bussiness. And Whereas a Continuance under present Circumstances in the Place of their present Session may have a Tendency to give great Un easiness to the Government & Citizens of Pennsilvania who altho’ they cannot claim any Preference in the Residence of Congress yet would be unhappy & discontented under the Appearance of Resentment which they would suppose to be evidenced by a Permanent Continu ance out of that State under a Resolution produced by temporary In conveniencies & dictated by Events so sudden in their Rise & so short in their Duration that well digested Plans or deliberate Measures may not be presumed to be grounded upon them. And Whereas the further Absence of Congress from the said City may be supposed to shew by Facts, contradictory to any verbal Assur ances, that they had not Confidence in the good Disposition of the Citizens thereof, notwithstanding the said Citizens have recently pre sented to Congress a most respectful and affectionate Address, 2 wherein they have given solemn Assurances “that Congress may re pose the utmost Confidence in its Inhabitants not only to prevent any Circumstances which may have a Tendency to disturb their necessary Deliberations but to aid in all Measures to support the national Hon our and Dignity.” And Whereas it is declared to have been the Motive with the Dele gates of Pennsilvania to consent to the Removal that the same was not understood to be intended for a longer Period than should be neces sary for restoring Quiet & Good Order among the Soldiery & it would be taking an undue Advantage of the said Delegates & of Conse quence be derogatory to the Honour & Dignity of Congress should they now after the Causes Sc Reasons of their Removal are at an End neglect or refuse to return to the City of Philada. there to reside until the Place of their permanent Residence shall be determined upon. And Whereas the Continuance out of that State may induce a Ne cessity on the Part of the Legislature of Pennsilvania to enquire into


[Page 495]
July 26, 1783 461 the Causes thereof & an Investigation (which may be avoided by an immediate Return of Congress to Philadelphia) may be promoted tending to produce mutual Irritation which it is the Duty & Policy of Congress to prevent among the Members of the Union: And more es pecially as the Conduct of the Executive of Pennsilvania with Respect to the Mutineers may be alledged to be justified by Events (which fre quently regulate the general Opinion) the Mutiny occasioning the Re moval of Congress appearing to have been digested by Negotiation & thereby the Lives of the Citizens not exposed to Destruction; & the Question therefore, whether the Council of the said State were right in not calling out the Militia for the Purpose & at the Time requested by the Committee of Congress or whether Congress were right in their Removal because such Measures were not taken as they deemed necessary, may always remain a Matter of Opinion upon which each may decide from possibly opposite Motives. And Whereas all Enquiries into the Transaction so far as it respects Congress & the Executive of the State are unnecessary & no satisfac tory Decision could be had for the Reasons before recited; but an En quiry may produce opposite Decisions in Congress & the State which may be attended with Obstructions to federal Plans & may occasion a dangerous Breach in the fcederal Government unless the Magnanim ity of the State & their Disposition to support the true Interests & Dig nity of the Confederacy, which has been so frequently & constantly ev idenced, should prevail over every other Consideration. And Whereas the public Bussiness under present Circumstances cannot be so conveniently carried on in any other Place as in Philadelphia & it will be necessary as well for Accomodation as the Acceleration of great Part of the public Bussiness to reside in a City ’till Buildings can be erected elsewhere for which there is now neither Time nor Means, & a Continuance here will on these Considerations without answering any good End, raize Jealousies in the said Citizens who will suppose that another City having fewer present Conveniencies (& liable to all the Arguments against a Residence in Cities) or Places having no other Conveniencies but a few Buildings, are the Objects with some Members whose Votes are necessary in the Decision of the Question of returning to the accustomed Place of Residence. And Whereas it will, in the View of the People both of America & Europe, be more consonant with the Honor & Respectability of Congress to take their Measures for determining on the Place of their permanent Residence with Calmness & Deliberation & when they shall finally leave a State (if they should determine so to do) wherein they have so long & so effectually transacted the public Bussiness their Re moval should not have even the Appearance of an hasty Proceedure founded on a sudden Emergency. Therefore Resolved, That Congress be & is hereby adjourned to meet at the State House in Philadelphia the Day of at OClock in the Forenoon.


[Page 497]
July 26, 1783 463 for the Meeting of the Assembly. This will do for Procrastination. In deed I think Council might have said something like an Invitation without derogating from their Dignity or Character. If they had or would do it every Excuse would be taken away & the Business be brought to a short Issue on the Point. All this is intended to shew the disagreeable Situation Montgomery & I will be in & to stimulate you & Wilson to join us that we may reduce the Matter to some Certainty. I therefore beg you will come here for I am not only tired but begin to lose my Temper which you know is a bad Symptom. If it is determined to stay here I think of putting something on the Journals & I wish to have the Advice of my Fellow Labourers lest anything wrong should be done. It was always understood by me that the Pennsilvania Dele gates would not have joined in the Measure of Removal but that it was declared to be for a temporary Purpose. You know how this was better than I do. Some of them deny their removal to be much for a particu lar Purpose. But the greater Part & the President particularly declare it to be so. Shew this to Mr Wilson & take your Measures accordingly, yours with very sincere Esteem, Richard Peters [RS.] If you do not come the Beginning of the week the affair will be over. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 For the address from the citizens of Philadelphia and the committee report thereon adopted July 28, see Peters to FitzSimons, July 23. 2 “Easy is the descent to Avernus... but to recall thy steps....” Virgil Aeneid 6. 126-28. Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir, 26th July 1783. I have had the Pleasure of your Letter. 1 I just write you this as you seem to think that some Arguments will he drawn from the Numbers of Subscribers to the Address. I have heard no such Arguments used nor do I believe there will or can be any Objections on this Line. But I heard there were 2000 and it was from mere Curiosity I wished to know why the whole was not sent. There are 873 to the Address. And the Respectability of them is sufficient to answer every Purpose. I have wrote you fully this Morning and you will percieve I write confiden tially, Yours affectionately, Richard Peters [P.S.] We had a Story here that one of the Addresses was stolen out of the bank. There is no End to the idle Tales we hear and I could wish a Line now and then that I may know what is the real State of any Matters of Importance in the City. Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 7:234-45, for whom it was “Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 Not found.


[Page 499]
July 26,1783 465 no more green fruit which he observes & is now well and hearty. I am sorry poor Dick has lost his voice. I hope he will soon recover it & cheer his mistress with a song during my absence. Tell him one song to my charmer while I am absent will please me more than two to my self. My love to all friends. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband Cha Thomson P.S. Mrs. Morgan & the children are well but the col. has got a regular ague. Yesterday he shook & had a severe fever but which went off soon with a profuse sweat. After which he came down stairs. This is his well day. He is up and engaged in the business of his farm & intends with the assistance of a physician to ambuscade his enemy on his return & by the help of Ippecac & tar.em [tartar emetic] to spring a mine that will surprize the foe & then attack it vigorously with [cost, soerw.?] by which he hopes to obtain a compleat victory. I heartily wish him success. RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 Hannah’s cousin Mary Norris Dickinson, wife of John Dickinson. 2 That is, John Dickinson. 3 Not identified, although Thomson may have had in mind the secretary of the Penn sylvania Council, John Armstrong, Jr. 4 See Richard Peters to Thomas FitzSimons, July 23, note 2. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Princeton July 27th. [i.e. 26th] 1783 1 Sir, We have before us, the two letters with which your Excellency honord us the 4th & 12th of this month. Their enclosures have been laid before Congress, and are referrd for reports. 2 We shall make due enquiry after Capt. Camue; & endeavor to re- treive the effects he carried off. 3 We have the pleasure to inform your Excellency, that intelligence has been receivd of the arrival of the Definitive treaty at N. York. But Congress have receivd no Advices of it from their Ministers in Europe. We do not know any colour of reason for the report you mention relative to our Commander in Chief. On the contrary we believe that his popularity, like his merit, has not sufferd the smallest diminution. 4 We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Yr. Excellencys most obedt. Servts. Theok Bland Jr. Arthur Lee P.S. Congress has this moment recevd, from Sir Guy Carelton, infor mation, that several persons have been taken up in New York on suspi-


[Page 500]
466 July 26, 1783 cion of forging the Notes issued by the Superintendant of Finance. It appears from their examinations that this nefarious practice has been carried on to great extent in that City. His Letter dated the 23d makes no mention of the Difinitive treaty. A.L. RC (NjP: Straus Autograph Collection). Written by Lee and signed by Lee and Bland. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:246-47. 1 Although dated July 27th, this letter was certainly written the previous day as Lee’s postscript concerning information “this moment” received from Sir Guy Carleton in volved a July 24 (not “23d”) letter that was referred to a committee of Congress on the 26th, for which see Elias Boudinot to Carleton, this date, note. 2 For Harrison’s letters, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:207-8, 218—19. Among the four resolves of the Virginia Assembly enclosed in his letter of the 4th was the offer of Williamsburg or a Potomac site as a permanent residence of Congress, for which see James McHenry to William Hindman, July 19, 1783, note 3. Also included was the as sembly’s June 27 resolve seeking the reservation of lands within the Virginia cession to enable the state to satisfy claims from Virginia troops, which was read in Congress on July 23 and ordered to lie on the table. The delegates had also presented on that date a June 20 resolve assigning Virginia troops to guard public prisons and stores, but direct ing the delegates to seek Continental troops for that purpose, and a June 26 act retain ing two Virginia armed vessels to protect Chesapeake trade and offering the prize Cor morant to Congress. The request for Continental troops was referred to the secretary of war who reported on July 28 that the assignment was “inexpedient.” The offer of the Cormorant was referred to the agent of marine who reported August 5 that it should be refused for lack of funds, but the request for Continental permission, required by the sixth article of confederation, to maintain, at the state’s expense, armed vessels for the protection of Virginia trade, was not approved until October 3. See JCC, 24:444n, 455-56, 486, 25:639-40; PCC, item 36, 2:195-96, item 75, fols. 384-87, item 137, 2:729, item 149, 3:99-101, item 186, fol. 114; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:175, 194-96, 248-49. 3 Virginia was seeking the return of some ordnance loaned to French ships patrolling the Chesapeake in 1781, which were apparently under the command of the marquis H. Le Camus, for which see ibid., p. 2I9n.5. 4 In his letter ofjuly 12, Harrison had noted that “A report prevails here said to come from Philadelphia that our worthy General is become so unpopular in his Army that no Officer will dine with him, the report is so improbable that I give no Credit to it yet I am anxious to hear from you on the Subject.” Hugh Williamson to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Dear sir, Princeton 26th July 1783 I have the Honor to inclose you an extract from the Journals of the genl Assembly of the State of N Carolina at their last meeting, 1 which is the only meeting they have had since April was a Year. As I was at the last Sitting of the Assembly re-elected in the Delega tion, together with my present Collegue, by the unanimous Suffrage of both Houses of Assembly, the inclosed resolve is not to be consid ered as a necessary Proof that the State approved of the general Con duct of their delegates, but as a particular mark of their great atten-


[Page 501]
July27, 1783 467 tion to the Monarch of France. When I recollect that we often find Nations as well as individuals who in the Hour of Danger profess the utmost degree of good Will and Affection for their Allies or Friends, the whole of which they seem to forget on the moment their danger is over, I confess I have particular Pleasure in observing the Genl. As sembly of N Carolina could not suffer themselves to pass over such an opportunity of expressing their Affection for his most Christian Majesty: though Peace had taken Place in the mean Time; and I run no Risque in saying that no distance of Time will alter or diminish the sincerity or Ardor of their Affections. I have the Honor to be, With the utmost Consideration Dr Sr. your obedt hble Servt, Hu Williamson RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the enclosed May 14 assembly resolve thanking the delegates for presenting North Carolina’s congratulations to “the Chevalier De La Luzerne, Minister of France, on the auspicious birth of a Dauphin,” see N. C. Slate Records, 19:349. See also North Carolina Delegates to La Luzerne, August 14, 1782. Alexander Hamilton to George Clinton Sir Princeton, July 27. 1783 A few days since I was honored with Your Excellency’s letter of the; and was glad to find your ideas on the subject corresponded with mine. 1 As I shall in a day or two take leave of Congress, I think it my duty to give my opinion to the legislature on a matter of importance to the state, which has been long depending and is still without a prospect of termination in the train in which it has been placed—I mean the af fair of the grants. 2 It is hazardous to pass a positive judgment on what will happen in a body so mutable as that of Congress; but from all I have seen, I have come to a settled opinion, that no determination will be taken and executed by them in any other manner, than in that prescribed by the confederation. There is always such a diversity of views and interests, so many compromises to be made between differ ent states, that in a question of this nature, the embarrassments of which have been increased by the steps that have preceded, and in which the passions of the opposite sides have taken a warm part, deci sion must be the result of necessity. While Congress have a discretion they will procrastinate; when they are bound by the constitution they must proceed. It is therefore my opinion that it will be adviseable for the Legisla ture when they meet to review the question; and either to relinquish their pretensions to the country in dispute, or to instruct their dele-


[Page 511]
July 30,1783 477 2 That is, James Duane and Hugh Williamson, members of the committee to which the Philadelphia “address" had been referred on July 23. Elias Boudinot to John Dickinson Sir, Princeton 30th July 1783 Your Excellency’s letters of several dates since the 14th instant (the receipt of which I have had the honor of acknowledging heretofore) 1 were duty laid before Congress and committed. The Report thereon has been but lately brought in, and I now have the honor of enclosing a copy of the Resolutions of Congress in consequence of that Report. 2 The last resolution on the letter from the Secretary at War, 3 being added in this copy by mistake, I did not think it worth while to strike it out as it was certified. I have the honor to be &c, EB. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Not found. 2 There is no record in the journals or PCC of any letter to Congress from Dickinson of date later than July 14, but for the July 28 congressional resolves Boudinot apparently enclosed, adopted “On the report of a committee... to whom was referred a letter of the 14 instant from the supreme executive council of Pennsylvania, together with all the letters received from them since the 21 ofjune,” see JCC, 24:452-53. 3 Ibid., pp. 453-54. Elias Boudinot to Joseph Phillips, et al. Sir, Princeton 30th July 1783 I had the honor of laying before Congress the Address of the Offi cers of the three Battalions of Militia of Hunterdon, Middlesex and Somerset most contiguous to Princeton; and in answer thereto have it in charge to inform those respectable Officers, “that Congress have received with much satisfaction their respectful and affectionate Ad dress and highly approve the patriotic sentiments contained in the resolution with which it is accompanied.” 1 It gives me personally great pleasure to bear this testimony to the af fectionate attachment of my Fellow Citizens of New-Jersey to the Fcederal Government, and doubt not but they will ever support the very respectable Character they have hitherto maintained throughout the Union. I must beg the favor of your communicating this to your Brother Offi cers, and be assured, Sir, that I am, with very great respect, Your &c.


[Page 516]
482 July 30, 1783 &c. To this address Congress have returned a suitable answer; tho’ not such an one as the Delegates of Pennsylvania expected. By this answer as well as a variety of circumstances, there is good reason to believe that we are posted for the Summer Season at least. The amenity of our Situation in this little village, the Salubrity of the air, & the courteousness of the Inhabitants all conspire to influ ence our determination in favour of this place. I discover no want of fresh meat, or vegetables, tho, I am informed that it is reported in Philadelphia that vegetables are bought in their market for our use. Weekly board is cheaper here than in Philadelphia; in other things there is no great difference and some things are dearer; such are shop goods, liquors, sowing &c. Mr. Ellery & myself are for the present stored in a small house about 50 rods from the College. This was a store when I was in College. It will be difficult when there shall be a full rep resentation to procure suitable Lodgings for the whole, as well as for the foreign ministers & great officers of Congress, & their attendants; but in whatever place Congress shall establish their permanent resi dence there will be no difficulty in erecting suitable buildings in the course of one year, and all the places which are in Competition for this Honor have offered besides an exempt jurisdiction, sufficient funds for this necessary purpose. As you have been informed the question of the permant residence of Congress has been referred to October next; & from appearances I entertain great hopes that, whether any other place may be agreed on or not, a sufficient number of voices will not be obtained for Philadelphia. Messieurs Holten & Higginson, the present Delegates for Mas sachusetts are good republicans & perfectly with me in political mea sures. It gives me pain that they are to return in Nov. next as it is un certain what part their Successors may take. My good friends Mr. A. Lee & Col. Bland of Virginia received me with a smile of welcome & cooperate in every measure for maintaining the Sovereignty of the In dividual States, as well as several other gentlemen from other States. It is astonishing to me that several Gentlemen in Congress could ever have given their voices for the late revenue recommendation in con sistence with their present declared opinions. I can account for it no otherwise than by recurring to what I was told in New Haven by a gen tleman who asked a certain delegate of that State 7 how he came to give his voice for the commutation resolve, having always theretofore been against half-pay? He answered with honesty that, it was true he voted against his own opinion & against the opinion of his State, known to him at the time but that he could, as things were circum stanced, vote no otherwise!!!!!!! I conceive great hopes that things will take a different turn in Congress now it is removed from the unhealthful & dangerous atmo sphere of Philadelphia. It is observed by some Gentlemen that an ob-


[Page 521]
July 31,1783 487 RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 Henry Remsen, one of Secretary Thomson’s clerks. 2 See JCC, 24:457-77. 3 That is, George Bond, deputy secretary of Congress. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton 31 st July 1783 A moment’s time is only allowed me, to inform your Excellency, that I have it in command from Congress to acquaint you, that it is their pleasure that you should, as soon as convenient, after your re turn from the Northward, attend Congress at this place, as they think your presence will be of special service at this important period; and the change of situation may be more agreeable to your Excellency under present circumstances. I would enclose a copy of their Resolution, 1 under which I act, but by the negligence of the Clerks I cannot obtain it without risking the loss of this opportunity. It gives me a very peculiar pleasure to make this communication, as I have hopes, by this means, of seeing Mrs. Washington and your Ex cellency enjoying the fruits of that peace, which, under God, is in a great measure owing to your glorious exertions. Mrs. Boudinot and Miss Susan join me in the most affectionate wishes for your and Mrs. Washingtons health and happiness. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect & esteem, Your Ex cellency’s Obedt. & very humb. Sert. Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This July 28 directive to Washington to confer with Congress at Princeton “as soon as may be convenient,” had its origin in Washington’s July 16 letter to Congress, which was referred to a committee chaired by James McHenry, for which see JCC, 24:452; Boudinot to Washington, July 24, note 1; and McHenry to Washington, this date. Boudinot actually transmitted this resolve the next day with the following brief note: “Agreeable to the assurance contained in my letter of yesterday by the Post, I do myself the pleasure of inclosing the Act of Congress referred to therein.” Washington Papers, DLC. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Princeton, July 31st, 1783. Since our letter of yesterday We find that Genl Carleton hath lately transmitted to Congress an account of the proceedings had in New


[Page 522]
488 July 31, 1783 York in discovering and detecting certain persons concern’d in Coun terfeiting Morris’s Notes, &C. 1 By perusing these papers we find that it appeared on examination considerable quantities of the paper bills of Connecticutt have been Counterfeited & passd. Alltho’ we cannot learn the distinguishing Characters in the Coun terfeits, or the particular dates or denomination of Bills that have been Counterfeited, yet we have thought it expedient to give the earli est Information of this matter. The names of the persons detected & confined are William May—Connecticutt. John Power—N. York, Copper plate printer. Dennis Flynn—an Irishman lately from Massachusetts. Sylvanus Lyon—Woodstock Connecticutt. William Nichols—Waterbury do (since 1776 in N. York) Lemuel Nichols—late from Waterbury. We are, with perfect Esteem and respect, Your Exys humble Servts. Sam. Huntington. Benj. Huntington. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Samuel Huntington and signed by Samuel and Benjamin Huntington. 1 See Elias Boudinot to Guy Carleton, July 26, 1783. Samuel Holten to John Avery My Dear Sir Princeton 31 st July, 1783 I have not time before the post will set out, to write you any thing about State matters or affairs that respect me personaly; therefore I have only to request that you wou’d forward me a copy of a late reso lution of the honble Court, appointing a committee to correspond with the Delegates from Masstts. 1 I hope that an exchange of newspapers or any thing else doth not operate against my being honored with your address at . 2 I am with particular respect, your most obedient FC (MHi: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ' For the appointment of this committee by the Massachusetts General Court on July 11, “to correspond with the Delegates of this Commonwealth at Congress on the subject of the half pay & proposed commutation to the officers of the army in the recess of the Court,” see Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, this date, note 4. 2 Not identified; but see Holten to Avery, September 11, 1783.


[Page 523]
July 31, 1783 489 Samuel Holten to Aaron Wood Dear sir, Princeton, state of New Jersey, July 31. 1783. I have reed, the letter you did me the honor to write, the 3d instant. So far as the attention of my friends proceeded from personal re spect, I feel myself under renewed obligations, but as for any services to the public it cou’d be, but of little consequence, and therefore I shou’d have wish’d not to have given them trouble. By the account you are pleas’d to give me the commutation made with the officers of the army operated against my honorable Col leagues as well as myself but I shall leave them to speak for themselves. So far as that transaction respects me personally, I am content to stand or fall in the opinion of the world; but I think that justice to myself re quires, that I should make some observations Upon this matter; I was not in Congress when the promises were made to the officers, and therefore can’t be chargeable with making the engagements; 1 but finding that the promises had been made to them by Congress, I did not think myself at liberty to trifle with national engagements, or say I wou’d not comply with them; but at the same time had reason to think that half pay for life was disagreeable to my constituents; there fore under these circumstances I was in favor of trying to make a com mutation with them, which for many reasons I cou’d mention I thought woud be more in favor of Masstts. & less exceptionable to them; great pains were taken to find out what was likely to be their due according to the common period of mens lives, & 22 years seemed to be the number agreed in; and that we should have to pay them half pay this number of years, or 11 years full pay, and then it was thought adviseable to offer them 5 years full pay, in such securities as Congress gave their other creditors; & Now it is for you Sir to judge, and every other person that is acquainted with the subject, whether the present Congress has made a good bargain and how far I have been to blame in assenting to the same. But it is said that Mas sachusetts is not in favor of half pay, commutation, or any thing else farther than their wages, if so, I have to lament, that they did not sig nify their pleasure to their delegates by instructions, which wou’d have been the rule of my conduct, and then I should not have consid ered myself personally answerable for the consequences; know doubt, you will observe I have chose to treat this subject only as it respects my personal conduct, which I consider is all that is necessary when writ ing to a Friend; ‘tho’ I wish you to consider that I am not unac quainted with the state of our army at the time when the engagements were made, & that much could be said in favor of Congress, respect ing the promises they made them; neither have I thought it advisable to mention the merits or services of the officers, or what might have


[Page 529]
July?1783 495 constitution—and who therefore will be disposed to view them always under the same form without attending to the changes which the body is continually undergoing. But when men more enlightened fall into the same fallacy it is an argument of disingenuous intentions, and proves them to be under the influence of passion of prejudice or of something worse. The chief topics of clamour against Congress are either positive breaches of faith by avowed departures from express stipulations as the reduction of the Continental money from forty to one, or nega tive, as the general nonperformance of the public engagements. As to those of the first kind without entering into a discussion of particular instances, without examining whether those which may have happened may have been produced by inexperience, necessity, levity or design, it will be sufficient in justification of the present Congress to say that a large majority of them had no share whatever in those acts which are the subject of complaint. And As to those of the last kind, there always has been and is a conclusive and satisfactory an swer to be given for Congress. The power of raising money is not vested in them. All they can do is to assign their quotas to the several states and to make requisitions from them. This they have not failed to do in the most ample manner; and if the states do not comply to enable them to execute their engagements, the delinquency is not to be charged upon Congress. Should it be said that Congress ought not to have made engage ments without the power of fulfilling them, this is to say that they ought to have given up the contest and to have betrayed the liberty of America. It was necessary to incur debts to support the revoluion; and no man who is a sincere friend to it, can be serious in advancing the position that this essential resource ought not to have been employed from a scruple of that nature. If Congress indeed after a definitive conclusion of the peace consent to be the instruments of future en gagements, without more effectual provision at their disposal, they will then merit the indignation of every honest man. But the present Congress have more than this general argument to offer in their vindication. They can say with truth that so far from hav ing committeed any positive violations of faith, they have manifested an uniform and anxious solicitude for the restoration of public credit, and for doing complete justice to every class of public creditor. Hav ing found by repeated and dayly experience that the provisions of the confederation were unequal to the purpose; they have had recourse to extraordinary expedients. Their plan of the 3 for funding the public debt is now depending before the several legislatures, nor is it possible for them to give a more decisive proof of their disposition to justice than is contained in that plan.


[Page 531]
July?1783 497 Congress stand in a very delicate and embarrassing situation: on one hand they are blamed for not doing what they have no means of doing on another their attempts are branded with the imputations of a spirit of encroachment and a lust of power. In these circumstances it is the duty of all those who have the wel fare of the community at heart to unite their efforts to direct the at tention of the people to the true source of the public disorders the want of an efficient general government and to impress upon them this conviction that these states to be happy must have a stronger bond of Union and a Confederation capable of drawing forth the re sources of the Country. This will be a more laudable occupation than that of cavilling against measures, the imperfection of which is the necessary result of the constitution. It may appear extraordinary that these observations should be in troductory to remarks on the transaction which at this time princi pally engages the public attention—to wit the removal of Congress from this city; but there is a chain of ideas which naturally connects the general opinion of Congress with the judgment to be passed upon their conduct in this particular instance. This chain will easily be traced by men of discernment. MS (DLC: Hamilton Papers). In the hand of Alexander Hamilton. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:426-30. 1 The last paragraph of this defense of Congress suggests that the statement was meant to introduce a longer essay justifying Congress’ removal to Princeton and may have been intended for publication in a Philadelphia newspaper, as Hamilton refers there to “the removal of Congress from this city.” No other information has been found to indicate when or why Hamilton drafted this statement. It could have been written in late July after he returned to Philadelphia from Princeton, but his reference to Congress’ “removal” as “the transaction which at this time principally engages the pub lic attention” suggests a date soon after that event. 2 At this point Hamilton interlined “adulteries or murders” above “crimes of,” but let all the words stand. 3 That is, 18th April. Alexander Hamilton’s Draft Resolution [July ? 1783] 1 Whereas in the opinion of this Congress the confederation of the United States is defective in the following essential points, to wit: First and generally in confining the power of the federal govern ment within too narrow limits, witholding from it that efficacious au thority and influence in all matters of general concern which are in dispensable to the harmony and welfare of the whole—embarrassing general provisions by unnecessary details and inconvenient excep tions incompatible with their nature tending only to create jealousies


[Page 532]
498 July?1783 and disputes respecting the proper bounds of the authority of the United States and of that of the particular states, and a mutual inter ference of the one with the other. Secondly. In confounding legislative and executive powers in a sin gle body, as that of determining on the number and quantity of force, land and naval, to be employed for the common defence, and of di recting their operations when raised and equipped—with that of as certaining and making requisitions for the necessary sums or quanti ties of money to be paid by the respective states into the common treasury; contrary to the most approved and well founded maxims of free government which require that the legislative, executive and judi cial authorities should be deposited in distinct and separate hands. Thirdly. In the want of a Fcederal Judicature having cognizance of all matters of general concern in the last resort, especially those in which foreign nations, and their subjects are interested; from which defect, by the interference of the local regulations of particular states militating directly or indirectly against the powers vested in the Union, the national treaties will be liable to be infringed, the national faith to be violated and the public tranquillity to be disturbed. Fourthly. In vesting the United States in Congress assembled with the power of general taxation, comprehended in that of “ascertaining the necessary sums of money to be raised for the common defence and of appropriating and applying the same for defraying the public ex- pences”—and yet rendering that power, so essential to the existence of the union, nugatory, by witholding from them all controul over ei ther the imposition or the collection of the taxes for raising the sums required; whence it happens that the inclinations not the abilities of the respective states are in fact the criterion of their contributions to the common expence; and the public burthen has fallen and will con tinue to fall with very unequal weight. 5thly. In fixing a rule for determining the proportion of each state towards the common expence which if practicable at all, must in the execution be attended with great expence, inequality, uncertainty and difficulty. 6thly. In authorising Congress “to borrow money or emit bills on the credit of the United States” without the power of establishing funds to secure the repayment of the money borrowed or the redemp tion of the bills emitted; from which must result one of these evils, ei ther a want of sufficient credit in the first instance to borrow, or to cir culate the bills emitted, whereby in great national exigencies the public safety may be endangered, or in the second instance, frequent infractions of the public engagements, disappointments to lenders, repetitions of the calamities of depreciating paper, a continuance of the injustice and mischiefs of an unfunded debt, and first or last the annihilation of public credit. Indeed, in authorising Congress at all to


[Page 533]
July? 1783 499 emit an unfunded paper as the sign of value, a resource which though useful in the infancy, of this country, indispensable in the commence ment of the revolution, ought not to continue a formal part of the constit[u]tion, nor ever hereafter to be employed, being it [in] its na ture pregnant with abuses and liable to be made the engine of imposi tion and fraud, holding out temptations equally pernicious to the in tegrity of government and to the morals of the people. 7thly. In not making proper or competent provision for interior or exterior defence: for interior defence, by leaving it to the individual states to appoint all regimental officers of the land forces, to raise the men in their own way, to cloath, arm and equip them at the expence of the United States; from which circumstances have resulted and will hereafter result, great confusion in the military department, continual disputes of rank, languid and disproportionate levies of men, an enor mous increase of expence for want of system and uniformity in the manner of conducting them, and from the competitions of state bounties; by an ambiguity in the 4th clause of the 6th article, suscepti ble of a construction which would devolve upon the particular states in time of peace the care of their own defence both by sea and land and would preclude the United states from raising a single regiment or building a single ship, before a declaration of war, or an actual commencement of hostilities; a principle dangerous to the confeder acy in different respects, by leaving the United states at all times un prepared for the defence of their common rights, obliging them to begin to raise an army and to build and equip a navy at the moment they would have occasion to employ them, and by putting into the hands of a few states, who from their local situations are more imme diately exposed, all the standing forces of the country; thereby not only leaving the care of the safety of the whole to a part which will nat urally be both unwilling and unable to make effectual provision at its particular expence, but also furnishing grounds of jealousy and dis trust between the states; unjust in its operation to those states in whose hands they are by throwing the exclusive burthen of maintain ing those forces upon them, while their neighbours immediately and all the states ultimately would share the benefits of their services: For exterior defence, in authorising Congress “to build and equip a navy” without providing any means of manning it, either by requisitions of the states, by the power of registering and drafting the seamen in rota tion, or by embargoes in cases of emergency, to induce them to accept employment on board the ships of war; the omission of all which leaves no other resource than voluntary inlistment, a resource which has been found ineffectual in every country, and for reasons of pecu liar force in this. 8thly. In not vesting in the United States a general superintendence of trade, equally necessary in the view of revenue and regulation; of


[Page 539]
July?1783 505 650,000, and the profit two prices, 1,625,000 Profit on public bills on France, 148,568 Monies expended in Philadelphia by members of Congress, their officers, those necessarily attending to do business with Congress, and their officers, foreign Ministers, &c. 194,642 2,743,746 These are some of your extraordinary means, for it is not possible to form any estimate of them all; and surely from these alone a great deal more might have been reasonably expected, before you could with any propriety boast of your having been “free of your money.” I am sensible that the whole of what was drawn from the other States, in their quotas and imported on loan from Europe, though centered in Philadelphia, was not expended among its citizens, and therefore I am willing to allow any deduction on those sums, which any one bet ter informed than myself may shew to be reasonable. Truth is my ob ject, and a just estimate of your merits. To detract from these I would not willingly exaggerate a single dollar. Nor were the ordinary means of raising your quota less eminently in your favour. To shew this let it be remembered, that for four years your State had not felt the ravaging hand of an army, or enemy, or an im press: That your militia had not been called, during that period, to serve out of the State, but the countrymen have been at uninterrupted liberty to cultivate their lands, and the citizens to pursue their trade: That your commerce flourished, your tradesmen prospered, and your citizens were enriched, beyond any former example in a similar period of time. The war, which was a burthen and calamity to other States, was to you a golden blessing, fertile of elegance and opulence. As proof of this, let me remind you, that in one year your imports in goods amounted to one million of money: That, in one year, your flour shipped to the Havannah brought you upwards of half a million in specie: That your privateers brought in a multitude of most valu able prizes: That such was the enormous profit you derived from com merce, that you could afford to give as far as ten per cent per month for the use of money: That in fine we may say, without any exaggera tion, that, in point of fortune, your tradesmen had become gentle men, and your merchants princes. Such were your means, and such your advantages, in 1782; compare them with your contributions, and see how amazingly they out-mea sure them—how little reason you have to boast, that you have been “free of your fortunes,” or to arrogate pre-eminence in public merit. Superior to every State in the advantages arising from the residence of Congress—superior to most in the prosperity of your agriculture, your manufactures, and your commerce—even in monied contributions


[Page 543]
August 1,1783 509 probably after Francis Bailey reprinted the original essay from the Providence Gazette in the Freeman's Journal (Philadelphia) on October 8, and sent it to Warren for publica tion, for which see Lee to Warren, October 16, 1783. 2 At this point the printer inserted a double dagger to which he keyed the following note: “In the year 1774 the town of Newport sent to sea nearly 140 vessels, small and great. In 1782 that town did not send out more than 5 or 6. At the former period, there were in that town 21 distilleries, and 9 spermaceti-works; at the latter, not a single one of either. ” Elias Boudinot to Guy Carleton Sir, Princeton 1st August 1783 I had the pleasure of acknowledging the receipt of your Excel lency’s letter of the 24th ult. by the return of the Messenger who brought it. I am now honored with the commands of Congress on the subject of that letter, and the papers therein enclosed. 1 Congress have considered those communications, relative to certain persons suspected of forging and passing the Notes issued from the Office of Finance of the United States; and on the maturest delibera tion they presume your Excellency will give orders, that such of the persons, subjects of any of these United States, as are or may be in cus tody on a charge of having made or passed within any of the United States, Counterfeits either of the notes or paper Bills of credit of the United States or any of them, shall be delivered up, together with the proofs which shall be collected against them, to be tried under the Ju risdiction to whom the cognizance of their crimes belongs. If this measure should meet your Excellency’s approbation, a Guard shall attend at the time and place to be appointed by your Ex cellency for the purpose of receiving and securing such of the Crimi nals as fall under the above description. With regard to further enquiries and to Criminals, who are not amenable to any of these States, Congress have entire confidence, that justice will be done, and such atrocious Offenders brought to condign punishment. Enclosed is an original paper I found within one of the copies sent by your Excellency, and as it may be material in the enquiry, I take the liberty of returning it. My private Secretary Mr. Sterett going on business to New-Ark, I have directed him, if a convenient opportunity offers on Monday, to proceed as far as New-York and deliver this himself. I have the honor to be &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See Boudinot to Carleton, July 26, note.


[Page 547]
August 1,1783 513 Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). i Only Benjamin Hawkins’June 24 letter to Martin has been found. 2 See James McHenry to John Henry, July 1, note 3. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Friday August 1. 1783. The question for adjourning from this place is at length brought before Congress. It was yesterday moved by Mr. Read of S Carolina in the words following: “Resolved that on the president shall adjourn Congress to meet at Philadelphia on there to continue until the last Mon ¬ day in October next, at which time the president shall adjourn Congress to meet at Annapolis on the friday following unless Congress shall before that time have determined otherwise.” 1 He prefaced his motion with observing that when Congress ad journed from Philada. it was generally understood by the house & it was particularly, mentioned by the mover 2 and the members around him that it was only for a few days until the detachment from the army arrived to quell the mutineers; That had he not understood this to be the general sense of the house, he never would have consented to the adjournment. That every member must now be fully convinced that this was not a proper place for conducting public business; That even the members of Congress could not be provided with proper accom modations. That there were no conveniences for the Officers of Congress. That a minister was attending from the court of France, one was daily expected to arrive from Holland & others might be expected from other courts and here was no place for their reception or accom modation. That moreover the citizens of Philada & the people of that State were extremely uneasy at the removal. That he would not men tion what he had heard & what he knew, but he greatly feared that de clining any longer to return would endanger the Union, affect the fi nances & ruin the credit of the United states. He hoped therefore his motion would be seconded & meet the approbation of the house. He then sat down and a long silence ensued. I dare not trust myself in de scribing the countenances of some individuals during this interval of silence, or the various passions with which they were visibly actuated, notwithstanding their utmost care to conceal them. It was a sight wor thy the notice of the Athenian, who had learned by careful observa tion to trace accurately the passions of the Soul by the lines of the Countenance and whose skill Plato, Zenophon and the rest of the dis ciples of Socrates admired, while their master bore witness to the truth of it. I will confess that had he fixed his Eyes on me while I was


[Page 548]
514 August 1,1783 viewing the countenances of some, he would have seen a gush of in dignation too visible to be concealed. At length Mr. McHenry of Mary land arose. He said he had looked round and waited to hear the mo tion seconded. It certainly deserved the attention of the house. In his opinion much depended on the determination of it, nothing less than the peace of a great & important state & perhaps that of the Union. That it was high time the subject should be taken into consideration. He therefore seconded the motion, & hoped it would be seriously considered before a vote was taken. Mr. Williamson moved to commit the motion; this was opposed. It was then moved to Assign a day for the consideration of it, this also met with Opposition and the debates continued till at last an adjourn ment was called for and agreed to, so that by that means the subject was put off till next day. It was curious to observe with what care the speakers endeavoured to conceal their sentiments and the votes they meant to give. I expect the subject will be resumed to day, but I ques tion much whether they will come to a decision this week. 3 Adieu my dear Hannah. Take care of your health. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson [PS.] Please to forward the enclosed. Mrs. M & family send their love to you. RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). i See JCC, 24:484-85. 2 That is, Alexander Hamilton, chairman of the committee appointed to confer with Pennsylvania officials on the mutiny. 3 Congress briefly debated Read’s motion this day, then postponed consideration of it to August 6; but it was not actually taken up until August 13, then postponed to the fol lowing day and rejected. See JCC, 24:484-85, 506-9; James McHenry to William Paca, August 2; and John Francis Mercer to James Madison, August 14, 1783. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Princeton Augt. 1st. 1783 Congress have directed the Superintendent of Finance to make public an order he has given to the continental Receivers in the differ ent States, to receive the Notes issued from his Office, in payment of the Army, in exchange for hard money, as that shall come to hand. 1 This order having been known to a few only, & not to the Soldiers, & other holders of those notes, it was apprehended that it woud expose them to be speculated upon, & deprivd of the fruits of their toils & sufferings at a very low rate, to their great injury. We think it our duty to give your Excellency this information, that you may make it public if you judge it adviseable. 2


[Page 549]
August 2,1783 515 The discovery of the Forgers of our Paper, in N. York, will it is to be hopd, arrest that nefarious practice in this quarter of the U. S. & as there appear to be many persons concernd in similar practices in Vir ginia, we trust that government will use every diligence to have them tracd out, & brought to punishment. It woud appear, that the infor mation we had receiv’d of the arrival of the Definitive treaty at N. York, in the Mercury frigate, tho it came from Rivington who it was con- ceivd must know, was premature. Nothing has yet been decided relative to the matters we laid before Congress on the part of the State. 3 We have the honor to be, with great respect Yr. Excellency’s most Obedt. Servts. Theok. Bland Jr 4 Arthur Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee and Bland. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:258-59. 1 See JCC, 24:480; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 1. 2 Harrison assured the delegates in his August 15 reply that “Mr. Morris’s directions” would be made public. They appeared in the Virginia Gazelle the following day. See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:279-80. See also Stephen Higginson to Samuel Adams, August 21, 1783, note 5. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 26, 1783, note 2. 4 At about this time Bland also prepared a state of his accounts for the Virginia audi tors which included a claim for “salary due to me for my attendance on [and] travellg to and from Congress, from the 27th day of Deer. 1782 to the first day of Augt. 1783 being 278 days at 8 dollars per Diem, 2224 [dollars].” Bland Papers, ViHi. James McHenry to William Paca Dr. Sir. Prince town 2 Agt. 1783 I have had another opportunity to speak to the Minister. 1 The truth is your letter is lost, and I think it probable that no answer has been sent. To prevent [... or] other disapointment you will be pleased to send me a copy of it, when I undertake to procure an answer. The only capital business that has been done in Congress since my last, was the ratification of a treaty of commerce with the King of the Goths and Vandals, or the King of Sweden, as he is commonly stiled. 2 We are again reduced to 8 states, and I am yet without a colleague. Thursday the temper of the house was tryed by a motion which I sec onded. It was to go back to Philadelphia, and if Congress should not agree to fix their place of residence by the last week in October, the president was to adjourn sometime in the week following to Annapolis. It was a considerable time under debate and renewed again yesterday without a decision. 3 This I thought best as it was only an experiment.


[Page 555]
August 5,1783 521 Stephen Higginson to Nathaniel Gorham Dear Princeton 5th Augt. 1783. Yours of the 2nd I received. I am glad you have got the Ship arrived, and are like to find an opportunity to go home for a while. It will be much more agreable to go to Virginia in the fall than at present. I wish I could go home with you; my inclination to be at home is very strong, but I feel a reluctance at going immediately on several ac counts. I wish to have my return appear not as the effect of resent ment or chagrin, but rather, as is the truth, from a desire of enjoying domestic quiet, and attending to my own private concerns. I am de sirous of seeing some important points which are on the Carpet ad justed, and of possessing Mr. G—— 2 with a knowledge of men and measures. I want also to hear from London in answer to a letter I sent Mr. F 3 by the Robin-Hood, in which I mentioned the matter which you and I both think of so much importance to the public. I gave him liberty to make such use of the letter as he might think eligi ble, so that he did not commit me. I stated the matter to him in such a manner that I think he will conceive it of importance to communicate it to certain persons, and I expect their attention will be thereby en gaged to the subject, and that measures will be taken in consequence to secure the Object. No particular advantages will result in a pecu niary way that I can see from my being at home. I shall exchange a dis agreeable for an agreeable situation, and encrease my own private en joyment, by going home, but whether I ought to indulge myself immediately, is a matter I am not fully decided upon as yet. I shall think of it a few days after Mr. G arrives, and advise you. Sir Guy’s 4 reasons for the neglect of the British to their interest in this Country, are I suspect the true ones; but they certainly have very wrong Ideas of the matter. While we remain in an unsettled state, it is of the more importance to them to be represented; especially if the cause of our fluctuations is considered; lest we should finally settle down with a Government totally devoted to the French, or remain in confusion ’till a dissolution of the Union shall take place, and seper- ate alliances be formed by the several states with different powers in Europe; in which case some of the Southern States, if not all of them, will certainly be connected with France. To determine this point the interests of the parties should be closely attended to; if we are left wholly to ourselves, and our feelings and inclinations are to direct us, it cannot be doubted but our con nexion with Britain will be renewed in the commercial way—let this again become intimate and the policy of Britain be of the conciliatory kind, a closer connexion and perhaps of more importance will cer tainly result therefrom. Our habits, language, and every circumstance will lead to it, and Britain will not only avail herself of the advantage


[Page 556]
522 August 5, 1783 of our trade, but may hereafter have an Ally that from union of inter ests &c., will be very closely attached to her, and be a great security to her dominions: and these advantages may be encreased or decreased, rendered permanent or uncertain, and be sooner or later enjoyed, by the kind of Government established here, and the men who are to di rect our affairs. The French certainly have this view of the matter, and their whole conduct towards us has been correspondent thereto. Their first object was to place us by the peace, in a confined precarious situation, with Europeans close on our borders on every side, and without the means of extending our trade, or becoming powerful or wealthy—thus situ ated they could have fomented divisions and strife between us and our neighbours at their pleasure; and being a poor defenceless people, we should have learned to look up to them for protection against the very storms they might think fit to bring upon us to secure our dependence on themselves. With these Ideas did they negociate at the treaty, and for this purpose did they insert themselves into all our councils. They intended by having an influence in them, to have given such a form to our Government, as to have had it composed of such men, as in the sit uation before mentioned, could not fail of securing our dependence on them. But the watchfulness of Jay and Adams, the attention of Britain to her own interest, and the forwardness of Vergennes, de feated their views and lost them the first and the great Object. 5 Their present plan I suppose is to keep up high disputes in each State, and between the States, to prevent any connection between us and Britain, and possibly to bring about a dissolution of the Union: for since they cannot keep us so dependent on themselves as to promise a complete bar to an intimate connection with Britain, and its probable that our weight may at some future day be thrown into the scale of their most dangerous Enemy, it is very important to them to reduce that weight as much as possible. You accordingly find them deeply interested and active in the questions as to Commutation and Refugees, &ca, fomenting parties as much as possible—beside, by di viding us and keeping us in as great confusion as they can, the evil ap prehended of our uniting with Britain, is not only put off, but there is a chance of our being so very intemperate as to violate in a flagrant manner the Treaty of peace, of renewing our quarrel with Britain, and loosing all the advantages we have gained by the peace. And should it be carried so far as to produce a dissolution, the Continent may per haps be divided into two Governments, one of which will probably be very intimately connected with and dependent upon them. The letter of Marbois, the conduct of Vergennes during the negociations, the language of their tools, and the whole tenor of their present conduct, evidence that such are their present views: and I confess that I think


[Page 562]
528 August 5, 1783 I am, with great esteem & regard, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedi ent and most hble Servant, E. McComb. RC (DLC: Nicholas Van Dyke Papers). 'James Tilton had been elected a delegate to Congress on February 22, 1783, but he did not attend until September 22. See JCC, 25:597. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Friend Philada. Aug. 5. 1783. Your favor of the 18th ult. which my last did not acknowledge was in the mail & was shortly after reed. 1 Your succeeding one of the 25th in closing the pamphlet came to hand yesterday. 2 The Gazette which I inclose will give you a sight of the Philada. Address to Congress and their answer. Since I left Princeton last, I understand the question has been agitated relative to the return of Congs, to this City and a day fixed for its final discussion. There is little reason to suppose that it will be decided in the affirmative by the present composition & thin ness of Congs. I rather suppose that no question will he taken when the probability of a negative is fully discovered; though it will be pushed by those who wish to multiply obsticles to a removal South of the Delaware. The arrival of the definitive Treaty at N. Y which my last represented as probable, has sunk into a general disbelief. The most sanguine opin ion goes no farther now than to the arrival of some preliminary intelli gence and instructions touching it. I am my dear Sir yrs. very affecy. J. M. Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:263. 1 See ibid., pp. 232-33. 2 Randolph’s July 25 letter has not been found, but he enclosed a pamphlet written by Meriwether Smith, recently published in Richmond, opposing the payment of debts or the return of confiscated Loyalist property to British citizens until Great Britain had met all specified commitments in the preliminary articles and definitive treaty of peace. Observations on the Fourth and Fifth Articles of the Preliminaries for a Peace with Great Britain (Richmond: Dixon & Holt, 1783). Clifford K. Shipton and James E. Mooney, National Index of American Imprints through 1800: The Short-Title Evans, 2 vols. (Worcester, Mass.: American Antiquarian Society, 1969), no. 44,454. Oliver Ellsworth to Joseph Reed Dear Sir Princeton 7th August 1783. I am this minute favoured with your Letter of 1st instant by the Post. Some delay seems always unluckily to attend our correspondence. You


[Page 563]
August 7, 1783 529 ask me what I think of your Addresses. This surprizes me much, as we have only seen one Address from Philadelphia; that which was written by Mr. Paine. From your Letter I should suppose that another Address had been sent: if so, it must have been suppressed. 1 If there has been any Jockeying, it may be proper to trace it. Paine sent me a Copy of his Address, while it was in Embryo. I gave him my sentiments fully on it, 2 before it was presented, which have offended him. There was nothing, either in the matter or composition to recommend it. But the number of respectable names annexed to it were deserving of at tention. My opinion was, & is, that Congress had no business to enter into a discussion of the points contained in the Address; nor to tell the subscribers of it that we did not leave Philadelphia because the Cit izens had not fought the Common Enemy, paid Taxes, or erected a Bank. My opinion was also, & it appeared to be the unanimous desire of Congress, that a very civil answer should be returned. I had the honour of being on the Committee to prepare one; 3 & I hope it meets with your approbation, as it is exactly conformable to my sentiments. I most sincerely wish that Congress could return to Philadelphia consis tently with their duty to their Constitutents, and themselves. And I am persuaded you must agree with me in thinking, after what has hap pened, that it would be highly improper for them to do it until satis factory assurances shall be given of protection, & safety. I distinguish between the Citizens of the State of Pennsylvania & their Executive Council. The latter appear to me at present, to be highly culpable alone. When the Legislature meet, if they do not explicitly condemn their conduct, my opinion will be altered. We are told here by certain Partizans, that the Council have prepared a state of the Case to be laid before the Legislature, in which the facts contained in the Report of the Committee of Congress, are contradicted. This is a measure, to which I always supposed a certain piddling Genius 4 would have re course. And his refusing to enter into a written correspondence with the Committee, 5 during the conference, justified the supposition. Pray let me know your sentiments respecting these matters, & what you think the Assembly will do when they meet. Should a certain party spirit prevail in the House, & the Council escape without censure, I am of opinion that it will produce most mischievous consequences. I sent Mr. Bailey about a fortnight ago an Address from the three Battal ions of Militia, immediately in the neighbourhood of this place; but he has not thought proper to print it. 6 I wish you would call on him, & get it printed either in his paper, or some other; but do not let him know from whom it came. I am Dr. Sr. with great regard, Your most obt. Servant. [RS.] One of your former Letters gave me reason to think that the Militia of Philada. would have vindicated themselves against the asper sions thrown on them, as related in the Report of the Committee of


[Page 567]
August 8,1783 533 Business to Philada it seems to attend the Tryal of an Admiralty ap peal from the condemnation of the Schooner Speedwell. Some days before Mr Bain’s arrival I had written a Letter which I delivered him for you. 1 I cannot think that Mr. Bains continuing at Philada could be necessary till the Tryal which may not come on for weeks after the Be ginning of the Session. I could not even advise him what Lawyer he should retain. Your Brother last Year retained Mr Willson in an appeal from Newbern; was the Case one of my own I would full as soon em ploy Mr Lewis, who I think studies his Causes more diligently, & sticks to them very successfully. In a dangerous and valuable Case I should employ one of those Gentlemen and some Auxiliary. I confess that from the Papers I have seen (and I understand that you have seen a Copy of the Same Papers) I augur ill of the Cause. The Proofs on Record that have been in the Court are very suspicious if not direct to the Point. Wherefore if you mean to prosecute this appeal with Effect I think it will be incumbent on you to shew. How did it happen that a Letter was on board the Schooner signed by Campbell representing that she was bound for New York on a Trade with the Enemy. Perhaps the Letter gives the Schooner another Name than that in the Register but it describes her otherwise and your Acct. Ct. if I remember well mentions her as the Property of Mr Campbel. How did the other Letter signed by Touton come on board which also describes the Schooner and declares her Destination for N York. How did those Letters come to be torn? The British Officers might have had Letters and have torn them, but they had no business for your Acct of the Outfit & Cargo or the a/c nor should they have torn it. Why was a Vessel of such value man’d by two Officers & two private Seamen only for so I think it appears. Why was she so near the Land! Tho I think this the weakest objection against her. For that may have been the safest Rout to shun Cruizers. It does not seem to me that Mr Bain is a correct and clear Hand at telling a Story. If the Story is really a sound one and has a good Bot tom it will bear a much cleaner Explanation than any that I have yet heard. I wish yourself or your Brother William would undertake to give me the History of this Adventure including such Circumstances as will explain all the difficulties I have proposed. I have mentioned them because I think the Court seems to have leant on them in the Condemnation. If you should be coming to the Northward yourself before the Tryal the Trouble of such a long Letter will be saved be cause you will be able in person to explain the Cause to the Lawyer. I have to repeat, if by chance I mentioned it before, that this cause will require being well nursed and that some new Evidence be produced or new Light cast on the Subject if you would set aside the Verdict of the Court below. I have stated candidly where I think the Case labours, in order that you, if possible, may relieve it. I have the Honor to be, Dr Sir, your obedt hble Servt, Hu Williamson


[Page 571]
August 10, 1783 537 it with candour and coolness think that the honour of C will suffer by the publication of this state. It is drawn up he says in very mild lan guage and with great respect for Congress, it is attested in the usual form in the name & in behalf of Council & accompanied with docu ments to support the facts as stated. He farther says that the State in general will espouse the side of Council. You know the man and can make proper allowances; but I confess I have some apprehensions that he is not altogether mistaken. If the state of facts as made by Council differs in any material points from the report of the Comee. Congress will be in a delicate situation, for they have grounded the propriety of their conduct & their justification on that report and the comee who made it are gone; and even if they were present I do not see what steps they could take to vindicate & support their report; They could only assert or deny; And if the Council assert or deny the contrary, it will be 9 or 10 against two. A public body against two indi vidual members of C. Is this a situation for the representative Sover- ingnty of the US? I have reason to think that Some persons, who have no great cordiality for Congress or the Union wish that C may come to no determination respecting their return until this paper is pub lished. I wish they may not be gratified. Sir F Bacon who indulged many singular opinions seems to think that the proverbs of Solomon were chiefly designed to be lessons of policy & that a statesman might reap great advantage by meditating on the Aphorism or proverb “the beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water, therefore leave off contention before it be meddled with.” 2 But Solomon was a fool and Bacon an Ass compared to the wise men of Gotham. I delivered your letter for Mr. P to Mr Delany, who also undertook to forward your letter to the Commissioners or treasurer of York. I hope you will favour me with a line to let me know what turn affairs are taking. My health is not confirmed, though by a change of Air and exercise I hope I shall escape the fever which threatened me at Princeton. If any thing occurs that will render my Attendance necessary before the beginning of next week I shall be obliged if you will inform me of it. With much esteem & respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). Addressed: “Honble. Richard Peters, Princeton.” 1 This “message from the President and the Supreme Executive Council to the Gen eral Assembly,” which was adopted by the council on August 18, is in the Pa. Council Minutes, 13:654-66. Presented to the Pennsylvania Assembly on August 20 and referred to a committee which reported on the 27th, it was recorded in the proceedings of the assembly for September 3. Pennsylvania Assembly Proceedings (Third Session of the Seventh General Assembly), pp. 891, 904, 910, 916-25. DLC(ESR). Its publication in the Pennsylvania Gazette on September 24 and the Pennsylvania Packet on September 25


[Page 572]
538 August 11, 1783 led Alexander Hamilton to draft a response to the council’s version of the Pennsylvania mutiny and Congress’ removal from Philadelphia, for which see Hamilton to John Dick inson, September ? 1783. 2 Proverbs, 17:14. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. Princeton August 11th. 1783. Your Letter to the President of Congress, on the subject of Monies lent to the Continent, and issuing certificates for the interest due thereon; had been taken up previous to my arrival, and reffered to the Financier: his report has been presented to Congress, and ref- ferred to a Committee of that body. 1 From the comp [1] ection of Mr Morrises report, he does not seem fully to approve of the arrangment which would be agreeable to the wish of New-Hampshire; but as no debate hath taken place in Congress on the subject, I can not give any information what weight his opinion will have on the decision of the matter when the Committee make their report, I shall do all in my power to obtain a determination agreeable to the State I have the Honour to represent. Rhode Island seems still opposed to the impost arranged & recom mended by Congress, and probably will not come into that measure. Should this be the case, other means must be devised, if indeed they can be devised, for restoring Continental credit, and giving public Creditors confidence in the plighted faith of Congress. No official account is yet arrived of the definitive treaty being signed, neither hath any other matter transpired, worth the communi cating to your Honor. I must beg the favor that you will write to me by every oppertunity, and communicate whatever may enable me to serve the State I have the Honor to represent. I am Sir with the highest esteem, Your Honr very huble and most obedient Servt, Abiel Foster RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See JCC, 24:489-91; and Foster to Weare, September 3, note 2. James McHenry to George Washington My dear General. Princetown 11 Augt. 1783. I am just now honord with your letter of the 6th. 1 You have indeed gone over a great deal of ground in a very short time. The first motive for bringing you here was to get you out of a dis agreeable situation, to one less disagreeable. The second was to get


[Page 573]
August 11,1783 539 your assistance and advice in the arrangements for peace. It may be necessary besides to consult you respecting promotions, and on a vari ety of military subjects. I believe, on the whole, that your being near Congress will be a public good. I send you the address to be made you from the chair which will serve to explain the intentions of Congress. 2 Mrs. Berrian has offered her house which will be engaged for your reception. As there is no absolute necessity for your immediate atten dance you may prepare at leisure for your removal. Congress has received no acct, of the definitive treaty—but it ap pears pretty certain that definitive orders have been received at New York for its evacuation. With the most sincere regard and respect I have the honor to be my Dear General, Your ob st, James McHenry 14th. As the president sends you a copy of the address it will be unnec essary for me to do it. Gen Lincoln carries it. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:82-83. 2 See Elias Boudinot’s “Private” letter to Washington of August 12, 1783. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson My Dear Sir Philada. Aug. 11th. 1783. At the date of my letter in April 1 I expected to have had the plea sure by this time of being with you in Virginia. My disappointment has proceeded from several dilatory circumstances on which I had not calculated. (One of them was the uncertain state into which the object I was then pursuing has been brought by one of those incidents to which such affairs are liable. The result has rendered the time of my return to Virga, less material, as the necessity of my visiting the State of N. Y. no longer exists. It would be improper by this communication to send particular explanations, and perhaps needless to trouble you with them at any time. An alliance of [...] is in general most inexpedient for both parties to them. For myself a deli cacy to female character will [...] 2 under any [.. .] which may carry both, as the danger of being reminded of their Troubles [sc.. .] 3 from a profession of indifference at what has happened. I regret [least?. . f 4 a more propitious turn of fortune.) My journey to Virga, tho’ still somewhat contingent in point of time cannot now be very long postponed. I need not I trust renew my assurances that it will not finally stop on this side of Monticello. The reserve of our foreign Ministers still leaves us the sport of mis informations concerning the def. Treaty. We all thought a little time ago that it had certainly arrived at N. York. This opinion however has become extinct, and we are thrown back on the newspaper evidence


[Page 574]
540 August 11, 1783 which as usual is full of contradictions. The probability seems to be that the delay arises from discussions with the Dutch. Mr. Dana has been sorely disappointed in the event of his announcing himself to the Court of . 5 His written communications obtain verbal an swers only & these hold up the Mediation to which the Empress with the Emperor of G y have been invited as a bar to any overt transac tion with the U.S. and even suggest the necessity of new powers from the latter of a date subsequent to the acknowledgment of their sovereignty by G. B. Having not seen the letters from Mr. Dana myself, I give this idea of them at second hand, remarking at the same time that it has been taken from such passages only as were not in Cypher; the latter being not yet translated. Congs, remain at Princeton utterly undecided both as to their ultimate seat and their intermediate resi dence. Very little business of moment has been yet done at the new Metropolis, except a ratification of the Treaty with Sweeden. In partic ular nothing has been done as to a foreign establishment. With regard to an internal peace establishment, though it has been treated with less inattention, it has undergone little discussion. The Commander [in] chief has been invited to Princeton with a view to obtain his ad vice [&] sanction to the military branches of it, and is every day ex pected [t]here. 6 The Budget of Congs, is likely to have the fate ol many of their other propositions to the States. Delaware is the only one among those which have bestowed a consideration on it that has acceded in toto. Several Legislatures have adjourned without giving even that mark of their condescension. In the Southern States a jeal ousy of Congressional usurpations is likely to be the bane of the sys tem: in the Eastern an aversion to the half-pay provided for by it. New Jersey & Maryland have adopted the impost, the other funds recom mended being passed for one year only by one of these States, and postponed by the other. Pa. has hitherto been friendly to liberal and foederal ideas and will continue so, unless the late jar with Congs, sd. give a wrong biass of which there is some danger. Masts, has in the election of delegates for the ensuing year stigmatized the concurrence of those now in place, in the provision for half-pay, by substituting a new representation; and has sent a Memorial to Congs, which I am told is pregnant with the most penurious ideas not only on that sub ject but on several others which concern the national honor & dignity. 7 This picture of our affairs is not a flattering one; but we have been witnesses of so many cases in which evils & errors have been the parents of their own remedy, that we can not but view it with the con solations of hope. Remind Miss Patsy of my affection for her & be as sured that I am Dr Sir, Yr. Sincere friend. J. Madison Jr.


[Page 581]
August 13,1783 547 move Prejudices. If there is any Law by which her Property is for feited, or her Rights of Citizenship taken away, it will have its Opera tion: but if she is evicted by Violence and entitled to Protection, we have no doubt but her grievances will be heard and as far as possible redressed. Can it be thought a Crime deserving the Penalties of Con fiscation, or any high Degree of public Indignation, that a Widow in the Decline of Life retired from the midst of the most active scenes of War to a place of Safety. In this Light is Mrs. DeLancey’s Case repre sented and this she insists is her only offence. We have no Account of the definitive Treaty. No Intelligence of any kind from our ministers or private Letters which embarresses all our mea sures more than words can express. As soon as anything transpires worthy of attention we shall not fail to communicate it to your Excellency. With the utmost Respect we remain Sir Your Excellencys most Obe dient and most humble Servants. Jas. Duane. [RS.] When these dispatches were made up Mr. L’Hommedieu was abroad which prevented his Signature. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:234-35. FC (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of James Duane. 1 Not found; but see Ralph Izard to George Washington, June 8; and Ezra L’Homme dieu to Clinton, September 3, 1783. Ralph Izard was married to Alice De Lancey, daughter of Peter and Elizabeth Colden De Lancey. Committee of Congress to Robert R. Livingston Princeton August 13th. 1783 Sir Congress have lately receivd Sundry letters from Mr Dana at Peters- burgh, partly in cypher, he refers to the cypher which was Sent you by Mr Adams’s son, his words are “I make use of the cypher I Sent you (the Secretary for foreign af fairs) by Mr Adams’s Son having laid yours asside for the reasons there mentioned, your printed one has not come to hand with your letter.” 1 The Committee to whom these letters are referd request you would be so kind as to favour them with the Cypher referd to as soon as may be. 2 I am in behalf of the Com, with much Esteem & Respect, your Humble Servant, Sam. Huntington RC (PHC: Roberts Autograph Collection). Written and signed by Samuel Huntington. 1 For this passage from Dana’s April 17 letter to Livingston, see Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:382. 2 For the report of Huntington’s committee, see Benjamin Hawkins to James Madi son, August 9, notes 2 and 3.


[Page 582]
548 August 13, 1783 Arthur Lee to James Warren Dear Sir, In Congress, Princeton Augt. 13. 1783 I had the honor of writing to Mrs. Warren relative to Your Son’s ob ject. 1 I have now to add that it is not probable any question on the subject will come on ’till the new delegation takes place of the pres ent; 2 therefore it woud be prudent to impress them before they leave your State, in his favor. Our removal to Philadelphia, tho’ much urgd, has not yet been ef fected; but such is the influence of art & cultivation over right & judg ment that I cannot promise a vote will not at length be obtaind for that pernicious measure. Will you have the goodness to inform me, whether any thing has been done relative to the land voted to me; 3 & how the paper-money, of which I troubled you with a parcell to receive the interest, is now circumstanced. Whether it is funded, has depritiated or appretiated. We have not a word from any Minister in Europe relative to the definitive treaty, which is not a little surprising. Mr. Dana was well at Petersburg in April, when he informed us that the Empress woud not receive him ’till the ratification of the definitive treaty, & a new Letter of credence is sent dated posterior to the acknowlegment of Our In dependence by the british Crown. 4 This seems to be an over delicacy. Please to present my best respects to Mrs Warren, Mrs J. Adams, Mr. Bodwoine, & Mr. S. Adams. Farewell, A Lee RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Letters). 1 Not found; but for Winslow Warren’s application for an appointment as consul in Portugal, see Samuel Holten to Warren, July 15, 1783, note. 2 That is, the new Massachusetts delegation, for which see Stephen Higginson to Un known, July 21, 1783, note 1. 3 For Lee’s Massachusetts land grant, see these Letters, 18:440, 442n.2, 19:710. 4 See Benjamin Hawkins to James Madison, August 9, 1783. Theodorick Bland to George Weedon Dear Sir: Princeton, Aug. [14], 1783. 1 At the request of the Paymaster General, I take the liberty to intro duce to you Mr. Dunscomb, one of the gentlemen in the department, whose business in our country is officially to forward the settlement of the accounts of our line. A service, I presume, not unacceptable to our officers and soldiers, and, therefore, I presume he will meet from you every facility in your power, as well as every necessary introduc tion, to render his acquaintance as useful to the public and as agree able to himself as possible, during his stay in Virginia. Time does not


[Page 584]
550 August 14, 1783 I take it you are well acquainted with what took place in Philada. that caused Congress to adjourn to this place; and we have spent part of several days debating the question whether we shall return, but I think it is not likely that seven states will be in favor of returning at present, not withstanding the address of a large number of the citizens of Phi lada., the invitation of the Supreme Executive of the state, & the great influence of a certain number of gentlemen; so that you may suppose a number of us are determined not to return, if we can help it; and I be lieve you will not be much at a loss for the reasons of our conduct. I find that ’tis the opinion of some persons that commutation was not the only reason that operated against the reelection of the delegates from Massachusetts, 3 & that some change was thought necessary for po litical reasons, but you, sir, that are well acquainted with the secrets of state, can I suppose, give me information; and others are of opinion, that it originated nearer Philada. than Boston; but I have no doubt that communication operated in the minds of the major part that voted. The more I am personally acquainted with Doctr. Lee, the more he rises in my esteem. I was, lately, in hopes to have had his company in the same house with me, which he was desirous of, but we could not bring it about, and he has taken a chamber, on the other side of the street, & I believe we shall be neighbourly. Mr. Gerry arrived here last week, has been to Philadelphia, & re turned yesterday, & is to take his seat this day. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect, your most obedient: S. Holten P.S. Two of the sergeants are under sentence of death, that were con cern’d in the late mutiny in the city of Philadelphia; but I do not ex pect that any of the sentences will be carried into effect ’till the whole trials are gone through with. 4 We have determined the question, as to returning to Philada., & there appeared but two states in favor of the return, (viz.) Pennsyla. & Maryland. North Carolina dividd. 5 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 See Holten to Adams, May 14, 1783. 2 See Elias Boudinot’s “public” letter to George Washington, August 12, 1783. 3 See Stephen Higginson to Unknown, July 21, note 1; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 4. 4 The following day Congress suspended these sentences until the complete court martial proceedings against all the leaders of the mutiny had been received, for which see JCC, 24:509-10; Elias Boudinot to Robert Howe, August 18 and September 13; and James McHenry’s Speech, September 13, note. 3 See JCC, 24:509.


[Page 585]
August 14,1783 551 Samuel Holten to Benjamin Wadsworth Princeton, State of Revd & dear Sir, 1 New Jersey, 14 Aug. 1783 I have been favor’d with your agreeable attention of the 30th ofjune, but it did not come to hand ’till more than a month after the date, what prevented my having the pleasure sooner, I am not able to say. You are pleased among other just observations to say “tho we are blessed with peace, this is still a world of trouble”; this will apply to us as a nation, as well as to each individual; and it is to be lamented by the good people of these states as a frown of providence that so soon after hostilities ceased, & before the definitive treaty is come to hand that one of the principal states in the union, should be so much dissat isfied with their national Council as to remonstrate against their pro ceedings, in two instances, namely, commutation to the officers of the army in lieu of half pay for life, & the salaries granted by Congress to their civil officers; and as I veryly believe, both Congress & the state I have the honor to represent, are actuated by the best motives to pro mote the public good, it gives me real concern to find that they differ so much in sentiments upon these matters; the difficulties Congress have had to encounter in the course of the late war, can be better con ceived of by you, than expressed by me, but from my personal knowl edge, they have been very great, and at some period of the war, they appeared to be almost insurmountable, and I consider that at such a period as I have last mentioned, Congress were obliged to promise the officers of their army half pay for life, if they would continue in their service to the end of the war and one year’s full pay to each private. I have said obliged, I mean that at that time it was thought the best thing that could be done to keep the army together & after the great est deliberation, as the officers were endeavouring in large numbers to resign their commissions; but if Congress at that time could have commanded money sufficient or procured credit, it might have an swered the purpose, by paying them their wages, that was then due, but that not being the case, they were obliged to promise & pledge the faith & honor of their constituents to make them good. This leads me to consider what the present Congress has done, that is so dis agreeable to my constituents, as very few of the members that now compose Congress were concerned in making their engagements to the army, & not one of us from Massachusetts; and when the officers had reason to think that the war was drawing to a close, they made ap plication to Congress, setting forth their services, sufferings & the


[Page 589]
August 14, 1783 555 lency for informatron whether any such Commissioner has been in the State, and whether the Accounts are ready for Settling. 2 Congress have not yet determind any of the points submitted to them on the part of the State. 3 No Advice from our Ministers abroad relative to the definitive treaty, have reachd us. The Empress of Russia has declind receiving our Minister as inconsistent with her character as Mediatrix, ’till the definitive treaty shall have been signd, A Minister receivd in G. B. from the U. S., & letters of Credence sent bearing a date subsequent to the acknowlegment of our Independence by G. B. 4 The question for adjourning to Philadelphia, after long debate & mature consideration, was carried in the negative by Six States to two. We have the honor of inclosing a copy of the yeas & nays on this im portant question. 5 Two of the ring-leaders in the late Mutiny have been condemn’d to death by their Courts-martial. 6 We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, your Excel lency’s most Obedt Servts. Theok. Bland Jr. Arthur Lee John F. Mercer P. S. Augt. 15th. 1783. A Letter is just read from Mr. Laurens, dated London June 17 in forms that the Mission of Mr. Hartley will not in all likelihood termi nate in a commercial treaty—that the present Ministry is tottering & the restoration of Ld. Shelburne as prime Minister he apprehends woud embarrass the Negociation. The british Court he says has very much changd its tone with regard to reciprocity in commercial stipu lations, & seem inclind to have them all in their own favor. He makes no mention of the definitive treaty. But Mr. Fox assurd him that or ders were actually sent for the evacuation of N. York. 7 A. Lee RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Lee except for the first sentence of the postscript written by Mercer. Signed by Lee, Bland, and Mercer. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:274-75. 1 The delegates were mistaken for while the assembly’s June 4 instructions had dealt with accounts in general they did not specifically mention those of William Finnie. See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 5, note 3; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:293. 2 For the attempt of Zephaniah Turner to settle Virginia’s Continental accounts, see ibid., p. 276n.3. 3 See Virginia Delegates to Harrison, July 5, note 3. 4 See Benjamin Hawkins to James Madison, August 9, 1783. 5 See Theodorick Bland to George Weedon, this date, note. 6 For the suspension of these verdicts, see Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams, this date, note 4. 7 Henry Laurens’June 17-18 letter with its several enclosures was read in Congress August 15 and referred to a committee chaired by Stephen Higginson. Its work super-


[Page 590]
556 August 14, 1783 seded that of another committee chaired by Thomas FitzSimons which had been ap pointed May 6 and instructed August 5 “to prepare a plan of a com[mercial] treaty with G B & instructions for negotiating peace & to report what other treaties of commerce it may be proper to propose.” The latter was discharged August 26 and its work assigned to Higginson’s committee which reported September 1. Congress took no immediate action on the report, however, assigning it instead to a committee appointed September 12 and chaired by James Duane which was instructed to consider voluminous dispatches received that day from the ministers abroad. See JCC, 25:531-32; PCC, item 89, fols. 287—306, item 185, 3:75, item 186, fols. 99, 116, 118; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:396-97, 442-44, 491-93; and Madison to Randolph, September 13, note 1. Elias Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Princeton 15 August 1783. I had the honor of your favor of the 7th of March last enclosing the treaty between the United States and the King of Sweden, the ratifica tion whereof has been retarded for want of nine States present in Congress. This Act has now taken place, and I am honored with the commands of Congress to transmit it to you for exchange, which I now have the pleasure of doing, and hope it will meet with a safe and speedy conveyance. 1 On revising the Treaty a manifest impropriety struck Congress in the Title of the United States being called of North America, when it should have been only America; and also in the enumeration of the different States, wherein the Delaware State is called “The three lower counties on Delaware.” As there is no such State in the union, Congress were at a loss how they could ratify the Treaty with propriety, unless they should alter the transcript, which might be liable to many exceptions; they have therefore, to avoid all difficulties, passed a seper- ate Resolve, impowering you to make the necessary amendments. A certified copy of this Resolution I do myself the pleasure to enclose. 2 Congress are intirely at a loss to account for the silence of their Commissioners at Paris since February last, being without any official information relative to the Treaty with Great Britain since that time. I had the honor of writing you very fully on the 15th of July last, giv ing the reasons for our removal to this place at length, which I hope got safe to hand. Congress having determined not to fix the place of their permanent residence till the first Monday in October next, is the reason of defer ring the appointment of a Minister for Foreign Affairs till that is done. I have the honor to be, with high respect, & Esteem, Sir, Your most obedient & very humb. Servt. Elias Boudinot P.S. I have sent by this Oppertunity, the News Papers to this Date.


[Page 591]
August 15, 1783 557 RC (DLC: Franklin Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Boudinot. 1 Franklin’s March 7 letter to Robert R. Livingston is in PCC, item 82, 2:361-64; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:276. For the enclosed treaty and its ratification, see JCC, 24:457-77. 2 See JCC, 24:477. Committee of Congress to Robert Morris Sir [Princeton, August 15-20? 1783] I am requested by the Committee to whom is referred your Report on the Queries of the Commissioner appointed to settle Accounts in the State of Pennsylvania, to desire you will inform them as soon as possible whether any and what Engagements under the sanction of Congress are grounded on Requisition for Money from the several States made without particular Estimates. If any such Engagements subsist, you will please to give a particular State of them together with the Requisitions on which they are made. I have the Honor to be, Sir, your obedient huml Servant, (Signed) Abra. Clark P.S. Please to direct your Answer to Mr. Lee or Mr. Gerry as I shall probably be Absent. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 This letter was written on behalf of a committee consisting of Abraham Clark, El bridge Gerry, and Arthur Lee, appointed on August 15 to take into consideration a re port from Morris to Congress on the settlement of Pennsylvania’s Continental accounts, for which see JCC, 24:511-12; and Morris to the President of Congress, August 12, 1783, in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). This text of it was enclosed in Mor ris’ first response to the committee, requesting to know “what Object they have in View and to explain to me their Wishes,” for which see Morris to Gerry, August 21, ibid. For Morris’ comprehensive response to the committee’s requests and an analysis of the is sues at stake in the committee’s work, see Morris to Gerry, August 26, ibid. Committee of Congress to Charles Thomson Sir Princeton 15th Augt. 1783. Inclosed is an Application from the Delegates of the State of Rh. Is land &c which has been committed. 1 It appears that the Schooner good Fortune of which George Hard wick was Master was captured on the high Seas by the Brig Unity of which Edward Coffin was Master and the Brig Providence of which Benjn Bailey was Master and carry’d into Cape Francois where she was


[Page 592]
558 August 15, 1783 condemned by a Court of Admiralty, Liberty being granted to the said George Hardwick to appeal to the deputies of the US at Paris. You will be pleased to examine the Journals and Files of Congress that we may know whether there are any Proofs that such appeal has been made. By Concurrence and Direction of the Committee. Hu Williamson, Chairman P.S. Be so good as take an early Opportunity to report to the Commit tee the Result of your Enquiries. 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written and signed by Hugh Williamson. 1 The “Application” from the Rhode Island delegates had been received August 5 and referred to Hugh Williamson, James Duane, and Samuel Holten. See PCC, item 186, fol. 116. 2 In his reply Thomson curtly reminded the committee that he could not determine if “any communication was made by the ministers or deputies at Paris respecting the matter in question” because their letters were lodged among the papers of the secretary for foreign affairs which had been “sealed up” when Robert R. Livingston left office. See Thomson to Livingston, June 4, and to Williamson, August 19, 1783. The commit tee included a copy of Thomson’s “answer” in its August 25 report recommending that the president immediately inquire of the ministers at Paris whether the owners of the Good Fortune had registered an appeal with them “and what further Steps, if any, have been taken.” When Congress took up the report on September 22 the Rhode Island delegates moved instead that “the secretary be directed to examine the Journals and files of Congress respecting this affair” and to deliver “a certificate of the result of the examination,” but the move was defeated and the committee’s report was adopted. There is no evidence, however, that President Boudinot ever wrote to the ministers abroad on this subject. See JCC, 25:597-601; and PCC, item 20, 1:235-46. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, PrinceTown, August 15, 1783. Upon the Receipt of your Excellency’s Letter, 1 I left Home as soon as I could, with any convenience; which was the first of this Month, and arrived here the sixth, a few Days after Colo. Hambleton was gone. Having been informed before I left Middletown that you was in Com pany with General Washington to the Northward, I came the most di rect road by Kings Ferry, otherwise I should not have omitted calling on your Excellency at Poughkeepsie. Mr. Duane informs me that Gen eral Scott has received a sum of Money to enable him to attend Congress, tho’ there is no probability of his coming on. I hope this will not put it out of your Power to supply me with a small sum; if it should, you will be so kind as to let me know it soon, that I may have oppertu- nity to procure it elsewhere. I have now a Ballance due to me from the State, for my Attendance in Congress, to the amount of £121.10.0. I


[Page 594]
560 August 16, 1783 Elias Boudinot to Azariah Dunham et al. Gentlemen, Princeton 16th August 1783 In answer to the very respectful address (which you did me the honor of enclosing to my care) of the Inhabitants of New-Brunswik and its vicinity, 1 I am directed by Congress to inform those respectable Citizens, “that Congress with pleasure received their congratulations on the glorious and happy success of the War; are obliged by the affec tion and respect for the Federal Government expressed in their Ad dress, and highly approve their patriotic disposition to promote order, harmony and peace throughout the United States. ”2 The honor of this communication gives me great pleasure, as it is an additional testimony to the persevering & worthy conduct of my Fellow Citizens of New-Jersey. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “Azariah Dunham & others, a Committee of the Inhabitants of New Brunswick.” 1 Dunham’s August 5 letter to Boudinot enclosing New Brunswick’s August 4 invitation to Congress to select “the Banks of the Raritan” as the “proper place for their Residence,” is in PCC, item 46, fols. 95-99. 2 For this August 12 resolve, see JCC, 24:501-2, 504—5. Daniel Carroll to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sr. Prince Town Augt 16th. 1783. I take the liberty of inclosg a Bank Note for 40 Dollars, & request you to buy a ps. of linen for me proper for Shirts. I woud prefer a good ps. of Holland from 30 to 40 yds, such as woud be abt. 3/3 Stg Prime Cost. I shall want cambric suitable for Ruffles for 6 of the Shirts. When shall we See you? You have doubtless had the history of this week—better than I can give it you. We yesterday receivd a letter from Mr. Laurens from London dated the 17 & 18 of June. 1 Not a word of the definitive Treaty. Mr Hartley had full powers to do nothing with our Comsrs. respecting Commerce. Mr Fox assurd him on the 14th of June that Sr. Guy had possitive or ders to evacuate N.Y. The Ministry was tottering, the late Premier woud come in if a change took place, & our affairs might be embar- rassd. Vaughn is with you—he is intelligent, & I dare say well informd; what do you collect from him? Please to present my Comps, to Mrs. Fitzsimmons & Mr Stretch. Yrs. Dr sr, very Sincerely, Dani Carroll RC (WHi: Signers of the Constitution Collection). 1 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 14, note 7.


[Page 595]
August 16, 1783 561 Abraham Clark to James Read Sir 1 Prince Town Angst 16. 1783. I most sincerely congratulate you & Mrs. Reed on her safe delivery & the incrise of your family by one to bear your Name. Our long suspense about the definitive treaty is now removed, as it appears by Letters lately reed, that no treaty was concluded the mid dle of June. The definitive treaty seems to have been out of sight, the attention of the ministry of Britain, as well as our Ministers, appears to have been confined principally to a Commercial treaty. As your Legislature are now meeting, we are told their first work will be to investigate the proceedings of Congress in removing from Philada. For my part I cannot suppose Pennsylva. claims an exclusive Right to Congress and will undertake to determine where they ought to sit, nor can I believe their good sinse will suffer them to interfere in the matter. Whether the Council did right or not in refusing to call out the Militia, is a subject that had much better be forgot than inves tigated; what was done is past & cannot be undone. The Council I am told deny that the facts stated by the Committee are truly represented, should any dispute arise on that Account, it must be between the Council & the Committee, in which the latter would have the advan tage, as the former refused to confer by writing as was requested by the Committee to prevent Mistakes. I had proposed to have gone to Philada. yesterday, and enjoyed the pleasure of seeing my friends a short time, but my indisposition of body prevented; the very sudden changes of weather hath given a Shock to my crazy constitution so far as to render it imprudent to carry my self further from home at present. I am, Sir, your Humble Servt. Abra. Clark. RC (Facsimile, Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 1418 [1928], item 67). Addressed: “Colo. James Reed.” ■James Read (1743-1822), brother of former delegate to Congress George Read, and a commissioner of the middle department navy board from 1778 until its dissolution in September 1781, had been secretary in the Marine Office since January 1782. See Mor ris, Papers (Ferguson), l:169n.l0, 4:3. Benjamin Hawkins to Alexander Martin Sir, Princeton August 16 1783 Yesterday we received Letters from Mr. Lawrens dated London June the 17th. 1 Mr. Fox informed him that positive orders for the removal of the British forces from New York were actually dispatched. The fears of the Ministry respecting the trade of America begin to subside


[Page 596]
562 August 16, 1783 and as Mr. Lawrens observes “Reciprocity appears now to mean enjoy ment on one part, & restrictions on the other, this change may have been wrought by the sudden & unexpected arrival of divers ships & cargoes from different parts in the United States.” We long foresaw & feared this evil, but it was impossible with effect to offer a check to it, the Merchantile interest about Congress being so Powerful & opposed to the least suspicion of our immediate free trade with all the world. The natural consequence of such precipitancy, I fear will be, unless Congress should be able wisely to interpose, as Mr. Lawrens observed “enjoyment on the part of Great Britain and restrictions on ours.” We may well imagine that the British Ministry will studiously avoid enter ing into any commercial stipulations with us, until they have well weighed all the advantages & disadvantages, attendant thereon, and until it shall be in their power in some measure to dictate such stipula tions. It is already known that Mr. Hartley who was sent to treat at Paris about a Commercial Treaty, is only an instrument for gaining time, if I may so express it. It is at least probable “that the present British Ministry; from some late accounts, are in a tottering state, and should the late premier receive the reins which were plucked out of his hand, I apprehend every thing in his power will be attempted to embarrass our proceedings.” We have not received any dispatches from our Ministers at Paris or from any other quarter respecting the definitive treaty. Inclosed is a Copy of the order of the British King in Council. I have the honor to be &c. Benjamin Hawkins Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 14, note 7. Elias Boudinot to Robert Howe Sir Princeton 18th August 1783 I have the honor to enclose an Act of Congress of the 15th instant, which had the second reading this day. By this you will see that it is the pleasure of Congress, that the Sentences against the Mutineers should not be carried into execution till the whole proceedings of the Court Martial shall be laid before them and ten days allowed for their delib erations therein. 1 I must beg the favor of your acknowledging the receipt of this as soon as possible, as it respects the lives of American Citizens. I have the honor to be &c.


[Page 602]
568 August 21, 1783 on Terms of Reciprocity.” To Answer this, our Ministers immediately to wit, on the 29th Aprill made a proposition of several plain Simple Arti cles full to that Purpose, and tendered them for Execution to Mr Hartly—who at first approved of them, but after some hesitation ac knowledged he had come to Paris without his Powers. He sent an Mes senger to London with the proposition—and after a waste of 3 weeks, he returned with an Answer that they could not be agreed to. 21st May Mr Hartley proposed Terms altogether inadmissable, but could not produce either Commission or Instructions for to compleat any Thing. Mr Laurens went to London from whence he writes and makes the following Observations “My former Assurances have under gone a wonderful refinement. Reciprocity seems now to mean, Enjoy ment on one side, and restrictions on the other. This Change may have been wrought by the unexpected & sudden arrival of divers Ships & Cargoes from different Ports in the united States. The british Minister at Paris candidly assured me that he was of this Opinion”. Mr Laurens mentioned to Mr Fox his wish to stay a few days at Bath, but he feared that his Presence would be necessary at the signing of the Treaty. Mr Fox answered by assurring Mr L. that he might safely remain at Bath for some Days without danger—from which Mr L. concluded that there was not any thing likely to be done speedily. Mr Laurens says that the present Ministry is likely to be of a very short duration. I have the honor to enclose three Letters to your Excellency com mitted to my Care from different Quarters. Shall I presume so much on your Excellency’s time, as once more to beg your attention, to the two Cannon that was designed for the Compte De Grasse. 4 I feel myself much hurt by the assurance I was led to give him that they should be sent to him by the Duc de Lazun, and which I was not able to effect. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan join me in the most affectionate re gards for Mrs. Washington, most devoutly praying for her immediate recovery. I have the honor to be with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed & Hble Serv, Elias Boudinot P.S. Congress have reed official Information from Sir Guy Carleton, that he has positive orders to evacuate New York without delay. 5 Mr Laurens mentions the same Thing, as told him by Mr. Fox. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s letter is in PCC, item 152, 11:431-33; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 27:102-3. 2 See Boudinot’s first letter to Washington of August 12. 3 Henry Laurens’ letter (a single document) was actually dated June 17 and 18, for which see Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 14, note 7. 4 See Boudinot to the comte De Grasse, April 23 and June 14; and Boudinot to Wash ington,June 14, 1783.


[Page 608]
574 August 21, 1783 posed, by those states that wish to have Congress reside with them, in order that each state may have an opportunity, of stating its reasons in favour of, or against any of the places proposed. Nothing has yet been done as to the old money, the Question was to have been agitated last week, but two States, Pensylvania & Maryld. left Congress as soon as they had decided not to return to Philadel phia. Eight States only remaining on the Floor, that Question is neces sarily delayed till another State shall arrive, which is daily expected. The Papers we sent you inclosed in Our last Letter, will show you the intention of Congress & of the Superintendant of Finance, rela tive to the Soldiers that were furloughed, 4 nothing more than the three months pay is to be expected. No permission will be given to the States, to pay to their own Troops any mony on account of the requisi tion for 1782, it is however expected, that Our State will be obliged to make some payment to Their Line, though the sanction of Congress is refused. Maryland has paid five months pay to her Troops out of that Tax, & it is thought more eligible, that the States should make such payments, if found necessary, even without applying to Congress for permission, as did Maryland, than that Congress should authorize their so doing, contrary to the opinion of the Office of Finance. It was stated in the instructions We received, that the Massachusetts Troops, “had received no payment previous to their being furloughed & were not furnished with even the means of Subsistence on Their way home,” upon this information We called for an explanation of this Conduct, it being very far from the intention & widely different from the manner, in which the other Troops were sent home. Returns have since been received from the pay master general in answer thereto, by which it appears, to Our mortification, that the greater part of them had received the full amount of their Notes in goods from the Contractors Stores, previous to their being marched off, & at Their own request a part of them did not take goods, & the Notes hav ing then not arrived at Camp, they left powers with their Officers or Paymasters, who have since received the Notes. Rations were allowed to them all, while on the Road, & the provisions delivered to them from the magazines. We shall send you Copies of these returns from the Pay master for your information. By Letters from Mr. Laurance & Mr. Adams to the middle of June We learn, that no Commercial Regulations had then been agreed upon between Our Commissioners & the British—the Ministry ap peared to be very indecided on this Subject, & were supposed to be in a tottering situation. Mr. Laurance who was then in London, imagined that a change of ministers would soon after take place, but neither he nor Mr. Adams say one word about the definitive Treaty—perhaps the instability of the then ministers may account for the delay, both as to the definitive & the commercial Treaties—it is not uncommon for


[Page 609]
August 21, 1783 575 them in such Circumstances, to delay coming to any decission in so im portant Questions. It being very material that Our Assembly should have full information as to the Doings of Congress in general, & more especially their foreign Negociations, & as many papers must be fur nished in order to give such information, We have concluded upon having a Clerk for a month or a two to take the necessary Copies. We have directed the Superintendant of Finance, to lay before us the necessary Estimates, for framing a new requisition on the States, for the Interest on the Debt for the year 1784, there being no prospect of the States adopting the late recommendations, to provide for the payment of the Interest—no State has yet adopted the plan, except in part only, nor is there much probability that they will any of them do it as recommended. This was intended as an official Letter at first, but my Colleagues being out of the way & the mail about to be closed, I must seal it with out their Signatures. I intend soon to return home, as Mr. Gerry has taken Seat, when I shall have the honor in person to give you such in formation as you may wish for. I am Sir with respect your most obedt. & very huml. Servant S. Higginson P.S. the Advertisement in the inclosed paper, respecting Mr. Morris’s Notes, should be reprinted that the Soldiers may know what measures are taken to redeem the Notes. 5 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Adams’ draft of his July 17 letter to the Massachusetts delegates is in the Adams Pa pers, NN. 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to Massachusetts Assembly Committee, September 11, 1783. 3 For this August 14 vote, see JCC, 24:509. 4 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 1. 5 Pursuant to a July 30 congressional directive, the superintendent of finance had or dered the publication of the following “Advertisement” on August 16. “That the receivers in the several states have long since been instructed to take all notes signed by the Superintendant of finance, in payment of taxes; and also to take up all such notes whenever tendered, if they have public money in their hands.” See JCC, 24:480; and the Pennsylvania Journal, August 20, 1783. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah: [August 21, 1783] I have received your letters dated Monday 12 o’clock and Tuesday 10 o’clock at night and acknowledged the receipt of them.... Mr. Read was misinformed respecting the adjournment. They met on Monday but they might as well have adjourned till this time for any


[Page 611]
August 22,1783 577 Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, PrinceTown, August 22, 1783. Since I did myself the Honour of writing to your Excellency last Week, we have received Letters from Mr. Lawrence (who is in Eng land) as late as the 17th of June; who says, that a few Days before he wrote, I think it was the 14th of the same month, Mr. [Charles James Fox] assured him, that Orders were actual gone for the Evacuation of New York, and Mr. Lawrence does not seem to doubt it. This Informa tion respecting the definitive Treaty is not so favorable; in short he says nothing about it further than is connected with the Treaty of Commerce. He informs that after Mr. Hartley had been in Treaty with our Commissioners at Paris for near a Month, it Appeared that he had no Powers to ratify any One Thing. The Commissioner’s from the United States made Proposals to the British Commissioner respecting the Regulations of Trade between the Two Nations; as the British Commissioner had no Powers to agree he proposed sending the same to his Court; he did so, and they were there rejected. At present it seems far from British Policy to make any Treaty with America on the Principles of Reciprocity. They have now every advantage of our Com merce without any obstruction on our Post, given to others. Mr. Lawrence observes that if a Change of the Ministry in Great Brittain should take Place, which he does not think unlikely, our Af fairs with that Kingdom will probably be greatly embarrassed. The Day before yesterday we received Dispatches from Sir Guy Car leton informing that he had received orders to leave New York, which he should do as soon as he could, but he was not able to determine when, being, as he says, obliged to provide for great Numbers, who by the Threats of Committees, and the Proceedings of the Commissioners of Sequestration, are greatly alarmed and are afraid to stay in the Country. He complained loudly against the State of New York for suf fering the Commissioners to bring Actions of forcible Detainer against Persons in Possession of their own Farms in Westchester, by which means many have been lately turned out of Possession and subject each to Costs of about ten Pounds, he has sent on the Records of Two or three Tryals: some of the Correspondence between your Excellency & himself he has also transmitted. He finds fault that the Legislature of the State of New York has not been convened. I conclude the Reasons he would urge for calling them and the Reasons why it would at pres ent be improper for them to meet. All these Papers are committed to a Committee. 1 I forgot to mention that he endeavours to justify his Con duct in carrying of the Negroes. Mr. Parker went thro’ this Place Two Days ago on his way to Philadelphia, being imployed by Sir Guy to pro cure a Number of Transports for his governments Service.


[Page 612]
578 August 22, 1783 Last Week a Question, whether Congress should adjourn the last of this Week, to meet at Philadelphia the first of next Week, being put, & the ay & no being called, it passed in the Negative, two States only, Pensylvania & Maryland, voting in the Affirmative. Notwithstanding this Vote I should not be surprised to find Congress in Philadelphia before Winter. The Expectation of the sudden Arrival of M. Van Borkel is now urged for their removal to that City, where he with the other, foreign Embassadors, who will probably be over this fall, can be better accomodateed than in this Place. With respectful Compliments to Mrs. Clinton, I am with great Re spect & Esteem Your Excellency most obed. Sert. Ezra L’Hommedieu. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:245-47. 1 Seejames Duane to Clinton, August 21, note 3. Jacob Read to Walter Dulany Sir, 1 PrinceTon, 22nd August 1783 The Inclosed Came to hand just At the Moment the Stage for New York is Setting off. I feel great pleasure in having it in my power to fur ther any intelligence to you of your friends—And tho I have not the honour of an Acquaintance beg leave to Assure you that from a for mer great friendship and particular Intimacy between our Ancestors I am led to entertain the greatest respect and frindship for every per son of the Name of Dulany. I Shall therefore be extremely happy if you will do me the honour to use my Services in any manner you may please with a perfect Assurance that while here or in any other Situa tion in Which I can prove Serviceable I Shall feel the greatest Satisfac tion in rendering you my best Attentions. I am with respect & regard, your most obedt. and most Humble Sevt. Jacob Read RC (MdHi: Dulany Papers). Addressed: “Major Walter Dulany, City of New York.” 1 Maj. Walter Dulany, Jr., nephew of Daniel Dulany of Maryland (1722-97), had trav eled to England to study at the Middle Temple in 1770, but returned to serve as a loyal ist officer during the war. He was restored to full citizenship rights in 1785, however, when he took the oath of naturalization. See Aubrey C. Land, The Dulanys of Maryland (Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1955), pp. 300, 324-25, 330. Elias Boudinot to John Adams and Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Princeton 23d August 1783. Having a Nephew (Mr. John M. Pintard) connected with the House


[Page 614]
580 August 23, 1783 Office Certificates. In the present week I have omitted to call for the report, as I was satisfied the States present, would not have deter mined it agreeable to the wishes of my constituants. 2 This day his Excellency General Washington arrived here from the Northward, he will tarry some time, & then proposes to retire to his Plantation in Virginia. Sir Guy Carleton hath given information to Congress, that he has received orders for the final evacuation of New York, but hath said nothing respecting evacuating the other posts within the United States, however that may possibly be also in his instruction. I enclose the last Philadelphia Paper, and beg the favor that you will send me any thing which may be interesting especially whatever may enable me to serve the interests of the State I have the Honr. to represent. There seems little hope that the late recommendation of Congress with respect to impost, will be adopted by Rhode Island, parhaps not as it stands, by some other of the States: the consequence will be un happy to public credit, and induce a necessity of other expedients, if indeed they can be devised, for providing for the public Debt. I am Sir with great respect & esteem your very humble & most obedient Ser vant, Abiel Foster RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Foster to Meshech Weare, July 30, 1783. 2 See Foster to Weare, August 11, and September 3, note 2. Arthur Lee to James Monroe Dear Sir, Prin[c]eton, Augt. 23d. 1783 Your favor of the 8th is before me, & I am much concernd to hear of your ill health. But the mountain Air will I hope speedily relieve you. There is no account of the definitive treaty, nor do I indeed see any great necessity for it, as the preliminaries serve all the purposes of a treaty & if G. B. chuses to break with us, the latter woud be no more an obstacle than the former. But there is no danger She will attempt any rupture with us shortly, as the annl. interest of her debt amounts to £9,008,931. This year She has been obligd to add 26. Milin, to her debt in order to borrow 12. Miln. Every Account from N. York con firms me in my opinion, that it will be evacuated in three months. The numbers of Refugees gone, & to go, amounts to 22 thousd. Genl Washington arrivd here this day, in exceeding good health. He made an observation which perfectly coincides with my sentiments; & which I woud to God, the People of America had considerd in time. It is, that in persecuting the Tories we were playing Sr. Guy Carelton’s game, since he must wish to increase the Colony of Nova Scotia & di-


[Page 622]
588 August 24, 1783 As the question of the permanent residence of Congress is of great moment; I pray you to write me fully your Sentiments thereon—I wish to have the most unreserved communications from my Con stituents on all material points. Pray speak to my friends to write me & let them know that their Letters will come to me & mine return to them free cost. I believe no State writes less to its Delegates than R. Is land. I can say in great truth that I wish to serve the State in its essen tial intrests; but if I err for want of knowing their wishes, I shall wash my hands of all blame. 2 I pray you to mention me to my friends & to communicate to as many as you may see fit the Substance of this Letter. You may also in form them that I am fully of opinion that few if any States in the Union will comply with the late revenue recommendations of Congress. Several States have had them under consideration. Some have partially complied. Their acts I propose to send to the State as soon as they may come to hand—to the end that you may not be im posed upon in regard to the doings of other States as you was last year. Notwithstanding the promptness & boasting of Pennsylvania it will ap pear that our State has contributed more to the cause than they have in every point of view—in money, men, loans [&] Specifics—and an other fact will also app[ear]—that State, in the first stages of the war, when m[oney] was of value reed more out of the Treasury t[han] any other, (I trust) in the Union. With wha[t] ill grace then have they set themselves to villify oth[ers?] 3 I know not how far a Letter of this kind may be agreeable to you: but I have ventured to write you thus freely knowing that you have also a venture on bord the ship, tho you decline standing at the Helm. I [trust?] you will accept it as a testimony of the great regard & es teem, with which I am, Dear Sir, your sincere friend & hble Servt, David Howell P.S. I have enclosed you an order on Mr. Benj. Hopper (in whose hands I have placed a Security) for the amount of your note & an act of Pennsylvania. RC (RHi: Moses Brown Papers). Addressed: “Mr. Moses Brown Providence.” 1 Not found. 2 In Edmund Burnett’s text of this document, the remainder was mistakenly supplied from Howell’s August 6, 1782, letter to Brown, as a result of an unfortunate transposi tion and misfiling of the third pages of the two letters. See Howell to Brown, August 6, 1782, note 1; and Burnett, Letters, &A2T, 7:280. 3 Cf. the arguments set forth in Arthur Lee to the Public, July ? 1783.


[Page 623]
August 26, 1783 589 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear Sir Philada Aug. 24. 1783 Mr. Jones who arrived the beginning of the week 1 acquainted me with your abortive mission to Maryland which I had not before heard of. To this absence from Richmond I impute your silence by the late mails. I hope for the pleasure of a line by the mail now on its way, 2 which will not however be acknowledged till the ensuing week, as I am about returning to Princeton where it will find me too late for the post of this week. All that I have now to tell you is that Sr G. Carlton has notified to Congs, his having reed, orders for the evacuation of N. York; but he specifies no time fixed either by the orders or by his own plans. He repeats his lamentations touching the Loyalists and insinu ates that the proceedings of the people agst. them are a proof that lit tle or no Govt, exists in the U. States. With great affection I am Yr. frd & Svt J. M Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:289-90. 1 Apparently August 18 or 19; Madison was writing on a Sunday. See also Madison to Randolph, August 18, note 3. 2 See Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:286-87. Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody Dear sir, Philadelphia 26th of August 1783 In Compliance with your Request, I have made Enquiry about Colo Lee, & find that he is in Virginia as far from this Place, on the one Side as Atkinson is on the other. 1 I shall therefore keep your Note un till it can be sent by a safe Conveyance, or delivered to your order. The Court of Madrid has at length given a publick Reception to Mr. Carmichael, but he has not been presented, in Expectation that Mr. Jay who was then at Paris, would repair to Madrid, & in quality of Min ister, go thro’ the Formalities of the Court. A Treaty of Commerce is ratified with Sweden, & one is on the Tapis with Denmark, but the Empress of Russia has acted cavilierly with Mr Dana, who in his Turn has conducted with great Spirit, Ad dress, & Dignity. I wish You was present, as a Member of Decision is much wanted on the New Hamshire Seat to form a Representation. I remain sir in Haste your Friend & humble serv, E Gerry RC (NN: Myers Collection). 1 Apparently a reference to Richard Henry Lee. Atkinson, N.H. was Peabody’s hometown.


[Page 624]
590 August 26, 1783 David Howell to Thomas G. Hazard Dear Sir: 1 Princeton 26 Aug. 1783. Letters from Mr. Dana At St. Petersburg, dated March last afford lit tle hopes of his being received at that Court in character of a minister from the U.S. Her imperial Majesty seems resolved to carry her princi ples of neutrality to the utmost extent. She requires that Mr. Dana’s letters of credence should be dated after the recognition of our inde pendence by the Court of G. Britain; & even after a minister from us shall be rec’d at the British Court. This however is the purport of sev eral conferences betwixt the Count de Ostermonn & Mr. Dana. British counsels prevail, at least with the minister—perhaps they fear an inter ference of trade. Mr. Dana has leave to return & may be soon ex pected. I know not what business we have with her imperial majesty. Her friendship would cost us a least 11,000 Dollars a Annum, for that is the salary of a Foreign Minister, & the expense of his secretary, clerk, & would make a round sum in the whole. A letter from Mr. Carmichael dated Madrid April last makes men tion that he had been rec’d at that Court in quality of Charge des Af faires in Mr. Jay’s absence—that he had had the honor to dine at the table of the Count De Florida[blanca] with the Diplomatic Corps. Thus Spain has come in at the 11th hour—& of course an ambassador &c is to be kept up at the Court, the expense of which can be calcu lated easier than the benefit. On Mr. Jay’s return to Madrid (but I hope he will have more spirit than to return after the neglect with which he was so long treated by that Court) he will be pre sented to his Majesty with customary formality. A letter has been rec’d lately from a Mr. Robert Montgomery, 2 at Al- isant, wherein he makes mention that in consequence of an authoriza tion, I suppose from our Minister at Paris, he had addressed the Em peror of Morocco, on the subject of a treaty of amity & commerce—that he had received a friendly answer—That the Em peror was desirous of cultivating the Frindship of the U. S.—and that for this purpose he had sent an Envoy to our Minister at Paris. It will undoubtedly be of some consequence for us to be on good terms with the coast of Barbary: & it must give you pleasure to find that affairs are in a good train for that purpose. His Danish Majesty & the Elector of Saxony have also thro their ministers signified their disposition to be on good terms with us. Thus have we lived to see the day when the U. S. are not only allowed rank among the nations of the earth; but from the renown of their atchievements all nations are ambitious of testifying their regard to us & of forming those treateis, which may lay a foundation for a friendly


[Page 625]
August 26, 1783 591 intercourse in future. In short, our trade is the object of the commer cial speculators thro’out Europe; and the power of the U. S. it is thought will one day materially affect the ballance of power in Eu rope. It will perhaps be our best policy not to connect ourselves too in timately with any European power—thus while all have their hopes they will also have their fears & we shall be safe. A letter has also been rec’d from Mr. H. Laurens, dated London June. He says that after Mr. Hartley had had some conference with our Ministers jointly & severally on the subject of a commercial treaty to be entred into with the British Court, our ministers deliv ered Mr. Hartley a paper containing some propositions to form the basis of the treaty on principles of reciprocity. Mr. Hartley after some time returned another paper to our Ministers with proposals some what different—and on Mr. Hartley being strictly questioned whether he was authorized to enter into a treaty with us on the grounds of his own propositions, he replied that he was not; but that he would write to his Court for such power, provided his proposi tions were agreeable. It appeared on the whole that Mr. Hartley was not duly authorized. His object seems to have been only to sound the minds of our minis ters & to make report to the British Court. It further appears that the Court of London are not in haste to establish any treaty of commerce with us. Their King is cloathed with a kind of discretionary power in regard to their trade with us. The principles of their commerce are so extensive & complicated that many things are to be attended to, many intrests to be consulted & many persons to be pleased in the affair of a treaty of commerce with the U. States. The British seek a preference in our trade. This no nation ought to have. It is the present policy of Congress (& long may it remain!) to be at peace & have a free, unfet ter’d trade with all the World. The Masachusetts State has presented a memorial to Congress against the commutation of half-pay & against the high salaries of the civil list of Congress. They speak a plain language—as plain as they spoke to the British Court. They observe that they fear that in the re solve for commutation Congress did not sufficiently attend to the pub lic good—the rules of equity—or to the spirit of the Confederation. That such high salaries do not agree with the republican principles, which the people of that State inherit from their ancestors—And that for these reasons they have with held their assent to the Impost. Why did they not first grant the impost & then remonstrate against high salaries? It is in contemplation, at least with some of us, to reduce the civil list in number, as well as salaries. Two Ministers, at the most, would be sufficient to reside in Europe—with some Consuls in the principal commercial States. Necessity should the impost not be


[Page 626]
592 August 26, 1783 granted will compel Congress into economical measures (and I am sorry to give it as my opinion that nothing else will) for they will not have money at command, the grants of the States being strictly appro priated to pay the debts of the U. States. And while the States retain the command of their own purses, Congress will find themselves under the necessity of paying some little attention to their wishes; oth erwise would it be should Congress be vested with power to collect & appropriate a great & permanent revenue. By late letters from So. Carolina it appears that their Gen. Assembly are now sitting—that there is no danger of their complying with the impost &c agreebly to the recommendation of Congress. They are ready, say they, to pay their quota agreeably to confederation; but they insist on a separate credit for all the money they pay. It still remains uncertain what Virginia will do. Maryland, N. Jersey, &c have partially complied; but such compliance is nugatory, for the resolves say that every tittle must be complied with—that you must drink the whole of the bitter cup—even to the very dregs. A General compliance, I be lieve, is already despaired of by the most sanguine advocates of admin istration: & in consequence certain gentlemen look as we say some what chopfallen. It is given out that nothing but a general concession will bring us right. Quere, have not late measures a great tendency, on that principle to reduce us to order? Measures are in train to enable the Loan officers to issue certificates for intrest due on L. O. certificates & other liquidated debts due in the respective state, which certificates are to be receivable in payment of the Quota on the requisition of the 4th of Sept, last for one years intrest. Also that officers liquidate all outstanding certificates agreeable to the Continental Scale & issue new certificates in their stead. It is also ordered that the Superinten dent of Finance lay before Congress an estimate of intrest to become due in 1784 to the end that Congress may make another requisition for intrest on consitutional grounds. This will I hope give a fatal blow to the second impost as the requisition of the 4th of Sept, last did to the first. The intrest ought to be paid & if it can be paid on constitu tional principles the public creditors will be contented. Every opposi tion seems to be given by certain gentlemen to attempt to pay our debts unless it is done precisely in their way. Viz, it must be collected by a penal ordinance enacted by Congress & by Continental officers situated in the several States (to support the national dignity) and sent to Philadelphia (to be counted over & pocketed by ) & then sent back again if any may be spared to the several States to pay the very men who paid the tax in the first instance. It is easy to see the tendency of this innovation on our Constitution; & I cannot but fully confide that the good sense of the States will revolt at a measure so re plete with chicanery, nonsense & abuse. I cannot but consider it as a special interposition of divine Providence in favour of the Liberties of


[Page 634]
600 August 27, 1783 Mr. Jones & Mr. Madison arrived yesterday afternoon. They inform me to my great satisfaction that our Assembly are proceeding with great wisdom and moderation & that they have determined to adopt the measures recommended by Congress for discharging the debts and supporting the honor and credit of the United states. This is not only sound wisdom & policy but it will be taking a noble revenge of those who wished to provoke them to rash measures. I am confident there are some who will be deeply wounded by this conduct, and I shall rejoice in proportion to the keenness of the pangs they feel. I really cannot form any opinion about the return of Congress. If public good or private convenience governed the votes of all the members it would be easy to form a judgment. I wish most sincerely to fall upon some plan that will make the time pass more agreeably to us both. You may be assured that the visit you mention was planned be fore & without any knowledge of or view to present circumstances. It was to avoid the rage of the dog star: as soon as that sets which will be next Monday week the visitant returns. I shall with great pleasure meet you at Bristol & have a room prepared for your reception. You will please to drive up to Bassonets. I am much pleased with Robert’s present plan & future prospects: so far from thinking him whimsical I consider him as a prudent man, fixed in his purpose to provide for his family and accommodating himself to circumstances as they arise. I think he would be to blame if he refused so advantageous an offer. It has my hearty approbation & I sincerely wish him success. I thank you for your care of me and shall be much obliged for the jacket. What an amazing change in the weather! I am told you had a plentiful rain on Monday evening. We had none here. The wind was high and the lightening though distant appeared to be very sharp. I desired Bond, if he had occasion to go to the office, to call for the key; but I think it would have been best to have brought it back & left it with you. He passed through this place yesterday on his way to New york. 2 As the passengers dine at Brunswick, his stay was so short that I did not see him. William proceeds in his snail pace of copying. I have not had an Opportunity of examining his performances the two days past. But I think he will improve as much as if he were with Tod. We had heard of the death of Galloway but not of the marriage of his daughter. I would not wish her as much disappointment as her father experienced but if she be happy it will be more than she deserves. Adieu my dear Hannah, take care of your health. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 For the official account of Washington’s audience with Congress, see JCC, 24:521-23.


[Page 635]
August 28, 1783 601 2 George Bond, the deputy secretary of Congress, had recently petitioned Congress for “leave of absence for ten or twelve days, for the purpose of going into the city of New York on some private business. My having been exiled from that city almost seven years will I trust be a sufficient apology for troubling Congress at this time for leave to visit it.” See JCC, 24:519n; and PCC, item 78, 4:403. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear Sir. Princeton 28th Aug. 1783. The honble Court having been pleas’d to appoint a committee “to correspond with the Delegates,” 1 therefore I consider it uncertain whether I shall have the honor of addressing your Excellency, with my Colleagues, upon public business, while I continue a member of Congress, and altho’ the sense of my constituents signified to me will always be the rule of my conduct in their affairs; yet I can’t find myself willing to omit doing myself the honor & pleasure of writing to your Excellency. General Washington sometime since signified to Congress that his situation was not very agreeable at head quarters while waiting for the definitive treaty, which caused an invitation from Congress to attend them in this place; he arrived here, with his lady & family, a few days since & on Tuesday last had a private audience with Congress, which is ordered to be published; but as we are at a distance from a printer, I do not expect to be able to forward it by this post; it seems the Genl, is determined to retire into private life as soon as the definitive treaty is concluded, or the British army leaves this Country. The definitive treaty is not yet come to hand, & I consider it uncer tain when it will, as our ministers at Paris in their last letters do not so much as mention it. Great pains have been taken to prevail with Congress to return to Philada. but the members yet severely feel the situation they were in when surrounded by armed soldiers with fixed bayonets who seemed to be prepared for the worst purposes. I have with perfect respect, the honor to be your Excellys most obedient servant. 2 FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to Samuel Adams, July 31, note 4. 2 Holten also wrote another letter this date to an unknown recipient. The following incomplete draft of this letter is in the Holten Papers, DLC. “I have lately understood that you are not in favor of the commutation made by Congress with the officers of the army, and as your Judgment upon important matters always had, so I trust it ever will have great weight with me; therefore I shou’d have taken it kind as a friend, if you had been pleas’d to have mentioned to me, in your let ters the reasons you have for not being satisfied with the proceedings of the present Congress in the instance above referred to.


[Page 636]
602 August 28, 1783 “I take it you are sensible I was not in Congress when the promises were made to the officers for half pay for seven years & afterwards ex [change] d for life, and you may rec ollect that I never mentioned it as having my approbation but the contrary; however upon examining more fully into the matter I found that by Genl. Washingtons letters to Congress and other state papers about the time the engagements were made to the offi cers that it was considered as the most expedient & best measure that could be devised not only to keep the army together but of puting an end to the war, as our enemies would be induced to beleive that we should be able to keep our army in the feild, notwithstanding our paper money was failing & little or no credit to procure supplies or money to pay our army; upon these principles I understand Congress acted at that time, and I have good reason to think it has been one means of bringing the late war to so happy a period! And now, Sir, you will permit me to make some observations upon the proceedings of the present Congress, respectg. the commutation, that has been made with them, in making which I consider myself personally concernd. having given my assent to the same; when [the] officers perceived that the war was drawing to a close they made application to congress setting forth their services & sufferings & the promises that had been made them & the situation of the army in general & as they un derstood half pay for life was disagreeable to some of the states, they were willing to make a commutation & settle the matter; Congress finding that the promises had been made them & the faith of the united states were pledged to make them good, thought it adviseable to endeavor to make a settlement with them, but in order to do this, great care & attention was necessary to find out what wou’d become their due according to the common....” Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir Princeton August 28th. 1783 I have the pleasure of enclosing an Act of Congress for erecting an equestrian Statue in honor of your Excellency. 1 The Bearer Mr. Wright is recommended to me as an Artist skilled in taking Busts,2 & As I am anxious to execute in the best manner the part assigned to me in this agreeable business, I take the liberty of introducing him to you and requesting the favour of your Excellency to admit him to try his talents. I must also beg the favour of your assistance in giving the fittest description of the events which are to he the subject of the basso relievo. With the greatest esteem & respect, I have the honor to be, Your Ex cellency’s most obedt. & most humble servt. Cha Thomson. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For this August 7 “Act,” see JCC, 24:494-95. 2 That is, Joseph Wright, son of the celebrated American artist Patience Wright. The statue of Washington was to be “executed by the best artist in Europe,” and young Wright was to make a plaster of Paris cast of the general for the work, which was never completed. See Fiske Kimball, “Joseph Wright and His Portraits of Washington,” An tiques 15 (1929): 377—82; William Dunlap, A History of the Rise and Progress of the Arts of De sign in the United States, ed. Frank W. Bayley and Charles E. Goodspeed, 3 vols. (Boston: Goodspeed & Co., 1918-25), 1:150-56, 370-72; and these Letters, 7:57.


[Page 637]
August 29, 1783 603 Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Princeton 29th Augt. 1783 I am much obliged by your kind favour of the 20th Instant, 1 and I can assure you that I shall consider myself richly repaid for any Letter I can possibly favour you with, by having the Satisfaction of a Line in return, if it goes no farther, than to inform me of the Health of Mrs. Livingston & family. I wish I was able to give you any Satisfactory account of the defini tive Treaty, which I am rather apprehensive is at a great Distance. The Conduct of our Citizens, by their resolves & violent Conduct, I am afraid will at least prevent any definitive Treaty from taking Place, if it does not precipitate us, altogether unprepared, into another War. We have not recieved a Line from our Plenepotentiaries since you left us, altho’ we have had two or three separate ones on indifferent Subjects. The only one worth attending to, is from Mr. Laurens, dated the 18t June in London. He writes altogether relative to the Commercial Treaty, and says there seems to be a very different Conduct apparent in the English Ministry, than when he had formerly wrote. All is chi cane & evasion—and no desire of coming to an Issue. He says that if there was but one Commissioner at Paris instead of four, let that one be either of the four, that a decent resentment would certainly be shewn at the Treatment they receive. He foretels the downfall of the present ministry & that shortly. He greatly complains of our Ships forcing a Trade with great Brittain without any commercial Stipula tions on their Part. I communicate this Intelligence with Freedom, knowing you will treat it as confidential. But I must on the other Hand tell you of a Vessel having arrived from Barbadoes at Philadelphia in 13 days—who brings Letters & the Capt says, that the Day before she sailed, the Ariel frigate had arrived there from England, with advice that the definitive Treaty was signed the 22d July. It is possible, but not very probable, and the Tricks of Trade makes us yet doubt. Your late department remains in Statu quo and I see no probability of its being filled, till we get a place of permanent residence. There is a prevailing design which will certainly be accomplished, of reducing the Salary to 3000 Dollars. No one is yet named (altho it is the order of the day for this Day to make the Choice) who I think stands the least Chance. I wish most heartily, you was back again, if it could be consistent with your Duty to your family. All our foreign matters re main exactly as you left them—not a resolution, report or determina tion more or less. I am the only Minister for foreign Affairs, and all I do is to keep the Commissioners informed &c. Mr Dana is like to do nothing & I believe has left Petersburgh by this Time. There is no dis position in Congress to do Business at this Place, tho’ there are Ten States on the floor—still nothing is done.


[Page 638]
604 August 29,1783 As to the future destination of Congress, you know, it is almost as easy to tell the future Course of the winds. However if I may venture a Conjecture, I believe the struggle will be, between New York and New Jersey. I am apt to think some Village in Jersey near N York would be prefered. I sent your Letter by a safe Hand to Mr. Marbois, so that he must have reed it. The medal I wrote you about, is at Philadelphia otherwise I should have sent it long since. Sir Guy is at last about leaving the City, altho’ he says the number of Refugees thrown on his Hands by the severity of our People, will detain him much longer than he wished, as he cannot think of leaving them to the Mercy of a People who have but little Government among them— tho these are not his words, they are clearly contained in his Meaning. Now for a few words on my own private Business. Mrs. Boudinot has an unhappy Sister, who was Married to a Man that behaved very ill in this part of the Country when possessed by the british. He went off with them and Genl. Putnam insisted on her following her husband. He left her in New York & went for Scotland, where he remains and has left her to shift for herself. His whole Estate is forfeited & sold here. She is extremely distressed lest she should be insulted when our People take possession of the City. Shall I beg the favour of you in Be half of an unhappy woman, to give her so much Countenance when you go into the City, as to prevent any insult or Injury being unneces sarily offered her. She takes in Gentlemen to board at present, and I suppose intends to continue it. Her Name is Mrs. Cochran and lives in King Street No. 19. I wish you to mention this also to General McDou gal in my Name, as I know his humanity will lead him to oblige me. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan who does not so easily forget her Beaux, desire to be remembered to Mrs. Livingston & yourself in a very particular Manner—forgive this Scrawl as I am sure the reading will be a high Price for it. I am Dr Sir Your very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s draft of this letter is in the Livingston Papers, NHi. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir. Princeton, 29th Augt. 1783. I hope mine of the 18th of June with the inclosures came safe to hand, since which I have not been favored with any of yours. You’ll permit me to congratulate you, on your being appointed to a seat in Congress, 1 & may I not be permitted to consider you as my sue-


[Page 639]
August 29, 1783 605 cessor, when I assure you that I know not the person that would have been more agreeable to me; the Honorble Court having thought proper to make a considerable change in the persons that are to repre sent them in Congress, it gives me Sensible pleasure to find that the Gentell Gentlemen that are elected, are men that have been firm in the cause of their Country from the beginning of the contest; & I have not the least doubt but they will be as attentive to the honor & interest of their constituents, as the Gentlemen I have had the honor to serve with, & as careful of the national faith and independence of the united States; however they will have great difficulties to encounter notwith standing the war to be over. The definitive treaty has been expected for some time past but from the latest accounts that I have seen from Eu rope, I can’t but say, that my expectations are much abated, and I shall not look for it ’till I hear further, for the last letters from our ministers at Paris, do not so much as mention it; and I believe a commercial treaty with G.B. or her imperial majesty is not much sooner to be ex pected than the definitive. However I feel myself too independent to sollicite favors of this kind, even of her imperial majesty. Great pains have been taken to prevail with Congress to return to Philada. & upon the question whether we shou’d adjourn to that City, but two states appeared in favor of a return, & one divided; but ’tis diffi cult to get sufficient accommodation here, the members yet sensibly feel the situation they were in, when surrounded by armed Soldiers with fixed bayonets, who seemed to be prepared for the worst purposes. By a late letter from Sir Guy Carleton it appears that he has orders to leave N.Y. but complains that he is greatly embarrassed by so large a number of the citizens of N.Y. being obliged to leave this Country, which he supposes is partly owing to the proceedings of many people in town meetings, &c. &c. and that he can’t injustice leave those peo ple behind if they incline to go, altho’ it may prolong the time of the evacuation beyond his instructions. I find that it is the opinion of some persons that commutation was not the only reason that operated against the reelection of some of us to a seat in Congress, and that some change was thought necessary in the present state of our affairs; yet I have no doubt after what I have heard, but commutation operated in the minds of a majority that voted but had it the same weight with our best politicians; I shou’d suppose not: however you Sir, being present, & well acquainted with the secrets of state, can form a better Judgment. I am, with particular respect, your most obedient FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. Addressed: “Honble. Judge Sullivan.” 1 Sullivan had been elected on June 28 as a member of a new slate of Massachusetts delegates, but he never attended Congress. Journal of the Massachusetts House, June 28, 1783, pp. 132-34. DLC(ESR).


[Page 640]
606 August 30, 1783 Joseph Jones to Benjamin Harrison Sr. Princeton 30th Augt. 1783. As nothing has occurred in the course of the last week 1 worth com municating or to render an official letter necessary, I do myself the honor to inclose for your perusal two of the last papers which contain the little news stirring, very respectfully I am, sr. Y. obed servt. Jos. Jones RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 Jones had just arrived at Princeton on August 26, accompanied by James Madison, after spending a few days in Philadelphia en route from Virginia. See Madison to Ed mund Randolph, August 24, note 1; and Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, Au gust 27. James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Hon’d Sir Princeton Aug. 30. 1783 I reed, great pleasure from your’s reed, by the last post which re moved the apprehensions excited by your preceding one regarding the state of my Mother’s health. 1 I hope this will find her still further recovered. The time of my setting out for Virga, is still somewhat pre carious; several matters being before Congs, which I wish to see first decided. An answer to this if not delayed will probably find me here. The definitive Treaty is not yet come over. Sr. G. Carlton has noti fied to Congs, his receipt of final orders for the evacuation of N. York, but fixes no time at which they are to be carried into execution. Genl. Washington has been here some days at the invitation of Congs. & will be consulted on the provision necessary in time of peace for the secu rity of this Country. I inclose you one of the latest papers containing the Address of the Presidt. to the Assembly of Pena. The latter have unanimously acceded to the late recommendations of Congs, with re spect to revenue, and a change of the rule for apportioning the com mon burdens. 2 It is said they are also about to address Congs, on the event which occasioned their removal, & to provide expressly for the protection of Congs, in case they sd. deem Philada. the fittest place for the transaction of business untill a final residence shall be chosen. 3 What effect this may have is uncertain. We are exceedingly crowded in this place; too much so both for our own comfort & for the dispatch of business. Mr. Jones & my self are in one room scarcely ten feet square & in one bed. With my best regards for all the family, I am yr. dutiful son, J. Madison Jr.


[Page 649]
September 2, 1783 615 Duty to which, not having been present at the Debates, we find our selves incompetent. We can therefore only refer his Excellency and the Legislature to you, our worthy Colleagues, who being fully pos sessed of the Facts, can alone give the necessary official Information. 2 With Sentiments of the most perfect Esteem and Regard we have the Honour to be Gent. Your most Obedient Humble Servants, Jas. Duane Ezra LHommedieu RC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). Written by L’Hommedieu and signed by I.’Hommedieu and Duane. 1 For the enclosed extract of Governor Clinton’s August 23 letter, which is in the Hamilton Papers, DLC, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 3:436n.l. 2 For Hamilton’s detailed explanation of this matter to Governor Clinton, written Oc tober 3 in response to this letter, see Hamilton to Clinton, July 27, note 4. See also L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 3, 1783. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Princeton, Septr 2d. 1783. We had the Honor to Receive your Excellency’s Letter of the 23d of August & Observed the Contents. We have no Important News of late from abroad and but little at home. Several weighty Matters are in agitation in Congress and but slow Progress made. Seldom more than seven or eight States assembled and one or two Dissenting Voices are fatal to all Proceedings. The States of Newjersy & Mariland have granted the five Per Cent Duty on Importation. Pennsylvania have done the same and In structed their Delegates to Subscribe the Proposed Alteration in the Confederation. 1 They have also Desired the Return of Congress to their Capital and Promised to Enable their Executive Council to Af ford a Desired Protection in their State untill the Place of Permanent Residence of Congress shall be fixed. 2 The Massachusetts have Ad dressed Congress on the Subject of the Commutation and high Sallar- ies as Obstacles in the Way of a Compliance on their Part with the Requisition of an Impost, 3 whilst they and Rhode Island are Collecting Duties on Trade in their own way and applying the Monies so Raised to the Payment of their own Quotas. The Burthen of this being sus tained by the Consumer must be Eventually Borne by the Industrious Inhabitants of our State in Proportion to the Goods we Purchase from them whilst we have our whole Quota to Pay without an Equal Advan tage of a Tax upon Commerce. This Naturally suggests to us the Ne cessity of Promoting Trade in our own State and withdrawing it from those States whose Policy is as much as Possible to lay their Burthens


[Page 650]
616 September 2, 1783 on us. This also is a Striking Proof of the Equitable Nature of a Gen eral Impost and of the Injustice that will take Place in Consequence of the Local and Illiberal Measures that will be Adopted by the Several States in their Separate Proceedings tending to Disaffection, Animos ity and Disunion. That the Superintending Power of Divine Government over the Af fairs of Men Cannot be baffled by Designing Mortals is a most Consol ing Truth to the Confident Heart. We Shall be at the Assembly before the Session Ends in Octor if our Attendence here can be Dispensed with. We are most Respectfully and with the highest Esteem, your Excel lency’s most Humble Servants, Sam. Huntington Benj Huntington. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Benjamin Huntington and signed by Benjamin and Samuel Huntington. 1 For the Pennsylvania delegates’ presentation of their assembly’s endorsement of this proposed amendment to the Articles of Confederation on August 28, see JCC, 24:526-27. Although they failed to mention the matter, the Huntingtons had submitted Connecticut’s similar resolution on this amendment to Congress on September 1, for which see JCC, 25:529-30. 2 See JCC, 25:530-31. 3 See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 3; and Stephen Higginson to Samuel Adams, August 21, 1783. Elias Boudinot to the States Sir, Circular. Princeton 3d Sept. 1783 I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency the copy of an Act of Congress of the 21st ult. in which your State may possibly be interested. 1 I have the honor to be &c. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For this resolve directing General Washington to initiate action to recover “all archives, records, deeds and papers belonging to any of the United States” which had fallen into enemy hands during the war, see JCC, 24:517-18; and Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, August 23, note 2. 2 In his letter to Delaware president Nicholas Van Dyke, Boudinot also added the fol lowing exhortation to secure Delaware’s representation in Congress: “I beg the atten tion of your Excellency to the representation of your State in Congress. It is a matter of great surprise, that when matters of the utmost consequence of the Union, are daily be fore Congress, that the State of Delaware can be so exceedingly inattentive to so impor tant a concern. The Union hath suffered extremely by this inattention in several of the States. The most essential business to the welfare of the empire at large having been postponed and neglected for want of a more full representation. Permit me sir to beg your interposition as you well know the humiliating situation Congress are often in on this account.” From a privately owned manuscript quoted in Burnett, Letters, 7:284.


[Page 651]
September 3, 1783 617 Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir, Princeton 3d. August [i.e., September] 1783. 1 The report of a Committee on your Letter respecting loan Office certificates, was this day taken up, and largely debated in Congress: this report stands perfectly agreeable to the wish of New Hampshire, and extends to the United States at large. 2 I hoped it would have passed with out opposition, and that I should have been able by this days Post, to have forwarded the resolution on the subject; but the representation being small & some opposition made to it; suggested the probability of loosing the Question on the report, & induced the advocates for the measure, to move for postponing, to adjourn, with out calling for the Vote on (the report) thereon. Yesterday Congress received a Letter from Sir Guy Carleton, 3 to gether with the proceedings of a Court martial held in New York, for the trial of persons charged with counterfeiting & passing Mr. Mor- riss’s Notes, & other continental paper currency, two persons, one a refugee, the other a Britton, were reported to Mr. Carleton as con cerned in this nefarious business; in consequence whereof, the refugee will be turned out of the City that the United States may take him, if the[y] can, the other will be detained. Mr. Carleton hath for warded, with the proceedings of the Court Martial, a number of Types, copper plates and other implements, for the laudable business of counterfeiting Continental currency which are now deposited with Congress. I have not had the Honr. to receive a Line from your Honr. since my arrival, I most earnestly wish to be informed on the subject of Mr. Langdons coming on, or what prospect there may be of my having a Colleague. I am Sir with perfect esteem & respect, your Honrs most humble Servt, Abiel Foster RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 Although clearly dated “3d August,” this letter was apparently written on September 3d, the day after Congress received the letter from Sir Guy Carleton mentioned in Fos ter’s second paragraph, for which see note 3 below. There is no entry in Secretary Thomson’s journals for September 3; and August 3, 1783, fell on a Sunday. 2 Weare’s June 30 letter “respecting loan Office certificates” had been referred on July 16 to a committee (Oliver Ellsworth, James McHenry, and Richard Peters) whose recommendation that it be referred to the superintendent of finance was adopted by Congress on July 26. Superintendent Morris’ report of August 1 was subsequently re ferred on August 5 to a second committee (Theodorick Bland, Richard Beresford, and Hugh Williamson) whose August 15 report was recommitted on the 18th. Bland’s com mittee issued a second report on August 25 that was apparendy taken up this day al though Secretary Thomson made no entry in the journals for September 3 and the en dorsement on the report does not indicate any action this day. Morris also made a second report on Weare’s letter this day, but according to Thomson’s endorsement it was “Delivered Sept. 4. 1783.” See PCC, item 20, 1:29-32, item 64, fols. 230-37, item 137, 2:761-66, 3:57-60; and JCC, 24:445-46, 489-91, 513-14, 25:535-36.


[Page 652]
618 September 3, 1783 The August 25 committee report “this day taken up” was also debated again on September 23 and recommitted the same date to a committee consisting of Samuel Huntington, Abraham Clark, and Elbridge Gerry, which subsequently reported on Octo ber 1, for which see JCC, 25:604—6, 637—38; and Foster to Weare, October 2 and 15, 1783. For a discussion of Robert Morris’ position on the issuance of new loan office certificates for old, “including in such new certificates the interest which may have become due and be still unpaid on the old,” see Report to Congress on a Letter from the President of New Hampshire, August 1; and Report to Congress on the Liquidation of Loan Office Certificates, September 3, 1783, in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). 3 This September 1 letter, which is endorsed “Read Sept 2. 1783,” is in PCC, item 52, fols. 9-12. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, Princetown, Sept. 3, 1783. We have been favoured with your Answer to our Letter respecting Mrs. Delancey, which seems to be satisfactory to Mr. Izard. 1 Tis likely by this Conveyance you will receive our official Answer to your other Letter respecting the Settlements of the Public Accounts, & Garrison ing the Posts. We have wrote to Mr. Morris and expect his answer to Day. 2 We have also wrote to Colos. Floyd & Hamilton 3 to make the Re port as we were not here, when that Business was under Considera tion. A few Evenings before the Receipt of your Excellencys Letter, I was informed by My Colleague that such an Instructions had been left with him by Colo. Hamilton who received the same early from the Legislature and had suppressed it, so that it had not been known to any Person in Congress, he having determined that it was best for the state that the Posts should be garrisoned with Continental Troops. Whether Colo. Floyd was acquainted with the Instructions I am not able to learn. It was new to me. I having left the Assembly before the same was agreed on. I was observing that I found many of the States disposed to have the frontier Posts garrisoned by the States in whose Territory they were, and not by the Continent, and that I should be glad to know the Sense of the State as it was probable this Question would turn up on discussing the Peace Arrangement, upon which the observation was made as above, and we then agreed as soon as an Opportunity pre sented to procure a Resolution agreable to the Instructions as we sup posed we had no right to Judge of the Propriety, of a Measure di rected by the Legislature. No Possession will be taken of those Posts till next Spring, and ’tis thought by some they will not be given up under a Year. Halderman has refused to permit Baron Stuben even to visit the Posts, alledging that he had received no Orders for evacuating them. 4 I think it necessary to mention what has been communicated to me in confidence, that the State of Virginia have it in Contemplation when-


[Page 653]
September 4, 1783 619 ever an Opportunity presents to take Possession of Niagara, on Pre tence that the Posts with Lands to the eastward of it are within the Limits of that State. Except that State makes a Cession of Vacant Lands to the United States, there is too much Reason to believe they will endeavour to carry this Plan into Execution. I am glad to find it will be in your Power to supply me with Money. I cannot determine how long I shall continue here, tho’ I think I shall stay ’till the British leave New York, which Event I expect will take place sometime in October. As I brought some money with me, I be lieve about 200 Dollars will answer my purpose; the Remainder you can keep in your Hands till such Time as I may want—it will be dis- agreable to apply to the Legislature hereafter; if no opportunity pre sents to send the Money, I can borrow it here or possibly give an Order for the same. I have sent my Accounts to the Auditor 5 with Directions (if he can Audit them without my being present) to transmit them to your Excel lency. Congress still continue here & I think there is a greater Proba bility of their going Southward than Northward. With the utmost Respect I am, Sir, your Excellencys most Obed’t. Serv’t. Ezra L’Hommedieu. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:248-50. 1 See James Duane to Clinton, August 12; and New York Delegates to Clinton, Septembers (1stletter). 2 See New York Delegates to Robert Morris, August 30, and to Clinton, September 8 (2nd letter). 3 See New York Delegates to William Floyd and Alexander Hamilton, September 1, 1783. 4 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, September 8, note 4. 5 See L’Hommedieu to Peter Curtenius, August 26, 1783. Samuel Holten to Abraham Fuller Dear sir. 1 Princeton, State of New Jersey, 4th Sepr. 1783. I shall make no apology for this address, farther than assuring you that personal respect is my principal motive. As I know of no person that gives greater attention to public busi ness, & preserves State papers better than your honor; I inclose you the pamphlet contain’g the address & recommendations of Congress to the several states, respecting our finances. 2 The difficulties Congress have had to encounter in the course of the war, can be better conceived of by you, than expressed by me, but from my personal knowledge, they have been very great, and at some periods of the war, they appeared to be almost insurmountable; and I consider that at such a period as I have last mentioned, Congress were


[Page 659]
Septembers, 1783 625 of your Excellency’s disposition to attend to the just application of the servants of the public in my situation, that it would be altogether needless to solicit your attention to it. As this will accompany our public and joint letter, I have only to add that I am with perfect consideration, Your Excellency’s most obedt. servant, William Ellery RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). Benjamin Huntington to Anne Huntington Dear Mrs. Huntington Princeton Septr 8th 1783 Since my Last 1 Nothing Material has hapned. A Dutch Minister is Dayly Expected to arrive in Philadelphia and it was Rumoured that Some of his furniture was arrived last Week. This must be a Wonderful great Affair, and what Congress can Do with this Great Personage in Princeton is more than Humane Wisdom can Devise for there are not Buildings sufficient to House more Dons nor in Indeed as many as are Already here. Some are under Necessity to Go to Philadelphia once or Twice a fortnight to Breath in Polite Air. The Country so badly agrees with those Sublime & Delicate Constitutions that it is to be feared that many of them will Contract a Rusticity that Can never be wholly purged off. We have nothing here but the Necessaries and Comforts of Life and who can live so? The agreeables of the City cannot be had in the Country. I Expect no Business of Importance will be done untill Congress Returns to that Sweet Paridice from which they hastily took Flight in June last Since which Time an Awkard Rustication has been their Painful Situation on an Eminence in the Country where they have no Musquetoes to Serenade them in bed and in the Day they have a Prospect of no more than 30 or 40 Miles to the High Lands or the Sea Coast nor can they hear the Musick of Carts and Waggons on the Pavements in the City nor See the motly Crouds of Beings in those Streets. This must be Truely Distressing to Gentlemen of Taste. The Ladies make less Complaint than the Gentlemen and the Gentlemen who have their Ladies here seem in some Degree Contented. The President of Congress who Belongs in the Jersy is obliged to leave his Lady in Philadelphia to Keep Possession but has the Promise of a Very Genteel House here if he will take it but not Knowing whether Congress will abide in Princetown or not, he is at the utmost Loss what to Do, Whether it is best for him and his wife to live together as Peasants do in the Country or for her to be at Philada as the Ladies do, and for him to Live as a Gentleman Doing Business in the Coun try in hopes of Returning to the Pleasures and Amusements of the


[Page 666]
632 Septembers, 1783 By a letter from Mr. Laurens dated London June 17th 1783—it ap pears that Mr. Hartley was not in fact cloathed with any power to con clude a treaty of commerce with us. 6 His object seems to have been only to sound the minds of our ministers and to make report. The British aim to obtain some preference in our trade; but we trust they will be disappointed. For it is the policy of Congress to be at amity and to have a free trade with all the world. The System of the British is so extensive and complicated, that it is not easy to see how all its branches will be affected by the Independance of this Country; nor to form the arrangements necessary on their part to secure themselves as far as practicable in a treaty of commerce with us. They have cloathed their King in Council with a sort of discre tionary power for opening trade with us, and mean to take time to judge of measures by their operation. By a letter from Mr. Dana dated St. Petersburg April 28th 1783 7 —it appears that he has not been received at that Court in his public char acter. On receiving intelligence of the signing of the preliminary arti cles of peace betwixt the courts of London and Versailles, whereby the provisional articles betwixt Great-Britain and the United States took effect, Mr. Dana presented a memorial to his Excellency the Count de Osterman, Vice Chancellor of her Imperial Majesty, the only result was to draw out the objections of that court to his reception. The Count informed him that her Imperial Majesty could not, consistent with the strict principles of neutrality which she had prescribed to her self, receive a minister from the United States; unless his letters of cre dence bore date subsequent to the recognition of their Independence by Great-Britain and subsequent to the reception of an American min ister at the Court of London, and subsequent also to her Imperial Majesty’s acknowledging their Independence. To these very extraordi nary objections Mr. Dana replied in substance, that to issue new let ters of Credence to him would go to annulling all our acts of Sovereignty in the course of the war, and all our treaties, and would in fact be a confession that we held our Independence as a grant from the Crown of G. Britain or as a stipulation in the treaty of peace, a confession most humiliating and disgraceful to the United States, and which our affairs by no means require. We are not as yet acquainted with the effects of this reply. The perusal of the letters and journals of our ministers plenipoten tiary at Paris during their negotiations for peace have afforded great satisfaction, and fully convinced us of the skill and abilities as well as integrity with which our most important political affairs in Europe have been conducted. It is greatly to be wished that on a general set tlement of our accounts in Europe our pecuniary transactions may do equal honor to the parties concerned therein. It is in contemplation to reduce the number of our servants in Europe immediately after the


[Page 668]
634 September 8, 1783 structions on that head before it will be determined, and wish only to submit the foregoing observations for consideration. His Excellency Genl. Washington is yet attending at Congress. Their address to him on his audience points out the principal object for which he was requested to attend. It hath been made a question “whether any and what powers are vested in Congress by the con federation for making and supporting a peace establishment.” 9 Since the arrival of the preliminary articles much time has been spent on this subject. It has been under the consideration of a com mittee and a long and a learned report has been made. As this report hath not been acted upon we beg leave to refer you to our friend and Colleague Mr. Arnold for the particulars of which it consists, the prin ciples on which it is grounded and the objects to be thereby obtained. The Committee appointed to confer with the Commander in chief on this subject has had an interview with him; but as yet have not re ported. In the opinion of your delegates if such power in Congress should be thought necessary for the good of the Union, it is yet to be asked for and obtained of the particular States. It is much to be regret ted that this application had not accompanied that for an Impost; es pecially as they seem so naturally connected, The Impost being neces sary to pay off the standing army, and the standing army being so necessary to secure an effectual collection of the Impost. It is unhappy that the principles of the Confoederation are not more attended to. The power of levying and collecting monies from the citizens of these States by taxes, or imposts and excises is retained in the several States and not vested in Congress as will appear by the 4th, 6th, 8th, and articles of the Confoederation but Congress have discovered a persevering disposition to take this power out of the hands of the particular States and to exercise it themselves. No power is given to Congress to keep up a standing army in time of peace; on the contrary, the military force, if any, in time of peace is to be under the direction of the particular States. Congress have only the power of checking them in this respect and of determining the quantity of force, the number of ships and garrisons which the States shall not ex ceed; but Congress are not to have the command of that force, nor of those ships, nor garrisons, nor are they to be kept up and supported at the General expence. For the verification of these positions we ap peal to the 5th article of Confoederation. Had the power in question been vested in Congress, from the na ture of it, they would have been the sole judges of the exercise of it, and nothing but their own moderation, or the want of funds to defray the expense could restrain them from the most dangerous use of it. They might augment a standing army from two to four or to forty thousand men at their pleasure, to overawe an uncomplying State, to enforce an impost or to obtain an excise.


[Page 669]
September 8, 1783 635 It ought further to be observed that the provision in Confedera tion is not only grounded in the danger to be apprehended to the particular States from a military power in the hands of Congress in time of peace; but it is also grounded on substantial principles of jus tice. For may it not be demanded with the greatest propriety why the States of Rhode Island, Newjersey, or Delaware should be at the ex pense of maintaining a chain of Forts from Niagara to the Missisippi to secure the fur trade of New York or the back Settlements of Vir ginia? “Qui sentit commodum sentire debet et onus” is a maxim as good as it is old, 10 and strictly applicable to this case. If indeed the States pretending claims, tho’ against all reason, to those vast western territories would make cessions of such claims to Congress, a common interest therein might justify a common expence in protecting the trade and settlements of that country; but until such an event, the States claiming those lands have no more right to charge the United States with the expence of protecting the inhabitants against the Indi ans, until a solemn war shall take place, than with the expense of de fending them against the wild beasts that may infest that country. Agreeably to instructions your delegates have embraced every op portunity to enforce the claims of the States to a proportionate share in the back lands. The subject has been before a Committee and a proclamation has been reported “prohibiting all persons from making settlements on lands without the limits or jurisdiction of the particular States, and from making purchases or accepting cession of such lands of the Indians, and declaring such purchases or cessions null and void.” 11 It is hoped that this proclamation will be agreed to and that it will prove useful. It will at least be a setting up a title to some lands and will very naturally bring on the question of the western limits of particular States. These limits may be ascertained two ways either 1st by cessions of claims of particular States, which is most eligible, in the form of the N. York cession which was accepted last year; or 2nd by a resolve of Congress limiting our guarantee to the particular State. The general guarantee contained in the 2nd and 3d articles of confedera tion ought to have a reasonable construction which is not to be made by the particular State; but by the United States in Congress assem bled. For example, should Georgia extend her claims southward or westward so as to encroach on the Spanish territories, or should any State extend its claims to the injury of a neighbour, Congress being the dernier resort of justice in such cases would undoubtedly deter min how far they will guarantee to such particular State; and also de termin how far they will justify the particular States in extending their claims westward, and how far the arms of the United States shall vindi cate such claims. Let the line of guarantee be determined (and if the States should not speedily make liberal cessions agreeably to the re solve of Sept. 6, 1780 it ought to be done) and let a continental land-


[Page 671]
September 8, 1783 637 The history and fate of the Impost of Feb. 3d, 1781 are too well known to be repeated. The impost of April 18th, 1783 has not been passed on by the States; it is under their consideration. Some have partially complied and one, viz, Pennsylvania has resolved to comply, but has done no more. On the justice and policy of adopting that measure your Delegates beg leave to submit a few observations. The power of the purse is the touch-stone of freedom in all States. If the people command their own money they are free; but if their Sovereign commands it they are slaves. All other strings in govern ment take their tone from the mode of raising money. An alteration therefore in the mode of raising money is an alteration of the Consti tution. It is an essential & radical change. A change that, on experi ence, will be felt most sensibly. It cannot be an indifferent thing, or a matter of small moment. It is like altering the center of gravity. It is like transferring the fee simple of an estate. It is like putting your weapon of defence into another man’s hand. The 8th Article of Confoederation, after prescribing a rule for ascer taining the proportion of taxes to be paid by the several States, viz. ac cording to the value of lands, buildings and improvements, provides “That the taxes for paying that proportion shall be laid and levied by the Au thority and direction of the legislatures of the several States”. But the Impost of April 18th proposes “to invest the United States in Congress Assembled with a power to levy for the use of the United States the following duties upon goods” &c. 13 A compliance herewith will therefore transfer this power to levy money from “the legislatures of the several States” to the “United States in Congress assembled. ” The importance of this transfer cannot be too maturely considered. The Consequence of this radical change in the constitution of this country cannot be too closely attended to. Let it be also observed that the million and an half called for annually, and for which credit is to be given to the particular States is also “to be col lected by persons appointed as aforesd. ” That is “amenable only to Congress. ” So that in short the States are called to give to Congress not only the sum of two millions, four hundred and fifteen thousand, nine hun dred and fifty six dollars annually; but also the power of lev[y]ing and col lecting the same from the citizens by such laws and by such ordinance and by such servants as to the sovereign and uncontroulable will of Congress shall seem best from time to time. For it is most clear that Congress will be cloathed with full power to make and promulgate a code of criminal law to ensure the effectual collection of the monies granted. They will have power to revise, amend, alter, enlarge, extend or abridge their laws and ordinances from time to time as occasion or the spirit of the times may require. And if a committee can report and get the report accepted that the Impost is “within the Spirit of the Con federation ” And that “the power to borrow money, ” which Congress un doubtedly have, “by implication ” contains the power of levying it by an


[Page 675]
September 8,1783 641 The exertions of the States, their loans, their advances in specific ar ticles, their monied payments and their personal services in the course of the late war; even before their respective governments had been established or acquired their present tone and energy leave no room to doubt that the present constitution is sufficiently organized and happily calculated to draw from the people the necessary contri butions. Should a fair trial of the powers of the present Constitution of the United States be had for a few years in time of peace and should they be found ineffectual, then and not until then will it be prudent to attempt any innovations. It should be rememberd that next March is assigned by a resolve of Congress of the seventeenth day of February for apportioning to the several States their quotas of the public charges from the beginning until the year 1789 agreeably to the 8th article of confoederation. 15 This ought to be considered as an object of great importance; and your delegates confide that the State they represent will send forward in due time the data required by said resolve, on which a constitu tional apportionment of the public expences may be grounded. By a resolve of Congress of the 18th of April last a proposition has gone forth to the States to alter the 8th article of confoederation. 16 It is proposed to alter the rule for apportioning the public expence from that of “the value of all lands, buildings and improvements therein ” to that of “the whole number of white and other free citizens and inhabitants of every age, sex and condition including those bound to servitude for a term of years, and three fifths of all other persons not comprehended in the foregoing discription ex cept Indians not paying taxes in each State. ” On this proposition it may be observed that altho’ it may be nearly true that the riches of a country generally keeps pace with its population yet a distinction ought to be taken in the instance in question; for from local circumstances and particular occupations, and ways of living in the several States, of which the American union consists, this proposition may not be true when applied individually to them. A certain portion of soil is necessary to every farmer. It is found to be injurious to the interest of agriculture to have land cut into too small as well as too large portions in the hands of individuals; wherefore in process of time as the people increase they resort to places convenient for trade and manufactures, leaving the lands to be cultivated by a competent number. Hence the people in commercial and manufacturing towns become very numerous. Should this observation be applied to the State of Rhode-Island &c, compared with the other States in the foederal union will not a presumption arise that the proposed alteration in the fifth Article of Confoederation would work an injury to that State? It may also be observed that the personal estate and effects are not to be taken into the estimate agree ably to the present rule any further than they give additional value to


[Page 680]
646 September 9, 1783 David Howell to William Greene Dear Sir, Princeton Sept. [9?] 1783. 1 No Letters have been received from abroad since my last to Gov. Bowen 2 excepting a Letter laid before Congress by Genl. Washington from Chev. Jean de Heintz, Secry of the Order of Divine Providence in Poland. This appears to be an order of dignity in Europe; tho of mod ern Institution. It consists of three Classes. 1st Chevaliers grand croix. 2d Chevaliers Commandeurs. 3d Chevaliers petit croix. The expences of Initia tion are for the first 110 Ducats: for the second 55 Ducats: for the 3d 30 Ducats. ‘The knights of this order, says the Letter, sensibly touched with the visible & efficacious interposition of Divine Providence in pro tecting the 13 States of North America & in giving them the force nec essary to resist tyranny & to establish Liberty, the rights of man & of nature” have thought proper to address themselves to the Hero of the age—praying him to lay before Congress the following proposal. That Congress should name 12 of the most worthy for each of the three classes of the order—in all 36, To be created, Knights of the order of Di vine Providence. 3 Congress have not acted upon this matter yet. On perusing the Confederation, you will judge for yourself how far a compliance, even so far as to nominate, or recommend persons to this knighthood would be an infraction thereof. By direction of Congress Gen. Washington is now in attendance at this place. An House is taken for him at Rocky Hill about 4/2 miles off. He has had an Audience with Congress, for the particular Etiquette whereof I must refer you to my last Letter to my worthy friend Dr. Arnold. 4 The public papers will give you our address & his reply. He was sent for to be consulted on the arrangements necessary for a time of peace. Some hints on which policy you will also observe in Dr. Arnolds Letter aforsd. In consequence of a polite card from his Excel lency the General to his Excellency the President—The latter, with all the present members, Chaplains & great officers of Congress had the Honor of dining at the Generals Table last Friday. The Tables were spread under a Marquis, or tent taken from the British. The repast was elegant—but the Generals Company crowned the whole. As I had the fortune to be seated facing the General; I had the pleasure of hearing all his Conversation. The President of Congress was seated on his right & the minister of France on his left. I observed with much pleasure that the Generals front was uncom monly open & pleasant—the contracted, pensive Air betokening deep thought & much care, which I noticed on Prospect Hill in 1775 is done away: & a pleasant smile sparkling vivacity of wit & humour suc ceeds. It will please you to hear the following which occur out of


[Page 681]
September 9,1783 647 many. On the president observing that in the present Situation of our affairs he believed that Mr. Morris had his hands full, The General replied at the same Instant—“He wished he had his Pockets full too. ” On Mr. Peters (from Pennsylvania) observing that the man who made those cups (for we drank wine out of silver cups) was turned a Quaker preacher—The General replied that “He wished he had been a Quaker preacher before he had made the cups. ” You must also have the French Ministers remark on the Generals Humour—“You ’tink de penitence wou’d have been good for de cups.” Congress have ordered an Equestrian Statue of General Washing ton to be erected at the place where they may establish their perma nent residence. No honor short of those, which the Deity vindicates to himself, can be too great for Gen. Washington. Little business has been done since my arrival here owing to an in complete representation. It is not expected that much will be done before a new Congress shall meet in November next. Congress will, I believe spend the winter here, or at Annapolis. I think they have bid a final farewell to Philadelphia. Tho’ no art, or exertion will be left un tried by Philadelphia to draw us back. I have been hammering, out doors, on the Subject of the Western territory—hope in a few days a step will be taken by proclamation, 5 &c. as hinted in my last Letter to Gov. Bowen. Quere—Should Congress agree to establish their residence for 15 years at or near Fort Pitt, would it not raise our back lands so high as to buy up nearly all our domestic Securities? The back Country is settling with amazing ra pidity. It is told me by a person of information that Mr M. 6 is at the head of the two great Companies of land-jobbers, Viz. the Indiana, 8c Vandalia. You may remember some strokes in certain letters written to the State—as well as that in Mr. P. 7 I have transmitted to Mr. Thomson all the information I have been able to obtain about the mode in which the public accounts are to be settled; as well as on the Subject of what will be proper charges. A Committee have the Subject under consideration. Their report shall be sent in due time. I fear sufficient attention is not paid to the Settlement of accounts & other practicable means of giving ease & satisfaction to the Creditors of the public. A curt reply on this head with some Gentlemen is—It is of more impor tance to obtain funds to pay them when settled. Everything is calculated to alarm the public creditors, 8c to enlist them in favour of the late rev enue recommendations. The Subject of the old money was resumed last Friday, after debating it a whole day nothing was done. It will be resumed tomorrow. 8 The enclosed account will inform you how much has been paid by each State—and how much they are respectively deficient. 9 The Delegates from Massachusetts (who, by the by, are good men & honest republi cans & with us in all measures) assure us that there are in that State


[Page 683]
September 11,1783 649 [...] 1 nearly loaded & will sail [...] Boston—or for New York [...] made for his Vessel & Cargo. [...] net & Montagu are sold [...] the Cost, as they could not be [....] I observe Briles is arrived—the sooner You sell his Flower the better. Desire Colo J. Gerry to supply You with 5 or 6 Cord of Wood on the Receipt of this Letter, which is a sufficient order. I am happy to hear of the great Success in the Fishery, & wish to be relieved from publick Cares, to search for domestic Happiness; but all Things are not yet right, that relate to the Revolution. The definitive Treaty was not yet negotiated by the last Account from Europe; but the Evacuation of N York, cannot I think be long delayed. Deliver the inclosed Letter to Mrs Gerry & with my Love to Betsy & Tomboy, & Regards to all Friends be assured... . 2 RC (MHi: Gerry Collection). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry. 1 RC damaged, 3 to 5 words missing from each of 6 lines. 2 Closing and signature clipped. Samuel Holten to John Avery Dear Sir. Princeton, 11th Sepr. 1783. I have been favored with your attention of the 14 ultimo. The small est apology is considerd by me sufficient for your not honoring me with an address sooner, when I take into consideration the delicate & kind reason you are pleasd to assign for the same; and possibly some of my other friends at Masstts. were actuated from similar motives, in not giv ing me the earliest notice of the change that had taken place in the del egation, but it was forwarded from the city of N.Y. very soon, & came to hand sometime before any accts, of it were received from Boston. I should write to you, my sentiments upon the commutation, had I not lately done it to several of the Honble Council, which I have no doubt you are acquainted with; 1 you may suppose the disapprobation of our constituents is not a matter of indifference with me, but what adds to it, is, that it respects a matter that I had taken such particular pains to serve them in, & fully expecting their aprobation in the ex change of half pay for the comutation for many reasons that might be mentioned not only to the states in genl, but to Masstts. in particular which makes the disappointment the greater. The definitive treaty is not yet come to hand and it is said here that it was not signed about seven weeks since; I have done expecting it, for the present, as our Ministers have done writing about it, for in their last letters they do not so much as mention it. Your approbation of the conduct of Congress in removing from Phila. confirms me more in the opinion that they were right but great


[Page 692]
658 September 11, 1783 This then is the auspicious moment! At an sera so awful and so criti cal, it is the design of this address deliberately to investigate and to ex pose with freedom, the real situation of these states, and in anticipat ing evil and misfortune, to suggest their remedy. In pursuing these objects the reasonable hopes of their preserving internal tranquility, will be the first, as it is the most important enquiry. And here let it be observed—that the same active and predominant passion of the human breast, which prompts mankind to arrogate su periority and to the acquirement of riches, honor and power, which restricted to the selfish purposes of an individual, we term ambition, is when extended to the disinterested object of aggrandizing a commu nity, what we dignify with the appelation of patriotism—that the exer tion of this principle being as advantageous to a republic, as it is use ful to a man, whoever will make the interest of his country his own, and shew a blind devotion to its views and prejudices, will find the road open to its dignities and employments, and will be honoured with the flattering distinction of patriot—and that the competition of interests and the desire of rulers to exalt their respective communities have laid the foundation of those wars which have desolated the world, and entailed misery on the human race. Unhappily then for America, the separate sovereignties of our re spective States, have left these principles to act with a force, but feebly restrained by the weak barrier of a nominal union. An undeviating ad herence to state interests, state prejudices, state-aggrandizement, (or to comprehend the evil in a term to state politics) is the sad prognostic of that discord, confusion and never ceasing war, which has been the in variable lot of separate Sovereignties and neighbouring States. A cause every way adequate to such pernicious effects aggravated by old and new disputes between the different States, and inflammatory reflections reciprocally cast, will not fail of receiving additional weight from a number of unhappy circumstances; each sufficient to disorder, even the best connected and organized system. ’Ere the war had yet terminated, the States betrayed the baleful ef fects of divided councils, and want of mutual confidence. Requisi tions for men and money for general purposes, if not contemptu ously neglected, were most commonly answered by heated assertions of the prior, undue and superior exertions of each State respectively. This illusion originating in their partial view of Continental Affairs, was supported by their unliquidated Accounts, and every attempt on the part of the general Council to dissipate the one or settle the other, have by the prejudices of ignorance or insinuations of design in the one case, or the neglect or inability of the States in the other, invariably proved abortive. Individuals in the commercial States, attached to the American cause, had received the currency of the union, in discharge of their


[Page 699]
September 12, 1783 665 in the first of the Next Week. 1 As you do not know the Author I hope and expect that you will be intirely Silent on any Questions on that Subject. Your paper I believe has a pretty general Circulation but tis my request that you will forward a few Copies of that which may Con tain the present Essay to your Correspondants in the different States. I Shall be glad to hear from you the observations that may be made on the present piece. If it does not Come within your plan to publish this piece you will please return it to me without Communicating it to any other person. I am with regard, Your Most Obedt Servt. Jacob Read RC (PHi: Thomas Bradford Papers). 1 Read undoubtedly enclosed with this letter the essay that Bradford published under the heading “The North-American. No. I” in the September 17 issue of his Pennsylvania Journal, for which see the preceding entry. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Friday Sept 12 1783 I received your letter dated Wednesday 9 o Clock, and am highly pleased with your arrangements with the Black family, so that there will be no occasion of sending the notice which I enclosed in my letter of yesterday, and the present tenant may take time to look out for an other place. I have received a letter from Madeira with a bill of lading for my pipe of wine which is arrived at Philadelphia in the brig Olive Branch captjohn Brice. I enclose you the bill of Lading that you may request Our cousin Robert or Jonathan to get it on shore. I could wish the porters would get some boards to save the stairs and try to put it in the store room. Where if the cask is good as I expect it is it may stand on the end and take up but little room. I find by the letter that the fine tale of the Prest. either originated in his sanguine temper or that it was fabricated merely to gain custom. However, if the wine be good as I hope it is I am glad I sent for it: but I find I shall be six or seven pounds sterling in debt for it over and above my 22 bbls of flour. There will be 40/ to be paid for the freight and I suppose something for duty on importation which you will please to furnish. It is uncertain whether I shall have the pleasure of seeing you on Sat urday. This days debate may determine it; though I am apprehensive nothing will be decided. Fitzsimmons & Montgomery arrived yesterday & Jones & Madison are expected to day. We have received a warm invi tation from the inhabitants of Germantown to fix upon that place for the permanent residence of Congress. They offer their public school


[Page 700]
666 September 12, 1783 for the accommodation of Congress and the public Offices, & give as surances that the Members shall be well provided with houses. 1 I am glad to find Page remembers his friends. But am sorry to hear nothing of poor Dick. Adieu my dear Hannah. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 According to Thomson’s endorsement, this “Address of the Inhabitants of German town inviting Congress to make that town the place of the permanent Residence of Congress” was “Read Sept 11. 1783,” but he made no mention of it in his journals. See PCC, item 46, fols. 117-22; and JCC, 25:552-53. Elias Boudinot to Robert Howe Sir, Princeton 13th Sept. 1783, 9 o’Clock. P.M. I have the honor of acknowleging the receipt of your favor, enclos ing the proceedings of a General Court Martial lately held in your Camp, which I duly laid before Congress; 1 and it is with real satisfac tion and Pleasure that I am now to inform you, that Congress have thought proper to extend mercy to the unhappy Prisoners under sen tence of death, as well as to those who were condemned to corporal punishment. The Act of Congress for this humane purpose is en closed, 2 as also their approbation for the acquittal of Captains Chrystie & Symonds and Lieutenant Houston. Congress have imposed secrecy on themselves as to the act of par don, in order that you may use your discretion as to the time and manner of communicating it to the Prisoners. 3 I hope this Act of mercy will fully impress these unhappy Men with a deep sense of their unworthy conduct, and lead them properly to es timate the peculiar happiness of living under so mild a Government. Congress considering the nature of your particular service have thought proper on this occasion to testify their approbation of your conduct, Sir, during the delicate investigation of so attrocious an of fence; and it is with very great pleasure that I execute this part of my duty by communicating their Act for this purpose. I write in a hurry, being just informed that the Honorable Mr. Fitzsimmons setts off for the City very early in the morning. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 Howe’s September 2 letter enclosing these proceedings and explaining at length his conduct throughout the whole of the inquiry into the Pennsylvania mutiny is in PCC, item 38, fols. 119-22. See also Richard Peters to John Dickinson, July 16, 1783.


[Page 701]
September 13, 1783 667 2 For the enclosed “Act” of this date, see JCC, 25:564—67; and the following entry, note. 3 For an account of how this congressional “act of pardon” was not disclosed to two of the convicted sergeants until they “were carried to the place of execution, & every for mality gone through with, except the final stroke,” see Samuel Holten to Luke Webster, October 2, 1783. James McHenry’s Speech in Congress [September 13, 1783] 1 Before passing upon this proclamation, I beg leave to say a few words. It is impossible that any act of men can be engaged in a business more serious or more solemn, than in deliberating upon an act that is to deprive a human being of his life or character. It will occur to the house that the operation of this act does not merely respect the life or character of Carberry & Sullivan, but extends beyond them, to their relations and even to all those of the same name. If a soldier falls in battle—if an honest man is killed by a robber, or murdered by his enemy, this neither injures his fame, or reflects dishonor on his rela tions. But the case is far otherwise if he dies under the hands of the law or the executioner. His memory thenceforward is rendered infa mous, and to be his relation, or to bear his name, is to cary about one a mark of indelible disgrace. These observations are recalled to the recollection of the house, to shew us the importance of what we are about. Let us now for a moment consider the crime of these unfortunate exiles. They were both officers at an early period of the war, and uni formly and till its close, behaved with that fortitude and patience which have so distinguished our army. The situation and circumstances of the army before and at the time of the mutiny need be discribed. They dis play great virtues—They are pregnant with instruction to this country and full of excuse for the criminals. These unfortunates worn down by poverty and grown desperate by necessity, that power which few per sons can resist, formed a plan to releive their wants. It is certainly an extenuation of their crime, that its object was founded in justice, and that no violence was done to either life, per son or property. It is true the soldiers whose motions they are said to have directed, had arms in their hands when they surrounded the State house—But it is also true that they did not use those arms. But other and more urgent reasons plead that their crime should be forgiven. Let the services and long sufferings of the army be re membered: and let the failings of these men be forgotten in their for mer merits and in the merits of the army. And let not the first fruits of their long and perilous contest, our peace, be watered with the blood of two of their companions.


[Page 707]
September 15, 1783 673 RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 See John Francis Mercer to Henry Tazewell, this date, note 4. Benjamin Hawkins to Henry Knox Sir, Princeton Septembr 14th. 1783. The inclosed for Capt. Hopkins 1 I received from General Howe at Philadelphia, at the same time I promised him to send it to you. We have some dispatches from our ministers, which are now before Congress, of which, I can only inform you, that the definitive treaty was not signed on the 27th of July. I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obt. & most humble Servt. Benjamin Hawkins RC (MHi: Knox Papers). 1 Not identified. Charles Thomson to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Princeton September 15th. 1783 I took the earliest opportunity of laying before Congress the Memo rial which you were pleased to send under cover to me, and I have now the honor to return you the Chevr. D’Annemours Commission, with the acceptance & approbation of Congress and the form of the Exequatur to be issued by the respective Govenors. 1 I have the Honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). Endorsed: “Note, the above letter was sent by Capt. Rose aid to Genl. Irvine.” 1 La Luzerne had sent Congress, under cover of a September 9 letter to Thomson, the commission of the chevalier d’Anmours, “consul general of France, in the State of Maryland, the Commonwealth of Virginia and the states of North Carolina, South Car olina and Georgia,” which was referred to committee on September 12. The commit tee’s report, adopted by Congress the 13th, directed Thomson “to make out the neces sary papers” for the registration of d’Anmours commission. See PCC, item 41, 3:274-78; and JCC, 25:554. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Monday Sept 15. 1783 I received your very agreeable letters of Thursday & Friday N. 9 & 10. I am extremely sorry that I cannot yet give you any flattering hopes of the speedy return of Congress. They all are sensible of the inconvenience of this place; they all acknowledge it. But one drawing


[Page 708]
674 September 15, 1783 one way and another, another, they are kept still here, which only breeds more ill humours & keeps the members, and all concerned with them, in a constant fret. The hopes that some had of gratifying their malice and reaking their vengeance on the Superin. 1 are I fancy somewhat abated though the inclination and desire continue as strong as ever. In their last attack they were handled with great free dom, and the ringleader 2 was drawn to solemn asseverations that he was not influenced by personal resentments, but by public motives; though I fancy he was convinced that few believed him. On Saturday last they agreed to accept on certain terms the cession made by Virginia to the United States of the claims of that state to all the lands beyond the Ohio. This will give a great weight to the author ity of Congress. It gives them the sovereignty and property of a coun try at least five hundred miles square. And whether they make the best use of it or not, I hope it will lay the foundations of liberty still broader by the separate jurisdictions and states that will be erected in that bounds. For by the articles of acceptance they bind themselves to lay it out into distinct and separate states of 150 or 200 miles square or as near thereto as circumstances will admit, and that each of those states shall be members of the foederal Union and intitled to all the benefits of it. Some have it in idea to make this country a fund to dis charge the debt contracted by the war. The army first to have the lands promised them and so much of the remainder to be sold or as signed to public creditors as will discharge the debt. Maryland & Jer sey however are not yet satisfied. They think that all the country which lies beyond the Allegheny Mountains and which was unsettled at the commencement of the war and which belonged to the crown of GB & was by it ceded to the United states in the articles of the peace ought to be thrown onto a common stock and disposed of for the benefit of the union. They think that Virginia, the Carolinas and Georgia have no right in virtue of antiquated charters to a country gained by the blood & treasure and by the common exertions of the whole. And in this they have a great deal of reason & justice on their side. However I am pleased that so much is like to be peaceably obtained. Adieu my dear Hannah. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 That is, the superintendent of finance Robert Morris. 2 Apparently Arthur Lee. Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Princeton Septr. 16. 1783 I wrote you about a fortnight past, 1 which I hope has got safe to hand. Since that Time, I have reed, a large Pacquet from Europe, 2 all of


[Page 709]
September 16, 1783 675 a public Nature, except one from young Mr Franklin, which he clearly intended as confidential, and altho’ the Contents might be properly communicated to Congress, yet I did not think myself at liberty, even to impart the Substance to any Member, without your Approbation. I en close the Letter with the Papers contained therein, except the Letter to Mr Hartly, 3 which was undoubtedly designed for Congress. You can now act as you Please, as to the Communication of it. I take this Opportunity of sending the Medal, (mentioned in two of my former Letters) with the Explanation. Dr F. sent by Capt. Barney several more, 4 which I have distributed among the States &c. 5 We have no News in these dispatches worth Communicating tho’ a great deal of Matter, which will engage Congress a considerable Time. The definitive Treaty was not signed on the 2d of August nor likely to be signed, sooner than the 1st Septr. in my Opinion, if then. The Pro ceedings of our warm People & the precipitate opening of the Trade with England, are the principle Causes of Delay. Our Commissioners are decided, and it was so understood at the negociation, that Hostilities were to cease in these Seas in one Month from the ratification of the Preliminary Articles. Mr. Jay Means to resign in the Spring. Mr Dana is yet at Petersburgh and notwithstanding all that has passed, intends finishing His Treaty, before he returns. Our Affairs here, go rather indifferently. No Minister of foreign Af fairs—all the foreign Papers sealed up—At a distance from our of fices—Members grumbling & dissatisfied at our remaining at this Place—no great appetite for Business—so that we are not in so com fortable a State, as I could wish. I take the liberty to enclose a Letter for Mr. Morris, reed by Capt Barney under Cover, which I beg you will be kind enough to forward as I know not where to direct to him. Mrs. Boudinot & Miss Susan are at Philadelphia. Be so kind Sir, as to make my best Compliments acceptable to Mrs. Livingston & Family. I have the honor to be with great regard, Dr Sir, Your most Obed and very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot 6 RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). FC (DLC: Boudinot Papers). 1 See Boudinot to Livingston, August 29. 2 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 13, note 1. 3 Apparently the July 17 letter to David Hartley from the American commissioners at Paris endorsed “We promised Mr. Hartley to forward these Papers to Congress,” for which see PCC, item 85, fols. 364-68; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:556-57. 4 “19 or 20" in the FC. 5 See Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, note 3. 6 Boudinot also wrote the following brief letter this day to Gen. Elias Dayton. “I have the honor of enclosing some News Papers I lately reed from Coll. Ogden and which he desired I might forward to you.... P.S. Will you be good enough to explain to me the Terms of admission into the Society of Cincinnati and who it is designed for.” Elias Boudinot Collection, NjP.


[Page 711]
September 16, 1783 677 Canaries inclusive, in one month from & after the ratification of the preliminaries of peace; & are Surprized any question Should be made of the Construction of that article. 1 How far prudence or political reasons may dictate, keeping posses sion of Captures which were made by our citizens after that period, until our enemies restore the Captures made by them under the like predicament; is another question. I take this Occasion to return you many thanks for your razor which is both usefull & Comfortable. I am Sir with much Esteem & Regard, Your humble Servt, Sam. Huntington Tr (CtHi: Ernest Law Papers). 1 See Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston, this date. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir [September 16? 1783] 1 I have this Week received a Letter from Govr. Livingston informing that he has had a number of applications for the Purchase of his In terest in the Oriskie Patent, 2 which he has refused on account of his Promise to Colo. Floyd of the first Offer: he says he has wrote to Colo Floyd but has received no answer and requests to know, as he under stood I was concerned, whether we are still disposed to purchase or whether he is released from his Promise & is at Liberty to dispose of that Interest to any other Person. I have wrote to him 3 for Answer that we are still disposed to make the Purchase provided the Price can be agreed on and have desired him to let me know the Terms he pro posed to Colo Floyd which I would immediately communicate to him so that he might have an answer as soon as possible. I did not choose to goe further in this Business till I could have an oppertunity of hear ing from your Excellency, and have your Opinion upon the highest Sum it would answer for us to give; As he has offers for his Interest I expect he will ask a much higher Price than he would have done be fore & will be very uneasy under his Promise of a Refusal till the Bar gain is closed, and I think it will be for our Interest to make the pur chase soon, if at all. If you are still of the Opinion that it is best buy those Lands, I beg you will write to me by the first oppertunity & say how far I may offer, provided there is no probability of getting it for a less sum, and I will, without waiting to hear from Colo. Floyd, proceed to make the Purchase as soon as possible. 4 Last week Congress accepted of the Virginia Cession provided the Condition of Guarantie and the Expence of conquering & defend ing that Country, mentioned in their Act is repealed & there is no


[Page 712]
678 September 16, 1783 doubt now but that State will agree to the Proposals. In Such Case all the Lands Northwest of the Ohio by this Cession and the Cession of New York will be vested in the United States, which with Attention may become a Fund for absorbing a great Part of our domestic Debt. This Cession also will I trust quiet all Claims by other States on our Western Territories. We have lately received Letters from our Commissioners at Paris, most of the Communications are under an Injunction of Secrecy for a few Days after which Time I shall do myself to transmit to your Excel lency what is most interesting. We have no News of the Definitive Treatys being signed nor is there any appearance of a commercial Treaty being agreed to, On the contrary there appears by the public Papers an evident intention in Great Britain to prevent these States trading with them or their Islands on reciprocal advantages which I believe will be much to our advantage in the End, as it will oblige our merchants to form Connections in other Nations whose Prejudices are not so great against the Success of our Trade or their own Naviga tion Acts. Doctor Franklin has sent over a Number of Medals being Copies of such as he has sent to a Number of Princes in Europe in be half of the United States. There is one for each State & the principal officers of United States. We have one which will be sent to your Ex cellency by the first safe conveyance. 5 The Inclosed Paper contains the description of the Medal. 6 FC (Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). In the hand of Ezra L’Hommedieu. 1 The content of this undated letter indicates that it was written during the week fol lowing Congress’ acceptance on September 13 of Virginia’s western land cession, but before the New York delegates sent Clinton a copy of the congressional report on the subject on September 19. Other considerations suggest that L’Hommedieu probably posted it at the same time he wrote to John Tayler at Albany, this date. 2 Gov. William Livingston’s letter has not been found, but for information on his share in the Oriskany Patent near the source of the Mohawk River, see Livingston, Pa pers (Prince), 5:58-54. 3 Not found. 4 For L’Hommedieu’s land interests at this time, see also his letters to Clinton of Septem ber 25 and October 16, and to John Tayler of August [?], and September 16 and 20. 5 For Franklin’s commemorative medals, see Elias Boudinot to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, note 3. 6 Remainder missing. Ezra L’Hommedieu to John Tayler My Dear Sir, Princeton September 16. 1783. By a Letter which I have received from Judge Platt I am informed that he expects in a few Days from this Time to goe on the Mohawks River and to have our Lands Apprised & laid out; he expects to get


[Page 713]
September 16, 1783 679 the necessary Information from Mr. Banyar. I hope he may, but fear he will not: if he does not, I expect he will receive it from another Quarter of which he will inform you. I understand that it is proposed by those concerned in Fundys Lands, to prevent Difficulties which they apprehend may Attend the Title, to cover the same Lands with Class or the other Certificates. I approve of this measure as better calculated to insure Success than the Ground on which we formerly depended; tho’ this mode will not clear the Title of all Embarrisments. I cannot readily beleive that the Legislature will ever intermeddle to distroy a Title to Land for which they have received as valuable a Consideration as they would have done provided the Title was in the state. I should be glad to have One or Two Thousand acres more in this Purchase if the same can be procured and you think Certificates can be obtained at a Price you think will answer. I understood by you when at Albany last, if I remember right, that there were some of our Company Certificates that were not so fixed, but that you could cover any Lands with them you should think best: if so I should be glad you would with my Part, if they are not already disposed of, cover my Inter est in Fundys Land which is about I believe 2000 Acres and what you may further purchase for me. If you want Money for the Purchase call on Mr Arnold who will advance it, or on Mr White who I expect will be at Albany soon and will receive my money of Arnold. As you will be on the spot and will be fully acquainted with all the Cir cumstances relative to this Business, especially whether Certificates can be got and at what Price; I desire you will act for me as you do for your self, and should be glad to hear from you on this Subject as soon as con venient. I have had the Honour to write to you once before, since I have been at this Place, but have not been favoured with your Answer. We have yet no Account of the Definitive Treaty being signed, nor is there any Appearance of a commercial Treaty being agreed to. Great Britain still blunders, they mean to embarras the American Trade with their Territories, which conduct will oblige the People of this Country to form Connection & Trade in other Kingdoms, much to our Advantage. With respectful Compliments to Mrs. Taylor I am sr. your most Obedt Servt. E LHommedieu RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: ‘John Taylor Esquire, Albany.” Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson My dear Hannah Tuesday Septr. 16. 1783. I am now inclined to believe you were right in your conjecture that those who do not wish to return to Philadelphia will while away the


[Page 715]
September 17, 1783 681 RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). i See JCC, 25:568-69. 2 See Elias Boudinot to Franklin, June 18, 1783, note 3. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Sir, Princeton Septr. 17th. 1783. Every publick acknowledgment of the essential Services rendered our common Country by your Excellency during a doubtful War, has given me the most sensible Pleasure, and it has been among the grati fications of my Office, that its duties have priviledged my transmitting, the constant Sense Congress have maintained of your Excellency’s great Merit & good Conduct. I have now the additional Satisfaction of enclosing an Act of Congress, by which their high Confidence, placed in your Excel lency’s Wisdom and Judgment since the War has ceased, very mani festly appears. 1 I have the honor to be with every Sentiment of Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt & very Hble Servt Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The enclosed September 15 resolve simply declared “That General Washington have access to the secret papers of Congress, under the same injunctions as members.” JCC, 25:568. Samuel Holten to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, Princeton 17th Sepr. 1783. On Friday last we had a large packet of letters from our ministers in Europe, but by an order of Congress, there contents are to be kept se cret for the present; therefore whatever I may write further is not to be considered as intelligence contained in sd letters. 1 Yesterday the delegates from Masstts. engaged all the attention of Congress to lowering the salaries of the officers in the civil depart ments, 2 but nothing is yet determined respecting the matter or the other important affairs, that so much respects our constituents; I can’t but hope the honl. Court will think it adviseable not to comply with the recommendations of Congress, respecting the impost, untill we can get some determination upon the important matters we have so often invited their attention to, for if they should, I almost despair that we shall be able to get any thing done here at present. A. 3


[Page 722]
688 September 18, 1783 Elbridge Gerry to Abigail Adams Madam Princeton 18th Sepr 1783 I embrace the oppertunity by Mr Guild, of informing You, that Mr Adams was well the 27th of July, & that by a Letter to the Minister of France of the 27th, the Dutch Negotiation with the British was fin ished, by which one great obstacle to the definitive Treaty is removed. 1 Inclosed is an Extract of an official Letter from Doctor F to Mr Livingston Secretary of foreign affairs dated July 22d, which is calcu lated to give a private Stab to the Reputation of our Friend; 2 at least it appears so to me by the Doctors Observation that by writing the Let ter “he hazzarded a mortal Enmity,” I think if evident, he did not in tend the Letter should be seen by Mr Adams’s particular Friends, but that Mr Livingston should make a prudent Use of it to multiply Mr Adams’ Enemies. Mr L could easily do this, by not communicat ing to Congress the paragraph: but being now out of office, the Doc tor’s Craft is apparent. You will please to keep the Matter a profound Secret, excepting to Mr Adams, General Warren & Lady; & let the Channel of Communication be likewise a secret. My Complements to Miss Adams, & all our Friends in your quarter, & be assured I remain with the highest Esteem, Madam your very humble ser E Gerry RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For the recent arrival of a pacquet of foreign dispatches, see James Madison to Ed mund Randolph, September 3, note 1. 2 Benjamin Franklin’s July 22 letter to Robert R. Livingston, which is highly critical of John Adams’ anti-French views, is in PCC, item 82, 2:389-412; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:580-88. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson My dear Hannah, Thursday Sept. 18. 1783 Another day is spent in ill humour and fruitless debates. The sub ject was to satisfy the Eastern states & reconcile them to the commuta tion agreed to be given to the Officers in lieu of the half pay that had been promised them. You know that in the midst of the war, when the army was exposed to hunger and nakedness, and their pay was re duced to a trifle by the depreciation of the paper money or, according to the phrase then in vogue, by the advanced price of the necessaries of life, the officers became discontented and wanted to resign. In Order to satisfy them, the Congress at York town agreed that such as continued in service to the end of the war should be intitled to and receive after the war was over their full pay for seven years, 1 provided


[Page 723]
September 18,1783 689 they lived so long. The benefit of this was afterwards extended to the widows & children of such as died in the service. Still however the army was discontented. They wanted a provision for life; that after wearing out their constitution in the service of their country they might not, in their old age, be exposed to want and misery. The conti nent was much divided on this subject. The eastern states were in gen eral averse to it, as it seemed to encourage the idea of a standing army, the other states favoured the measure. It was long a subject of debate. At length however, our finances being exhausted, our affairs gloomy, the discontents of the army encreasing, and assurances being given that this would satisfy them, & it appearing to be the only means in the power of Congress to prevent a dissolution of the army, some of the eastern states gave way and in Sept 1780 Congress resolved that such of the officers as continued in service to the end of the war should be intitled to half pay for life. 2 But though the eastern states from the necessity of the case agreed to the measure, the genius or prejudices of the people were against it, and therefore the officers saw that they could not enjoy that bounty with peace and satisfaction. You know what influence a word has upon the passions of the people. The word pension which conveyed an Odious idea was applied to the half pay, and a cry was raised, that the conclusion of the war would saddle the country with a band of pensioners. The merit and sufferings of the army were acknowledged, and it was alledged and asserted that the people would readily agree to give them an ample compensation; but that they could not agree to pay them annually a sum for life, which would only encourage idleness and dissipation and create an odious distinction among the citizens. To obviate all objections the officers at the close of last campaign offered to receive a sum in gross in lieu of the half pay promised. This was one of the objects of the deputation from the army {in January last) last fall. 3 After long debates and strong symptoms of a most dangerous mutiny in the whole army, it was at last agreed by Congress, that the Officers should be entitled to the value of five years full pay as a commu[ta]tion for the half pay; that all their accounts and claims should be liquidated & settled, and that certifi cates should be given to each of them for the balance due including the commutation; that this should be funded with the general debt of the nation; and that the interest thereof should be paid annually until the principal could be discharged. And Congress proceeded to call upon the states to grant and establish funds for the regular payment of the interest and discharge of the principal of the whole national debt. The states to the eastward, it seems, are dissatisfyed with this ar rangement, and the legislature of Massachusetts has remonstrated to Congress against the allowance to the army and the expence of the civil list. This remonstrance was referred to a committee, who re ported an Answer with reasons to shew that Congress could not, con-


[Page 724]
690 September 18, 1783 sistent with public faith, honor justice and humanity, make any alter ation in the commutation, but that they were disposed as far as was consistent with the public good to reduce the expences of the civil list. This report not being satisfactory to the eastern delegates was com mitted to three of them who brought in another report which has en gaged the attention of Congress for these two days past, and is likely to engage it for some time to come. 4 The report began with a pro posal to abolish the marine department or at least reduce it to an Agent with a triffling salary. This afforded a favourable opportunity to those who wished to have a stroke at the Superint. of finance, who they conceived was the agent & received the emoluments. And as every subject wherein he is concerned is agitated with great warmth & bitterness, this employed the whole of the first day. Yesterday what re garded the civil list was referred to a new committee, and the latter part of the report which related to the commutation was taken into consideration. The report proposed that Congress should pass a reso lution, by which the states should be left to settle with the Officers of their respective lines on the best terms they could and to take up the certificates given to the officers & have them discounted at the public treasury in discharge of the requisitions of Congress. This was op posed as a measure tending to violate the public faith pledged to the officers, to throw them upon the mercy of the states and to deprive them of the hard and well earned rewards of their meritorious ser vices. It was supported on the other hand as necessary to the peace and tranquility of the states and to the preservation of the Union. Read opposed it with great warmth, McHenry & Madison with great force of reason & argument. Holten who was in favour of the measure & who is a worthy good man but of weak nerves seemed to be deeply affected with apprehensions of the consequences, urged it with great seriousness & deep Concern, pointing out the dangers & deprecating the evil consequences that might ensue from a refusal. Ellery, who was also in favour of it, and who has a predominant passion to be thought a wit, and whose wit indeed, though far from being acute or refined, much surpasses his judgment or honesty, endeavoured to represent the half pay as extorted from the fears of Congress; and as he scorns to confine his fancy within the bounds of truth, he boldly attempted to impose on the members by the grossest falshoods, in which how ever he was immediately detected. But to cover his confusion, he en deavoured to turn the Attention of the house by an attack upon the secretary 5 who had contributed of the detection. In this he was also foiled. And he was obliged to sit still under the disgrace of having ei ther lost his wit or his memory or of having no regard to truth. I am indeed heartily weary of this scene and if it continues much longer, I am inclined to think I shall wish to withdraw from it. Still however I entertain a fond hope that the same kind providence which


[Page 725]
September 19, 1783 691 has conducted us so far in our journey will open a way for the future happiness and prosperity of the United States. To his protection I re- comend you and Am with sincere Affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). 1 See these Letters, 9:356n.3, 675—76. 2 Congress actually adopted this resolve on October 21, 1780, for which see JCC, 18:958-59; and these Letters, 16:234-35. 3 For the presentation of the “December 1782” memorial carried by this deputation, see James Madison’s Notes, January 6, 1783, note 2. 4 For the reports and debates on Massachusetts’ July 11 remonstrance against exces sive Continental expenditures, see Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, note 3; and JCC, 25:571-87, 606-13. 5 That is, upon Thomson himself. For a possible explanation of the origin of this clash between Ellery and Thomson, see William Ellery to Francis Dana, December 3, 1783, note 11. New York Delegates to George Clinton Dear Sir Princeton, 19th Sept. 1783 It is with great anxiety that we were informed that your Excellency has fallen under a dangerous Illness. We were therefore much com forted by Colo. Benson’s Favours of the and the Instant 1 which gave us Hopes that the Severity of the disorder was greatly abated, and we flatter ourselves that before long your Health will be reestablished, and that you will be enabled to return to the Duties of your Station with Satisfaction to yourself and with those great Advantages to the public which they have experienced from your Zeal and Patriotism. We have laid before Congress your Excellencys Correspondence with Sir Guy Carleton. 2 We did not propose it should be the ground of any immediate Act of Congress, but conceived that useful Purposes might be answered if it should become necessary to investigate Sir Guy’s Conduct. Besides we thought the Honour of our Government was concerned in preserving that Correspondence entire, which Sir Guy had mutilated by transmitting but a single Letter of his own out of all that passed between you. Congress have at length decided upon the Virginian Cession of western Territories. That State, it is thought, has insisted upon hard Terms. We have never the less agreed to them for Two Reasons: Be cause it was a Subject which could only be closed by Composition; and because there is now left as the undoubted Right of the United States an immense Tract of Country which is daily overrun by lawless men (who endanger by their Rashness a new Indian War) and which might be improved to great public Advantage. We need not add that it has a


[Page 726]
692 September 19, 1783 further Tendency to silence Questions respecting the western Territo ries which have proved a great obstacle to public Business and might have been a source of internal Contentions and Convulsions. We inclose a printed Report which was agreed to and approved by Congress as amended. 3 With our earnest Wishes for your Excellency’s Health and Happiness, We have the Honour to be most respectfully, Dear Sir, Your Excellencys most Obedient & very Humble Servant, Jas Duane E L’Hommedieu FC (NHi: Duane Papers). In the hand of Ezra L’Hommedieu. I Robert Benson’s September 4 and 7 letters reporting Governor Clinton’s illness are in Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:250-52. 2 See James Duane to Clinton, August 21, note 3. 3 See PCC, item 30, fol. 565; and JCC, 25:559-63, 988. See also John Francis Mercer to Henry Tazewell September 13, note 4. James Duane to Mary Duane Princeton 20th Septemr. 1783. I have been made happy my dearest Polly in frequent Accounts from yourself, our dear Daughter and lately from our honored Father of the Health of our Family and Friends. The time is swiftly approach ing when there will be no Occasion for seperation [and] when we shall sit down in domestic Comfort—with God’s blessing—after all the trials and Storms which have driven us into Exile and torn us from each other. It is a Consolation that I have continued for so many years in an al most uninterrupted State of Health, and been able to serve my Coun try without Intermission in the important Trust reposed in me. The definitive Treaty of peace was not signed when we receivd our last dispatches. The British have however reduced their Army and are preparing to leave New York: and there is no Reason to doubt but we shall soon get rid of them. The time they themselves cannot, if they were disposed to it, ascertain. Col. Harry will tell you better than I can the situation of our Property, which when the British please Capt Miller who is on the Spot will take possession of for us: but I have en- joyned him to ask no Favour for I will have none from their Hands. Kiss and bless for me our dear Children. I shall write by Tom to our honord Father & to our Daughters who will I flatter myself send a Line for me once a Week to Johnson’s which will be safely sent for ward by the post. I pray God to bless you and our dear Children with Health and every possible Degree of Comfort and Happiness, being


[Page 731]
September 20, 1783 697 seen in the hands of the Executive. 2 I sincerely hope it may meet the Ultimatum of Virga. The circumstances which produced brevity in my last as strongly recommend it at present. 3 Adieu, J. MJr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:357. 1 Actually the same day as his “last,” for which see Madison to Randolph, September 13, and John Francis Mercer to Henry Tazewell, September 13, note 4. 2 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, this date, note 2. 3 That is, the lack of writing facilities in Madison’s cramped quarters in Princeton. John Francis Mercer to George Weedon Dear General: Princeton, September 20, 1783. I have the pleasure of yours, of the 9th, but am by no means de cided on the debt. I rather think you stand in arrears to me two or three very long epistles. The last week I directed a letter to Mr. Fitzhugh, which is to be con sidered in a great measure a joint one, 1 the first part I am sorry you have not yet given me occasion to consider as such. I stated almost every article of intelligence from Europe that I can now hold myself at liberty to communicate—but would observe, that France has given us every assurance that the definitive treaty shall not be signed without us—at the same time, they hint that our own facility in running into British commerce, &c., and the little appearance of concert between the different states, has retarded the general negotia tion. However, we have reason to apprehend that not only Great Britain, but all the other European powers, even our friends, will pur sue the object of deriving advantages from our commerce, without al lowing us reciprocity—for if one European nation does this, the oth ers must pursue the same policy or submit to subject themselves to great disadvantages. We are pursuing the peace arrangement, but under many discour agements, which damp our ardor. I hope, however, all difficulties may be surmounted, and all measures so necessary and salutary, may be completed. I am under the pressure of land debates, and must con clude with assuring you that any thing that shall offer which will corre spond with your wishes, shall with the utmost zeal be promoted by, Dr. General, Your friend, and very h’ble Servant, J. F. Mercer. MS not found; reprinted from Balch, Papers Relating to the Maryland Line, pp. 212-13. 1 Not found.


[Page 733]
September 22, 1783 699 I have, with perfect respect, the honor to be, your most obedient servant. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Holten to Dexter, July 24, 1783. 2 Caesar Rodney, a former delegate to Congress from Delaware, had been treated for cancer by Dr. Hugh Martin in 1782. See Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 430-32. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir Princeton Septemr 22nd. 1783 A Committee to whom the copy of Genl. duPortail’s letter of the 16 Inst, addressd to your Excellency, is refer’d., desire a conference with you upon the Subject of that letter. 1 If you will please to name a time most agreable to you, the Commit tee will be happy to wait upon you in the Congress Chamber. Should half past nine in the morning Suit with your engage ments, give me leave to request the honour of your company to breakfast at my lodgings in the morning of the the Same day previ ous to the conference. I have the Honour to be with perfect Respect, Your humble Servt, Sami. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by Samuel Huntington. 1 A committee consisting of Huntington, James Duane, and Elbridge Gerry had been appointed on September 19 to take into consideration a letter of the same date from Washington enclosing General Duportail’s September 16 letter entreating Congress to take action on the future of the army to enable foreign officers to make plans for re turning to Europe before the onset of winter. In addition, Washington had also re minded Congress of the necessity of taking action on “the Situation of the Troops on Furlough,” and enclosed a letter from Gen. Henry Knox explaining that the Continen tal troops in New York were inadequately clothed and that if they were to be “held until the winter arrives and then disbanded, their misery would be extreme.” See PCC, item 152, 11:487-98, item 186, fol. 126; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:156-57. The immediate consequence of the committee’s conference with Washington seems to have been Congress’ September 24 resolve authorizing Washington “to discharge such parts of the Foederal Army now in Service as he shall deem proper and expedient” (and to order clothing “for those that may be longer retained”), and the drafting of a proclamation for furloughing the army, for which see JCC, 25:606, 645-46, 703; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:167-69. Duportail’s concerns were not immediately addressed, although he submitted pro posals on September 30 for the future arrangement of the artillery and engineering de partments, and on October 6 appealed for permission to return to France with General Laumoy and Colonel Gouvion, which Congress approved on October 10. As the super intendent of finance subsequently announced that he had no funds for paying Dupor- tail and his officers, the general again appealed to Congress for relief on October 29. See PCC, item 38, fols. 355-66, item 78, 8:31-34, 43-46; and JCC, 25:668-69, 695.


[Page 734]
700 September 22, 1783 James Duane to George Washington Dear Sir, Princeton 22d. Septemr 1783. A Resolution which lately passed 1 —which I have long had at Heart—makes it necessary that I should inform your Excellency that the foreign Dispatches last received, and which were referred to a Committee of which I was Chairman, 2 are returned into the Secre tary’s Office, and ready for your Excellency’s perusal whenever it suites Your Convenience. With the most perfect Esteem and Respect, I have the Honour to be, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Congress’ September 15 resolution granting Washington “access to the secret papers of Congress,” for which see Elias Boudinot to Washington, September 17, 1783. 2 See Committee of Congress Report, September 25, 1783. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel R. Gerry Dear Commr. Princeton 22d Sepr 1783 I was favoured by the last Post with yours of the 9th inclosing two Letters from Messrs. Gardoqui’s & Mr Gatchels Memorandum. With Respect to the Vessels, the Terms are too high, as it would be cheaper to give 80/ or even 90/ at Newbury Port than 78/ at the Eastward: pray communicate this to Mr Gatchel, & inform him that I should have wrote to him, had the Conditions answered. You will find some Tickets of the 4th Class of the continental Lot tery (with my Bonds & Notes) & I wish to have them sent to Mr Jontin the Commissioner for adjusting accounts, at his office in State Street, to be exchanged for a funded Certificate, being with due Regards to all Friends yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. I wrote You by Mr Guild of Boston, on the Subject of purchasing Capt Briles Schooner & other Matters. 1 RC (MHi: Gerry Papers). 1 See Gerry to Samuel Gerry, September 16. Elias Boudinot to George Washington Sir, Princeton Septr. 25t 1783 I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency several Acts of Congress relative to the Army, dated the 23d & 24th Instt. 1


[Page 735]
September 25, 1783 701 I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed & Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The former directed Washington to communicate with Gen. Robert Howe “the thanks of Congress... for the prudence and propriety with which he executed the en quiry into the late mutiny,” as well as accolades to his troops for their conduct during their assignment to Philadelphia. See JCC, 25:566-67, 604. That of the 24th was a “Se cret” order, not committed to the journals, declaring “That the Commander in Chief be authorized to discharge such parts of the Foederal Army now in Service as he shall deem proper and expedient. And that he direct that necessary Cloathing be immedi ately provided for those that may be longer retained in Service.” JCC, 25:606. For the context of this resolve, see also Committee of Congress to Washington, September 22, note. Committee of Congress Report [September 25? 1783] The Comee. appointed to consider the dispatches from the foreign Ministers & to report what measures are necessary for Congress to take thereupon; have very attentively perused their dispatches & sub mit the follow’g report. 1 1. It appears clearly from Mr. Adam’s letters of the 23d of June and 14th & 18th of July; the Ministers joint letter of July 27th & Dr. Franklin’s letter of the 22d July, that the Courts of France & Great Britain particularly the latter, hath discovered the utmost Jealousy of the commercial Prosperity 2 of America—that they have it in contempla tion not only to cramp & restrain our commerce, by prohibiting an in timate & extensive intercourse between America and their West India possessions, but to deprive us as much as possible of the carrying trade by prohibiting any American Vessel from importing into G. Britain any commodities, but those of the State to which it belongs. Your Committee consider this System of Policy as most pernicious 3 to the interests of America; for should we be deprived of a direct trade with the British & French West India Islands, & of carrying the pro duce of those Islands to Europe, great sources of wealth & conve nience to the United States will be lost. Should the other restriction take place, and the Vessels of each of the American States be confined to the importation into G. Britain, of the exports from that State only, a great part of the carrying trade which arises from the exportation of American produce to Europe, will be engrossed by Europeans, the great nursery for seamen will be in a good degree lost, and a very im portant & profitable branch of commerce, be transferred from the Citizens of these United States to Foreigners—it is therefore of the highest importance in the opinion of your Committee, especially as these restrictions are probably only a part of a system which if carried into effect must prove compleatly ruinous to the American Com-


[Page 736]
702 September 25, 1783 merce—that a General Power be somewhere lodged for regulating the concerns of the United States: for should those restraining Sys tems be pursued by Britain & France and other states which will prob ably be drawn into 4 the same system, some regulations to exclude them from our carrying trade, will be absolutely necessary, or they may eventually become the sole carriers even of our own produce. On this head your Comee. submit to the Consideration of Congress 5 whether it may not be expedient to appoint a special Comee. to pre pare an address to the States on the subject of Commerce stating to them the commercial Regulations which are prevailing 6 in Europe, the evils we apprehend and the proper steps on their part to guard against and counteract 7 them ... and 2. to report measures necessary to be taken by Congress, among which may perhaps be reckoned treaties of Amity & Com merce with the other Great Powers in Europe, & the residence of an able Minister or Agent at the Court of London. 3. That it appears also from those dispatches, particularly from the letter of July 18th from Mr. Adams; that not only a continuation but an additional cement to the Union is necessary—that if the United States do ever become a great, a powerful & a flourishing Nation, re spectable in Commerce & in Arms, it must be by having a well formed federal Government, sufficiently effective to collect the resources of the Country to a point when necessary, & to make such general ar rangements whether of a Commercial or political nature, as circum stances may from time to time require—for as it is clearly not the in terest of any maratime European Power, to promote rapidly our encrease in numbers & in wealth, on the contrary they appear appre hensive of our growing importance; We may expect if we are not at tentive to our own interests, & have not energy enough to secure our own honour, to be treated with insult & disrespect by them all in their turns. 4. Your Comee. would therefore propose the appointment of a special Comee. to deliberate on this Head. It appears farther from Mr. Adam’s letter of and Dr. Frank lin’s letter of 22d July, that propositions for entering into treaties of Amity & Commerce have been made to our Ministers, by the King of Denmark, the Court of Portugal, the Emperor of Germany the King of Prussia, the Grand Duke of Tuscany, the Court of Spain and that all the other Powers of Europe discover a like disposition. A Spe cial Comee. is recommended on this subject, to consider whether gen eral outlines of treaties with those several Powers, or instructions to our Ministers as to the principles of such treaties, shall be forwarded & to report the necessary forms in either case. Letters should be writ ten to our Ministers directing them to stop all loans in Europe, to make all necessary representations to the Court of Denmark for ob taining restitution for the Prizes sent into Bergen by the Alliance—to


[Page 739]
September 25, 1783 705 pose the person that corresponded with you, must be a gentleman of character in Masstts. & therefore his observations may be thought worthy of notice. Mr. Gerry is really unwell, & I fear he will be wholely confin’d. I have the honor to be, with perfect respect your most obedient 6 FC (NjR: New Jersey Letters). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Higginson apparently left Princeton September 22, as this report on Meshech Weare’s letter was debated and recommitted on the 23d. See JCC, 25:604-6n.l. 2 See the following entry, note 5. 3 See Elias Boudinot to Washington, this date. 4 See JCC, 25:606-13; and Massachusetts Delegates to Massachusetts Assembly Com mittee, October 1, 1783. 5 See Holten to James Sullivan, June 18 and August 29, 1783. 6 Holten had also sent Higginson the following brief “Billit” on “Friday morn” the 19th. “Dr. Holten presents his compliments to the hone. Mr. Higginson, & requests that he would favor him with the newspaper, that contains the provisional treaty, & also with some sealing wax.” To his draft of the note, which is in the Holten Papers at MHi, he also appended the comment: “N.B. I reed, some sealing wax, but not the treaty altho’ I lent it to him some time since.” David Howell to Nicholas Brown Dear Sir, Princeton 25 Sept. 1783 Nothing of consequence has been done in Congress since my last, 1 except in regard to the cession of Virginia. The report of a comee some time ago enclosed to your Brother Joseph [h]as been agreed to. 2 Some doubt whether Virginia will alter their cession so as to conform it to the views of Congress; but it is the more prevailing opinion that they will. The result will soon be known as their Legislature will be convened next month. It is now three years since Congress recommended to the States to make liberal cessions of their claims to Western territory. Three ces sions only have been made, one was accepted last year, Viz. N. York; another has been repealed since the return of peace, Viz. Connecti- cutt; and it has been suggested that Virginia was about opening her land office. No. Carolina & Georgia have opened their land offices & it is said are making every arrangement to dispose of their back lands to advantage. Thus Situated Congress have been induced to accept a cession of Virginia far short of what she ought to have made. And the proclamation mentioned in a letter to gov. Bowen has passed the House. 3 Eight States agreed to the cession. The Territory which will be vested in Congress should Virginia agree to our proposals will include, it is said by the most knowing, about five hundred thousand square miles—A territory about five hundred times as large as the State of R. Island.


[Page 741]
September 25, 1783 707 3. O’Clock. P.M. This day has been spent in a Comee of the whole House on the jurisdiction necessary for Congress over the place of their perma nent residence. 6 It is said that Tyrants make a small circle about them [selves] for their own Security: & I am sorry, that a Confedera tion of republics should apprehend a necessity of enslaving a small cir cle about their Supreme Council for its safety. Nothing done. Col. Wm. Peck passed thro’ this day to Philadelphia. I want much to hear from you—pray write me a long old-fashioned Letter on politics, &c. &c. The Dutch Minister has not had his Audience with Congress, nor arrived as we know of—notwithstanding the reports. In a Letter from Mr Jay dated 22 April—He says that it will perhaps be our policy to do nothing in regard to the refugees ’till after N. York shall be evacuated—and then to receive all but “the perfidious & the cruel. ” 7 Quare, How many will finally be excluded by his rule? I was pleased on reading over one of Mr. John Adams’s Letters to Congress, dated soon after his arrival at Paris & his great Success in Holland in procuring loans & a Treaty of Amity & commerce. He mentions a variety of Compliments paid him by the Parisians; and among others the following “Vous ete le Washington de la negotiation. ” “You are the Washington of negotiations. ” 8 This was allowed to be the highest pitch. And it occurred to me that I had a good authority for having in former Letters spoken freely of myself. When persons are el evated to high Stations they are apt to become vain. It is a general fault of human nature & while our enemies are severe one expects candour & forgiveness from friends. I must refer you to a late Letter to Commodore Hopkins 9 for an ac count of the Success of our foreign Loans. I should have written to Dr Arnold by this post; had he not written me that he was going to Vermont about this time. Should he not be gone pray shew him this letter. You will also please to shew it to his Honor the Deputy Gov. & to other friends as prudence may direct. I have reed a Letter from President Manning to which I have not time to reply by this post. 10 He wants to know when I propose to re turn & whether I would undertake in the College in his place, in case he goes to Europe? I cannot at present answer either of these ques tions. It is my wish to do some service to the State before I return—lit tle has yet been done; nor is it to be expected that much will be done ‘till winter. I am very glad to hear that Mr John Brown has undertook to fur nish the College with a Library & Apparatus. 11 I shall send on a Cata logue of books, &c. as soon as I can. Please to give my kind regards to Mrs Brown & to all friends & be lieve me to be as heretofore, Dear Sir, your assured friend & very hble Servt. David Howell


[Page 744]
710 September 25, 1783 Congress are taking Measures for establishing a Boundary between the Indians and the Settlements made or to be made by the United States as Part of a Plan for insuring a lasting Peace with the Savages. So soon as any Act of Congress shall be passed, on the Subject, we will do ourselves the honor to transmit a Copy thereof to Council. 2 We have the honor to be with great Respect and Esteem, Your very obedi ent Servants, John Montgomery Richard Peters Tr (PHarH: Record Group 27). Addressed: “To His Excellency the President of the Council of Pennsylvania.” 1 For these September 13 resolves and the September 22 proclamation, see JCC, 25:559-64, 602. 2 See Pennsylvania Delegates to Dickinson, October 24, notes 4 and 5. Pennsylvania Delegates to the Pennsylvania Assembly Sir, Princeton Septr. 25th. 1783 We have the Honour to transmit the Proceedings of Congress on the Subject of the Instructions of the Honble House relative to the pro posed Purchase of the Indians inhabiting or claiming part of the Terri tory of Pennsilvania. By those Proceedings the House will perceive the Obstacles to a Compliance with their Wishes. 1 The Committee on In dian Affairs have made a Report which is now before Congress & this Day is appointed for its Disscussion. The Principles of that Report mili tate against the Ideas of the House with Respect to the proposed Pur chase. 2 It is intended to insist as Part of the Terms of Peace that the Sav ages should without Compensation abandon Part of their Country to the United States who claim it by Conquest & as a Retribution for the Expence & Damages incurred by the hostile & cruel Conduct of the Savages contrary to the Advice & Injunctions of the United States. A Boundary Line is proposed to be established between the Indians & the Citizens of these States & it was believed that if any particular State made a Purchase it would obstruct the general Measures, as the Indians would not agree to the Dereliction of any Part of their Country as a Compensation for the Expenses & Ravages occasioned by the War when they find that tho’ the general Council refuse it they can obtain Money for it from the Individual States. Whether these Principles be just or the Policy advisable we do not pretend to determine. We held it our Duty to state the Impediments preventing Congress from agreeing to the Propositions of the State & leave the Honorable House to determine as they in their Wisdom shall think proper.


[Page 745]
September 26, 1783 711 We have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, your very obed Servants, John Montgomery Richard Peters RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Peters and signed by Peters and Montgomery. Addressed: “Honble Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsilvania.” 1 The Pennsylvania Assembly was seeking congressional approval to negotiate with the Indians for the purchase of lands the state wished to grant to Pennsylvania veterans. The assembly’s instructions “relative to the proposed Purchase” had been referred on September 13 to a committee consisting of James Duane, Daniel Car roll, Benjamin Hawkins, Arthur Lee, and Richard Peters, which already had under consideration a number of issues concerning Continental Indian policy. The committee’s report on these instructions, which was written by Peters, declared “that Congress have no objec tion to [such] a conference,” but the report was rejected on September 20 after a pro tracted debate that included four roll call votes and a number of proposed amend ments. See JCC, 25:591-96; PCC, item 69, 2:461-68, item 186, fol. 124; and Pa. Archives, lstser. 10:105-8. 2 Indeed, Congress had just adopted a proclamation on the 22d prohibiting settle ment on Indian lands without express congressional approval, and would soon endorse the substance of the comprehensive Indian committee report scheduled for debate this date. See JCC, 25:602, 681-95; Reginald Horsman, Expansion and American Indian Policy, 1783-1812 (East Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 1967), pp. 10-12; and Thomas Mifflin to the Indian Commissioners, March 22, 1784, note 1. Arthur Lee to Robert Morris Sir, Copy Princeton. Sepr. 26 1783 Mr. Silas Deane in his Accounts against the U.S. says that—“Congress by their Secret & Commercial Committee contracted with Silas Deane Esqr. to embark for France as the political & commercial Agent of the 13 then U. Colonies & instructed him to purchase for & on account of sd. U.C. Woolens & other Merchandise to the amount of forty thou sand pounds stlg. also Cloathing, Arms, Ammunition &c sufficient for an Army of 25000 Men, as may be seen by the Contracts & Instructions of the 19 of Feby. & 2d March 1776, for which purchases it was stipu lated & agreed to allow the sd. Silas Deane Esqr. a commission of 5 pr Ct. independent of his Charges in making the purchases—it was at the same time agreed, that, as the sd. S. Deane Esqr. besides the commer cial transactions entrusted to him, was commissiond. & authorizd to act as the political Agent of the sd. 13 Colonies, his expences shoud be paid, & an adequate & honorable compensation made him by Congress for his time.” 1 The Committee have endeavord, in vain, to find among the Papers of Congress the Contracts & Instructions referrd to by Mr. Deane, & as the Committee are desirous of doing that Gentleman the justice of reporting them to Congress if they exist, they will be obligd to you Sir,


[Page 746]
712 September 26, 1783 for any information you can give them, of the reality of those Con tracts & Instructions, or where they are to be found. 2 I have the honor to be &c &c A Lee Tr (DNA: PCC, item 54). 1 For this prefatory statement to Silas Deane’s accounts, see PCC, item 54, fols. 69-70. 2 In his October 4 response to Lee, Morris enclosed a copy of Deane’s February 19, 1776, contract with the Secret Committee (PCC, item 54, fols. 11-12), and explained that he presumed that Deane’s instructions would be on file in the office for foreign af fairs. For both Deane’s contract with the Secret Committee and March 2, 1776, instruc tions from the Committee of Secret Correspondence, see these Letters, 3:313-15, 320-23. Silas Deane had been attempting to secure a settlement of his accounts as Continen tal agent in France since December 1778, and had renewed this effort in March 1782 when he wrote to both the president of Congress and to Thomas Barclay, the commis sioner for settling Continental accounts in Europe. In response to this appeal from Deane, now widely regarded as an apostate since the publication of his correspondence urging negotiations with the North ministry in October 1781, Barclay had forwarded Deane’s accounts to the secretary for foreign affairs, who had submitted them to Congress, which in turn has assigned them to a committee consisting of Lee, George Clymer, and Eliphalet Dyer in September 1782. Although the committee had taken no action on the accounts, it was “Revived” on April 23, 1783 (with John Lewis Gervais re placing Clymer), and “Renewed” on July 23 (James McHenry and Stephen Higginson replacing Dyer and Gervais, with Elbridge Gerry later replacing Higginson). See PCC, item 54, fols. 49-52, item 79, 1:476-77, item 103, fols. 207-8, item 185, 3:41, item 186, fols. 54, 97, 113; and these Letters, 13:481-84, 18:195-96n.3. Lee had finally written a letter to Morris on August 24 (not found) requesting the Deane accounts in the treasury office, which the superintendent sent to the committee on the 29th. PCC, item 54, fol. 5. For the continuation of the committee’s work with Deane’s accounts, see Lee to James Milligan, October 4, and to Morris, October 9, 1783. North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin Sir, Princeton Sept. 26th. 1783 Near six Monthes have expired since we had the pleasure of inform ing you that the preliminary articles of peace were signed and that hostilities had ceased with great Britain. 1 From that hour our Minis ters have not been able to make any progress in their negotiations with the British Ministers. Perhaps you will be surprized when we say that we suffer under this misfortune by the sole conduct of our own Citizens. Great Britain having lost the subjection of the States was anx ious beyond measure to prevent our trade from falling into the hands of the french and Dutch. She knew that by commanding our trade she would ever hold us in some kind of subserviance and would continue to reap the profits of our labour. She then courted our affections and offered to meet us on terms of perfect reciprocity. But the British ministry, who had formed the preliminaries of a general peace, were thrown out of place and two months had passed before a new admin-


[Page 750]
716 September 26,1783 particular have collected their full quota of that money and there are large sums still in the hands of their Citizens for which they desire to be creditted at the rate of 40 for one, we are told that it would be diffi cult perhaps impracticable to collect taxes in that State, where there is a ballance of 47 millions of such Dollars, unless the holders obtain a value for Them. The Delegates uncertain [what steps] 5 might be taken on that subject & fearing that the State of North Carolina might finally have to pay in some manner her quota of that money, re quested that you would be so good as cause the different Treasurers to account for the sums they had received of the old Continental money, in order that our state might be credited for the same. Certainly large sums of that money were collected by taxation in the beginning of the Year 1782 but we do not learn that any account has ever been taken of the sum. When the delegates are asked what the State has done on this head, we are obliged to answer, as in all other cases where we are interogated concerning money matters or Public accounts, that we are absolutely without information. Merely for the want of such informa tion we have been obliged to negative every question that has been put on the subject of Continental money. Having mentioned Public accounts, we have to intreat that all pos sible aid may be given the Comptroller to enable him to perfect them, and wipe off the reproach of our State on that subject. The reputation of the State & certainly their interest requires that all public accounts be settled as soon as possible, while facts are recent, while the exer tions & suffering of North Carolina are remembered by all the States difficulties may be more easily solved & justice the more easily ob tained. Excepting the Law for opening the land office and emitting some money we are altogether uninformed respecting the Laws passed at the last Session of the General Assembly. We have not heard whether the Resolves of the Assembly or even the Laws have been printed nor do we hear that the art of printing is in the State unless for the pur pose of making money. This we mention because applications have been made to us by several printers to recommend them to be em ployed to print for the State. One of them is an excellent workman & extremely diligent. He is willing to print any thing for you as reason able as it is done in Philadelphia where there are so many rivals un derbidding one another. If the State had not a printer, and has any in tention to reprint the Laws that are in force or even to print the future laws & resolves correctly & punctually and wish to employ a workman for that purpose: we can recommend one who is able & courts the honor of that service. You doubtless recollect that though the confederation was agreed to in Congress on the 15th November 1777 it was not finally ratified by all the States before the 1st of March 1781 at which time Maryland


[Page 751]
September 26, 1783 717 ratified under a solemn protest. Her objections were that some States should claim & possess vast tracts of vacant unappropriated lands, pro tected & rescued from the Crown of Great Britain by the joint efforts of the United States should become a fund for the payment of the na tional debt. In order to induce Maryland & other States who had no vacant territory to accede to the confederation, Congress long since called on the States, who claimed vacant Lands, to make liberal ces sions of the same to the United States. On the 29th February 1780 the State of New York & on the 2d January 1781 the State of Virginia made a cession of part of their respective claims, neither of the ces sions were very acceptable to the States who had no western territory. However on the 29th October 1782 Congress, pressed by the alarming state of public credit, accepted the cession of New York & on the 13th Instant the[y] accepted the Virginia cession, under certain limitations No. 4. 6 Few of the States are reconciled to the Virginia cession. They argue that she ought to have given more or she ought to have given it less encumbred, but necessity compelled an acceptance. Our army is extremely impatient to obtain the lands that were promised them, and without the Virginia cession we had nothing to give, for tho New York claimed & ceeded the greatest part of the lands between the River Ohio & the lakes as belonging or having belonged to the six nations or their Tributaries; the State of Virginia also claimed the whole of those lands under the shadow of some old Royal Grant. Congress being possessed of both claims may be enabled to pay of[f] the army & perhaps a considerable part of the national debt. The Eyes of every State to the Northward are now turned towards the Carolinas & Georgia & expecting from them liberal Cessions. The Delegates not informed whether your reserved Lands were for your Officers & Soldiers only or for the army at large or whether the office is now opened for sale of all lands on this side the Mississippi as far South as the Southern boundary of the State, have not been able to give any satisfactory information respecting the matter. At present however, laying aside the justness of their claims, and our refusal to make a cession of part of ours: we are necessitated to declare that, the blame lies on Congress for having so long neglected to take up & de termine on the Virginia cession; as they thereby, impressed North Car olina firmly with a belief that their pretended earnest recommenda tions to the States to make liberal Sessions, was only meant to give time to the land-jobbing to engross all the unappropriated western Territory; to prevent which, & injustice to our numerous creditors, it became absolutely proper as well as politic for us to open our land of fice: and that it is probable our State may have gone so far as to put it out of their power, however well inclined they may be, to make a ces sion worth the acceptance of Congress.


[Page 752]
718 September 26, 1783 You may readily imagine that we are not a little embarrassed; we have accepted the cessions of two States from which it is expected North Carolina will receive advantages equally with the other States, and altho we have an extensive western territory we have not ceded any. Our State we believe is in width one degree and an half; the one degree belonged to the late Earl of Granville & it cannot be doubted we had a right to confiscate his property; This we may sell & the United States cannot claim it, as heirs to the King of Great Britain, (if we may so express it), nor can they desire us to give it up, more than we desire Pennsylvania or Maryland to give up the Lands confiscated in those States that did belong to the proprietors or other subjects of Great Britain. As for the remaining half a degree, it may seem to be in the same condition with the vacant Lands in other States and if North Car olina should reserve two hundred miles long of it, more or less, on the western & Southern boundary to be ceded hereafter to the United States, on certain conditions, perhaps she might prevent many com plaints & fair more by the Conditions than the land will ever bring her. We are not able to determine when the British forces will be with drawn from the United States. The general in Canada has informed our general, that he has not received any orders on this head: and from New York we have not any thing since our last. We have the honor to be &c &c Benjamin Hawkins Hugh Williamson Tr (Nc—Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Martin, March 24, 1783. 2 The enclosed “proclamations” were apparently orders-in-council issued by George III dated June 6 and July 2, 1783, which were printed in the August 19 and September 11 issues of the Pennsylvania Packet, respectively. By “the terms first offered [i.e., in the June 6 orders],” tobacco and “pitch, tar, turpentine, indico, masts, yards and bowsprits” of American production could be imported into “the ports of this kingdom” by British subjects or American citizens in either British or American ships. But by terms of the latter, these products and many other enumerated articles could be imported into “hi'. Majesty’s West India Islands” by British subjects in British bottoms only. See also James Madison to Edmund Randolph, September 13, note 2; and Benjamin Hawkins to Mar tin, September 27, note 2. 3 For this April 26 “address," see Elias Boudinot to the States, May 9, 1783. 4 This enclosure was probably a copy of the “Account of Payments made by the States to the Receivers” that Robert Morris submitted to Congress on August 1, for which see David Howell to William Greene, September 9, note 9. 5 From text in N. C. State. Records, 16:887. 6 For the enclosed report on Virginia’s cession, see John Francis Mercer to William Fitzhugh, September 13, 1783, note 4. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Franklin Dear Sir, Philada. 26 Sept 1783 Mr Isaac Norris is the son of our ancient and worthy friend Mr Charles Norris. 1 Though I am confident this would be a sufficient


[Page 763]
September 27,1783 729 The risque of a voiage to Europe & the casualties of journeying thro’ G. Britain—The labour & fatigue of Solicitation—The little af fronts & the cool treatment on some occasions—the compliances & degrading submissions on others, are subjects worthy of your consid eration before you set off. You have every reason to believe that your character stands so high in England at present that encreasing fame can be no object to you. If you should exceed their expectations, you must be more than mortal (I had almost said). Should Mr. Rogers, or any other suitable person go to England on this business, I think he could avail himself & benefit the College very much from your character & from your being actually so necessary to the being of the Collige that you could not be spared from home. And the wish to give you immediate relief in your great Embarrassments would draw out many a Guinea in my apprehension. You mention that Mr. Wheelock 3 is gone already on a similar errand & that it is proposed, or wished to send some person to Europe this fall. I really think that no time can as yet be lost. By our latest accounts the definitive Treaty was not signed. There has for some years been so much ill-blood & spilt-blood betwixt the two Countries that it is not likely to me that the present juncture is above all others favorable for this purpose. I hope no time will be lost in making an application to Congress to compensate the dammages done to the College edifice while occu pied by the public. My services shall not be wanting. The French Minister resides at Philadelphia. I cannot therefore confer with him on the Subject you mention—unless he should visit us, or I him. The first opportunity I shall attend to your request. I am glad to find that Mr. Gain has begun to collect money for the College. £13 is something. I hope you will be mistaken in your conjecture that Philadelphia will be our Winters residence. There is no appearance of it at present. The Delegates for Delawar have arrived & the vote of that State can not be obtained for Philada. before its delegates shall be altered. Georgia has not arrived, & should her delegates with all to the South ward join, as they cannot get a State on this Side Delawar, nor Delawar, they form but six States. The President of Congress has taken a House in this Town; & here I expect we shall winter. I am glad to hear that Mrs Manning & Mrs An thony have paid Mrs Howell a visit in my absence. Please to present my best regards to Mrs Manning & to all enquiring friends. It gives me great pleasure to hear that my Son performed well at the last public speakings. Speaking well is the Unum necessarium in po litical life. Had I to live my early days over again I would bestow more attention on that important art. I hope my Son will, as he grows older


[Page 767]
September 30, 1783 733 prizes made by & from parties not subject to the power before whose maritime courts they are carried, are Provisionally or finally tried? 2d. How far the rules established by the Sovereign of the Captor & those by the Sovereign of the Courts prevail in such trials? 3dly. What dif ference is made in cases where both the parties concerned in the capture are subject to the same power and where they are subject to different powers? RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:363-64. 1 For Randolph’s two letters of September 13, see ibid., pp. 316-18. 2 For the “commission” from Pieter Johan van Berckel, the new Dutch minister, see Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, June 4, 1783, note 2. 3 See Madison to Randolph, June 10, 1783, note 6. John Montgomery to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir Princeton 30th Sepbr 1783 I was anxous for our Child while in Embrow 1 but since it is Come forth and has got such a numrous tribe of god fathers many of whom I am glad to find are fond of it and altho I Still Love the bratt and will Endeavour to raise it up to maturity but I am So Situated at Present that I Cant give it that attention that I Coud wish and ought to give but it is in good hands. I am glad that Col Hill is so Consc[ientious] in pro viding for its Seport we may Exspect it will thrive when Such gentiemen as Mr. Hill are zealous in promoting its wellfaire. I am pleasd to hear that you have wrote to Mr Bingham. I flatter my Self that he will Suc- sseed in Collecting a Large Sum for the Collegue. I think that it is rather too Soon to aplay to the Counties for Subscriptions. I am Doubt full of thire Sucsseess. It is uncertain when I Shall be in Philada. I am Stuck Down here and my Coleuges Come and go Just as it Suts them. The pale faced faxtions has hit on a lye that I am perswaded will an swer the End in our County together with thire indoustrey in propa gating it. However they may Sucsseed in other Counties the lye is well Calculated to Each the Unthinking pople with us. I most Sincery wish that Copeys were Sent to Diferent parts of the County and a few re marks on it Col Magaw woud Carry them up, the old assemblymans letter I make no Doubt will have a good Effect but unless the writers of the Lying letter are Exsposed and the people undecived that party will Carry their point in Cumberland however I am glad to find that your Spirits are high but notwithstanding nothing ought to be left un done to insure Sucsseess. I am of opinion that we Shoud not aplay to the Mr Penns before the Election and when we do it ought to be as private as Possiable if it was


[Page 770]
736 September ?, 1783 to confer and explain, a formal and authentic answer might reasonably have been expected by Congress and when desired by the Committee should have been understood as desired on their behalf. There is an awkwardness in reasoning upon self evident positions; but as the Council have by their conduct in the first instance and by their message since put forward a doubt upon the subject and made it a point of importance, I shall be excused for examining it a little fur ther. On what could the objection of the Council be founded? They say it had been unusual. Admitting the fact, was the mere novelty of the thing a sufficient reason against it? If there was no apparent in convenience in making a new precedent, if on the contrary there was a manifest convenience in it, ought not such a punctilio to have given way to considerations of utility? Was it derogatory to the dignity of the Council? Surely if they com municate in writing with the executive servants of Congress, even those in subordinate stations, as is the practice of every day, and as is indis pensable to the prosecution of public business, they might at less ex pence of dignity pursue the same mode with a part of that body itself. The distinction taken by the Council in their message to the assem bly, respecting the responsibility of such executive officers, as not ap plicable to a Committee, 4 if it amounts to anything, proves only this— that such officers ought in prudence to take greater precautions for their own justification than a Committee of Congress need to do. It is not to be inferred, if a Committee of Congress acting ministerially think it expedient to use circumspection, that those with whom they are transacting business can with propriety refuse to join with them in that mode which is best adapted to precision and certainty. But indeed the ground of the distinction] 5 is erroneous. A com mittee of Congress act in [a] ministerial capacity and are therefore re- sponsi [ble to] the body to which they belong as well as the servants of that body though in a different manner. If it be said they do not act ministerially but stand in the place of Congress, then the Council upon their own principles ought to have complied with their request. To diminish the exceptionableness of their refusal, it is true, as stated by the Council that though they said they could not condescend to do what the Committee had asked yet they declared themselves to grant an answer in writing, if Congress should request it; and that they proposed that the Committee should put their verbal answer in writ ing to be afterwards perused and examined by them. The answer of the Committee as I doubt not Your Excellency will recollect was—as to the first point that Congress in all probability would not make the request, having determined (as the Council had been already informed) not to resume their deliberations in the city till effectual measures had been taken to suppress the mutiny—and should they assemble would naturally feel a delicacy in requesting what


[Page 777]
September ?, 1783 743 The concession made was a happy compromise between an atten tion to dignity and a prudent regard to safety. Men who had dared to carry their insolence to such an extreme and who saw no opposition to their outrages were not to be expected to retreat without an ap pearance at least of gratifying their demands. The slightest accident was sufficient to prompt men in such a temper and situation to tragi cal excesses. But however it might become the delicacy of government not to de part from the promise it had given, it was its duty to provide effectu ally against a repetition of such outrages and to put itself in a situation to give instead of receiving the law; and to manifest that its compli ance was not the effect of necessity but of choice. This was not to be considered as the disorderly riot of an unarmed mob but as the deliberate mutiny of an incensed soldiery carried to the utmost point of outrage short of assassination. The licentiousness of an army is to be dreaded in every government; but in a republic it is more particularly to be restrained, and when directed against the civil authority to be checked with energy and punished with severity. The merits and sufferings of the troops might be a proper motive for mitigating punishment when it was in the power of the government to inflict it—but it was no reason for relaxing in the measures necessary to arrive at that situation. Its authority was first to be vindicated and then its clemency to be displayed. The rights of government are as essential to be defended as the rights of individuals. The security of the one is inseparable from that of the other. And indeed in every new government, especially of the popular kind the great danger is that public authority will not be suffi ciently respected. But upon this occasion there were more particular reasons for decision. Congress knew there were within two or three days march of the city a more considerable body of the same corps part of which had mutinied and come to town and had been the chief actors in the late disorder—that those men had with difficulty been kept by the exer tions of their officers from joining the insurgents in the first in stance—that there was another corps in their neighbourhood which a little time before had also discovered symptoms of mutiny—that a considerable part of the same line which were in mutiny in town was every moment expected to arrive from the Southward, and there was the greatest reason to conclude would be infected with the same spirit on their arrival, as had presently happened in the case of a small de tachment which had joined a few days before—that there were besides large numbers of disbanded soldiers scattered through the country in want and who had not yet had time to settle down to any occupation and exchange their military for private habits—that some of these were really coming in and adding themselves to the revolters—that an


[Page 781]
September ?, 1783 747 been the first intention of the mutineers in this particular act whether it proceeded from artifice or confusion of ideas, the indignity to Congress was the same. They knew that Congress customarily held their deliberations at the state house; and if it even be admitted that they knew Saturday to be a day of usual recess, which perhaps is not al together probable, when they came to the place they saw and knew Congress to be assembled there. They did not desist in consequence of this; but proceeded to station their guards and execute their pur poses. Members of Congress went out to them—remonstrated with them—represented the danger of their proceedings to themselves and desired them to withdraw, but they persisted until they obtained what they supposed a part of their object. A majority of the same per sons had some days before sent a message almost equally exception able to Congress; and at the time they scarcely spoke of any other body than Congress; who indeed may naturally be supposed to have been the main object of their resentments: for Congress having always appeared to the soldiery to be [the] body who contracted with them and who had broken faith with them—it is not to be supposed they were capable of investigating the remote causes of the failures so as to transfer the odium from Congress to the state. But the substantial thing to be considered in this question is the vio lation of public authority. It cannot be disputed that the mutiny of troops is a violation of that authority to which they owe obedience. This was in the present case aggravated to a high degree of atrocious ness by the gross insult to the government of Pensylvania, in the face of Congress and in defiance of their displeasure. It was further aggra vated by continuing in that condition for a series of time. The reasons have been assigned that made it incumbent upon Congress to interpose; and when they called upon the state of Pensyl vania not only to vindicate its own rights but to support their author- Uy the declining a compliance was a breach of the confederation and of the duty which the state of Pensylvania owed to the United States. The best apology for the government of Pensylvania in this case is that they could not command the services of their citizens. But so improper a disposition in the citizens if admitted must operate as an additional justification to Congress in their removal. The subsequent events justly appreciated illustrate the propriety of their conduct. The mutineers did not make voluntary submissions in consequence of negotiation, persuasion or conviction. They did not submit ’till after Congress had left the city publishing their intentions of coertion, ’till after there had been an actual call upon the Militia— till their leaders and instigators alarmed by the approach of force and the fear of being betrayed by the men fled. They were reduced by co ertion not overcome by mildness. It appears too that while they were professing repentance and a return to their duty, they were tampering


[Page 788]
754 Index Blount, John Gray: letters to, 310, 517, 532, 719; ☆ and Industry appeal, 517-18; and Speedwell appeal, 532-34 Blount, William; letter to, 518; ☆ elected to Congress, xxi; and Speedwell appeal, 533; mentioned, 95, 719 Blount, Willie, 518 Bodine,John, 122 Bond, George: resignation, 486; obtains leave, 600-601; mentioned, 350, 386, 387, 398, 403, 464, 472, 476 Bonhomme Richard (Continental ship): prize accounts investigated, 703; mentioned, 680 Boor, Johann Abraham de, U.S. trade mission, 570-72, 720 Borden, Joseph, 126 Boston, and opposition to loyalist repatriation, 291 Boudinot, Mr., 419 Boudinot, Elias: letters from, 4, 5, 30, 55, 74, 81, 97, 121, 125, 144, 146, 159, 160, 168, 170, 195, 200, 201, 206, 215, 227, 236, 240, 241, 242, 255, 274, 297, 298, 311, 312, 314, 326, 330, 331, 339, 343, 347, 349, 350, 356, 357, 369, 377, 387, 388, 392, 393, 394, 396, 398, 403, 405, 411, 416, 427, 431, 437, 439, 445, 446, 448, 454, 455, 456, 477, 478, 487, 509, 517, 542, 543, 556, 560, 562, 565, 567, 576, 578, 603, 612, 616, 645, 666, 674, 681, 700, 720; letters to, 362, 430, 541; proclamation, 360; draft statement, 367; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; discusses peace treaty, 5-6, 31-32; briefs Gen eral Washington, 30-33; criticizes David Howell, 55; announces general peace, 74, 145; extolls Lord Drummond, 81; farm management, 97, 147, 196, 201-2, 326-27; legal practice, 121-22, 200; thanks Lafayette, 168-69; recommends Matthias Ogden, 215; urges attendance of unrepresented states, 298; on Virginia cession, 311, 320; proposes New Jersey site for federal capital, 311, 517, 576; opposes Virginia cession conditions, 348; response to Pennsylvania mutiny, 349-52, 355-62, 367-72, 375, 377-80, 416-19; opposes return to Philadelphia, 398; placates Arthur St. Clair, 411; defends Congress’ flight from Philadelphia, 448-51; recommends removing presiden tial household to Princeton, 455, 612; on divine providence, 565-66; recommends John M. Pintard, 578-79; presidential household expenses, 612; delegate attendance, 672; laments treatment of New York loyalists, 720; establishes presidential residence in Princeton, 729; mentioned, 321, 383 Boudinot, Elisha: letters to, 121, 200, 356, 446; ☆ welcomes Congress to New Jersey, 446; mentioned, 195 Boudinot, Hannah Stockton (Mrs. Elias), 5, 604 Boudinot, Susan, health, 242, 327 Boundaries, in peace treaty, 3, 5—6, 10, 14, 18—19, 22, 26—28, 31, 34, 76, 78 Bounties, 47 Bourguignon, Henry J., The First Federal Court, 146 Bowdoin, James, 548, 684 Bowen, Jabez, 119, 484, 587, 646, 705, 707 Bowling, Kenneth R., “New Light on the Philadelphia Mutiny of 1783,” 345, 353, 462, 748 Bowling, Kenneth R., The Creation of Washington, D.C., 315, 708 Bowman, John, 315 Boyd, Julian, on identity of ‘The North American,” 664 Braddock, Mr., and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 299 Bradford, Thomas: letter to, 664; ☆ publishes “North American” essays, 662-65; men tioned, 608 Brant, Irving, conjectures identity of ‘The North American,” 664 Brant, Irving, James Madison, 204, 664 Breene, Henry, 201 Breene,John, 97 Brice, James, urges Annapolis as federal capital, 536, 598-99 Brice, John, 665 Bridgen & Waller, submits coinage proposal, 18


[Page 790]
756 Index Carlisle, Pa., 278 Carmichael, William: received by Spanish court, 215, 589, 631; reports improved relations with Spain, 232; reports Spanish trade opportunities, 722; mentioned, 570, 572, 703 Carroll, Daniel: letters from, 7, 20, 50, 82, 106, 130, 147, 179, 216, 217, 234, 244, 249, 258, 560, 608; letter to, 534; ☆ attends Congress, xviii, 532; elected to Congress, xviii; discusses peace treaty, 7; delegate expenses, 51, 82, 131, 217-18, 244, 534, 609; com mittee on diplomatic instructions, 64; favors disclosure of secret article, 83-84; on rat ing slaves in calculating quotas, 120; committee on Canadian veterans, 157; proposes Chesapeake site for federal capital, 163; health, 244; returns home, 258; opposes im mediate demobilization, 267; urges furlough of Continental troops, 268; urges re trenchment of foreign affairs department, 277; committee on San Antonio appeal, 586; committee on frontier defense, 623; Indian affairs committee, 711; mentioned, 164, 246, 536 Carter, Mr., 320 Carter, John: identified, 316; mentioned, 100, 452, 484, 508 Carteret, George, Lord Granville, 718 Caspar Voght & Co., 720 Catherine II, empress of Russia, 236, 245, 535, 540, 549, 555, 572, 589, 590, 632 Cato (privateer), 343 Cattell, Sabina Lynch (Mrs. William), 316 Cattell, William, 316 Cayuga Indians, negotiations with proposed, 594 Chaplains: granted congressional leave during Princeton sessions, 411; granted commu tation of half pay, 567 Charles III, king of Spain, 329 Chase, Mr., 399, 531 Chatham, 1st earl of (William Pitt), 442 Chesapeake Bay, naval patrol of, 466 Chester, Pa., 418, 430 Chew, Joseph, 279 Chittenden, Thomas, 469 Chrystie, James, and Pennsylvania mutiny, 369, 399, 532, 666, 668, 749 Church, Angelica Schuyler (Mrs. John), 316, 452 Church, Edward, captures San Antonio, 145-46, 326, 329 Church, John Barker: identified, 316; mentioned, 452 Cincinnati, Society of the. See Society of the Cincinnati Cipher letters: Virginia cipher, 203, 248, 321-22, 365-66; Robert Morris cipher, 339; Robert R. Livingston cipher, 339, 547; mentioned, 49, 696 Citizenship, under the confederation, 222 Civil list: requested by Connecticut delegates, 44; retrenchment urged, 552, 573, 591, 611, 636, 650, 654, 681, 685, 689 Claims. See Accounts Clark, Abraham: letters from, 557, 561; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; and Newburgh crisis, 39; tax proposals, 48; on disclosure of secret article, 56-57, 72, 84; committee on foreign credit, 63; committee on secret treaty article, 63; on Conti nental impost, 67; on fiscal policy, 115-17; on western development, 156; on indem nifying Continental officers, 231; committee on state payment of Continental troops, 239; opposes immediate demobilization, 267; on Virginia cession, 313, 320, 325; op poses Virginia cession conditions, 348; committee on presidential residence, 455; civil list committee, 492; committee on Pennsylvania accounts, 557; defends congressional removal to Princeton, 561; committee on Moroccan trade, 597; committee on loan office interest, 618; mentioned, 300 Clark, George Rogers, 348 Classical allusions and quotations, 244, 340, 405, 442, 513, 635, 668 Claypoole, David C., 76, 160, 241, 361, 599


[Page 791]
Index 757 Clinton, George: letters to, 8, 34, 39, 75, 89, 100, 157, 191, 210, 227, 240, 251, 292, 297, 314, 327, 374, 392, 437, 467, 546, 558, 569, 576, 577, 616, 618, 630, 677, 691, 708; ☆ and evacuation of New York, 234, 569-70; urges attendance of delegates, 296; ex plains treatment of New York loyalists, 312; proposes Kingston as federal capital, 315; land interests, 677, 693, 708-9; health, 691; mentioned, 597, 609, 614 Clothier general’s department, 684 Clymer, George: nominated secretary for foreign affairs, 321, 336; lodgings, 397; com mittee on Silas Deane accounts, 712 Cochran, Mrs., 604 Cocoa, taxation of, 47 Coffee, taxation of, 47 Coffin, Edward, captures Good Fortune, 551 Coinage, of copper proposed, 18 College of New Jersey: site of congressional sessions, xxvi, 381, 383, 387, 393; receives congressional thanks, 393; commencement exercises, 706; examinations at, 727; men tioned, xxiv, xxv, 355, 429, 485, 519, 566, 651 College of Philadelphia, xxvii, 297 College of William and Mary, xxviii Collins, John: letters from, 21, 24, 65, 198, 212, 285; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; opposes Continental impost, 212; mentioned, 300 Collins, Varnum, Congress at Princeton, 345, 387, 393, 396 Commerce. See Trade Commissary of military stores, accounts, 198 Commissioners to superintend embarkations, 202, 210, 257, 427 Committee of Congress (on army discontent): letters from, 97, 189; ☆ solicits Washing ton’s advice, 97-99, 102-3; recommends payment of Continental troops, 99, 187-90; consults Robert Morris, 189 Committee of Congress (on Dana mission): letter from, 547; seeks diplomatic cipher, 547 Committee of Congress (on foreign dispatches), submits report, 701 Committee of Congress (on foreign officers): letter from, 699; confers with Washing ton, 699 Committee of Congress (on Good Fortune appeal), letter from, 557 Committee of Congress (on peace establishment): letter from, 154; solicits Washing ton’s advice, 154 Committee of Congress (on Pennsylvania accounts): letter from, 557; confers with Robert Morris, 557 Committee of Congress (on Pennsylvania mutiny): letters from, 344, 359, 362; men tioned, 416-18 Committee of Congress (on sale of Continental ships), letter from, 180 Commutation. Sec Half-pay plan Condict, Silas: attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; opposes Virginia cession conditions, 348; lodgings, 576; mentioned, 321 Confederation, Articles of: revenue provisions under, 67; requisitions under, 90, 114-15, 137, 498; interstate conventions under, 128; amendment recommended, 137-38; admiralty appeals under, 146; naval powers under, 180-81; citizenship under, 222; trade regulation under, 271; admission of new states under, 345; weakness of lamented, 453-54; responsibility for naval defense under, 466, 483-84; frontier de fense under, 469-70; strengthening of proposed, 497-502; executive power under, 498; judicial power under, 498; taxation under, 498; peacetime military establishment under, 594-95, 634; quota amendment endorsed, 607; abuses of power under feared, 634-42; fiscal authority under, 637-39; delegate term limitations under, 639; Indian affairs under, 711; regulation of trade under, 714; mentioned, 142 Congress: chronology of, xii; debates half-pay plan, 8-10, 15, 37, 43, 688-90; debates peace treaty, 15-17, 49, 56-63, 66, 83-87, 286, 288; debates affront to France, 16-17; debates taxation, 46-47; debates secret article of treaty, 48, 72; debates public credit,


[Page 807]
Index 773 Long, Nicholas, 108 L’Orient, France, established as free port, 696, 698 Lottery, Continental, 613, 700 Loubat, Joseph F., The Medallic History of the United States, 340 Loughborough, Alexander Wedderburn, 1st baron, opposes treaty of Paris, 167 Ixniis XVI, king of France: offended at American duplicity, 17, 34; urges U.S. to fund foreign debt, 112; congratulated on birth of the dauphin, 467; mentioned, 79 89 227, 340 Lovell, James: letter to, 155; mentioned, 491 Lowell, John: letter to, 55; ☆ accepts court of appeals appointment, 55; court of appeals judge, 133, 237, 325; mentioned, 140, 299 Loyalists: in peace treaty, 3, 5-6, 14, 18-19, 22, 31, 35, 46, 93-94, 167, 186, 229, 293-94, 528, 582—84; evacuation of, 23, 41, 46, 207—8, 569, 604—5, 707; restitution of confis cated property opposed, 66; in New York, 146; seek repatriation, 219, 328; restitution of confiscated property urged, 241, 253-54, 256, 261, 263; repatriation condemned, 243; seek restitution of confiscated property, 258-59; repatriation urged, 261-66, 291, 317-18, 578, 580-81; treatment protested, 312, 546-47, 630; in Massachusetts, 328; reprisals of denounced, 340; estates confiscated, 604; treatment of violates peace treaty, 720-21; mentioned, 19, 132, 183, 522, 589 “Lucius” (pseudonym), 13 Luke (NewTestament), quoted, 243 Lux, George, proposes Chesapeake site for federal capital, 163 Lyman, Samuel, 29, 41, 206 Lynch, Thomas, 316 Lyon, Capt., and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 134 Lyon, Samuel, and Pennsylvania mutiny, 378 Lyon, Sylvanus, arrested for counterfeiting, 488 Lytle, Andrew, 346 McClenachan, Blair, 7, 82, 217, 244, 534 McClurg, James, and foreign affairs appointment, 324 McComb, Eleazer: letters from, 14, 45, 114, 285, 289, 304, 371, 378, 430, 527; ☆ attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; portrait, xxv, 290; explains peace treaty, 14-15; delegate attendance, 15; urges Delaware site for federal capital, 289, 304, 372, 379; and Pennsylvania mutiny, 371-72, 378, 430; opposes return to Philadelphia, 430; delegate expenses, 527; mentioned, 301 McComb, Lydia Irons, death, xxv McCulloh, Henry E., seeks restitution of confiscated property, 258-59 McDougall, Alexander: explains half-pay debate, 9; mission to Congress, 148; men tioned, 604, 685 McEldery, Mr., 399 McHenry, Daniel, xxvi McHenry, James: letters from, 373, 390, 399, 423, 432, 457, 493, 510, 515, 531, 535, 536, 538, 598, 608, 621, 624, 651, 668; speech, 667; ☆ attends Congress, xix, 391; elected to Congress, xix; portrait, xxvi, 424; recommended for diplomatic post, 219; opposes Virginia cession conditions, 348, 390; opposes return to Philadelphia, 374, 433; urges Annapolis as federal capital, 391, 536, 598; delegate expenses, 399, 531-32, 534-35, 609; engagement to Margaret Caldwell, 423-25, 432-33, 622; lodgings, 433; commit tee on peace establishment, 446, 487, 493, 538-39; committee on state payment of Continental troops, 492; moves temporary congressional return to Philadelphia, 514-15; opposes congressional censure of Maryland, 516; committee on federal capi tal, 517, 622; committee on loan office interest, 617; urges pardon of mutineers, 667-68; prescribes tooth care, 668-69; opposes state payment of Continental troops, 690; committee on Silas Deane accounts, 712; mentioned, 663 McHenry, John, xxvi McKean, Thomas, drafts impost ordinance, 472


[Page 808]
774 Index McKenzie, Mr., 287 Maclean, Allen, Fort Niagara commander, 623, 644-45 McMechen, James, seeks subsidy for boat invention, 400 Madeira, 126, 256, 579, 665 Madison, James, Jr.: letters from, 18, 21, 48, 54, 86, 87, 95, 105, 107, 129, 132, 152, 161, 186, 202, 204, 205, 218, 226, 232, 233, 235, 246, 248, 268, 269, 273, 279, 280, 281, 300, 307, 321, 324, 335, 338, 365, 380, 406, 421, 425, 431, 436, 473, 528, 539, 545, 563, 589, 606, 607, 626, 627, 628, 669, 694, 696, 731, 732; letters to, 355, 375, 401, 534, 553; notes, 15, 38, 46, 56, 66, 67, 71, 83, 112, 114, 120, 122, 123, 127, 135, 144, 151, 156, 160, 166, 177, 182, 185, 194, 197, 199, 200, 209, 227, 231, 238, 239, 241, 254, 256, 267, 276, 277, 279, 286, 288, 305, 308, 313, 320, 328, .329, 335, 345, 347, 351; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; discusses peace treaty, 15-19, 22-23, 49; praises Benjamin Franklin, 19; cipher letters, 49, 203, 246, 321; favors disclosure of secret article, 61-63; committee on diplomatic instructions, 64; delegate expenses, 107, 133, 280, 301, 425; on fiscal policy, 115-17; on rating slaves in calculating quotas, 121; defends Robert Morris, 123; opposes call for interstate convention, 127; commit tee on peace establishment, 136, 154, 212, 446; on western development, 156; com mittee on Canadian veterans, 157; on armistice proclamation, 166; committee on trade treaties, 177-78; committee on treaty ratification, 178; interprets peace treaty, 186; committee on army discontent, 189; amends revenue report, 197; on abatement of Continental quotas, 200; engagement to Catherine Floyd, 203, 406, 474, 539; drafts fiscal Address to the Slates, 209, 241; copyright committee, 228; committee on British trade, 232; delegate attendance, 233, 242, 269, 380, 406-7, 421, 425, 432, 436, 554, 563, 600, 626-28, 665, 694; on resumption of trade with Britain, 247; seeks restitution of slaves, 247-48; committee on British evacuation, 248; on Virginia cession condi tions, 268, 320, 348-49; urges addition to peace treaty, 268; on trade treaties, 270-72; committee on treaty stipulations, 288; health, 301; committee on army pay, 313; on prospects for trade treaties, 321-24; foreign dispatches committee, 323; committee on admission of new states, 345; committee on Swedish-American treaty, 364; and Pennsylvania mutiny, 380, 740; relations with Robert R. Livingston, 441; proposes Po tomac location for federal capital, 473; returns home, 483; committee on commuta tion, 492; committee on state diversion of Continental quotas, 516; federal capital committee, 517; lodgings, 606, 608, 696; sells slave, 627; and authorship of “North American” essays, 664; opposes state payment of Continental troops, 690; mentioned, xxix, 73, 663 Madison, James, Sr., letters to, 279, 307, 606, 626 Madison, Nelly Conway (Mrs. James, Sr.), health, 606, 627 Madras, India, 89 Magaw, Robert: letter to, 88; mentioned, 733 Malcom, William: letters to, 543, 687; ☆ and evacuation of New York, 545; seeks back pay, 687 Manning, James: letter to, 727; ☆ promotes Rhode Island College, 725-31; mentioned, 707 Marblehead, Mass., 676 Marbois. See Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marquis de Marbury, Joseph, 624 Marcellus, Marcus Claudius, 405 Marchant, Henry, elected to Congress, xxii Marie Antoinette, 340 Marine agent. See Agent of marine Marine department: retrenchment urged, 685-86; abolition proposed, 690, 695 Marsden, Mr., 202 Marshall, William, 613 Martin, Alexander: letters to, 89, 108, 227, 240, 314, 337, 362, 437, 456, 510, 519, 561, 581, 616, 686, 712, 721; addresses North Carolina Assembly, 520 Martin, Hugh: cancer cures discussed, 447, 698; mentioned, 530


[Page 809]
Index 775 Maryland: militia, 105; fiscal quota, 135, 158; adopts copyright law, 228; unrepresented, 298, 305, 374, 391, 392, 515, 587, 633; Continental troops threaten mutiny, 374; pays Continental troops, 459; Continental troops, 511, 624; and retirement of old emissions, 609; adopts Continental impost, 615; French consul in, 673. See also Paca, William Maryland Assembly: proposes Annapolis as federal capital, 315, 598-99; diversion of quota to pay Continental troops protested, 481, 516, 574 Maryland delegates: letters from, 20, 50, 106, 130, 179, 234, 249, 598, 608; ☆ delegate expenses, 131, 609; propose Chesapeake site for federal capital, 163; seek restitution of slaves, 249-50; lodgings, 397 Massachusetts: compensates Arthur Lee, 12, 548; seeks allowance for military expenses, 116; calls for interstate convention, 127-28, 142-44, 153; fiscal quota, 135, 158; seeks credit for retirement of old emissions, 222, 251, 266, 284, 314, 318, 491, 609, 652-54; adopts copyright law, 228; opposes commutation of half pay, 253, 262, 540, 545, 551-53, 591; urged to repatriate loyalists, 291; elects John Hancock governor, 327; and loyalist repatriation, 328; urges retrenchment of civil list, 552, 573, 591, 611, 636, 650, 654, 681, 685, 689, 704; Continental troops, 574. See also Hancock, John Massachusetts admiralty court, and San Antonio appeal, 145-46, 326, 329, 587 Massachusetts Assembly: letter to, 276; ☆ debates repeal of Continental impost, 129, 141-42; seeks settlement of Continental accounts, 239; revives Elbridge Gerry privi lege dispute, 299-300, 308-10, 332—33; dismisses congressional delegates, 435-36, 493; appoints committee to correspond with congressional delegates, 488, 491-93, 573; opposes half-pay plan, 488-92; seeks permission to pay Continental troops, 492; urges retrenchment of Continental expenditures, 492 Massachusetts corresponding committee: letter to, 652; suppresses congressional dele gate letter, 655 Massachusetts delegates: letters from, 106, 239, 284, 308, 314, 328, 394, 415, 490, 652; ☆ support commutation of half pay, 262-63; on Elbridge Gerry privilege dispute, 308-9, 395; dismissed for vote on half pay, 605; recommend Continental impost, 652-55 Massachusetts Senate, letter to, 490 Mather, Samuel, letter to, 565 Mather, Samuel, The Dying Legacy of an Aged Minister of the Everlasting Gospel, to the United States of America, 566 Mathews, John, committee on diplomatic instructions, 64 Matthew (NewTestament), quoted, 243, 566 Maury, James: identified, 87; letter to, 86; mentioned, 307 Maxwell, Solomon, letter to, 286 May, William, prosecuted for counterfeiting, 455, 488 Mazzei, Philip, 301 Meade, George, 159 Mears, Mr., 181 Mease, Esther Miller (Mrs. John), medical treatment of, 585 Mease, John, letter to, 585 Medals, commemorative, struck to celebrate Franco-American victory, 340, 675, 678, 680, 720 Mercer, James, xxviii Mercer, John Francis: letters from, 21, 51, 52, 54, 87, 95, 107, 131, 166, 214, 219, 220, 226, 235, 273, 281, 338, 365, 553, 554, 583, 643, 655, 670, 697; letter to, 425; ☆ at tends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; portrait, xxviii, 656; discusses peace treaty, 22-23; and Newburgh crisis, 39; on fiscal policy, 53; favors disclosure of secret article, 57-58, 72, 85; committee on peace treaty, 66, 286; delegate expenses, 107; laments call for interstate convention, 127; on western development, 156, 671; on armistice proclamation, 166; health, 220, 421, 426, 432; opposes French loan, 227; on reoccupation of frontier posts, 242; committee on restitution of confiscated loyalist property, 256; opposes immediate demobilization, 267, 277; and Pennsylvania mutiny, 345; on Virginia cession conditions, 348; cipher letters, 365-66; committee on commutation, 492; committee on state diversion of Continental quotas, 516; urges


[Page 814]
780 Index 407, 414, 417, 512, 561, 734-50; seeks Congress’s return to Philadelphia, 520; issues report on mutiny, 536-37; on protecting Congress, 579. See also Dickinson, John Pennsylvania delegates: letters from, 297, 392, 413, 622, 709, 710, 730; ☆ seek Congress’ return to Philadelphia, 520; report Indian unrest, 622-23 Pennsylvania Gazette, 125, 437, 537, 748 Pennsylvania Journal, 52, 390, 437, 459, 662, 665, 732 Pennsylvania mutiny. See Continental Army, Pennsylvania mutiny Pennsylvania Packet, 18, 52, 125, 160, 161, 303, 337, 390, 437, 459, 520, 537, 607, 664, 670, 718, 748 Perkins, William, 343 Perry, Joseph, letter to, 181 Peters, Richard: letters from, 20, 27, 187, 211, 235, 297, 370, 392, 409, 421, 426, 443, 462, 463, 622, 709, 710, 730; letter to, 536; draft motion, 459; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 439; elected to Congress, xxii; portrait, xxvii, 458; discusses peace treaty, 27—28; opposes disclosure of secret article, 60; committee on army discontent, 73; committee on treaty ratification, 178; seeks interpretation of peace treaty, 187; on demobiliza tion, 211; committee on demobilization, 277; proposes increase in secretary for for eign affairs salary, 305; on Virginia cession, 320; mutiny committee, 344-45, 377, 389, 530, 740, 748; and Pennsylvania mutiny, 370, 378; on Arthur St. Clair snub, 409; on strengthening federal union, 422; seeks Congress’ return to Philadelphia, 443, 459-63; committee on loan office interest, 617; committee on frontier defense, 623; and authorship of “North American” essays, 664; Indian affairs committee, 711, 730; mentioned, 63, 647 Petty,John Henry (Lord Fitzmaurice), 443 Petty, William. See Shelburne, 2d earl of Philadelphia: manners in criticized, 12; cost of living, 51, 626; opposed as federal capi tal, 164; French consul at, 185; trade recovery at, 289; political influence of lamented, 292; New Prison returned to local control, 297; Congress adjourns from, 362; return to opposed, 374, 385, 389, 395, 398, 414, 430, 432-33, 436, 453, 482, 524, 528, 546, 548, 559, 581, 592-93, 601, 605, 608, 625, 647, 649, 706; remains site of finance de partment, 403; regrets departure of Congress, 406-9; appeals to Congress to return, 421, 426, 431, 436, 439-40, 443-45, 448-51, 453, 459-63, 473, 475-78, 508, 520, 529; congressional flight from defended, 448-51; profits as federal capital estimated, 451; removal of presidential household from, 455, 612; return of Congress to predicted, 457; Continental contributions disparaged, 503-9; return to debated, 510, 513-15, 529; return to rejected, 549-50, 553, 555, 563, 573, 578, 579, 584, 587; mentioned, 373, 375, 378, 380, 462, 497, 502 Philadelphia mutiny. See Continental Army, Pennsylvania mutiny Phile, Frederick, 176 Philips, Peter, 596 Phillips, Howard J., “The U.S. Diplomatic Establishment in the Critical Period, 1783-1789,” 278 Phillips, Joseph, letter to, 477 Phillips, Richard, presidential steward accounts, 612 Pickering, Timothy, 75 Pickman, James, 343 Pierce, Maj., 97 Pierce, John: letter to, 567; obtains permission to return to Philadelphia, 403 Pinckney, Charles Cotesworth, 438, 441, 471 Pintard,John M., 255, 578 Pintard, Lewis: letters to, 4, 97, 146, 195, 201, 326; mentioned, 255, 313 Pitch: export of, 583; mentioned, 718, 722 Pitt, William. See Chatham, 1st earl of Plato, 513 Platt, Nathaniel, 693 Platt, Zephaniah, 678


[Page 816]
782 Index Randolph, Beverly, 581 Randolph, Edmund: letters to, 18, 48, 87, 105, 129, 152, 161, 186, 204, 218, 233, 248, 269, 280, 300, 324, 335, 365, 380, 406, 421, 436, 473, 528, 545, 563, 589, 607, 628, 669, 696, 732; mentioned, xxix, 13, 96, 247, 644 Rayneval, Joseph Mathias Gerard de, Observations sur le Memoire Justificatif de la Cour de Londres, 64 Read, George: letter to, 75; ☆ court of appeals judge, 134, 217, 237, 325; mentioned, 147 Read, Jacob: letters from, 578, 664; letters to, 371, 376, 401; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii, 371; elected to Congress, xxiii, 176; and Pennsylvania mutiny, 351; health, 438; moves temporary congressional return to Philadelphia, 513; federal capital committee, 517; recommends Walter Dulany, 578; seeks publication of “North American” essays, 662-65; mutiny committee, 668; opposes state payment of Continental troops, 690; mentioned, 400, 439, 575 Read, James: identified, 561; letter to, 561 Read, Joseph: identified, 193; letter to, 193 Readhead, George: commissioner to superintend evacuation, 256; mentioned, 377 Reed, Joseph: letters to, 389, 528; ☆ loyalty attacked, 29-30; seeks Congress’ return to Philadelphia, 453, 529 Religion. See Bible Remsen, Henry, 121, 485 Rendon, Francisco: appeals capture of San Antonio, 146, 587; lobbies congressional dele gates, 179-80; influence denounced, 292 Rensselaer, Mr., 693 Requisitions: use of slaves in calculation of, 91, 117, 120-21, 128, 137, 144, 318, 642; under Articles of Confederation, 114-15; allowances for state expenses debated, 116-17; apportionment of, 135, 144; valuation plans, 152, 174, 637; fiscal quotas, 158, 503-5, 638, 641; troop quotas, 506-7; 1784 estimates, 575, 592; land valuation plan adopted, 641; quota payments reported, 648; North Carolina quota, 715-16; men tioned, 724 Rhode Island: fiscal quota, 135, 158, 638, 648; opposes Continental impost, 325, 538, 580; unrepresented, 438; opposes peace establishment, 493, 594—95, 634—35; Conti nental contributions extolled, 503-9; opposes valuation amendment, 563; trade pol icy denounced, 615. See also Greene, William Rhode Island admiralty court: Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 135, 217, 236-37, 298-99; schooner Industry appeal, 517-18, 533-34; schooner Speedwell appeal, 533-34 Rhode Island Assembly: upholds David Howell, 123, 141; supports Vermont indepen dence, 180; seeks depreciation pay for Rhode Island troops, 198; urges settlement of Josiah Flagg’s accounts, 198; seeks repeal of commutation resolution, 285 Rhode Island College: fund raising plans, 724-31; seeks compensation for damages, 725, 729; mentioned, 707 Rhode Island delegates: letters from, 21, 65, 198, 212, 285, 631; ☆ oppose Continental impost, 212-13; attendance, 381; urge appeal of Good Fortune seizure, 557, 565; fear growth of Continental power, 634-42 Rice: export of, 583; mentioned, 276 Richardson, Francis, 405, 431 Richardson, John: on mutineers’ conduct, 430; mentioned, 431, 456 Riddle, James, offers accommodations to Congress, 393 Rivington, James, 438, 439, 440, 456, 471, 515, 519 Roberts, Mr., 159 Robertson, James: identified, 81; letter to, 81 Robin, Claude C., New Travels Through North-America, 530 Robin Hood (ship), 521 Robinson, Thomas, and Pennsylvania mutiny, 368 Rochambeau, Jean Baptiste-Donatien de Vimeur, comte de: commended by Congress, 206; mentioned, 169 Rodney, Caesar: letter to, 14; ☆ elected to Congress, xviii; mentioned, 698


[Page 817]
Index 783 Rogers, William, 725, 729, 731 Root, Jesse, elected to Congress, xviii Rose, John, 27 Rosenthal, baron de, 27 Rosenthal, Albert, xxiv, xxviii Rosenthal, Max, xxv, xxvi Ross, David, 233, 435 Ross, James, 12 Ross, John, 553 Rotch, William, petitions for whaling protection, 73 Rowe, John: letter to, 652; and Massachusetts corresponding committee, 493 Rum: taxation of, 46; mentioned, 389 Rumsey, James, 400 Rush, Benjamin: letters to, 373, 381, 407, 448, 733; ☆ offers Princeton tract to Congress, 382; denounces Congress’ flight from Philadelphia, 408, 448-51; on Pennsylvania mutiny, 536-37; promotes Dickinson College, 733-34; mentioned, xxvi, 147, 355 Russell, Mr., 676 Russia: advisability of trade treaty with debated, 177-79, 276; bribery custom de nounced, 208; war with Turks rumored, 208; and Francis Dana mission, 335, 534-35, 540, 548-49, 555, 570, 572, 589-90, 632; mentioned, 210. See also Catherine II Russians, in Continental Army, 27 Ruston, Mary Fisher (Mrs. Thomas), 355 Ruston, Thomas: identified, 355; letter to, 353 Rutledge, John: letters from, 118, 256, 371, 376; ☆ attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii, 176; and Newburgh crisis, 39; criticizes Robert Morris, 56; opposes disclosure of secret article, 58, 73, 84; committee on foreign credit, 63; committee on secret treaty article, 63; committee on diplomatic instructions, 64; seeks recovery of slaves, 118; on rating slaves in calculating quotas, 120-21; urges cessation of hostili ties, 123; committee on trade treaties, 178, 232; on western land cessions, 199; com mittee on Virginia cession, 221; committee on British trade, 232; opposes immediate demobilization, 267; committee on federal capital, 315; and Pennsylvania mutiny, 371; health, 371, 376; relations with Robert R. Livingston, 441; mutiny committee, 668; foreign dispatches committee, 669, 704; mentioned, 439 St. Augustine, Fla., 118 St. Clair, Arthur: letters to, 370, 411, 412; ☆ and Pennsylvania mutiny, 336, 344-46, 349, 351, 357-58, 366-68, 370, 374, 378, 394, 417, 532, 738, 740, 742; bypassed in mutiny in quiry, 394, 409, 411-12; placated by President Boudinot, 411-12; mentioned, xxvii, 614 St. Eustatius, 76, 79, 88, 472 St. Kitts, 76, 79, 88, 328 St. Lucia, 76, 79, 86, 88 Saint-Memin, Charles Balthazar Julien Fevret de, xxvii St. Pierre, 76, 88 St. Vincent, 76, 79, 88, 95 Salt: taxation of, 47, 208; price, 248, 257 San Antonio (Spanish brigantine), 145, 146, 326, 329, 587 Sands, Comfort, 598 Santo Domingo, 23 Saratoga, battle of, 566 Saratoga, N.Y., 594 Saxony, seeks U.S. trade, 590, 631 Schoonmaker, Marius, History of Kingston, New York, 315 Schuyler, Philip: nominated secretary for foreign affairs, 321, 337; proposes Indian ne gotiations, 594; mentioned, 316, 438 Scott, John Morin: elected to Congress, xxi; attendance urged, 296; mentioned, 253, 558,611


[Page 818]
784 Index Scudder, William, letter to, 477 Searle, James: letter to, 125; ☆ seeks consular appointment, 126; mentioned, 256 Searle, John: identified, 256; letter to, 255 Searle, John & Co., 126, 579 Secret committee, contract with Silas Deane, 712 Secretary at war. See Lincoln, Benjamin Secretary for foreign affairs. See Foreign affairs, department of; Livingston, Robert R. Secretary of Congress. Sec Thomson, Charles Senegal, 76, 79, 88, 89, 95 Serapis (H.M.S.), 680 Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson, fights Gunning Bedford, 164 Severance, Frank H., “The Niagara Peace Mission of Ephraim Douglass in 1783,” 645 Sewall, David: identified, 223; letters to, 222, 429 Shattuck, William, 9 Shaw, Thomas: letters to, 133, 217, 236, 298; and Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 133, 217, 236-37, 298-99 Sheffield, John Baker Holroyd, 1st earl of: Observations on the Commerce of the American States with Europe and the West Indies, 607-8, 663-64; mentioned, 670 Shelburne, 2d earl of (William Petty): letter to, 442; ☆ and peace negotiations, 16, 25, 36, 49, 51-52, 54; defends peace treaty, 218; resignation, 442-43; mentioned, 18, 83, 321,555 Sheldon, Jeremiah, letter to, 310 Sherburne, Henry, appointed accounts commissioner for New York, 610, 630 Sheridan, Eugene R., Congress at Princeton, 387 Shippen, Alice Lee (Mrs. William), 14 Shippen, Thomas Lee, 13 Shippen, William, Jr., 14 Shirts, Price, 560 Short, William, 269 Sidi Mohammed, emperor of Morocco, 597, 631 Simpkin, Mr., 275 Sitgreaves, John, 186 Six Nations: negotiations with proposed, 594; and Ephraim Douglass mission, 623 Skeen, C. Edward, John Armstrong, Jr., 1758-1843, 330 Skeen, C. Edward, “The Newburgh Conspiracy Reconsidered,” 39 Slaves: runaways sought, 71; in calculation of state quotas, 91, 117, 120-21, 128, 137, 144 152, 318, 642; restitution of, 118, 239, 241, 287-88; and peace treaty provisions, 202, 205, 208, 210; evacuation of, 231, 247-50, 256, 272-73, 277, 279, 281, 287-88, 294, 340, 406, 577, 582, 584, 709; death of, 243; impact of Pennsylvania anti-slave law, 627; mentioned, 45, 267 Smith, Jasper, 122 Smith, John, seeks recovery of slaves, 45 Smith, Justus, seeks recovery of slaves, 45 Smith, Melancton, 246 Smith, Meriwether: Observations on the Fourth and Fifth Articles of the Preliminaries for a Peace with Great Britain, 528; mentioned, 535 Smith, Page, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742-1798, 283 Smith, Samuel Stanhope: letters to, 393, 396; ☆ offers accommodations to Congress, 393; conducts college examinations, 727; mentioned, 379, 564 Smith, William: and evacuation of New York, 234; mentioned, 7, 20, 165, 455 Smith, William P.: letter to, 446; welcomes Congress to New Jersey, 446 Smith, William Stephens, commissioner to superintend evacuation, 202, 257 Smith’s Academy (Edenton, N.C.), site selected, 566 Snell, John, and Pennsylvania mutiny, 426 Society of the Cincinnati, 675 Socrates, 513
