Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 14, October 1, 1779 to March 31, 1780
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_14/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 5]
October 1, 1779-March 31, 1780 Paul H. Smith, Editor Gerard W. Gawalt and Ronald M. Gephart Associate Editors LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON 1987


[Page 8]
iv Editorial Method and Appara tus ownership is explained. The descriptive note also contains informa tion on the document’s authorship if explanation is necessary, and endorsements or addresses are quoted when they contain more than routine information. Other editorial practices employed in this work are explained in the sections on editorial apparatus which follow. TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [roman] [italic] {italic} One or two words missing and not conjecturable. More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. Number or part of a number missing or illegible. Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub joined footnote. Conjectural reading for missing or illegible mat ter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. Editorial insertion in the text. Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the descriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed docu ments) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manu scripts printed in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 13th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1985). Each volume of this edition will contain a revised list.


[Page 9]
Editorial Me thod and Appara tus V CSmH Ct CtHi CtHWa CtY DLC DLC(ESR) DNA DNLM DSoC De-Ar ICHi IU-HS In M-Ar MB MDaAr MH-H MHi MSaE MdAA MdHi MeHi MiDbEI MiU-C N NHi NN NNC NNPM NbO Nc-Ar NcU Nh-Ar NhD NhHi Nj NjHi NjMoHP NjP NjR PHC Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Cal. Connecticut State Library, Hartford Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford Yale University, New Haven Library of Congress Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection National Archives and Records Administration National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, Md. Society of the Cincinnati, Washington, D.C. Delaware Public Archives Commission, Dover Chicago Historical Society University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois Historical Survey Indiana State Library, Indianapolis Massachusetts Archives, Boston Boston Public Library, Boston Danvers Historical Society, Danvers, Mass. Harvard University, Houghton Library, Cambridge, Mass. Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston Essex Institute, Salem, Mass. Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum and Green field Village Library, Dearborn, Michigan William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich. New York State Library, Albany New-York Historical Society, New York New York Public Library, New York Columbia University, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York Omaha Public Library, Omaha, Neb. North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord New Jersey State Library, Trenton New Jersey Historical Society, Newark Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, N.J. Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. Haverford College, Haverford, Pa.


[Page 10]
vi Editorial Me thod and Appara tus PHarH Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg PHi Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PPAmP American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PPIn Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia PPL Library Company of Philadelphia PPRF Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia PSC Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa. PU University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PWcHi Chester County Historical Society, West Chester, Pa. R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence RNHi Newport Historical Society, Newport, R.I. ScC Charleston Library Society, Charleston, S.C. ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViHi Virginia Historical Society, Richmond ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville Vt-PR Vermont Public Records Library, Montpelier ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963-. Adams, Works (Adams) Adams, John. The Works ofJohn Adams, Second President of the United States .... Edited by Charles Francis Adams. 10 vols. Boston: Charles C. Little and James Brown, 1850-56. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1828-29. Bartlett, Papers (Mevers) Bartlett, Josiah. The Papers of Josiah Bartlett. Edited by Frank C. Mevers. Hanover, N.H.: Published for the New Hampshire Histori cal Society by the University Press of New England, 1979. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Con-


[Page 11]
Editorial Method and Apparatus vii gress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. Clinton, Papers (Hastings) Clinton, George. Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804. Edited by Hugh Hastings and J. A. Holden. 10 vols. New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Crawford Co. et al., 1899-1914. DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone. Evans, Am. Bibliography Evans, Charles. American Bibliography. 12 vols. Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34. Freeman, Washington Freeman, Douglas S. George Washington, a Biography. 7 vols. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1948-57. Jay, Papers (Morris) Jay, John. John Jay, the Making of a Revolutionary: Unpublished Papers, 1745-1780. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper & Row, 1975. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Jul ian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950-. JCC U.S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford et al. Wash ington: Library of Congress, 1904-37. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda) Idzerda, Stanley J., et al., eds. Lafayette in the Age of the American Revolution: Selected Letters and Papers, 1776-1790. Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1977-. Lee, Letters (Ballagh) Lee, Richard Henry. The Letters of Richard Henry Lee. Edited by James C. Ballagh. 2 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) Madison, James. The Papers of James Madison. Edited by William T. Hutchinson and William M. E. Rachal. Chicago: University of Chi cago Press, 1962-. Md. Archives Archives of Maryland. Edited by William H. Browne et al. Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1883-. Mason, Papers (Rutland) Mason, George. The Papers of George Mason, 1725-1792. Edited by Robert A. Rutland. 3 vols. Chapel Hill: University of North Caro lina Press, 1970. Morgan, Captains to the Northward Morgan, William J. Captains to the Northward: The New England


[Page 18]
xiv Chronology of Congress November 26 November 29 November 30 December 2 December 3 December 6 December 9 December 15 December 16 December 20-24 December 24 December 27 December 28 December 31 January 3 Appoints Admiralty commissioners. Commemorates General Pulaski’s death; resolves to emit an additional $10 million; accepts resigna tion of commissary general Jeremiah Wadsworth. Appoints committee to confer with Washington at headquarters; accepts resignation of Gen. John Sullivan. Receives notification of Spanish declaration of war against Britain; appoints Ephraim Blaine commis sary general of purchases. Resolves to move Congress from Philadelphia at the end of April 1780; appoints Admiralty com missioners. Reinforces armed forces in southern department. Observes day of thanksgiving. Recommends that states extend provisions em bargo to April 1780. Authorizes Gen. Benjamin Lincoln to coordinate southern operations with Spanish officers at Havana. Debates proposal to borrow $20 million abroad. Authorizes use of depositions of witnesses at courts- martial in noncapital cases. Recommends moratorium on granting lands in region of Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute; orders Post Office to institute twice-weekly in place of weekly deliveries. Authorizes Continental reimbursement of militia expenses incurred defending Connecticut against invasion. Endorses Board of War plan to employ greater secrecy to reduce procurement expenses. Postpones decision on selecting‘a new site for Congress.


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclu sive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertain able from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elu sive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ corres pondence, and in such cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from New Jersey, Delaware,Maryland, and Pennsylvania living with in easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller information is provided in a consolidated summary of dele gate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 4:lix-lxvi, 5:lv-lxiv, for additional infor mation on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Eliphalet Dyer Elected: October 21, 1778; October 14, 1779; January 6, 1780 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Oliver Ellsworth Elected: October 21, 1778; October 14, 1779; January 6, 1780 Attended: December 16, 1779, to March 31, 1780 Titus Hosmer Elected: October 21, 1778; October 14, 1779 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Benjamin Huntington Elected: January 6, 1780 Did not attend January to March 1780 Samuel Huntington Elected: October 21, 1778; October 14, 1779; January 6, 1780 Attended: October 1, 1779, to March 31, 1780 xvii


[Page 22]
xviii Lis t of Delegates to Congress Jesse Root Elected: October 21, 1778; October 14, 1779; January 6, 1780 Attended: October 1 to November 26, 1779 Roger Sherman Elected: October 21, 1778; October 14, 1779; January 6, 1780 Attended: October 1, 1779, to March 31, 1780 Joseph Spencer Elected: January 7, 1779; October 14, 1779 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Oliver Wolcott Elected: January 6, 1780 Did not attend January to March 1780 DELAWARE John Dickinson Elected: January 18, 1779; December 22, 1779 Attended: October 21? to November 18, 1779 Thomas McKean Elected: January 18, 1779; December 24, 1779 Attended: November 5?-22; December 2? 1779, to March 25, 1780 George Read Elected: December 22, 1779 Declined Nicholas Van Dyke Elected: January 18, 1779; December 22, 1779 Attended: October 4-11? 1779; January 27-February 11? 1780 GEORGIA Georgia was not represented during the period October 1779 to March 1780. The invasion of the state in December 1778 had thrown civil government into chaos and obstructed the routine election of delegates. The credentials of delegates chosen in 1778 had expired early in 1779, and although as many as three slates of delegates were appointed by rump conventions, councils, and assemblies during the year, none ever reached Philadelphia. The state was not again represented in Congress until May 15, 1780, when three of the five delegates elected by the Georgia assembly in January 1780 presented their credentials. MARYLAND William Carmichael Elected: November 13, 1778 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress Cornelius Harnett Elected: May 8, 1779 Attended: October 1 to December 8, 1779 Joseph Hewes Elected: February 4, 1779 Attended: October 1-29, 1779 (died November 10, 1779) Whitmell Hill Elected: August 12, 1778; October 26, 1779 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Allen Jones Elected: October 26, 1779 Attended: December 8, 1779, to March 31, 1780 John Penn Elected: May 8, 1779 Attended: December 14, 1779, to March 4? 1780 William Sharpe Elected: February 4, 1779 Attended: October 1 to December 8? 1779 PENNSYLVANIA John Armstrong, Sr. Elected: November 20, 1778; November 12, 1779 Attended: October 1-14, 1779 Samuel Atlee Elected: November 20, 1778 Attended: October 1 to November 12, 1779 James McLene Elected: March 2, 1779; November 12, 1779 Attended: November 20, 1779, to March 23? 1780 Frederick A. Muhlenberg Elected: March 2, 1779; November 12, 1779 Attended: October 1 to December 15? 1779;January 1 toMarch31,1780 James Searle Elected: November 20, 1778; November 12, 1779 Attended: October 22? 1779, to March 31, 1780 William Shippen, Sr. Elected: November 20, 1778; November 12, 1779 Attended: November 15? 1779, to March 31, 1780 Henry Wynkoop Elected: March 2, 1779 Attended: October 1 to November 12, 1779 RHODE ISLAND John Collins Elected: May 5, 1779 Attended: October 1-4, 1779; February 4 to March 31, 1780


[Page 27]
Lis i of Delegates to Congress xxiii William Ellery Elected: May 5, 1779 Attended: November 30, 1779, to March 31, 1780 Stephen Hopkins Elected: May 5, 1779 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Henry Marchant Elected: May 5, 1779 Attended: October 1 to December 8? 1779 (on mission to head quarters, ca. December 3-8, 1779) SOUTH CAROLINA Thomas Bee Elected: February 1, 1780 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Francis Kinloch Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: March 25-31, 1780 Henry Laurens Elected: February 5, 1779; February 1, 1780 Attended: October 1 to November 8, 1779 Rawlins Lowndes Elected: February 17, 1779 Did not attend Congress John Mathews Elected: February 5, 1779; February 1, 1780 Attended: October 1, 1779, to March 31, 1780 Arthur Middleton Elected: February 5, 1779; February 1, 1780 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 VIRGINIA William Fitzhugh Elected: June 18, 1779 Attended: October 1-30, 1779 Cyrus Griffin Elected: June 18, 1779 Attended: October 1, 1779, to March 31, 1780 James Henry Elected: December 14, 1779 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780 Patrick Henry Elected: June 18, 1779 Did not attend October 1779 to March 1780


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii River so as to secure greater Spanish commitment to military coopera tion in North America. He also encouraged Congress to instruct its minister plenipotentiary in Paris to work closely with the comte de Vergennes in planning negotiations with Britain and generally enjoyed good relations with such key officials as the American secre tary of foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston. In June 1784, he returned to France, ostensibly on leave of absence, but he studiously avoided returning to America and in 1787 secured the more presti gious post of ambassador to London. Portrait by Charles Willson Peale. Independence National Histori cal Park Collection. William Ellery 238 Ellery, a Newport lawyer, had graduated from Harvard College and briefly tried his hand as a merchant before taking up the law and stepping onto the stage of public life during the Stamp Act crisis. Elected to succeed Samuel Ward in Congress in 1776, Ellery quickly became identified with efforts to create a strong Continental Navy, in part because of his state’s early advocacy of a naval build up. He was elected to Congress seven times from 1776 to 1784, signed the Declaration of Independence, and repeatedly served on the Marine Committee and Committee of Commerce in recognition of his abilities in those fields. Service on the Committee of Appeals also added to his experience in maritime cases and, upon its creation in 1779, he was appointed to the new Board of Admiralty, to which he was also appointed as a noncongressional commissioner following his failure to be reelected as a delegate in 1780. He was reelected to Congress in 1781 and 1783-84, however, after which he returned to Rhode Island permanently, holding the positions of Continental Loan Office commissioner for Rhode Island from 1786 to 1790 and collector of customs for the district of Newport from 1790 until his death in 1820 at age 92. Portrait by James Reid Lambdin after a work by John Trumbull. Independence National Historical Park Collection. George Plater 354 Born and reared at “Sotterley,” the family estate in St. Mary’s County, Md., Plater graduated from the College of William and Mary in 1753 and turned to the legal profession. He began his public career as justice of the peace of St. Mary’s County, served as a delegate in the lower house of the Maryland Assembly, 1757-66, and held appointments as naval officer of the Patuxent district and as a member of the Executive Council before the Revolution. In 1776 he was elected to the Maryland Council of Safety and in 1778 to Congress, where he served three terms, until 1780. His committee


[Page 32]
xxviii Illustrations assignments were less numerous than those of many delegates, although he was a member of the standing Marine Committee. He and his wife were warm friends of Gouverneur Morris, who received their nurturing care after he lost a leg in a carriage accident in Philadelphia in 1780. They corresponded regularly with him when not in Pennsylvania. Plater was elected to the Maryland Senate from St. Mary’s County after the Revolution and was active in the move ment to obtain ratification of the new federal Constitution in 1787-88. He was elected governor of Maryland in 1791 but occu pied that post less than a year before his death in 1792 at the age of 66. Gratz Collection, the Historical Society of Pennsylvania. James Lovell’s instructions in use of diplomatic ciphers 442 From the creation of a network of American agents and correspon dents abroad in 1775-76, Congress experimented with invisible ink and various diplomatic codes and ciphers, often successfully but not without considerable frustration. Lovell’s interest in cryptography, his position on the Committee for Foreign Affairs, and his unequaled continuous attendance at Congress from 1777 to 1782 made him the key figure in the use of such systems, which repeatedly led him to undertake the education of the American commissioners abroad in the use of ciphers. His polyalphabetic grid system was transparently simple in conception but frustrating to use in practice, often leading John Adams and Benjamin Franklin to despair when attempting to decipher Lovell’s letters. The February 24, 1780, letter from Lovell to Franklin illustrated here contains one of the fullest and clearest expositions of the use of his system. From the Benjamin Franklin Papers, American Philosophical Society. Samuel Livermore 499 Little is known of Livermore’s early life, which was spent in Massachusetts, where he taught school briefly before attending the College of New Jersey to prepare himself for the ministry. He subse quently turned to the study of law and opened a practice in Waltham, Mass., before moving to Portsmouth, N.H., and becoming connected to Gov. John Wentworth, whose patronage brought him an appoint ment as attorney general in 1769. Thereafter he was seldom out of public office, although he soon moved to the wilderness village of Holderness, N.H., and for a time subordinated his public career to the acquisition of a vast landed estate. It was perhaps this facet of his activities that led New Hampshire to appoint him commissioner and


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix a special delegate to Congress in 1779 to represent the state’s claims in the New Hampshire Grants controversy with the Vermont settlers. But Congress was unable to get the parties to the dispute together during the brief time he attended in February 1780. Hearings on the case were postponed until May, by which time Livermore’s cre dentials had expired and he returned home. He returned to Con gress as a delegate in 1781-82 and 1785-86, during which terms he was appointed to many committees, particularly those relating to western lands and Indian affairs. He served several years as chief justice of the superior court of New Hampshire, represented the state in the first two federal Congresses, and was elected twice to the United States Senate, from which he resigned in 1801 because of ill health. He died in 1803 a few days before his 71st birthday. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. LC- USZ62-54687. Congressional resolution of March 18, 1780, devaluing the Continental dollar 522 Following numerous unsuccessful attempts to curb the catastrophic depreciation of the Continental dollar that had destroyed the credi bility of its financial system, Congress yielded to the inevitable and officially devalued the dollar at the ratio of 40 to 1 on March 18, 1780. Retirement of the bills in circulation was left to the states, which were to collect them in taxes and return them to the Continental Treasury in payment of their fiscal quotas, set at a $15 million monthly total. One-twentieth of the bills destroyed were to be reis sued in new bills bearing interest at the rate of 5 percent per annum to be redeemed in six years, ostensibly “in sterling bills of exchange, drawn by the United States on their commissioners in Europe,” who had no prospects whatever of defraying such expenses. The exhorta tion contained in the preamble of the resolves embodying this deci sion had little effect on the establishment of the “appropriate funds” required to “ensure the punctual redemption of the bills,” and in the meantime Congress proceeded with plans for in-kind requisitions from the states to provision and supply the Continental Army in 1780. From the Continental Congress Miscellany, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress.


[Page 35]
October 1, 1779 March 31, 1780


[Page 40]
6 October 1, 1779 Assembly are ready to confer with the Committee of Congress at Such time as they Shall appoint, & notify the Committee of the Assembly. 1 I am Sir with Esteem, your humble Servant, Sami. Huntington RC (DNA: PCC, item 19). Addressed: “For the Honble Mr Root &c, Committee in the Case Sloop Active &c.” 1 In response to a memorial from Gideon Olmsted, Congress appointed a commit tee on September 29, consisting of Jesse Root, William Paca, and. Henry Laurens, “relative to carrying into execution the decree of the court of appeals concerning the sloop Active.” JCC, 15: 1122. When Huntington communicated this information to Pennsylvania, the assembly immediately appointed Joseph Gardner, John Smilie, and Thomas Smith to confer with Root’s committee, but this gesture represented no capitulation on the part of Pennsylvania to Continental authority in admiralty appeals. The state’s position had been forcefully presented in a series of assembly resolves on March 10, 1779, and the assemblymen appointed to confer with Root’s committee were strictly instructed “that they observe the former Resolutions of the House on this subject as the rule of their conduct.” The September 30 “Act of Assembly” instructing the Pennsylvania conferees, which Huntington enclosed with this note to Root, is in PCC, item 19, 4:499. For the background and other aspects of this case, see also these Letters, 11:341-43, 516- 17, 525-26; and William Churchill Houston to Caleb Camp, November 12, 1779, note 2. Henry Laurens’ duties on this committee may also have been the occasion for his drafting the following undated motion concerning prize shares, which survives among his papers. “Resolved, that from & after this day the Captors of all prizes made by any Ship or other Vessel in Continental service shall be entitled to & enjoy the whole amount or value of such prizes without deduction any Resolve of Congress to the contrary notwithstanding.” Laurens Papers, no. 20, ScHi. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir Philadelphia Octor 1st. 1779 You will herewith receive an Act of Congress, directing, (among other thing) that the Marine Committee give the Necessary Orders to enable the Commissary General to perform his engagments Actu ally made with the people, for sugar &C. 1 You will observe this measure is Justified from Necessity alltho’ Congress cannot approve of making purchases in Ordinary Cases otherwise than for money. I am with Esteam, Your humble Servt, Sami. Huntington President RC (CtHWa: James Wadsworth Collection). 1 See JCC, 15:1130-32; and Huntington to George Clinton, this date. Although Congress hereby endorsed Wadsworth’s “engagement” to exchange flour from New York for sugar and rum from Massachusetts, it simultaneously declared this barter transaction to be a special exception to Continental policy and announced disapproval of “any purchases in ordinary cases, otherways than for money.”


[Page 44]
10 October 2, 1779 as true as any in Euclid. I am confirmed in it by observing that the most candid People are of that way of Thinking, and those who are interested, particularly in the Mode in which what are called the Crown-lands, are disposed of, seem put to Difficulty in controuling their Consciences when they abet it. I often think that I would not submit to be roasted and basted as the Virginians and our Southern Friends are upon this Subject; for all the Lands will ever produce to their respective States. But like true Statesmen they do and bear any Thing on this Score. The Virginians endeavour to shelter them selves under an Argument which I never heard till I came to Congress, that they disputed the Right of the Crown to any Lands within the Bounds of their Charter, and contended for an Immunity from any Payments whatever claimed in Virtue of such Right; that Nothing but Force could have compelled such Payments from them; and that by joining with their Sister-states to renounce the Power and Jurisdiction of Great-Britain, they have only gained what other States have, — their Bounds. They add moreover, and persist in it, that the Settlement and Sale of these Lands will never be of any Value to their Treasury, or give them any available Assistance in discharging their Quota of the Continental Debt. This is in Part true & in Part problematical. Ingenious Men will speculate and refine up on any Subject, and the Truth or Falsehood of its goes out of Sight in the Multiplicity of Argument and Bluster of Utterance. Two Memo rials lately came into Congress, one from the Proprietours of a Tract of Land on the Ohio called Indiana, granted by the Indians to a Company of Traders who had suffered Losses by their Means in the Course of Traffick; and the other from a number of Grantees of a large Tract including the former called Vandalia, 2 and which a little before the Commencement of the present Troubles it was in Con templation to erect into a new Government. With both these Grants the Virginians have interfered, and the Memorialists complain of the Interference, and pray that they may not be deprived of their Property, and that Vandalia may be erected into, and acknowledged as a free State. This gave Alarm to the Virginians; they object to the Jurisdiction of Congress to receive or take Order on the Memorials, and in this Situation the Matter lies. How it will terminate, I am not able to conjecture. I think Congress are nearly equally divided upon the Question relative to the vacant Lands, and this being the Point to which Maryland most strenuously adheres, others are more out of Sight, but certainly it is not the only one in the Confederation where Justice does not seem to be strictly consulted. There are others little inferiour in my Judgment, though not so much discussed. The Vir ginians tell me they have made ample Provision to settle the Soldiers of any State, who will come and settle on their Lands without any Expense to the State from which they come; 3 and this would be of some Moment were it not for losing the Inhabitants, which for our Part we shall want at the End of the War. If any Thing relative to the


[Page 48]
14 October 2, 1779 £1000—in full of all expences &c. My protest against both stands on the Book No! Men who are sincerely devoted to the service of their Country will not accept of Salaries which will tend to distress it. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers). 1 For John’s recommendation of Capt. Richard Brooke Roberts, see Laurens to John Laurens, September 21, 1779, note 1. Henry Marchant to John Adams Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 2d. 1779 By the last Post I was highly gratified by your kind & very polite Favour of the 10th of Sepr. The Notice & Recollection of my former Letter sufficiently convinces me that You have not forgot an old Friend. In your Absence I had frequent Temptations to write You; but I was affraid of being amongst the Number of troublesome and useless Correspondants. We have finished Our foreign Affairs that mostly pressed upon Us. Your appointment will convince You, that however awkward Your Situation has been, it was not from any Alteration of Sentiment towards you since your first Appointment as one of Our Commrs. at Paris. 1 must hope, however hurksome the Task, You will once more be induced to quit the Rank of a Citizen to become a Servant of the Publick. We must all look back at Our first setting out; and take Spirit from those Principles which first annimated Our Souls; and which we lament that torpid, base Degeneracy, which hath seized too many, we must not suffer Ourselves to faint, or repine at Our Burthens. Mr. Dana is appointed Secretary, I rather wish for, than expect his Acceptance, Yet I will hope that every Obstacle will give way to the good of his Country. If Mr. Dana goes he will be ready there should another Minister be wanted thro’ Death, Sickness or otherwise. I shall rejoice to hear of your safe Arrival at Paris; And shall esteem myself truly happy in your Correspondance; for with great Esteem I am your, sincere Friend & Servt. Hy. Marchant RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Samuel Huntington to Thomas Johnson Sir, Philadelphia Octobr. 3d. 1779. You will herewith receive enclosed an Act of Congress of the 2d Instant recommending to the Governor & Council of Maryland, to permit as much bread, flour and wheat, to be exported for the State of Virginia, as the said State may want for its public supply. 1


[Page 49]
October 4, 1779 15 1 have the honor to be, with sentiments of esteem, Your Excel lency’s Humble servt, Sami. Huntington President 2 RC (MdAA: Red Books). In the hand of George Bond and signed by Huntington. 1 Congress adopted this resolve in response to a recent request from Virginia to the Maryland Council, which had been forwarded to Congress through the Maryland delegates. See JCC, 15:1137. Although the correspondence between Viginia and Mary land on this subject has not been found, a Maryland Council letter of October 8 directing Col. Samuel Smith to comply with this resolve is in Md. Archives, 21:552. See also Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson, October 4, 1779. 2 Huntington sent a nearly identical letter this day to Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson. See PCC, item 14, fol. 200; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:100. Samuel Huntington to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia Octobr. 3d. 1779. You will herewith receive enclosed an Act of Congress of the 2d Instant, repealing a Clause of an Act of Congress passed the 24th of September last, relative to a district of Country called New hamp- shire grants: and adopting another resolve as more adequate to the purposes intended in the former. 1 I am, Sir, with sentiments of esteem, Your humble servant, Sami. Huntington. President RC (MHi: Weare Papers). In the hand of George Bond and signed by Huntington. 1 For Congress’ “Act” of September 24, which was slightly amended by the October 2 resolve herewith transmitted to New Hampshire, see John Jay’s letters to Thomas Chittenden and to George Clinton of September 25, 1779. By its previous action, Congress had solicited authorization from New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and New York to proceed in determining the “New Hampshire Grants” dispute, “in the mode prescribed for such cases by the articles of confederation.” But as the pertinent ninth article of the confederation had been devised to deal simply with interstate disputes, Elbridge Gerry believed that it did not cover “disputes between any State and the grantees of any other State,” and he therefore moved this amend ment to close what he considered to be a loophole in the resolve of the 24th. JCC, 15:1135-36. President Huntington also sent this October 2 amendment this day to Massachusetts, New York, and Vermont in letters addressed to Jeremiah Powell, George Clinton, and Thomas Chittenden. PCC, item 14, fols. 200-201. For additional information, see also Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, October 4; and John Jay to George Clinton, October 5, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Monday 4th [October 1779], Commercial Committee. Congress. This day spent in Reading dispatches, Memorials, Treasury Reports & c. NB a great tumult in the City and some Lives Lost, several Wounded and several sent to Goal. 1


[Page 58]
24 October 5, 1779 5, 1:344-50; and Laurens to Samuel Adams, this date. Thomson’s secret journal was often posted after the event. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear sir, Phila Octr 5t. 1779 I had the honour of writing you last Week supposing you to be at Trenton. Mr Huston inclosed my Letter to the speaker Mr Camp. 1 Yesterday I was favourd from Pompton with your very oblidging Letter of the 30th ulto. The good opin[ion] which you and other Gentlemen of the County, entertain of my conduct to induce you to Put me in nomination as a Candidate for the Council is a matter which requires my most gratefull thanks, but if I had ever so great an inclination to accept your kind offer, I dare not live at home, therefore if I must continue to be deprived of all Domestick Happyness, the being here on Account of safety, is the most Eligeable. I shall think myself happy to be left out in the next choice of Mem bers for Congress, lett my Collegues be whom they may. The one Principle reason & Objection that I have is being depriv’d of Mrs Fells Company ( A circumstance which you cannot be a Proper Judge of). I am exceeding glad of your good intention of going in to the Assembly, give me leave to say without flattery You will be a valuable acquisition in that House, but I do not see how the confinement is less. Now we have chiefly and to my great satisfaction got through Our foreign affairs; and I hope the Name of Lee will be no more mentiond, that we shall do business [in a] better humour. On Satur day we began with a Committee of the whole house to consider on Finance and ways and means to carry on the War, and in a few days I hope the Public will be made acquainted with what we expect from them so that we shall at least do Our Duty. Yesterday a great Mobb of Militia with their Arms Paraded the Streets under a Pretence of taking up and sending off Tories, they chiefly thretend Mr Wilson, the Lawyer. A number of Gentlemen got in the House with him to defend him, when those in the Street began to grow very Restive and at last fired in the House when the Batle became general. Some I beleave were Killd on Both sides and many wounded. When for- tunatly the President (Reed) came up at the head of the Light Horse and his Spirited behavour Put an end to the affair and a number of them, were sent to Prison. I have just now been told, that this morn ing has Produc’d fresh trouble, that the Rioters had swore vengence against a Major Lenox who was very Active Yesterday, and that the President had orderd the Light Horse out againe on the Occasion. I am very Respectfully, Your Most H Serv. John Fell RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 Not found.


[Page 59]
October 5, 1779 25 James Forbes to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octobr 5th 1779 I have the pleasure of yours of the 30th Ulto. Inclosed you have the papers & a Second Essay on Trade & Finance: it is wrote by a Mr. Webster of this Town and I think contains many observations wor thy the particular attention of the several Legislatures. 1 No accounts from the southward since my last, every day expected and to hear of the French Fleet being off NYork—a very large Embarcation was taking place there said to be for the Southward Commanded by Lord Cornwalles but now expected to be stopt. The bad effects of the Committees in this Town has been experienced yesterday by a very daring & violent Insurrection & Mob, in which several Persons were Killed & wounded before they were quelled, many are made Prisoners, this morning they are collecting at Germantown and there is no judging how this unhappy affair may end. The amazing rise of every article in this place is truly allarming, Flour at £60 Per Ct, Rum £20 Per Gall. Adieu & be asshured that I ever am, My Dear Sir, Yours Sincerely, James Forbes RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 Pelatiah Webster’s Second Essay on Free Trade and Finance (Philadelphia: Thomas Bradford, 1779). See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16,671. William Churchill Houston to Caleb Camp Sir, 1 Philada. 5 October 1779. I am sorry that it has not been in my Power to command as much Time as I should have wished to employ, in giving a distinct Account to the Legislature of the most material Occurrences in the Progress of Business since I came to Congress. It is certainly the Duty of every Person in publick Trust to make those from whom he derives his Appointment acquainted with the Manner in which he executes it, that they may be enabled to decide how far he fulfils or deceives their Expectations, and to form, at any Time, a clear Estimate of his Character. Next to Want of Fidelity, I look upon the Neglect of giving due Information to his Constituents, the greatest Crime in a publick Man. The principal Intention of this is to point at a Question which from accidental Circumstances has acquired a Magnitude and Impor tance above what, simply considered, it was entitled to. A Question which has excited much Inveteracy and Ill-blood in Congress, and not a few Speculations and Suspicions abroad. I mean the Recal, or rather Supersession, of Mr. Arthur Lee, Commissioner of the United States at the Court of Madrid. I have carefully read over the Papers, and attended to every feasible Means of unbiassed Information rela-


[Page 60]
26 October 5, 1779 tive to this Question, and I think have done it with a Temper divested of Prejudice. The Result is this: I take Mr. Arthur Lee to be a man of a jealous, suspecting, difficult Disposition; trusty, capable and industrious. Indefatigable above others in procuring and transmit ting Intelligence, accurate and frugal in Expenses and Mony-matters, simple, severe and republican in his manners; so much so as to be thought by many sour and cynical. This I take to be his Character; and in many Essentials I am not afraid to call him equal to any Person Congress ever employed in a similar Capacity in Europe. The Story hawked about, that his Indiscretions prevented the Court of Spain from treating with him, I cannot think believed by those who propagate it, as that Conduct in the Spanish Ministry is ascrib able to very different Reasons which must strike every Person at once who has the least Knowledge of the State of matters as they respected that Power. But admitting he were the best-qualified and most meritorious Man on Earth, is it not my Duty to vote for remov ing him when the Time of Congress is absolutely wasted, and the publick Business not only retarded but stopped by unavailing Alterca tions concerning an Individual? When a General offers up a forlorn Hope to save an Army, the Alternative is dreadful; but the Principle is defensible and the Practice of it often necessary. I confess that in a republick, where Approbation, Honour and Praise, more than Money and Emoluments, are the Reward of faithful Services, such Things ought to be admitted with Reluctance and Caution; yet still they may not be always avoidable. But further, should it turn out to be a Fact that France was doubtful of him, and that Spain hesitated, it mat tered not how good a Man he was, one every way inferiour, if free from such Exception, would have been preferable for the Purpose of treating. The real Causes of Delay being now removed, it is to be hoped the gentleman who succeeds Mr. Lee will be successful. As I would ever wish to be simply just, but at the same Time to do what is best, all Things considered, I have no other Request than that this State of Facts may be remembered another Day, when Time will throw Light upon what is now dark, Prejudice will be extinct and the Means of judging fairly will come within the Reach of all. Into what Course of Conduct, or to what Length of Crimination, Resentment may impel this unfortunate Man, I am excused from surmising. Whether, as many have done, he will adhere to the Part he has taken in Spite of what he may think ill Treatment; or whether, as many have also done, he will transfer himself to a Situation where he will expect more Attention; does not belong immediately to the present Decision; at least, I have taken the Liberty to throw it out of the Balance. At all Events I am happy this troublesome Affair is ended, and I hope it will never rise up to disturb the Counsels of America more. Subjects of Contention and Animosity are retiring one after another, and Unanimity reviving in Congress where it is so essen tially necessary. Trifles have had their Day, and too long a one has it


[Page 61]
October 5, 1779 27 been; Matters of Moment have now a Claim to their, and that it may not only be longer, but perpetual, I am persuaded is the ardent wish of every honest Man. Upon reviewing what I have written, a Suspicion occurs that the above Representation may imply a Reflection on the Conduct of some of my Colleagus, which is as far from my Meaning as it would be repugnant to Justice. The Time is not the same, other Circum stances also disagree. On the contrary I must declare that I think their Situaton hard and undeserved. The whole Train of the Trans action I can trace minutely. To the Quarter from whence the Accusa tions have originated, the Motives which inspired them and the Instruments which have been employed for their Circulation I am not a Stranger, nor am I surprised at any Thing thus far. But that their Fellow-citizens should entertain Impressions unfavourable to those they once thought well of, and not call for an Investigation of their Conduct, or suspend their Opinions till an Explanation should be had, may perhaps be a Matter of some Discouragement. If the Gentlemen know what is alledged to their Charge, I am astonished they do not apply for an Opportunity of Justification. Certainly if I should ever be of Importance enough to be found fault with, I should expect the Liberty of explaining Facts and Motives; after that it is the Part of an honest Man to submit in Silence to the Judgment of those who have a Right to pass upon his Conduct. I enclose sundry Papers marked from Number 1 to 5 2 which I have met with since I came to this Place, and which I have copied for the Sight of such Gentlemen of the Legislature as may think it worth their Trouble to read them. They relate to a Matter which was before the Legislature at their last Sitting previous to the present. One, if not more of them, is on the Files of the Assembly. They may be of Use on some future Occasion, but my principal Object in copying them is to communicate the noble and dignified Sentiments of the Commander in Chief, and to give some Idea of the Difficul ties he has to encounter. If ever any Man deserved Gratitude and Confidence he does, and the more especially as his modesty will never allow him to be elated with the former, nor his goodness of Heart to abuse the latter. His Letter marked No. 2 is an Example of it’s Kind. It is necessary that I give you the Trouble of communicating to the Houses the Substance of this lengthened Letter. I have no Idea they will have Patience to go over the whole. I am, with due Respect, your obedt hble Servt, William Ch Houston RC (Nj: State Papers). 1 The recipient of Houston’s first “Account to the legislature” was identified by Edmund Burnett as Gov. William Livingston. Burnett, Letters, 4'ATi. The account, however, was probably addressed to Caleb Camp (1736-1816), of Essex Co., N.J., who


[Page 68]
34 October 6, 1779 Committee of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir, Philadelphia Octr 6th 1779 Yours of the 26th ulto. to the Committee, was reed, last Monday. The Expectation of the French Fleet on our Coast makes it necessary to provide for them. Our encouragements for flour in this quarter are at present unpromising, notwithstanding every exertion that has been used. We have the promise of Eight hundred barrels of flour from this State ready to be delivered which will be forwarded immediatly unless prevented by the present Commotions. We have further prospects of flour from below, & also from this State, but how Much or how Soon is uncertain, we place Much Dependance, in this Critical Juncture, on your abilities 8c unremitting exertions for the Supplies immediatly wanted. Inclosed you have an Order from the Marine Commttee. 1 on our agent at Boston for any quantity of Sugar not exceeding 100 Hogs, to enable you to fulfill your engagements for flour—also for 200 Hogs, of rum for the use of the army. The Resolutions of Congress in favour of New York we hope will have the most Salutary effects. 2 You will know how to make the proper use of them. In behalf of the Commttee. on the Commissary’s Departmt. 8cc, I am your obedt humble Servant, Jesse Root Chn. RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). Written and signed by Root. 1 Not found. 2 For these resolves, designed to permit Wadsworth to send sugar and rum to New York in enchange for flour and wheat, see Samuel Huntington to George Clinton, and to Wadsworth, October 1, 1779; and Jesse Root to Wadsworth, this day. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday October 6 1779 Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches were Read a Committee of 12 was appointed for the apportening the Quotas for the Payment of the 15 Million. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary October 6-7, 1779 6. Wednesday. General Arnold applied to Congress for a gard, 1 8c Congress informed him that his application shod have been to the executive of this State.


[Page 69]
October 6, 1779 35 Octr. 7. Thursday. A Court of inquiry met here this day, respect ing the persons killed a few days ago. 2 MS (MDaAr). 1 For Arnold’s request “for a gard,” see the following entry. 2 Holten is referring to the lives lost at the “Fort Wilson” riot. Samuel Huntington to Benedict Arnold Sir, In Congress Octr 6th 1779 The enclosd act contains the answer of Congress to your letter of this day which I communicated immediately upon the receipt of it. 1 I am &c., S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In his October 6 letter to Congress, Arnold had explained that he had been attacked recently by “A Mob of Lawless Ruffians” in the streets of Philadelphia and requested a Continental guard for his protection, as “there is no protection to be expected from the Authority of the State for an honest Man.” Arnold’s gratuitous remark against Pennsylvania was of course seen as an insult to the state, and in summarily rejecting the general’s request Congress added a slap to his wrists by affirming confidence in Pennsylvania officials and expressing disapproval of “the insinuations of every individual to the contrary.” He was instead advised, in the resolve Huntington enclosed with his letter, that his application for protection should have been made directly “to the executive authority of the State of Pennsylvania.” In a second letter to Huntington of this date, Arnold immediately offered an apology of sorts, explaining that he had doubted only Pennsylvania's “Abilities” not “Disposition” to protect him, but he could not resist concluding with the feisty warn ing that should he be attacked again he would defend himself “to the last Extremity” and presumed that Congress would not then hold him “Chargible for the Conse quences.” See JCC, 15:1147; and PCC, item 162, fols. 18591. For Arnold’s long feud with Pennsylvania, and the October 4 “Fort Wilson” riot which formed the immediate background to the present incident, see these Letters, 11:522-24, 12:95-96, 143, 152, 178-80, 329-30; and John Fell’s Diary, October 4, 1779, note. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen October 6th 1779 This will be forwarded to you from New London by Captain James Nicholson whom we have appointed to take the Command of the Ship Trumbull, and have referred him to the Orders he may receive from your Board in whatever relates to his Ship. 1 We request that you will immediately give him the necessary Instructions on that head, and take measures to have the Trumbull speedily fitted for Sea. Your recommendation of Captain Hinman shall have due weight the first opportunity, 2 but we could not appoint him to the com mand of this Ship without breaking a general rule which we had


[Page 72]
38 October 7, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Thursday 7th [October 1779], Coml Committee. Congress. The Committee of 12 brought in a Report as follows, viz New Hampshire 400,000 Massachusets 2,300,000 Rhode Island 200,000 Connecticut 1,700,000 New York 750,000 New Jersey 900,000 Philadelphia 2,300,000 Delaware 170,000 Maryland 1,580,000 Virginia 2,500,000 No Carolina 1,000,000 So Carolina 1,200,000 15,000,000 NB the Delegates from New Jersey as well as some other States did all they could to lower their sums but all in vain. P.M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Phil’a, 7th Oct’r 1779. You will receive this by Mr Phelps, of whose Fidelity to New York I have a good opinion; tho I cannot approve of all his Manoeuvres to serve the State on this occasion. 1 He appears neither to Want Talents or Zeal, but the latter is not always according to knowledge, and the former carry him sometimes into [. . .]. One of the New Hampshire Delegates told me that Phelps, in order to engage him against Vermont, endeavoured to persuade him that New Hampshire had a Right to a number of Townships in it; and he further told me, that on comparing Notes with the Massachusets Delegates, he found that Phelps had been playing the same Game with them. This Story he told me in the Presence of some of the Massachusets Delegates who smiled and were silent. I have never said any thing of this to Phelps because it could have answered no good Purpose; And I mention it to you, as a Circumstance which marks the Man. He has however by talking on the Subject with every body, done good. In my opinion his Expences should be paid without Hesitation, and he should be so treated as to go home in perfect good Humour with the Legislature, for whom he now professes great Regard & Esteem, & I believe he is


[Page 73]
October 7, 1779 39 sincere in his attachment. Men of his Turn and Talk are always useful when properly directed. It is easily done by encouraging the good opinion he entertains of his own Importance. The exceeding high opinion entertained here of your Constitu tion and the wisdom of your Counsels, has made a deep Impression on many People of wealth and Consequence in this State, who are dissatisfied with their own; and unless their opinions should pre viously be changed, will remove to New York the moment the Enemy leave it. Mr. Gerard, (who seems better acquainted with Republics than almost any man I have ever known) has passed many Encomi ums on our Constitution & Government and I am persuaded, no Circumstance will conduce more to the Population of our Country by Migrations from others, than the Preservation of its Vigor and Reputation. This unhappy City is all in Confusion—the Government wants Nerves, and the public Peace has for some Days been destroyed by Mobs and Riots which seem to defy the authority of the Magistrate. This is one of the Fruits of their whimsical Constitution, and of the Countenance given to Committees & Let Politicians learn from this, to dread the least Deviation from the Line of Constitutional Authority. Obsta Principiis, is a good Maxim, but all have not sufficient Decision in their Conduct to observe it. Government once relaxed is not easily braced. And it is far more difficult to reassume Powers than permit them to be taken and executed by those who have no Right by the Constitution to hold them. Morris is again with us, and I am glad of it. His Constituents must be either infatuated or wretchedly misinformed, if they omit continu ing him in the Delegation. 2 But you know my Sentiments on this Subject, and it is unnecessary to dwell on it. For Heaven’s Sake, send an able Delegation and preserve the high Rank you hold among the States. I wish Hobart 3 may be sent; at this Season he would be partic ularly useful, and I am sure until your Vermont Business be over, a special occasion for his being here will clearly exist. One of the New Hampshire Delegates 4 seems much inclined to make the Ridge of mountains instead of Connecticut River, the Boundary between us; and that the Soil between the Mountains and the River should remain the Property of those to whom it had been granted either under New York or New Hampshire. He observed and I think with Propriety, that this Line by dividing the disaffected between the two States, would render the Reduction of them to good order less difficult, and by interesting both States in their Allegiance prevent their again acting in a Body or easily uniting their Counsell for Purposes injurious to Government. My Reply to this Gentleman was, that I had no Authority to say any thing on this Subject, that I knew the State of New York to be sincerely disposed to cultivate Harmony with her Neighbours, and was persuaded that no Settle ment founded injustice & mutual Convenience will be disagreable


[Page 81]
Octobers, 1779 47 Events. Let us all exert ourselves to the best of our abilities & let me add who can surmount difficulties better than your self. It is with pleasure I assure you that great Harmony & good humour Subsists in Congress with Close attention to business. I am with Sincerity your humbe Servt, Sami. Huntington RC (CtHWa: James Wadsworth Collection). 1 See Huntington to Wadsworth, October 1, 1779. 2 Wadsworth’s letter to Congress of October 4 and a similar letter from Washington was referred to a committee appointed to assist preparations for provisioning the Conti nental Army. See JCC, 15: 1151; and PCC, item 78, 24:93-96. See also Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Johnson, October 9, 1779. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octor 8th. 1779 I had the honour to receive your Excellencies Letter of the 4th Instant this morning and have laid it before Congress. 1 Before this comes to hand you will receive the Act of Congress directing the North Carolina Troops to halt at Trenton and a Copy of the orders to Col. Clarke in Consequence of your former Letter. I have now the pleasure to acquaint your Excellency that Congress fully approve of your Orders, Countermanding the march of those Troops. I have the honour to be, with Sentiments of the greatest Esteem & Regard, Your Exys humble servant, Sami. Huntington President 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For Congress’ response to this letter, see the following entry. 2 For “the Act of Congress directing the North Carolina Troops to halt at Trenton,” see Huntington to Washington, October 5, 1779. Congress’ approval of Washington’s order “Countermanding the march of those Troops” was not officially recorded in the journals, doubtless because its previous resolve of October 4 had simply provided that their halt was to be observed “till farther Orders.” 3 Huntington also wrote the following personal letter this day to Gov. William Living ston of New Jersey. “The congratulations your Excellency has been pleasd to honour me with in your favour of the 7th Instant command my most greatfull Acknowledgements. “At the same time permit me with sincerity to Adopt the Language of the roman sedile [a subordinate official originally charged with assisting the tribunes in the administra tion of public buildings], I call tbe Gods to witness (Says he) that how honorable soever this dignity seems to me I have too just a Sense of its weight not to have more solicitude & disquiet, than Joy and Pleasure from it. “If by any Civilities to those of your family in this City I have made my Self agreable it will give me Additional pleasure & Satisfaction. “Be assured Sir it will be my constant endeavour to pay proper Attention to whatever may relate to Govr Livingston.” William Livingston Papers, NN.


[Page 82]
48 October 9, 1779 Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Johnson Sir, Phila. Sepr. [i.e. October] 9th. 1779 Your Excellency will be informed by the enclosed Copy of a Letter from the Commander in chief to Congress, that a large quantity of Flour will be immediately wanted for the Army. 1 We have calculated upon the State of Marylands furnishing Ten thousand Barrs, over and above what Mr. Holkers Agents want for the Count D. estaignes Fleet, which we have reason to believe is more than half laid in. The Agent for Virga should suspend his Purchases for that State till the Ten thousand Barrs, for General Washington are procured. Vessels must be had if possible for the Transportation of this Flour to such place or places as his Excellency the General shall hereafter direct. To enable you to furnish the Purchasers with Money, you will from time to time draw from your Treasury such sums as have, or may come into it from Continental Taxes; and whatever may be further wanted, must be sent from this place of which be pleased to forward an Estimate: But as the Continental Treasury is very low, we beg of you to press as little upon it as possible. Altho it is well known to the Enemy that the Count D’estaigne may be hourly expected, yet as it is not known that the General & he are to act in Concert, Congress have enjoined its Members to Secrecy, which you & the Council will be pleased to observe. With the greatest respect and esteem we are, Sir, Your Excellencys, Most Obedient Servts. Nich. Van Dyke James Forbes Wm. Paca Daniel of St Thos. Jenifer Jno. Mathews RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Jenifer and signed by Jenifer, Forbes, Mathews, Paca, and Van Dyke. 1 Washington’s concern stemmed from the anticipated arrival of the French fleet in North American waters and the needs of the troops of Gen. John Sullivan returning from the western expedition. In his October 4 letter to Congress, Washington explained that in anticipation of cooperating with the comte d’Estaing in “an attempt against New York” he had called upon Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania for 12,000 militia. Since Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth had informed him that beef was plentiful but flour was in short supply, Washington specifically urged that Gov. Thomas Johnson “be requested to push purchases” in Maryland, its wheat being “in more forwardness for grinding than any other.” In a letter of the same date, Wadsworth also informed Congress that he had been ordered by Washington “to Prepare to feed Ten thousand men; more than our present army.” And given the difficulty in procuring flour, Wadsworth asked that steps be taken to procure rice from South Carolina as well. Both letters were read in Congress on October 8 and referred to the delegates of Delaware, Maryland, and South Carolina, who reported this day. Congress there upon authorized the president of Delaware and the governors of Maryland and


[Page 83]
October 9, 1779 49 South Carolina to draw on “the several treasurers in those states” to purchase flour and rice from taxes to be levied according to the state quotas adopted on October 7. See JCC, 15:1150 51, 1157; PCC, item 152, 8:73-78; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16: 406-9, 417n.81. 2 This day the committee also wrote the following letter to Caesar Rodney, president of Delaware: “By the inclosed Copy of General Washington’s Letter of the 4th Inst, to Congress, your Excellency will perceive the Reasons which induced the General to advise Con gress to call on the States therein Mentioned for an immediate large Supply of Flour, for the Army expected to be brought into the Field; “And altho the State of Delaware is not there Mentioned, as Congress deemed that an Omission in the hurry of Business, and their Duty to supply have included that State in their Requisition. “The Quantity for Delaware is 5,000 Barrels; Congress judges it prudent to keep this Matter as great a Secret as possible, as well to prevent the wicked Operations of our internal & infernal Enemy called Speculators &c as for other Obvious Reasons. “As it is absolutely Necessary this Bussiness be immediately set on Foot, with the utmost Industry and Spirit, the Committee have not the least Doubt of your Excellency’s vigorous assistance—to enable the Persons you may appoint to this Business to pro ceed therein sucessfully, inclosed you have a general Order of Congress on the Treasurer of your State for such Sums as may from Time to Time be found to be Necessary—and should that Fund prove insufficient you’l be pleased to give Con gress early Intelligence that Provision may be made Accordingly. “It will be necessary to have the Flour stored at the most proper & Convenient Landings in each County of your State, for Transportation; and when any Consider able Quantity is provided, Information thereof will be proper, that suitable Vessels may be provided to receive the same.” FMS Am 1300, MH-H. The committee undoubtedly prepared a similar letter for Gov. John Rutledge requesting rice from South Carolina, but it apparently has not survived. John Fell’s Diary Saturday October 9th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches were Read the Committee on Ways and mea[n]s brought in the draft of a Letter to be sent to the Governours and President of Each State for the Requi sition of the 15 Million &c. The Committee brought in the draught of Commission and Letter of Credence for the Secretary appointed to go to Spain. 1 MS (DLC). 1 In his diary for this day Samuel Holten merely recorded that “I dined with Mr. Laurens and about 12 more members of Congress. Mr. Lowell & Mr. Cleveland came to board with us. No news this day.” MDaAr. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke My Dear Sir Philadelphia Octr. 9. 1779 I had the pleasure of receiving three letters from you while you was on the Road, which I answered some time ago. I am happy to


[Page 91]
October 12, 1779 57 13. Wednesday. I met a Committee this evening on Genl Arnold’s Accounts. 2 MS (MDaAr). 1 Neither of these letters has been found. Pulaski had been mortally wounded on October 9 during a cavalry charge against the British defenses at Savannah, Ga. 2 Holten had been appointed on October 1 to a committee to examine the accounts of Gen. Benedict Arnold for his nine months’ service as commandant of Philadelphia in 1778-79. See JCC, 15:1126, 1134; and John Fell’s Diary, October 1, 1779. Samuel Huntington to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. Octr 12th 1779 I am directed by Congress to lay before the Commissioners for indian Affairs in the northern district of which you have the honour to be Chairman copies of General Sullivan’s letter of the 2d instant, his Speech to the Oneidas &c and their Answer which you will receive herewith enclos’d. 1 I have the honour to be, with Sentiments of esteem & regard, your humble Servt, S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 15:1161. In his October 2 letter to Congress, John Sullivan had expressed optimism that the measures he had recently taken would bring about the repentance of hostile Iroquois warriors and reassure the friendly Oneidas, who had long been favorably disposed to the United States. In his speech to the Oneidas, he had asserted that Congress would “totally extirpate the other five nations except those who have joined you & continued friends to the United States & such others as may think proper to come in & enter into a firm league to join our friends the Oneidas.” Sullivan’s letter to Congress, with his enclosed speech to the Oneidas and their response, are in Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 3:137 41. The MSS of the first two documents are in PCC, item 160, fols. 328-33, but the last has not been found. Woodbury Langdon to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia Octobr the 12 1779 The reasons why I have not done myself the honor of writing to you before are these. Soon after my arrival I was taken very ill of a Fever which confined me to my Bed a considerable time and since my recovery General Whipple has gone home who from his long residence and experience at Congress will be able to give you a more perfect Account of the transactions here than can be expected from me. Since my recovery I have attended Congress with the closest appli cation and shall endeavour to exert myself if my health continues to the utmost of my abilites while here. You will have received sundry Resolutions relative to Vermont from the President of Congress a


[Page 92]
58 October 12, 1779 Copy of the last of which I herein inclose, the others of the 24th September were pass’d while I was confined and I cannot say are altogether to my mind. This Business in my opinion is of the greatest consiquence to New Hampshire and requires her most serious atten tion for many very weighty Reasons among which give me leave to mention the following. That as the thirteen united States have declared themselves independent which they will beyond all doubt support and at the same time have reserved to each State its particu lar seperate independence and sovereignty and as New Hampshire without Vermont will be very small and weak compared with her neighbouring States and it cannot be expected in the nature of things but that some day or other differences will arise between that State and her neighbours in which case she will be under great disadvan tages on Account of her weakness, it therefore is her indispensable duty in the first seting out to endeavour by all proper means to be as much on a footing with her neighbours as possible, of the truth of this I am more & more convinced every day, it will also give her greater weight in the grand Councils of America and be an amazing saving of Tax—both which are objects well worthy consideration. The same reasons will apply to Vermont against her being a seperate State and in favour of her being connected with New Hampshire, indeed there does not appear to me the least probability that Ver mont will be allowed to be a seperate State and every step that has been or may be taken by New Hampshire to countenance it weakens her claim far beyond what many Gentlemen of New Hampshire have any conception of, and will be so construed in disiding the dispute, therefore I wish most heartily that New Hampshire and the Inhabitants of what is called the Grants or Vermont would for the interest of both lay aside every thought of making the latter a seperate State and unite in their endeavours to be one State in which case in my opinon they will succeed, but if Vermont persists in endeavoring to be a seperate State and New Hampshire appears to acquiese they will very likely both be disappointed and in all probability Vermont will be adjudged to New York. I confess I am anxiously concerned for the settlement of this Matter and when I declare that I have no private Interest in the Tract of Country called Vermont and never expect to have it will I flatter myself be admitted that I can have no view seperate from the true Interest of New Hampshire when I endeavour to prevent the Grants from being loped off from New Hampshire of which without vigorous exertions there appears to be danger. The Delegates of New York, Massachusetts Bay and New Hamp shire have most of them thought it best to recommend to their several States a particular form of an Act to answer the end of the Resolutions referred to above, in order that there might be a similiarity in the Acts, the Delegates from the two former States have accordingly sent a form of an Act to their respective States, a Copy


[Page 98]
64 October 12, 1779 says that an Attack had been made upon the Garrison at Beaufort, that after an Action of three Hours & a Quarter, it was carried, Nine hundred of the Enemy made Prisoners—All their Baggage & Stores taken, & their Shiping there destroyed—That the Count had ordered his Ships up the Savannah to cooperate with Genl. Lincoln. A few Days must give us full Information. Our Affairs Abroad are in the most prosperous Train. Most of the European Powers wish us well, and if all of them do not, we know of no Enemy but Britain— And we know not that they have a Friend in Heaven or Earth. It behoves us however to be our Own Friend—so may we expect the further Blessing of Heaven & the Completion—a happy Completion to the glorious struggle and I trust Heaven is ready to hand it out to Us as soon as we shall be fully disposed to receive it. That so glorious is the sincere prayer of Your Excellencys most obedient & very hum ble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. I enclose your Excellency the Weekly Journals of Congress in Course down to the 28th of August. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Rhode Island’s new assessment was $200,000 of the $15 million required from the states monthly for 1780 compared to $300,000 of the $15 million required for 1779. JCC, 13:28, 15:1150. 2 For New Jersey’s “Address,” see John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen October 12th. 1779 We wrote you the 6th instant by Captain James Nicholson whom we have appointed to Command the Trumbull, since which we are favoured with yours of the 23rd ultimo. 1 We have now to inform you that we have named the New ship Building at Middleton the Bourbon and have given the command of her to Captain Thomas Read who will go from hence in a few days to superintend the fitting and manning of her—respecting which you will give him the necessary Orders and use your endeavours in getting ready that Ship as soon as possible. We enclose you a Resolve of Congress of the 17th Ultimo appoint ing Colonel Silas Talbot a Captain in the Navy of the United States, and we have determined that should you purchase the Thorne he shall command her; 2 we expect to hear shortly if you have pur chased that vessel. The Ship Confederacy being destined for france and other opportunitys from this place affording sufficient convey ances for the Public despatches, the Packets now at your port which have been kept for that purpose need not be longer detained but may be employed in importing Articles for the use of our Navy. You will please therefore to load them with Tobacco or such Other Arti cles as can be procured that will be suitable at the Bilbao Market and


[Page 99]
October 13, 1779 65 dispatch them for that Port, ordering back the returns in Rigging, Sail Cloth, Powder, Lead & such other articles as are most wanted for your Department. Should it be necessary to provide Prison ships at Boston or Portsmouth in New Hampshire you are Authorized to do so, and to furnish the Commissary General of Prisoners or his Deputy with Cartel vessels when they are wanted. We are Gentn, Your Hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s September 23 letter to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. 2 JCC, 15:1075-76. For a discussion of Talbot’s achievements and the failure of these efforts to secure him a suitable ship as a reward for his exploits as commander of the Argo, see Henry Marchant to Silas Talbot, August 9, 1779, note 2. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir October 12th [1779] The good Intentions of a neighboring state having committed to our charge the conveyance of the enclosed paper, 1 we do ourselves the honor to hand it to the Virginia assembly under your address. We have only to add that in consequence of a representation from the same state addressed and received by Congress the business is so far began as to be committed to a member from each state. We have the honor to be, Sir, your most obedient humble Servants, C Griffin Js. Mercer William Fitzhugh Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan V. Henkels.” 1 For the enclosed New Jersey representation on price limitations, see John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee Sir Octr. 13. 1779. This is officially to convey to you the Knowledge of the Appoint ment of a Minister plenipotentiary in lieu of a Commissioner at the Court of Spain; and also a Resolve of Congress of this Day 1 upon the Reading of your Letter of the 31 st of May. 2 Mr. Jay will probably be in a short Time in Europe to execute his Commission. I am, Sir, your most humble Servant, James Lovell, for the Comtee. of forgn. Affairs


[Page 102]
68 October 13, 1779 Capellen, which was referred to committee this day, is in PCC, item 78, 8:327-30. JCC, 15:1167 James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir [October 13, 1779] 1 I believe I made some mistake in putting up the Papers for you by last post, as I find a Letter of the Kind which I intended to have sent. Direction on the Cover— His Excellency The President of Congress Paris June 5th. 1779 I beg the favor of your Excellency, to lay my Respect before Congress; with a Repetition of my most earnest request to be recalled. I should most willingly continue to sacrifice as I have hitherto done, my private Interests to the public good. But I am satisfied that the dissentions raised concerning me, will be continued by a continu ance of my Commission, and will be of more injury to the public than I can be of Service. And as the public good was the sole motive of my accepting the Commission, the same reason now induces me to desire most earnestly to resign it. I have the honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellencys most obedient humble Servant. Tho’ dated June 5th it is the exact Copy of May 31st. which was this day read in Congress and produced the inclosed Resolve. 2 I imagined such an Entry on the Journals would be a sort of decency beyond total silence and therefore moved it. The Letter was listened to with Gravity and some Remarks I made were approved & con firmed by each one who spoke and by no one more than Mercer who acknowledged that this Letter gave him new & pleasing Ideas of Mr Lee. I was sure yr. Brother would so Conduct if he found his Ability to serve these States to be impaired by the malignant Arts of his avowed Enemies strengthened by the unbecoming Tameness of those who ought to be the Patrons of his Honor on the meer ground of official Relation, to say nothing of his proved Capacity for acknowl edged Integrity and his unwearied Zeal. I did not mention to put into the Presidents Letter, as a copy now sent, one of the old Letters of March 1st 3 for had I been interogated as to its arrival I should not have been in the State that honest Davus wished to be in regard to the placing of the Infant, ut liquido faciam says he, if I am called upon to deny it. There would be a meaness in putting in now what I intend readily to own, when there is occasion, that I aided to Suppress. I have by me a Letter from Capt. Fowler to a Friend of his here Col. Semple, 4 in which, upon Sight of Rowlands Peice of Augst. 10th, 5 he was induced to insert the strongest Testimony of the Stock


[Page 104]
70 October 13, 1779 4 Alexander Fowler, auditor of the army in the western district, and William Semple. 5 Richard Henry had written a number of essays defending Arthur Lee that were printed in the Pennsylvania Packet during August over the pseudonym “Rowland.” See Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, August 17, 1779, note 3. Gouverneur Morris’ Draft Motion [October 13, 1779] 1 That the Minister of these States to his Catholick Majesty be pri vately instructed to recede from the Claim of a free Navigation of the River Mississippi mentd. in his Instructions below the 31st Degree of North Latitude on Condition of the Grant of a free Port therein also Mentd. if the obtaining such Navigation shall be found an inseperable Bar to the proposed Treaties of Amity & Commerce between these States & his Catholic Majesty. Provided always that if the Power herein contained be confined to the said Minister & not in Case of his Death or Absence to be exercised by any other Person. 2 MS (DLC: Force Collection). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris. 1 This document, which agrees verbatim with the “motion . . . made by Mr Witherspoon, seconded by Mr Morris” and recorded in the secret journal for October 13, was the copy given to Secretary Thomson, as the vote of the delegates on this motion is recorded on the verso in Thomson’s hand. The handwriting on the motion was misidentified by Worthington C. Ford as that of John Witherspoon in the pub lished journal, which for this entry was reconstructed from Thomson’s secret journal. See PCC, item 1, 23:36-38, item 5, 1:352-53; and JCC, 15:1168n.2. 2 This motion reflects the concern of some delegates that Congress had pressed too far in demanding “free navigation of the river Mississippi into and from the sea” in its September 17 resolution on the negotiation of a Spanish treaty. The delegates, however, stood by the resolution as originally adopted by a vote of six to four. For the formula tion of the instructions to the minister to Spain, see Henry Laurens’ Notes on a Treaty, September 9-17, note 1; and Samuel Huntington tojohn Jay, October 16, 1779. Nicholas Van Dyke to Thomas Bradford Sir, 1 13 Octo. 1779. The inclosed Bill of Cost you’l perceive is made out by the Goaler of New Castle County, to whom the Prisoner’s therein named were Committed, when taken from on Board the small French Schooner lately brought into Philada, being retaken by the Mate, she was bound from Baltimore on a Cruise to Caegin with Plank & Tarr. The Reason of the Prisoner’s being landed here was, the Mate was fearful he was not safe in keeping them on Board, as he looked on himself alone except the Hands put on Board by the Privateer who took him—after which as soon as he procured Hands to assist him to go to Philada. he proceeded without calling for the Prisoners. You’l be pleased to allow what is usual in such Cases, & pav the same to


[Page 105]
October 14, 1779 71 Mr. George Garland the Bearer whose Receipt will be sufficient for the same. I am Sir, yr. Most obdt. Nichs. Van Dyke RC (PHi: Society Collection). 1 Bradford, who published the Pennsylvania Journal and Weekly Advertiser in Phila delphia, had been appointed deputy commissary general of prisoners in January 1778. See DAB; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:310. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin Sir Octr. 14th. 1779, Philada. By a letter of July 16th the Superscription of Letters to “Our great faithful beloved Friend & Ally” was submitted to your Judgement. 1 You ought however to be told Mr. Gerard has one to deliver directed in the same manner, the double of which you herewith receive, to be kept for him, to serve in case he may have been forced to sink his Papers. The Opportunity by him from this Port being so good I only now send a few of the latest Prints and Journals, large Packages being on board the Confederacy. Your most humble Servant, James Lovell for the Comtee of forgn. Affrs. RC (PHi: Franklin Papers). Written and signed by Lovell. 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Franklin, July 16, 1779, notes 3 and 4. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 14th Octr [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Long debates about the title to be given the President of Congress whether Excellency or Honor 1 and the filling up the Secretary Commission. Dr Wetherspoon not in Congress, State not Represented. 2 P. M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 Although the journals contain no mention of these “long debates,” the president of Congress continued to be addressed “Excellency.” 2 Fell’s observation indicates that William Churchill Houston and Nathaniel Scud der were also absent at this time, as New Jersey required the presence of "any two” delegates for a quorum. Scudder had last voted on September 17, Houston on Octo ber 6.JCC, 15:1074, 1148.


[Page 113]
October 15, 1779 79 opportunity to query the retreating American forces and assessing the causes of their failure. 5 For the meaning of this allusion to Armstrong’s interest in acquiring a tract of land in Berkeley County, Va., see Armstrong to Washington, June 29, 1779, note. John Fell’s Diary Friday 15th Octor. [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Mr Jay requested leave for Lt Coll Livingston to goe with him to Spain, a furloe was granted for 12 Months. 1 Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 See Jay to Samuel Huntington, this date. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia Octr. 15th. 1779. The inclosed address, from the Legislative-Council & General Assembly of the State of New-Jersey, came to hand a few days since; 1 which I do myself the honor to transmit; the representation made to Congress therein mentioned, respecting the Utility (&c) of the mea sure is now under consideration of a Committee of twelve, being a member from each State. The late application from the honble. Board to Congress, respect ing the Penobscot affair, is referred to a committee. Yesterday Congress agreed to recommend to the several states to set apart the 2d Thursday in Deer, next, for a day of public thanks giving throughout the united states. 2 Congress have received no intelligence (to be depended upon) from the Southern Army, or the Count De Estaign, since my last, but are daily expecting news of importance from that quarter. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, your most obedient servant, S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honorable, The President of the Council of Massa. Bay.” 1 See John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, October 20, 1779.


[Page 114]
80 October 15, 1779 John Jay to Samuel Huntington Sir Philadelphia 15 Octr. 1779 Governor Livingston having consented that his Son whom Con gress have honored with the Commission of Lt. Colonel, should go with me to Spain, I join with him in requesting the Favor of Con gress to grant him their Permission. 1 1 have the Honor to be with great Respect & Esteem, Your Excel- lencys most obedt Servt. John Jay 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 Congress immediately complied with Jay’s request, granting his brother-in-law Henry Brockhoist Livingston a twelve-month leave of absence from the Continental Army to continue his employment as Jay’s secretary. JCC, 15:1173. President Huntington’s October 15 letter to Livingston enclosing this resolve is in PCC, item 14, fol. 208. 2 This is the last Jay letter printed in this edition of delegate correspondence. For two letters touching on congressional affairs, which he wrote on board the Confederacy just before weighing anchor for his voyage to Spain, see his letters of October 25 to George Clinton and to Robert R. Livingston in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 659-66. To Governor Clinton, he recommended that New York more vigorously press its claims to Indian lands, and to Livingston he sent a cipher, which is discussed at length by the editors of Jay’s papers, to facilitate their correspondence while he was abroad. John Fell’s Diary Saturday. October 16th [1779], Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches &c were read, Congress went in to a Committee of the whole on a Report for obtaining a Loan for 5 Million of Dollars and having the same sold in Bills of Exchange or laid out in the Purchase of Goods to be disposed of by order of Congress, with a long train of Commissioners &C. 1 After debate adjournd. MS (DLC). 1 The ways and means committee’s October 15 report, which recommended that “a credit” be obtained “at the Courts of Versailles and Madrid” for the purchase of $5 million of merchandise for resale in the United States by commissioners appointed by Congress, was rejected by the committee of the whole on October 19. See JCC, 15:1174-77, 1181, 1186-87; and Fell’s Diary, October 18 and 19, 1779. Samuel Holten’s Diary Octr. 16. 1779 Saturday. We have a report that the enemy in Georgia are all made prisoners. MS (MDaAr).


[Page 115]
October 16, 1779 81 Samuel Huntington to John Adams Sir, [October 16, 1779] You will herewith receive a commission giving you full power to negotiate a treaty of peace with Great Britain, 1 in doing which you will conform to the following information & instructions. 2 First. The United states are sincerely desirous of peace and wish by every means consistent with their dignity and safety to spare the further effusion of blood. They have therefore by your commission and these instructions laboured to remove the obstacles to that event before the enemy have evidenced their disposition for it. But as the great object of the present defensive war on the part of the allies is to establish the independence of the united states, and as any treaty, whereby this end cannot be obtained, must be only ostensible and illusory, you are therefore to make it a preliminary article to any negotiation, That Great Britain shall agree to treat with the united states as Sovereign, free and independent. Secondly. You Shall take especial care also, that the independence of the said States be effectually assured and confirmed by the treaty or treaties of peace, according to the form and effect of the treaty of alliance with his most Ghristian Majesty; & you shall not agree to such treaty or treaties, unless the same be thereby so assured and confirmed. Thirdly. The boundaries of these states are as follows viz, These States are bounded, North, by a line to be drawn from the North west angle of Nova Scotia along the highlands, which divide those rivers which empty themselves into the river St. Lawrence from those which fall into the Atlantic Ocean, to the northwestermost head of Connecticut river, thence down along the middle of that river to the forty fifth degree of North latitude, thence due west in the latitude forty five degrees north from the equator to the Northwestermost side of the river St. Lawrence or Cadaraqui, thence straight to the south end of lake Nipissing, and thence straight to the source of the river Mississippi; West, by a line to be drawn along the middle of the river Mississippi from its source to where the said line shall intersect the thirty first degree of North latitude: South, by a line to be drawn due east from the termination of the line last mentioned in the latitude of thirty one degrees north from the equator to the middle of the river Appalachicola or Catahouchi, thence along the middle thereof to its junction with the Flint river, thence straight to the head of St Mary’s river and thence down along the middle of St. Mary’s river to the Atlantic Ocean: and East, by a line to be drawn along the middle of St. John’s river from its source to its mouth in the bay of Fundy; comprehending all islands within twenty leagues of any part of the shores of the United states and lying between lines to be drawn due east from the points where the aforesaid boundaries


[Page 116]
82 October 16, 1779 between Nova Scotia on the one part and East Florida on the other part shall respectively touch the bay of Fundy and Atlantic Ocean. You are therefore strongly to contend that the whole of the said countries and islands lying within the boundaries aforesaid and every citadel, fort, post, place, harbour and road to them belonging be absolutely evacuated by the land and sea forces of his Britannic Majesty and yielded to the powers of the states to which they respec tively belong, in such situation as they may be, at the termination of the war. But notwithstanding the clear right of these states and the importance of the object, yet they are so much influenced by the dictates of religion and humanity and so desirous of complying with the earnest requests of their allies, that if the line to be drawn from the mouth of the lake Nipissing to the head of the Mississippi cannot be obtained without continuing the war for that purpose, you are hereby empowered to agree to some other line between that point and the river Mississippi, provided the same shall in no part thereof be to the southward of latitude forty five degrees north: And in like manner, if the eastern boundary above described cannot be obtained, you are hereby empowered to agree, that the same shall be after wards adjusted by commissioners to be duly appointed for that pur pose according to such line as shall be by them settled and agreed on as the boundary between that part of the State of Massachusetts bay formerly called the province of Maine and the colony of Nova Scotia agreeably to their respective rights: And you may also consent that the enemy shall destroy such fortifications as they may have erected. Fourthly. Although it is of the utmost importance to the peace and commerce of the united states, that Canada and Nova Scotia should be ceded and more particularly that their equal common right to the fisheries should be guarantied to them, yet a desire of terminating the war hath induced us not to make the acquisition of these objects an ultimatum on the present occasion. Fifthly. You are empowered to agree to a cessation of hostilities during the negotiation, provided our ally shall consent to the same, and provided it shall be stipulated that all the forces of the enemy shall be immediately withdrawn from the United States. Sixthly. In all other matters not abovementioned you are to govern yourself by the alliance between his most Christian Majesty and these states; by the advice of our allies; by your knowledge of our interests, and by your own discretion, in which we repose the fullest confidence. Done at Philadelphia this sixteenth day of October in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy nine and in the fourth year of our Independence. By the Congress of the united states of America, Sami. Huntington President Attest, Chas Thomson secy. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written and attested by Charles Thomson, and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “The honble John Adams esq minister plenipotentiary appointed to negotiate a treaty of peace.”


[Page 120]
86 October 16, 1779 Majesty of acceding to the alliance entered into between his Most Christian Majesty and these united states; And therefore that noth ing may be wanting on their part to facilitate the views of his Most Christian Majesty and to obtain a treaty of alliance and of amity and commerce with his catholic Majesty, have thought proper to antici pate any propositions which his Catholic Majesty might make on that subject by yielding up to him those objects which they conclude he may have principally in view, and for that purpose have come to the following resolution, “That if his Catholic Majesty shall accede to the said treaties and in concurrence with France and the united states of America continue the present war with Great Britain for the purpose expressed in the treaties aforesaid, he shall not thereby be precluded from securing to himself the Floridas; on the contrary if he shall obtain the Floridas from great Britain, these united states will guaranty the same to his catholic Majesty; provided always that the united states shall enjoy the free navigation of the river Mississippi into and from the sea.” You are therefore to communicate to his most Christian Majesty the desire of Congress to enter into a treaty of alliance and of Amity and commerce with his Catholic Majesty and to request his favoura ble interposition for that purpose; At the same time you are to make such proposals to his Catholic Majesty as in your judgment, from circumstances will be proper for obtaining for the united states of America equal advantages with those, which are secured to them by the treaties with his most Christian Majesty, observing always the resolution aforesaid as the ultimatum of these united states. You are particularly to endeavour to obtain some convenient port or ports below the 31st degree of north latitude on the river Mississippi free for all merchant vessels, goods, wares and merchandizes belonging to the inhabitants of these states. The distressed state of our finances & the great depreciation of our paper money incline Congress to hope that his Catholic Majesty, if he shall conclude a treaty with these states, will be induced to lend them money; You are therefore to represent to him the great dis tress of these states on that account, and to solicit a loan of five million of dollars upon the best terms in your power not exceeding six per centum per annum, effectually to enable them to co-operate with the allies against the common enemy. But before you make any propositions to his Catholic Majesty for a loan, you are to endeavour to obtain a subsidy in consideration of the guaranty aforesaid. You are to use your utmost endeavours for obtaining permission for the citizens and inhabitants of these States to lade and take on board their vessels Salt at the island of Salt Tortuga; and also to cut, load and bring away Logwood and Mohogony in and from the bay of Hondurus and its rivers and to build on the shores storehouses and Magazines for the woodcutters and their families in the extent


[Page 122]
88 October 16, 1779 If the Disappointments in southern News had not been what you well know they have, I would now tell you that a North Carolina Colonel heard one of Govr. Caswell’s Councellors 10 Days ago read a Letter from Govr. Rutledge informg. that all the Vessels in Beauport Harbour surrendered without Opposition to the Count Destaing, the Fort made a Resistance of an Hour & 50 Minutes but was then carried. The Count then proceeded to Savannah where, without any Resistance the Enemy surrendered at discretion. Your Lincoln was in such Positions that the Letter concluded not even a single Tory would escape, with all his Knowledge of the Passes. This same Coll, was told that the Spaniards had certainly taken St. Augustine. Perhaps I shall get the Bearer to convey to you a Journal of 1777. Your affectionate, humble Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] I had the Pleasure of knowing of yr. Health by Mr. Guild some Days ago & by Mr. McCullogh yesterday. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, October 13, and Lovell to Arthur Lee, October 14, 1779. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Octor 17th 1779 You will herewith receive enclosd a Memorial from two Officers Stediford & Bicker which Congress have referd to the Commander in Chief. 1 1 am Sir with the greatest Respect your Excys. humble Servant, Sami Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Captains Garret Stediford and Henry Bicker, Jr., had been, respectively, regimen tal quartermaster and adjutant of the Third Pennsylvania Battalion when captured at the fall of Fort Washington in November 1776, and they had been unable to find suitable vacancies since their exchange in 1778. For Washington’s disposition of their case, which he referred to Gen. Arthur St. Clair in a letter of December 21, suggesting that they be introduced “into the 4th. Pennsylvania Regt, under the Resolve of Con gress of the 24th. Novemr. 1778,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:82, 299. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir October 17th 1779 In addition to our Instructions of the 17th Ultimo which has been delivered to you, we now direct that you will receive on Board the Confederacy His Excellency John Jay Esquire, his Secretary, and


[Page 123]
October 18, 1779 89 family, whom you are to treat with all the respect due to his Charac ter and on your passage you are to consult with him and Mr. Gerard and be governed by their Orders with respect to any occurrences which may happen and the port to which you are to proceed. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 This day the Marine Committee also sent the following brief letter to the Eastern Navy Board over the signature of chairman John Mathews. “We desire you will Consult with the Honble John Adams Esqr. respecting the Stores which are necessary for himself & his family on their passage to France which you are to provide and also such Accomodations as may be wanting on board the Frigate in which he is to embark." Adams Papers, MHi; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:122-23. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Carmichael Sir Philadelphia 18 Oct 1779 I enclose to you Copies of Some resolves respecting the examina tion of Accounts in Europe by Mr Johnston. 1 It appears to me to be a very undefined Sort of business, as it has been managed, both in respect to that Gentlemans attestation and recompence. Such as it is, I beg you would Communicate one of the copies to Dr Franklin, and one to Mr Johnston. Ask the Doctor to let certified Copies he sent to all who he knows ought to have them, as I shall only forward by other Opportunities a Number Sufficient to Secure arrival at his hands in case you Should be unfortunately obliged to throw your papers overboard. Deus Meliora. Your humble Servant, Signed James Lovell for the Com. for F. Affairs 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). In a clerical hand. 1 Congress had appointed Joshua Johnson on September 29 “to examine the accounts of the several commissioners, commercial agents and others in Europe, entrusted with the public money of these United States.” JCC, 15:1114-15, 1126. 2 Carmichael’s October 25 reply to this letter, which is mistakenly identified as directed to the president of Congress, is in PCC, item 88, fol. 35-36; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:393. Committee of Commerce to John Ashmead Commercial Committee of Congress Sir 1 Philadelphia 18th October 1779 You will proceed in the Eagle Packet with the utmost expedition to the Island of St. Eustatia, and there address yourself to Messrs. Curson and Gouverneur Agents for the United States, to whom you


[Page 136]
102 October 21, 1779 11 and assigned to a committee composed of a member from each state. See John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779. Delaware’s delegate on the committee, Nicholas Van Dyke, was apparently not attending Congress at this time, having last voted on Octo ber 6. Since the state was unrepresented until Dickinson’s return, it became impera tive that Dickinson forward the memorial, “as our Assembly is now sitting.” Rodney laid the “inclosed printed paper” before the assembly “Immediately” upon receipt of Dickinson’s letter. See JCC, 15:1148, 1162; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 324. For Congress’ resolves on price regulation, see Samuel Huntington to the States, Novem ber 22, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Octr. 21st [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. Some dispatches and several Reports from Committees, Order of the day for Balloting for a Person to be sent to Europe to Negotiate a Loan. Mr Laurens was appointed. Mr Laurens 8 Votes, Mr Adams 3. 1 NB. Mr Scudder. 2 MS (DLC). 1 The balloting on this election is not recorded in the journals. JCC, 15:1198. 2 That is, Nathaniel Scudder had returned to Congress. Marine Committee to Thomas Read Sir October 21. 1779 As you have been appointed to command the Continental frigate Bourbon now at Middleton in the State of Connecticut we desire you will immediately proceed to that place and take the command of the said frigate which you are to use your best endeavours to have fitted for the Sea with all expedition. When you arrive at Middleton you are to inspect the State of the Bourbon and give an account thereof to the Commissioners of the Navy Board at Boston who will order every thing necessary for equipping her and you are occasionally to inform that Board of your proceedings and be governed by their orders in all matters relating to your Ship. We are Sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Gouverneur Morris to George Washington Dr General. Philaa. 21st Octr. 1779 Two Days ago I was placed on a Committee to report the neces sary Provision to be made for Officers not heretofore provided for. 1 I recollect at present the general Officers & Erskine’s Corps (The


[Page 142]
108 October 24, 1779 it appears the Enemy are centering all their force in order to make the greatest possible defence against Count de Estaing and Genl. Washington. The Enemy have sunk several hulks of vessels in the channel at the narrows & have made strong works on Long Island, Staten & Governors Island. Inasmuch as the season is far advanced, we have no reason to be very sanguine about possessing ourselves of New York. If the Count comes to the Northward, I doubt not but vigorous attempts will be made. The commander in chief had called for 2000 militia from Massachusetts Bay, 3000 from Connecticut, 2000 from New York, 2000 from New Jersey, 1500 from Pennsyl vania. 3 Congress has received no authentic accounts from the com bined Fleets in Europe. We have flattering hopes of good news from Georgia. Congress has lately appointed the Hon. Wm. Laurens 4 to negociate a Loan in Holland. I have the honor to be with great esteem your Excellys Mo. ob. huml. Servt, Wm. Sharpe P.S. Three days since Mr Gerard & Mr Jay saild for France. Tr (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Letter Books). 1 Sharpe may actually have written this letter on the 28th. The information from Washington discussed by Sharpe was dispatched from West Point the evening of the 21st but was not read in Congress until the 25th. Moreover, Sharpe noted in his postscript that Gerard and Jay, who sailed aboard the Confederacy on October 25, had departed “three days since.” Errors of transcription in this letterbook are not uncommon. 2 For Washington’s two letters of October 21 informing Congress of the imminent evacuation of the British posts on the Hudson and then confirming that the enemy had indeed “retreated to New York,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:1-2, 7. 3 For Washington’s preparations for an attack upon New York should d’Estaing’s fleet arrive before winter, see Freeman, Washington, 5:136-38. 4 Sharpe probably wrote “Mr. Laurens,” which was misread by the transcriber. Thomas Burke to the North Carolina Assembly [October 25? 1779] 1 Among the variety of Business which came before Congress from the begining of January ’79 to the midle of August, the following Objects Seemed to your Delegates to be of highest Importance to the united States in general. The Army, Finances, and foreign affairs. The Votes and transactions relative to the two first are to be found in the Journals, Copies of which are transmitted to the Governor for the use of the State. I 2 presume therefore that your Delegates are not required to give any particular Information relative to them unless Some passages require Explanation, or their own particular Votes Stand in need of Justification. If Such be the Case, I hope and


[Page 145]
October 25, 1779 111 Vigorous Exertions of the States to furnish the Necessary Supplies in kind according to their respective abilities. All the Efforts of Congress have been directed to the lessening of Expenditures, to the procuring of Supplies of money by Loans and Taxes, and by Such means to prevent further Emissions. But all their Efforts must prove Ineffectual, if Not powerfully aided by Similar Efforts of the States for Carrying their resolutions into Execution. Many States are availing themselves of the present plenty of money for the raising as much as possible by Taxes. The advantage of Such policy and the Injury of delaying Taxation until the Money becomes more difficult to be obtained, your Delegates presume are obvious, and cannot escape the Sagacity of the General Assembly. What relates to foreign affairs being preserved in the Secret Jour nals of Congress will require a more particular detail, and I will here give as full a relation as the Injunctions of Secrecy which [I] am under will permit. Premising, that tho I hold myself not at liberty to declare any thing which I have been enjoined to keep Secret, unless I perceive its tendency to be Injurious to my Constituents; or, unless I am particularly required by tbe Assembly to lay such matters before them without reserve, Yet in Such Cases I Consider the obligation I am under to my Constituents, Superior to any which can be laid on me by Congress. 5 But in the Conduct of Wars, and foreign Negotia tions many things will Occur which if divulged might lose every beneficial Effect, and produce Consequences very Injurious to the general Welfare. Such it is to be presumed no one State would require to be divulged, unless their own peculiar Safety made it Necessary, and I am too well Convinced of the Wisdom, discretion and public Spirit of my Constituents, to doubt their permitting Silence on all affairs of Such Nature. The foreign affairs have been Consid ered in Congress under two general Heads—the State and disposi tions of foreign Courts; the Conduct and Character of our foreign Ministers—and each afforded very Interesting objects, and produced long protracted Questions and debates. With respect to the Conduct of our foreign Ministers It was So Indiscreet that dissentions and Animosities had arisen amongst them which produced reciprocal Suspicions and Accustations. Nor had they the prudence to Suppress or Conceal them, on the Contrary, they Suffered them to break out into heats and altercations disgrace ful to the Country in whose Service they were. The Consequence was, that they (lost the Confidence of the Court at which they resided and) became almost useless. Doctr F. & Mr Dean who principally conducted our affairs at the Court of Versails Seemed to act in perfect Harmony, and to be fully possessed of the Confidence of the Court. Doctor Lee who was Joint Commissioner with them, accused them both of peculation, and Crimi nal waste and misapplication of public money. Mr. Dean Accused


[Page 146]
112 October 25, 1779 Doctor Lee of being Froward, proud, Supercilious, Malevolent, Sus picious to So unreasonable a degree as to take unfounded Conjec tures for facts, and to draw from them uncandid and disengenuous Conclusions—with all, to be of a temper Sordid and disgusting— and by his Correspondence and Connexitions with British Subjects and Emissaries to have become Suspected by the French Court of Infidelity—and Doctor Franklin Considered the same Gentleman as laboring under a Disorder of his Understanding. The appointments of the other Gentlemen were found to have been Useless and their part in the Enquiries, and proceedings of Congress, being inconsiderable it Seems enough to Inform the Assem bly that they were discontinued in office. The Congress made a very Minute and painful Enquiry Concern ing all the allegations of the different accusers and accused, but So deficient were they in Matterials for affording Testimony that no Satisfaction Could be obtained with respect to the guilt or Innocence of any. 6 Mr Dean alledged that his accounts would very fully refute the charge of Mr. Lee, but that not knowing that he was recalled for any other purpose than to give Congress Information of the Political State of Europe as it affected the united States, and being desirous of giving them Satisfaction without delay, and of hastning the Depar ture of Count DeEstaing for America with the fleet under his Command, he did not take time to Settle them before he left France. 7 The accusations against him were founded upon Conjectures, Sur mises and Inuendoes, and the Settlement of his accounts would Certainly prove either his guilt or Innocence, but they were in france, and all farther proceeding became impossible So that the Sense of Congress on the indisputable Merit of Mr Dean as our Assiduous, able, faithful, and Successful Minister Could not with propriety be given while he lay under So heavy a Charge as that of peculation. Doctor Franklin was involved with Mr Dean. The Charges against Doctor Lee were no better Supported, and he himself was not present to answer. Upon the whole it appear’d to your Delegates, and in their Opinion to a great Majority of Congress, that the Charges on all hands were much more the result of personal Ill will and resentment than of Calm dispassionate Observation and Enquiry. The Indiscrition of the Ministers and their Consequent Inutility were to your Delegates and many others perfectly Evident. They also thought that when Ministers of such high trust were accused of Such Enormities nothing less than a full and clear Investigation by putting the parties personally on their defence before their Country, and obtaining all possible light concerning their Trans actions, ought to Satisfy the public. This was impossible unless the Ministers were present, and therefore your Delegates were of Opin ion that they ought all to be recalled. Agreeably to this principle they Voted for the recal of Doctor Franklin, 8 but, they Confess, it was


[Page 152]
118 October 25. 1779 in no Event be given up, but no other Stipulations relative to it in a Treaty of peace were permitted to be a part of the ultimatum. Some resolutions were entered into for the better Securing the undis turbed Exercise of the right as above [limited?] in which your Dele gates did not Concur, not being [convinced?] or that their powers Extended to the entering into Such Engagements as were proposed. 17 But it would be premature and Improper to mention the particulars of Such Engagements at present. Your Delegates hope it is Suffi cient to inform the assembly that their dissent will appear on the Journal, and the State may avail herself thereof Should it hereafter be deemed Expedient. The Minister of France had a Second private Audience of Con gress in July and then informed us of Some difficulties which pre vented the Success of the Mediation of Spain which it required the Wisdom and Moderation of Congress to remove. The Congress resolved on the Measures which appeared to them the best for remov ing them, and if not too late, your Delegates have Strong hopes in their Success. 18 No Conclusive resolutions were entered into relative to the pro posed alliance with Spain, while any of your Delegates who have now the honor of informing the assembly remained at Congress. 19 MS (Nc-Ar: Secretary of State Records). Written by Burke and endorsed by him: “rough of an Address to the People drawn when member of Congress in 1779.” 1 In mid-October the North Carolina assembly ordered its congressional delegates, Burke, Whitmell Hill, and John Penn, to appear before it and “give information with respect to Matters which have come under the deliberation of Congress since January last.” N.C. State Records, 13:833, 922. While three of the four journal entries recording the adoption of the resolution specify that the delegates attend on “Friday next” (October 22), the message from the house to the senate reads “Monday next.” What ever the reason for the discrepancy, Burke and Hill clearly attended the assembly on Monday, October 25. Although there is no mention of the report in the journals, they received the thanks of the Senate and House of Commons to which they responded in kind. Their responses are in ibid., pp. 854, 945-47; and Legislative Papers, Nc-Ar. The report itself, which covers the period from “the beginning of January 79 to the midle of August” when Burke left Congress, was probably not drafted until a few days before its presentation to the assembly. 2 Burke originally wrote this statement as if it were from the entire delegation (“Your Delegates presume therefore that they”), but later amended a considerable portion, although not all, of the text by changing the pronouns and verbs to make it appear to be a personal report. He also made other, minor alterations in phraseology. 3 See JCC, 14:523. 4 Burke may have been referring to the case of Maj. Matthew Clarkson, for which see John Jay to Joseph Reed, January 27, 1779, note 2. 5 For the “Injunctions of Secrecy” under which the delegates labored, see, for example, James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10; North Carolina Delegates to Rich ard Caswell, July 15; and Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, July 17, 1779. 6 For Congress’ “Minute and painful Enquiry,” see especially the Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, January 21, 1779. 7 For Silas Deane’s “narrative” of his mission to France, see these Letters, 11:285-87, 383-84, 393-94. 8 See JCC, 13:499-500.


[Page 155]
Oc tober 26, 1779 121 week rather than leave this business unreported. 1 I must therefore request the Senate (should I not be down in time) to chuse a Presi dent in my room. By Thursday the 4th of November if God spares me I shall be down, in the meantime I am with the greatest affection & esteem, Dr Sir Your friend & Servt, Daniel of St Thos Jenifer RC (MdAA: Red Books). 'Jenifer, who had applied for a leave of absence on October 23, was apparently waiting for chairman John Witherspoon’s arrival to conclude the business of the committee appointed October 8 to consider the memorials of the Indiana and Vandalia land companies. Witherspoon returned to Congress on October 26 and the committee reported the following day, although its report was not considered until October 29-30. Jenifer apparently departed for Annapolis immediately thereafter. See JCC, 15:1155, 1202, 1213, 1224, 1226-30, 1232; and John Fell’s Diary, October 26. For Congress’ handling of the sensitive issue of its jurisdiction over western lands, see Samuel Huntington to the States, October 30, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday 26th Octr. [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. After some dispatches were Read the Report for Instructions to Mr Laurens was taken up and debated the whole day to no Purpose. PM Marine Committee. NB Dr Weatherspoon. 1 Confederacy and Eagle Packet Saild this day from the Capes. MS (DLC). 1 That is, John Witherspoon, who had been absent since October 14, had returned to Congress. Samuel Huntington to Jean Holker Sir Philadelphia Octor 26th. 1779 Your favour of the 22d Instant I receivd last night. 1 Your kind offices in forwarding those Letters and giving me this early intelli gence is very acceptable and Claims my Acknowledgements. You will receive herewith enclosd a letter which came under cover directed to me from Captains Landolphe, Raux, and Patot who it Seems have put into New London in Connecticutt, in distress. 2 I Suppose you will Judge it properly in your department to give them the necessary Assistance. I Shall ever be happy to See any relief in our power readily granted to our good Allies, I have communicated the Letter to le Chevalier de la Luzerne.


[Page 156]
122 October 26, 1779 The enclosd paper will furnish you with the latest Intelligence I have receivd from Georgia & the Count De Estaing. I am Informd by Genl. Washing[ton], the Enemy have evacuated both their posts at Kings ferry viz. Stoney, & Verplanks points burnt & destroyd their works; also by the last advice from Newport every thing apeard to Indicate a Speedy evacuation of that place, Say last Sunday. I am Sir with Esteem and Regard your humble Servant, Sami. Huntington RC (DLC: Holker Papers). 1 Holker’s letter is not in PCC. 2 See the following entry. Samuel Huntington to Captains Landolphe, Patot, and Raux Gentlemen, Philada Octr 26th 1779 Your letter of the 13th instant I received last evening, have com municated the same to the Minister of France Le Chevalier de la Luzerne, & shall lay the same before Monsr. Holker the Consul of France at this Port & marine Agent, hope he will take the necessary Measures to relieve your present Distresses & procure you the neces sary Supplies. 1 You may be assured of receiving all proper assistance & relief that these United States can afford their good Allies. I am with esteem & regard, your hble Servant, S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Jean Landolphe, P. Patot, and Th. Raux were captains of three French vessels that had sailed from Cape Francois in August in convoy with the comte d’Estaing, but which were heavily damaged in a storm encountered on September 16, after which they had made their way to New London, Conn., on October 12. Their letter of explanation to Huntington, which the president enclosed with the preceding entry, is in the Holker Papers, DLC. Their plight is also discussed in another document in the Holker Papers, an Octo ber 14 letter to Holker from Thomas Mumford, Continental agent at New London. The three ships, Mumford wrote, “must be unloaded & have Large Repairs before they Can Leave this Port. I have informed them,” he went on to explain, “I transact business for you here, & wou’d Render them any Service in my power. . . . Masts that they want I have by me, which are scarce here.”


[Page 164]
130 October 27. 1779 (Fitzpatrick), 16:428,441,453-54, 483-84, 17:4-6,28, 55-56, 93-94. See also Marine Committee to Henry Lee, October 29, 1779; and Freeman, Washington, 5:136-38. Samuel Huntington to James Wilkinson Sir Philada. October 27th 1779 You will herewith receive enclos’d an act of Congress of this date, ordering that a warrant issue on the Commissioner of the continen tal loan Office in the State of New York in your favour for fifty thousand dollars and as it seems uncertain who may be the Person that shall discharge the warrant at the time of payment, you will observe you are to inform the board of treasury of the name of the person who may discharge the same. 1 I am Sir your hble Servt. S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For Congress’ order authorizing Clothier General Wilkinson to collect $50,000 from the Continental loan office in New York “for the use of the hide department,” which Wilkinson had requested in a letter to Congress of October 16, see JCC, 15:1211. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Octr. 28th. 1779 Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches, A Report from the Marine Committee was taken up to Establish a Board of Admi ralty consisting of 3 not Members of Congress as Commissioners & two Members of Congress wth a Secretary. Sallery of the Commis sioners 14000 Ds Per Annum and Secretary 10,000.' MS (DLC). 1 For the establishment of the Board of Admiralty, see John Dickinson’s Notes, September ?, 1779, note 1; and Samuel Huntington to Thomas Waring, November 27, 1779. Samuel Holten’s Diary [October 28-29, 1779] 28. Thursday, It is said the enemy have done sum damage in the Jersey’s. 29. Friday. Congress spent part of the day considering the Indi ana affairs. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 For Congress’ consideration of the “Indiana affairs,” see John Fell’s Diary, Septem ber 14, note 1; and Samuel Huntington to the States, October 30, 1779.


[Page 166]
132 October 29, 1779 Delaware treasury made it unlikely that “the Quantity of Flour recommended by the Delegates” could be purchased “from that Quarter.” By December 21, however, Congress ordered an express sent to Delaware requesting the state to procure “as much flour as can be obtained within their State, the necessities of the army calling for their immediate and most strenuous exertions.” See JCC, 15:1151, 1157, 1219, 1399; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 324. John Fell’s Diary [October 29-30, 1779] Friday 29th. Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches &c were Read, the Committee to whom was Referrd the Memorials of Col Morgon and Coll Treat 1 Respecting Lands claimd Per Virginia brought in a Report, which Virginia objected to on which a long debate ensued. PM Marine Committee. Saturday 30th. Coml Committee. Congress. Resolved to Reccomend to the State of Virginia not to dispose of any unlocated Lands &c. 2 MS (DLC). 1 That is, George Morgan and William Trent. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, October 30, 1779. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philada October 29th 1779 I am honour’d with your favours of the 21st instant, and have the pleasure to transmit your Excellency the enclos’d Act of Congress of the 27th instant pass’d in consequence of the intelligence contain’d in your letter from Colo Broadhead. 1 I have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellen- cys hble servt, S.H. President 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Washington’s October 21 letters to Congress are in PCC, item 152, 8:123-26, 131-32. For the extract from Col. Daniel Brodhead’s September 16 report on his recent expedition from Pittsburgh against the Indians and Congress’ vote of thanks to Brodhead and his men “for executing the important expedition against the Mingo and Muncey Indians, and that part of the Senecas on the Alleghany river,” see ibid., fols. 135-37; and JCC, 15:121213. Huntington also transmitted this resolve in a brief letter of this date to Colonel Brodhead. PCC, item 14, fol. 216. 2 Huntington also wrote the following letter this day to John Lawrence, Continental loan officer for Connecticut. “You will herewith receive enclos’d an act of Congress of this day directing you to pay unto the Executors or administrators of John [Hotchkiss] deceas’d two hundred and seventy dollars in full for the Certificate by you given in his lifetime as mentioned in the Act of Congress and for the reasons therein assigned.” See PCC, item 14, fol. 215; and JCC, 15:1219.


[Page 169]
November 1, 1779 135 (Rutland), 2:549-50. For other aspects of Congress’ concern over Virginia’s western land claims and the expansion of settlers into the region, see also North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell, November 4; and Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, November 9, and December 30, 1779. Committee of Congress to William Livingston Sir Philadelphia 1st Novemr. 1779 The Commissary General of purchases has Orders to contract for a Supply of Flour for the Current Year, not to exceed two hundred thousd. Barrels on the most reasonable terms—Of this quantity it is expected your State will furnish twenty thousand Barrels. 1 The exhausted Condition of our Magazines and the pressing wants of the Army call for the vigourous Exertions of the powers of your State to aid & facilitate Col. Blaine Deputy Commissary General of Purchases (who will wait on your Excellency with this) in supplying the Necessities of the Army with Bread & preventing the most dis agreeable Consequences. Your knowledge of the public wants & your known Zeal in promot ing the Common weal supercedes the necessity of mentioning any other Consideration to engage your attention & Influence. I am in behalf of the Committee of Congress on the Commissary & Quarter Master Genls. Department, Your Exellencys Most Obedt. & most Hble Servt. Jesse Root RC (MHi: C.E. French Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Root. 1 Root wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed, with the notable variation that Pennsylvania’s quota was “seventy thousand Barrels.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:774. Committee on Appeals Decree November 1st 1779. Stephen Cleavland Lib[ellan]t & App[ell]ee | Appeal from vs. The Ship Valenciano her Cargo &c. 7 the State of Joachim Luca Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t J Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the several Matters and Things set forth and contained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Supe rior Court of Judicature, Court of Assize and General Gaol Delivery began and held at Boston in and for the County of Suffolk on the last Tuesday of August Anno Domini 1779 in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocate of the respective parties to the above


[Page 172]
138 November 1, 1779 talk before you travailed into strange Countries. Be that as it may, un peuegard, you recover your whole Self again shortly after, in the Affair of Mr. Iz. 1 I shall pursue yr. Injunctions. I sat about giving you some Idea of the Temper of Congress as to the Ultimata by extracting the Propositions & offered Amendments, 2 but I found myself soon bewildered. You may by a little Conversa tion with our Friend SA 3 know more than a great deal of my Fatigue in the Way mentioned would convey. In short the great Difference sprung from our varying Quantum of Obsequiousness to the Dicta tions of a Foreigner as they were retailed to us through the mouths of either Fear or Roguery, and not from our being wide of each other in Opinion of our Rights, if we were in Condition to assert them or if our Ally would consent to join in a determined Assertion. But this said some must be quite on new Ground and not on the subsisting Treaties, for the whole End of these is the Assurance of our Independence formally or tacitly. And France to be sure would never think, at least would never insist that a common Right in the Fishery was included in our Independence in Matters of Commerce. For if this should be done, the Principle established would let in other nations, which France & England would both chuse not to do. I am greatly pleased with the Confirmation by yr. travailed Experience to Senti ments springing from my own natural Temper—That the way to insure the lasting Regard of France is by showing independant Viril ity instead of colonial Effeminacy. Novr. 2d. The Bearer unexpectedly calls me to seal. I see my Corre spondence with Portia is all over. She cannot write because I should see the mark of the Tear on the Paper. Heaven bless you both. J.L. [P.S.] I do not think it will be easy for me to send you the Vols. you wish by Way of Boston but if you can borrow a few Sets there I will be upon Honor to repay them as Oppy. serves and I will attend to chances from this River but I cannot promise 20 Setts. ENCLOSURE reported Feby. 23d. 1779 3d. That a Right of fishg. & curing Fish on the Banks & Coasts of the Island of Newfoundland equally wth. the Subjects of France & Gr. Br. be reserved, acknowledged and ratified to the Subjects of the United States. Others agreed to in Lieu. 4th. That the Navigation of the River Miss, as low down as the southern boundy. of the U.S. be acknowledged & ratified absolutely free to the Subjects of the U.S. 4 5. That free Commerce be allowed to the Subjects of the U.S. with some Port or Ports below the southern boundary of the said States


[Page 173]
November 1, 1779 139 on the River Miss, except for such Articles as may be particularly enumerated, and In Case the Allies of these U.S. will agree to support them in such claims by continuing hostilities, then to insist that Nova Scotia & its dependencies be ceded to the Und. Sts. or declared independent. 5 March 22d. 3d. Article as amended by the comtee. of the whole. That a com mon right in these States to fish on the coasts, bays & banks of Nova Scotia, banks of Newfdld. & Gulph of St. Laurence, coast of Labra- dore & Straights of Belle Isle be acknowledged, and in case of refusal that the war be continued unless the circumstances of our Allies shall be such as to render them utterly unable to assist in the prosecution of the war, in which case as ample priviledges in the fishy, be insisted on as can possibly be obtained: That in case Gr. Br. shod not be prevailed on either to cede or declare N Scota. independent the Priviledge of curing Fish on the Shores and in the Harbours of N Scotia be required. In Lieu of which a Substitute was moved by Mr. Morris as follows. That an acknowledgmt. be made by Great Br. of a common right in these States to fish on the coasts, bays & banks of N. Scota. the banks of New foundld. & Gulph of St. Laurence, the Coasts of Labradore & Straights of Belle Isle, & a Stipulation for the Right of curing fish on the shores of N Scota. provided always that the Allies of I these States shall be in circumstances to support them in carrying on the War for such acknowledgement & stipulation; but that in no Case by any Treaty of Peace the common right of fishing as above described be given up. This Substitute being adopted, a Motion was made & carryed to strike out the markd Words. Questions were put on the parts & carried in the Affirmative. March 24th 3d. Article as amended & passed the 22d reconsidered a motion made by Burke to strike out all after “to fish,” as far as “provided” and to insert “on all & singular the fishing banks to the eastward of the island of Cape Breton and of N Scotia which by the Treaties of Utricht & of Paris were ceded to the Kg of Gr. Br. in Exclusion of the Subjects of France.” A motion by R H Lee 2d by Col. Dyer as a Substitute. That the Right of Fishing on the Coasts and Banks of North America be reserved to the United States as fully as they enjoyed the same when subject to the Kg of Gr. Br. excepting always what shall have been excepted by the Treaty of Paris between France & the U.Ss. the whole to be explained by the Treaties of Utrecht and of Paris with Gr. Br. And of Paris with the United States of America. Carried in the affirmative as a Substitute, and in Lieu of the Arti cle passed on the 22d and the Amendmt. proposed by Mr. Burke.


[Page 180]
146 November 2, 1779 I have the honor to be with the greatest respect—Your Excellencys, Most Obed & very hul Servt. Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] Your Excey. will percieve this Letter is not intended, for the Perusal of the Public, as I have not Copied it fair. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). 1 Actually, on October 30, for which see Samuel Huntington to the States, October 30, 1779. Samuel Holten’s Diary [November 2-3, 1779] Novr. 2. 1779. Tuesday. I wrote to the Inhabitants of Danvers, to Mr. Needham, to Mr. Warner, to Colo. Hutchinson, to Mr. Avery, to Mrs. Holten (No. 82) and to my daughter Sally. 1 3. Wednesday. Congress have done no business this two days past on Acct, of the state of Connecticut not being represented; The Prest. being from that state. 2 I dined with the Honl. Mr. Griffin. MS (MDaAr). 1 None of these letters has been found. 2 See Jesse Root to Oliver Ellsworth, November 1, 1779, note 1. James Lovell to John Adams [November 2, 1779] 1 Oct. 15. 1777 [i.e., 1779] Resolved: 2 That a Letter be written to the Minister plenipo. of these States at the Court of France desiring him to take the most effectual means for supplying the Ministers appointd. to treat with his Catholic Majesty and wth. his Britannic Majesty, & their Secretar ies wth. two thousand Louis dores to be distributed in proportion to their respective salaries, & giving the strongest Assurances to the said minister that Congress, will immediately take Measures for replac ing the said Sum as well as for establishing a fund in Europe for the future Support of all the Embassies from these States. The Comtee on the Letter of J.G. Dericks & other Papers having reported that it appears to them that a Loan may be obtained in Holland. Resolvd. That a proper Person be authorized & instructed to negoti ate that Business on behalf of these States. The same Comtee. to bring in an Draught of a Letter to the Ministr. plenipo in France.


[Page 181]
November 2, 1779 147 Octr. 16. They report & Congress accept. Sir. Congress have appointed the Honble. John Jay Esqr. Minister Plenipotentiary for negociating a Treaty of Amity & Commerce & of Alliance between his Catholic Majesty & the United States of America. And the Hon. John Adams Esqr. Minister Plenipotentiary for negociating a treaty of Peace & a treaty of Commerce with Grt. Britain; The Hon. Wm. Carmichael Esqr. is appointed Secretary to the first & the hon. Francis Esqr. 3 is appointed Secretary to the last mentioned Embassy. Mr. Jay & Mr. Carmichael will embark on Board the Confederacy continental Ship of War now in the Delaware ready to sail for France. Mr. Adams & Mr. Dana will probably take their Passages on Board La Sensible one of his Most Christian Majesty’s Frigates in the Harbour of Boston. The Salaries annexed to their appointments respectively are two thousand five hundred pounds Sterling per anm. to the ministr. & one thousand pounds Sterling to the Secretaries, And in order to enable these Gentlemen to enter wth.out Embarrassmt. upon the Duties of their several functions, I am authorized by an Act of Con gress of the 15th Instant a certified Copy of which will accompany this, to request you, Sir, to take the most effectual means for supply ing them with two thousand Louis dors in distributions propor tioned to their respective Salaries & to assure you on the faith of Congress that Speedy & proper measures will be adopted both for repaying that Sum & for establishing a fund for the future support of all the Embassies of these United States in Europe. You will likewise find enclosed a certified copy of an act of Congress of the 4th instant by which you will be informed that your Salary is also to be two thousand & five hundred pounds sterling per annum, and that John Laurens Esqr. a Member of the house of representatives for the State of South Carolina & Lt. Colonel in the army of the United States is appointed by Congress to be Secretary to the Minis ter Plenipotentiary at the Court of France. I have the Honor to be Oct 18 Congress proceeded to the nomination of a proper person to negociate a Loan in Holland when Mr. John Adams was put in nomination by Mr. G. Morris. Mr. H. Laurens by Mr. Mathews Mr. Woodbury Langdon by Mr. Sharp On Motion of Mr. Morris, 2d. by Mr. Mathews, Resolved that a Comtee. of three be appointed to prepare Instructions to the person who may be empowered to negotiate a foreign Loan. Mr. Morris, Mr. Mathews, Mr. Gerry.


[Page 182]
148 November 2, 1779 I presume the President has sent you a Copy of the Letter to Doctr. Franklin. I will enquire this day. Nov. 2d RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In the hand of Lovell, though not signed, and endorsed by him: “Extracts from the sect Journals.” 1 This date is taken from the last paragraph below. 2 Although Lovell had enclosed substantial extracts from the secret journals of February and March 1779 concerning the peace ultimata with his letter to Adams of November 1, he subsequently proceeded to copy the following extracts from the secret journals of October 1779, appending a brief concluding paragraph concerning Dr. Franklin and adding the date “Nov. 2d.” 3 That is, Francis Dana. Virginia Delegates to the Virginia House of Delegates Sir, Philadelphia. Novr. 2d. 1779. Our Collegue Mr Smith 1 having charged himself with the Copies of the Petitions of the Indiana & Vandalia Companies then before Congress, to lay before the House of Delegates of Virginia, It falls to our Lot to hand the enclosed 2 to you for the further & full Informa tion of your House as to the progress of that business A Business which we conceive may in Consequences greatly affect the Interest of Virginia in the first place—& ultimately injure the Rights of all the States in the Union. Your Honble. House may be assured that no pains were spared by the Virginia Delegates to defend the Rights of tbe State & to prevent Congress from establishing a Precedent so dangerous to tbe com mon Rights of the United States—but to how little purpose may be readily discovered, when you are informed that tho’ the Committee determined this Case privately & without notice to any of the Vir ginia Delegates—and tho’ their Report was so expressly counter to the Instruction of Congress—Yet 8 States to 3 were against recom mitting the Report. We must however observe that we understood on that Occasion that some of the voters agt. the recommitment were agt. the Jurisdic tion of Congress, upon Information of the facts laid before the Committee which were read in Congress & not denyed. But we are sorry we are obliged to say that Congress were so determined to proceed upon this business agt the Rights of Virga, that on the next day, tho’ the business of Indiana & Vandalia was an order of the Day, & we had no Doubts the Said Petitions wou’d be rejected—we discovered the Members for this business had changed their Ground & not only declined proceeding on the Resolution of the Committee, thereby meaning to retain that pretence for interferring in this Business—But were also pleased to pass the Resolution of tbe 30th a Copy of which is now subjoined to the other Proceedings.


[Page 186]
152 November 5, 1779 We have the pleasure to congratulate Your Excellency on the evacuation of Rhode Island by the enemy on Monday the 25th Ulto. With the highest esteem & consideration, We have the honor to be, Your Excellencies Most Obt Humble Servants, Cornl. Harnett Wm. Sharpe P.S. Mr. Hewes has been confined to bed with sickness five days past and his situation not very promising. 4 RC (In). Written by Harnett and signed by Harnett and Sharpe. 1 For Congress’ response to the memorial of the Indiana Company, see Samuel Huntington to the States, October 30, 1779. 2 Not found. 3 Not found. However, a report of Assistant Auditor General Joseph Nourse to the Board of Treasury concerning the North Carolina accounts is in PCC, item 36, 3:379-80. 4 Joseph Hewes, who last attended Congress October 29, died November 10. John Fell’s Diary Friday 5 [November 1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Letter from Genl Gates acquainting that he took Possession of Rhode Island the 26th Octr the Enemy having left it the day before. 1 PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, November 7, 1779. Samuel Huntington to John Jay Dear Sir, Duplicate Philadelphia 5 November 1779 I have been honored with your Favours of the 19th & 20th Ultimo, 1 but had not an Opportunity to return any Answer before you sailed. I have now the Pleasure to inform you the Enemy evacuated New port on the Night of the 25th October. They made no wanton Destruction on their Departure, left about fourteen Hundred Tons of Hay, four hundred fifty Cords of Firewood, a large Quantity of Peet & Straw in their Magazines. General Gates with his Troops took Possession of the Town next Day. The Express which brings me this Intelligence, says, there are in Newport large Quantities of Salt & Dry Goods in [town]. I presume you got Intelligence the Enemy had evacuated Stoney & Verplanks Points before you sailed.


[Page 190]
156 November 6, 1779 Committee on Appeals Decree November 6th. 1779 Nathaniel Tracy &al Lib[ellan]ts & App[ellan]tsl Appeal 1 from vs The Brigantine Holy Martyrs her Cargo &c. J the State of Joseph De Lano Claim[an]t & App[ell]ee J Massachusetts Bay We the commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the several Matters and Things mentioned and contained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Supe rior Court of Judicature of Massachusetts Bay held at Concord on the second Tuesday in April last &c. in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties to the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Bill of the said Nathaniel Tracy and others exhibited and the Appeal by them demanded and filed in the above Cause be dismissed with Costs And that the said Brigantine or Vessel called the Holy Martyrs, her tackle, Apparel and Furniture and all and singular the Goods, Wares and Merchandizes laden and found on board her at the Time of her Capture as mentioned in the said Bill be forthwith restored and redelivered and the said Joseph De Lano the Claimant in the said Cause his Agent or Attorney to and for the Use of himself and all others on whose Behalf he claims and appeals And We do further order and decree that the party Appellant pay unto the party Appel lee one thousand and fifty six Dollars for his Costs and Charges by him expended in defending the said Appeal in this Court &c. Tho M:Kean J. Root C. Griffin MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 60). In a clerical hand, and signed by Griffin, McKean, and Root. 1 A jury of the Massachusetts Court of Admiralty for the Middle District declared on April 6, 1779, that the brigantine Santander y los Santos Martires [Holy Martyrs] was Spanish property but that her cargo was British. The court therefore awarded the cargo to Nathaniel Tracy and John C. Jones, merchants and owners of the armed schooner Success, commanded by Philip Trask, which had captured the Holy Martyrs on December 30, 1778. Both parties appealed to the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature, which upheld the maritime court. Tracy and Jones then appealed to Congress, where the case was assigned on October 9, 1779, to the Committee on Appeals. The committee in this decree affirmed the decision of the state court. See case file no. 60, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 15:1149. For further information on congressional involvement in this case, see John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, April 25 and May 24, 1779.


[Page 191]
November 6, 1779 157 John Fell’s Diary Saturday Novr. 6th. 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. After the dispatches &c a Report of the Committee to answer the Speech intended to be made Per the Chevalier Lusern was Read. 1 MS (DLC). 1 On November 4 the French minister presented to Congress his letter of appointment from Louis XVI and a copy of the speech he intended to make at his public audience, both of which were referred to a committee composed of John Dickinson, William Churchill Houston, and Gouverneur Morris. The committee’s report, read this day, was “debated by paragraphs” and approved on November 8. For some reason, however, La Luzerne transmitted “another copy” of his speech to Congress on November 12. The same committee, chaired by Morris, thereupon drafted a second reply which was debated and approved the following day, when the delegates set aside November 17 for La Luzerne’s “public audience” and “an entertainment to be given by Congress.” See JCC, 15:1238, 1247, 1251-52, 1262, 1266-67; and Fell’s Diary, November 8 and 17. For the chevalier’s “letter of credence,” his speech, and the president’s response, see JCC, 15:1278-84. Samuel Holten’s Diary [November 6, 1779] 6. Saturday. The medical committee met in my chamber. Mr. Lowell paid me a visit this evening. MS (MDaAr). Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philadelphia Novemr 6th. 1779 Congress having directed that the enclosd Copy of a Letter from Mr J. Bradford to the Honble. Francis Lewis Esq one of the Commer cial Committee Should be sent to the Council of the State of Massa chusetts Bay; 1 I do my self the Honour to Transmit the same to you to be laid before that Honorable Body. I am with great Respect, your Honours most Obedient humble Servant, Sami. Huntington President 2 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honbl President of the Council of the State of Massachusetts Bay.” 1 John Bradford’s October 21 letter to Francis Lewis, in which he expressed fear for the safety of the sugar and rum he was holding in storage in Boston, is in PCC, item 78, 3:367-70. For Congress’ terse November 4 order on the subject (“that a copy thereof be transmitted” to the Massachusetts Council, apparently simply to secure the state's protection for Bradford’s warehouses), see JCC, 15:1238.


[Page 192]
158 November 6, 1779 2 This day Huntington also wrote the following brief letter to Capt. Lt. John Van Dyke of the Second Continental Artillery, whose request for leave had been for warded on October 17 to Congress by Washington with a recommendation by Dr. John Cochran. See JCC, 15:1246 47; PCC, item 152, 8:117-22; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:473. “You will receive herewith enclos’d an act of Congress of this day granting you leave of absence for eight Months, that you may take a Voyage to Sea, this being judged necessary for the recovery of your Health." PCC, item 14, fol. 219. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir November 6th 1779 As you have been appointed to Command a new Continental Ship 1 that is now on the Stocks at Portsmouth in New Hampshire you are hereby directed to repair to that place and hasten as much as may be in your power the compleating of that Ship which we are desirous to have done with all dispatch. We have now communicated our desire on that head to the Honble the Navy Board at Boston, on whom you will please to call in your way and receive such orders as they may think proper to give you. 2 Should Mr. Langdon & you Agree that any alteration can be made in this Ship that will render her more suitable than the present design, you will please to communicate your plan and a state of the ship which we shall consider. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The 74-gun ship-of-the-line America. For Barry’s appointment to this command, see William B. Clark, Gallant John Barry, 1745-1803 (New York: Macmillan Co., 1938), pp. 184-86. 2 In keeping with which, the committee wrote the following brief letter this day to the Eastern Navy Board. “Captain John Barry will deliver you this in his way to Portsmouth in New Hamp shire where he goes to hasten the building and fitting of the New Ship on the Stocks at that place which we have appointed him to command & which we request you will push forward with all possible expedition." Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:127. Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir Philadelphia Novemr 7th. 1779 I have the pleasure to Acknowledge the receipt of your favour of the 27 Ulto. by Majr Armstrong which was Immediately laid before Congress. Please to accept of my Congratulations on your obtaining possession of the Town & Island of Newport. 1 I was happy in having an Opportunity of transmitting to France the agreable Intelligence you gave me; Immediately after the receipt of your letter.


[Page 193]
November 8, 1779 159 We have no Authentic Intelligence from Georgia later than the 4th of Octor; the Capture of the Brittish forces was not then Effected, though the appearances were favourable, but there Seems an unac countable delay of Intelligence from that quarter. By recent Accounts and Information from New York (on which I place Some dependence) it is Said the 57th Regiment, Raudans [Rawdons] Corps and a detachment of Artillery were to sail for Hallifax on the 29th Ulto. and they were to be Accompanied by all the heavy Ships except the Europa. The Daphne Frigate was to Sail for England at the Same time. That a packet had arrivd the 23rd Ulto. The accounts brought by her seemed very Alarming to Friends of Government. That it was Reported the Ardent of 64 guns was taken (which is since confirmed) [. . .] the Brittish fleet Chased into Portsmouth by the Combined fleet of France & Spain which remaind of that port Several days. I have the Honour to be with great Respect, your most humb Servt, Sami. Huntington Novr 11. P.S. Since writing the foregoing we have receivd the dis- agreable accounts of the defeat of the Expedition against Savannah of which the Bearer can inform. S.H. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gates’ October 27 letter to Congress, in which he reported that he had just occu pied Newport, as “this Island was Evacuated by The Enemys Troops on the Night of the 25th Instant,” is in PCC, item 154, 2:194-97. Committee on Appeals Decree November 8th. 1779 John Bradford Lib[ellan]t & App[ell]ee 1 Appeal from vs The Ship Viper her Cargo &c. J the State of Martin Brimmer Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t J Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the several Matters and Things mentioned and contained in the Record or Minutes of the proceedings of the Mari time Court of the Middle District of Massachusetts Bay in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties to the said Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of the said Martin Brimmer demanded and filed in the said Cause be & the same is dismissed hence with Costs And that the Judgment or Sentence of the said Maritime Court pronounced and published in the said Cause be and the same hereby is in all its’ parts confirmed and established And We do assess the said Costs at one thousand


[Page 194]
160 November 8, 1779 and fifty six Dollars which Sum We do order and adjudge that the party Appellant shall pay unto the party Appellee for his Costs and Charges by him expended in defending the said Appeal in this Court &c. Tho M:Kean Hy. Marchant J Root. C. Griffin MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 54). In a clerical hand, and signed by Griffin, Marchant, and Root. 1 The Massachusetts Court of Admiralty for the Middle District had awarded the armed ship of war Viper and her cargo both to Continental agent John Bradford and to Samuel Nicholson, commander of the Continental frigate Deane. Capt. Nicholson had captured the Viper on January 24, 1779, off the Massachusetts coast and Bradford had libeled the ship and cargo on behalf of Nicholson and the Continent, claiming that the ship, cargo, and “appurtances” should be distributed to “the captors and others concerned therein.” Martin Brimmer, a Boston merchant, filed a second libel on behalf of Nicholson and his crew, however, claiming that the ship, cargo, and “appurtances” should be distributed “among the captors only.” In their libels both Bradford and Brimmer cited unspecified congressional resolves. Under a congressional resolve of October 30, 1776, concerning the division of prizes, the captain and crew of Continental armed vessels were entitled to the entire value of “all ships and vessels” in case of the capture of armed vessels of war, rather than the customary one-half for merchantmen or other unarmed-vessels. The resolve did not mention the cargo and “appurtances,” however. When the Massachusetts court awarded the ship and cargo to Bradford on June 28, 1779, to be divided between the captors and “others concerned therein,” i.e., the Continental government, Brimmer appealed on behalf of captain and crew to Congress, where on July 24, 1779, the case was referred to the Committee on Appeals. In this decree the committee upheld the Massachusetts court decision. See case file no. 54, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 6:913, 14:883, 1188-89. John Fell’s Diary Monday Novr. 8th. [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. The Report of the answer to the Ministers Speech was agreed to. 1 MS (DLC). 1 See Fell’s Diary, November 6, 1779, note. James Lovell to John Hancock Novr. 8th. 1779. Sir I hope never to have invincible arguments delivered to me by the Lips of consequential Sufferers to lead me to repent of having pre ferred the Public Good to my private Emolument on very singular Occasions. But strong Arguments I must expect to hear, for my own mind suggests them; and my Wants which prompt that Suggestion are trifling compared to what others connected in my private For-


[Page 197]
November 8, 1779 163 happy in the approbation of his country, but will never be miserable in the want of it—he will always also find a distinguishing, a worthy few, to support and applaud him. Doctor Franklin, I really believe, would have been recalled last April only for myself. The intention in some Gentlemen in Congress appeared to me to be the removal of all our foreign Ministers in order to make way for themselves. My fears were, that a change of men, at that critical period, would imply both in Europe and Amer ica a change of measures, and I was reluctant to give up old servants for new men, whom I could not so well confide in. Doctor Franklin still continues Minister Plenepotentiary at the court of Versailles, Colo. Laurens (the son of the late President of Congress) is appointed his Secretary. Mr. Jay is appointed Minister to the court of Madrid and Mr. Carmichael his Secretary. Mr. Laurens was appointed last Monday Commissioner to the United Provinces for the purpose of negotiating a treaty of Amity and Commerce, but particularly a Loan of money, and he has the nominating his own Secretary. Your’s is the Post of danger and of honor; Our friend Mr. Dana is appointed your Secretary. Nothing more is yet done, but some Consuls must be appointed. You percieve the freedom with which I write to you. I correspond with none, except officially, but in this way, tho’ I am induced to be more free with you, because, notwithstanding I hereby compliment myself, I am certain we have had the same views throughout this whole contest, the good of our country and the happiness of mankind; we have also acted openly and without guile. It will give me great pleasure to hear from you often, and when you are on t’other side of the Atlantic I will as frequently communicate what passes here. Count D’Estaing has not been heard from since the 4th of October, nor have we had a line from General Lincoln, but we flatter our selves all is well. I am, dear Sir, with sincere esteem, Your most obedient humble servant, Tho. M:Kean FC (PHi: McKean Papers). In the hand of Thomas McKean and endorsed by him: “Rough draft of a Lre. to the Honoble. John Adams Esq; Novr. 8th. 1779.” 1 A measure of “the anxieties, cares & troubles” McKean faced in performing his multiple duties is reflected in an open letter to his Newcastle County constituents published in the Pennsylvania Packet of September 7, 1779, in which he resigned his seat in the Delaware assembly. “Gentlemen,” he explained, “Near seventeen years have expired since you first chose me to represent you in General Assembly. The continuation of that choice, especially during the last five years (when I resided out of your State) exhibits the strongest proofs of your approbation of my political conduct, and must manifest to the world, that the sentiments of the representative and the represented, particularly respecting the great and important contest with Great-Britain, and the measures adopted to obtain peace, liberty and safety, were the same. Your affairs now wear the most promising aspect both at home and abroad; and, as I find it to be absolutely impracticable for me to discharge my duty to you as I wish in my present station, I must reiterate my request, that at the ensuing annual election you


[Page 198]
164 November 8, 1779 will be pleased to choose some other person to occupy the seat I have the honor to fill in your Legislature.” 2 An allusion to Dido’s command to Aeneas to recount the painful story of the overthrow of Troy. Virgil Aeneid 2.3. Marine Committee to Henry Laurens Sir, Marine Committee Novr. 8. 1779. This Committee having no proper person in South Carolina to execute the above Order, 1 Request that Collo. Laurens would under take the necessary provision himself. And draw on this Committee for the amount. We are Sir, with great respect, Yr. most Obedt. Servts, Jno. Mathews Chairman RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written and signed by John Mathews. ' “The above Order,” which was written on the page above this letter, was an extract from the secret journal of November 1 directing the Marine Committee “to make the like provision for the passage of Mr. Laurens to Europe as was directed to be made for Messrs. Jay & Adams.” William Sharpe to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia Novr. 8th. 1779 I have the pleasure of sending you inclosed an Extract of a Letter from Genl Gates informing of the evacuation of Rhode Island and an extract of a Letter from Genl. Washington which you will observe ought not to be exposed to public view. 1 We have no better accounts from Europe than it contains. We are not a little surprized at the silence in the Southern States, Congress has received no Authentic accounts from that quarter since the Count arived on the Coast, altho private Letters and other scraps of intelligence gives us flattering hopes. Mr. Laurens is appointed to negociate a Loan in Holland. A small fund in Europe might be applied so as to have a happy effect on our Finances, by disposing of Bills of Exchange and otherwise. The astonishing prices of the necessary supplies for the Army and the low State of our funds are very alarming and does require the most vigorous exertions of all the States. I am under an almost absolute necessity of being home before the hard of winter. I hope to see Mr. Penn and some other gentleman here soon. If none have set out, be so obliging as to interest yourself in that matter. Our State as much as the others ought by no means to be one day unrepresented. I have the mortification to inform you that Mr. Hewes is in so low a state of health that his recovery is much dispaired of—his complaints are Bileous & consumptive.


[Page 203]
November 9, 1779 169 Mr. Hewes is probably within 10 or 12 Hours of his long long long Home. We are balloting our Pens Ink and Paper out about the Treasury. A Mr. Ezekiel Foreman & Mr. Jonathan Trumbull are chosen Commissrs. 2 But the Post will go if I do not close without telling more Tales. You will Probably soon see Mr. Lowell who will tell you all about us. Affectionately, J.L. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1832). 1 That is, Francis Dana and John Adams. 2 Ezekiel Forman and Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., were elected two of the three perma nent members of the Board of Treasury, which under the treasury ordinance of July 30, 1779, was to consist of three permanent members and two members of Congress, who were to be appointed for six-month terms. John Gibson, the former auditor general, was elected as the third permanent member on November 25, and when Trumbull declined the post, William Denning was selected in his place. After the board assumed office on November 30, 1779, it took over most of the routine business of requisitions and the preparation of reports. For an account of the appointment and operation of the reorganized Board of Treasury, see Edward F. Robinson, “Continental Treasury Administration, 1775-1781: A Study in the Financial History of the American Revolution.” (Ph.D. diss., University of Wisconsin, 1969), pp. 200-57. Henry Marchant to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1779. I most heartily congratulate your Excellency, the State, and America; upon the Evacuation of Newport by that motly Savage Host that hath so long infested Our Country. It is a happy Event— and I hope will soon be followed with the entire Extirpation of the British Forces out of America. I could have wished for your Excel lency’s own Communication to me of so important an Event. Your Excellency & the other Branches of the Legislature, amidst all the joy, will have an immediate Occasion of important Considera tions. The future Safety of the Town of Newport & the State in General: The proper Line to be adopted as to the internal Enemies— which permit me to suggest, it is expected, will be wise, just and Firm. Not only the present Peace, but, the future Welfare of the State, if not of America will attend much upon this. The next and perhaps no less important Consideration, will be the Defence necessary against the more open Foe. How far the Town of Newport is capable of a full Defense? The Difficulty & Expence on the One Hand—the Advantages as to the State & the Common Cause on the other. How far the State of Herself is capable of mak ing & supporting a Defense in present & future—and how far the United States are interested therein now, or may be hereafter—and how far they ought to be called upon. The best of Military and polit ical wisdom ought to be consulted upon this Occasion.


[Page 204]
170 November 9, 1779 I am but capable of suggesting broken Hints. However such as they are, I find myself constrained to make Them from the Love I bear to the true Interest & Happiness of the State I have the Honor to represent, and the Glory, Happiness and Independence of America. I am with great Truth Your Excellency’s most obedient and very humble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. I inclose your Excellency two of the Weekly Journals of Con gress down to Sept. 11. 1779—& the Weekly Papers. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett My Dear sir, No. 14 Philada. 9th Novr 1779 1 Your favours of the 9th & 20th ulto have Come to hand. 2 I am extreamly obliged by the Continuance of your Letters, and Should have done my self the Honr. of writing more particularly if I had Certainly known where to have directed my letters to be left in order that they might find a Safe Conveyance, without the danger of their being intercepted. However I have wrote Genl. Whipple Some anec dotes respecting the management of foreign Ambassys—with the names of Persons Elected for that Purpose &ca, 3 which as you are acquainted with many Characters here might be Somewhat amusing. There Seems a little Prospect of obtaining a foreign Loan, in Some of the Low Countrys—our Freind Mr. H. L ns 4 is to negociate that business. No official Accounts from Count D’Estaing, Since that of his having besieged the Savannah—Nor of the movements of the Enemy worth Notice Since their Evacuating R. Island. In Dunlaps Paper of last Saturday you will See a very Curious Manifesto 5 which may be relied upon as authentic altho not officially Reed. I must beg of you to Seal the Cover directed to Mrs. Peabody, inclosing its Contents & forward it, after having read the News papers, I take this method as being less expensive, and may Serve for the purpose of Communicating the News to you, & my friends in Atkinson without much inconvenience. I have heard that our friend S. H 1 6 of Exeter is Taxed with being Guilty of Evil Communication &c. I most Sincerely wish you Success in deleating those Secret Vulturs who cease not day & night to prey upon the vitals of America. When the Truth Comes to light it will be found there is more than one or two—in the Conspiracy. By this days Paper you may observe the Treatment that Such People meet with in this State. 7 I am my Dear Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem your most obedt. & very Huml Servt, Nathl Peabody P.S. My Compliments to friends.


[Page 210]
176 November 11, 1779 Samuel Huntington to John Hancock Sir, Philada Novem. 11th 1779 I do myself the Honour to transmit the enclos’d Act of Congress of the 8th instant desiring the late & former Presidents to lodge as soon as they conveniently can in the Secretaries Office copies of all public Letters by them respectively written during their President ships. 1 I have the honour to be, with great respect, your most humble Servt. S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 15:1249-50. Since Hancock’s presidential letterbooks remained in his possession at his death, and subsequently became part of the regular collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society and then of the Library of Congress before being added to the “Papers of the Continental Congress” now at the National Archives, Hancock apparently failed to respond to this request. No other body of Hancock’s presidential letters is known to exist. For Huntington’s repetition of this request, see also Huntington to Hancock, Feb ruary 27, 1781, note 2. Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 11th Novr. 1779. I am favour’d with your letter of the 22d Ulto. by Major Clarkson, containing an Account of the failure of the Expedition in Georgia. 1 You will herewith receive enclosed an Act of Congress of this day; 2 Also an Act of the 10th Inst. 3 and a Copy of an Act of the 27th July last and the letter accompanying the last mentioned Act, Ordering General Scott to forward the troops under his Command to Charles town as expeditiously as possible. 4 By these several enclosures You will be informed of the measures Congress have taken from time to time, and are still taking to reinforce the army under your command And aid the States of South Carolina and Georgia; also that you are to cause a court of enquiry to be held on Brigadier General Scott for disobedience of the Orders above mentioned. 5 It was thought expedient that Major Clarkson should proceed with Copies of your dispatches, to the Commander in Cheif, and give his personal information to his Excellency General Washington on the subject. I am with great respect, Your humble servt, Sami. Huntington President RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In the hand of George Bond and signed by Ffuntington. 1 Lincoln’s October 22 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 158, fols. 279-84.


[Page 214]
180 November 12, 1779 regiment from a project to cut a road into Canada, leaving Massachusetts more vulnerable on its northern frontier. See the preceding entry, note 2. As this decision nearly coincided with a general redeployment of Continental resources to South Carolina (Massachusetts particularly resisted the reassignment of the Continental frigates at Boston), the Massachusetts delegates were pessimistic that vigorous mea sures against Canada could be revived in the foreseeable future. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, November 10, and to Benjamin Lincoln, this date. Committee of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 12th. 1779 We received your letter of the 23d of October, the 10th Inst. We are extreamly sorry the expedition to Georgia (on which we had formed the most sanguine expectations of success) has ended so unfortunately. It therefore now behoves us to be doubly industrious, in indea- vouring to prepare against the worst that may happen in conse quence thereof. It is unnecessary for us to inclose you Copies of the Acts of Con gress on this subject, as they will be now forwarded to you by the President. 1 The succours from hence we are sensible will be in no capacity to render you any service for a length of time, & we place no depen dence in their being able to reach you, so soon as the reinforcements to the enemy from New York, will them. However as we are induced to believe Virginia & North Carolina will, at the present alarming Crisis, strenuously exert themselves to afford you substantial Aid, we flatter ourselves, we shall not be again disappointed in our expecta tions from that quarter, in consequence of which, you will be ena bled to make a tolerable stand, untill the troops from hence can come up. We have little doubt, but what the expedition now forming at New York, is directed against the Southern States. Apprehending this to be the case, Congress have ordered three of the Continental Frigates, to proceed immediately for Chs. Town, to be under your Command, and which we think, will be of essential service to you in the defence of the Harbour. 2 Whatever else can be from time to time thought of, for the better defence, & Security of your Command, will be prop erly attended to. We hope you will be more frequent in your communicating to us, as we think it is necessary to be informed as often as can be done, of your situation, & what might be further necessary for promoting the service of your department. We congratulate you on the happy event of the evacuation of Rhode Island caused we conceive from an expectation of a visit from Count D’Estaing.


[Page 221]
November 12, 1779 187 nately persevered in their Attachments to the Common Enemy, whether by actually entering into Their Service—or by basely prefer ring their Protection and their Cause; will never be Our Friends whatever Appearances they may put on under pressing & necessi tous circumstances. At least They will ever be ready to enter into Parties and Intrigues destructive of the Interest & Happiness of the United States. They will promote every Measure that shall tend to sow the Seed of Disunion amongst Us. They will—which is the Point I mostly aim at—when a Peace shall suceed to this War—Fall into a British Party, stir up Jealousies against the French, and distract the Minds of good People as much as possible. They will merge the Destination of Whig and Tory, into that of Gallican, and antigallican— and possibly in future Time raise their own Popularity upon the Ruin of the true honest Whig, whose gratitude will be lasting to the French Nation and whose Resentment Against Briton may not easily be assuaged. A line of prudence and Firmness ought to be adopted & if possible very similar throughout the States. A word more as to the present Intentions of the Enemy. It is thought most generally they will send a large Detachment to Carolina—may they not first attempt Virginia—and Maryland? While I was writing this, I was honored with yours of the 7th Instant by Coll Webb. I doubt not but Congress will early pay Attention to the Application which may be made. My Inclination will lead me in every Instance to gratify the wishes of brave and unfortunate Gentle men when it may not be inconsistant with their greater Interest & the Honor and Safety of the States. My closest attention to the Sub ject when it comes on, I hope will lead me to a proper Determination as far as it respects myself, and I shall be happy that it may coincide with Your Wishes and the Feelings of those worthy & brave officers who conceive themselves so much interested in the Question. Should I find myself constrained to an opinion contradictory to those wishes I shall feel a sensible Reluctance in the Complyance with such a Duty. I am very sorry that any Dispositions made with respect to seperate Commands—or your appointment in the Staff should have deprived you of an Opportunity of doing Justice to your own Character in the Line. I was ever sorry you came into the Line—had I been present when it was done, as I have before told You, I should have opposed it. From what I knew of it, I was confident of the Difficulties in some Measure that would arise, I was doubtful whether in the Event it would be to your Interest, I knew however it would generally be conceived you had made an ample Fortune. I knew then there was not much of Character to be given—tho’ much at Stake—and that You ran the Risk of sinking the Military Character into the Staff. My Friendship to You, & the Duty I owe the Publick will lead me—so far as may be in my Power—to assist in restoring you entirely again to


[Page 222]
188 November 12, 1779 this Military Character. And to Such a Situation as you may be able to do Justice to Yourself and the greatest possible Good to your Country. But this I fear cannot speedily be done, at least not untill another year shall open upon us—And which I could wish may open with Peace, Liberty and Independence to these States. Our next authentick Intelligence from Europe may satisfy us upon this Subject. I am sorry Genl. Lincoln is not altogether so happy a Man, as you viewed him when you last Wrote. That Reflection in your Mind, I presume, as is natural, caused some of those Reflections as to your own Situation. May we not learn this Useful Lesson—That in what ever situation we are in, let us strive therewith to be content. Reli gion & true Philosophy teaches us so to be. I wish I could conform myself to it. Forgive this moral Digression, if so it may be thought. I expect Mr. Ellery Our very good Friend is now upon the Road for Congress to relieve me. I propose to set out by the 25th of this Month, and in Company with Mr. Wm. Redwood who goes to see how his Interests stand at Newport &c. If Head Quarters shall not be too far out of our Rout, I will endeavour to see you. However that may be, be assured I am yr. sincere Friend & humble Servt. Hy.Marchant P.S. You will excuse this Scrawl—I cannot submit to make a Copy of it. RC (RNHi: Letters of Henry Marchant). 1 Lt. Col. John Laurens had been in Charleston and was en route with news for Washington and Congress from the comte d’Estaing. 2 See Marchant to William Greene, November 9, 1779. 3 Marchant’s letters to “some other Friends” have not been found. Jesse Root to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Novr. 12th 1779 Providence by another Striking Instance has reproved our Confi dence in an arm of flesh and taught us the vanity of humane power, however great, to insure Success, has defeated our flattering pros pects to the Southward & tumbled our Towring Expectations to the ground. By dispatches from Genl. Lincoln In Congress the Com bined armies of America & France under Genl Lincoln & the Count de Estaing laid Seige to Savanna, Opened their batteries on the 5th of Octr. & Continued the Seige with little intermission untill the 8th of Octr. without bringing the Enimy to Surrender, and the time being elapsed which the Count had liberty to Stay, no alternative was left but to raise the Seige or attempt to Carry the Town by Storm—the latter was Concluded upon, the necessary preparations were made and in the morning of the 9th ulto. they attempted to Storm the place and were unfortunately repulsed with Considerable loss. Pre-


[Page 223]
November 12, 1779 189 cise returns are not transmitted but Genl Lincoln Says in his letter he had about 174 killed & wounded. Count de Estaing is wounded in two places, he behaved with great Spirit on the Occasion & appeared greatly Chagrined at the misfortune. Count Poulaski is killed & the loss of the French is said to be between three & four hundred killed & wounded. The French Troops have reimbarked on board their Ships & Genl Lincoln has retired to South Carolina & left the Enemy in possession of Georgia. The French army Consisted of three thousand, the troops under Genl Lincoln between one & two thousand. The Enemy, after Col Maitland Joined them, were about 3000 Strong. The Lord Reigneth, who will make us to know that the glory of our Salvation he will not divide with another. I beleive Such disappointments are necessary & that which now appears to be a Misfortune will prove the means of our final Safety. Your Excellency’s letter respecting the monthly requisitions of the State of Connecticut has been laid before Congress & is Committed, 1 how Successful it will be am unable to determine, as almost every reason Suggested therein were urged by the Delegates in Congress against so large a Sum, at the time of making the requisition—however Shall do every thing in my power to have the Sum reduced. By Several letters reed, we were able to Satisfy Congress of our right to Set in Congress & now hold our Seats their althoug we have received no official Information. 2 Mr Sherman is returning home. I expect to leave Congress about the 25th Inst, before which time I Expect to be releived. Mr. Laurence left this last Saturday 3 to go to Charlestown from whence he is to go to Holland to negociate a treaty of amity & Commerce with those Provinces & to obtain a loan. He was gone before Mr Brown arrived. The President took your letters directed to Mr. Laurence. Since writing this letter Genl Lincoln letter is pub lished in the paper to which I refer your Excellency for a particular Acct, and am Most respectfully, your Excellency’s, most obedt hum ble Servant Jesse Root P.S. Colo Jonth Trumbull is appointed a Commissioner on the Board of Treasury during the pleasure of Congress with a Salary of 14,000 dollars per annum. 4 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Gov. Trumbull’s November 2 letter to Congress requesting permission to retain a part of Connecticut’s 1780 quota for defraying “the Extraordinary expences" incurred defending the state against the British raids at New Haven and Fairfield the previous summer, was read and referred to committee on November 10. Although its report was submitted on December 7, Congress did not adopt the committee’s recommenda tion to reject the state’s appeal until December 28. See JCC, 15:1254, 1357, 1415-17; PCC, item 66, 2:33-36; Roger Sherman to Trumbull, December 20; and Samuel Huntington to Trumbull, December 29, 1779. 2 “Official Information” of the Connecticut delegates’ credentials was not presented to Congress until November 24. JCC, 15:1301. See also Root to Oliver Ellsworth, November 1, 1779, note 1.


[Page 225]
November 13, 1779 191 2 For the measures recently taken to reinforce the southern department, see Sam uel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln, November 11, 1779. Committee on Appeals Decree November 13th. 1779. Francis Gurney &c Lib[ellan]t & App[ell]eel Appeal from vs. The Schooner Good Intent Cargo > the State of Tam Ploy Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t J Pennsylvania 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the Matters and Things mentioned and con tained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court of Admiralty of the State of Pennsylvania in the Above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective Parties to the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of the aforesaid Tam Ploy demanded and filed in the above Cause be and the same is hereby dismissed with Costs And that the Judgment or Sentence of the said Court of Admiralty passed and published in the said Cause be and the same hereby is in all it’s parts confirmed and established And we do assess the Costs in this Cause at one thousand an sixty Dollars and hereby order and adjudge that the party Appel lant pay unto the party Appellee the said Sum for his Costs and Charges by him expended in defending the said Appeal in this Court &c. Tho M:Kean Hy. Marchant C. Griffin J Root MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 44). In a clerical hand, and signed by Griffin, Marchant, McKean, and Root. 1 The Pennsylvania Court of Admirality had awarded the schooner Good Intent and her cargo to Lt. Col. Francis Gurney and his troops of the 11th Pennsylvania Regi ment who had captured the schooner on January 10, 1777, when it foundered on the New Jersey shore while sailing to New York from Jamaica. The ship was not formally libeled by Gurney until two years later, however, when the owner, Tam Ploy, appeared in the United States. After the Pennsylvania court decision on January 9, 1779, Ploy appealed to Congress, where the case was referred to the Committee on Appeals on February 8, 1779. Ploy argued that the schooner was really La Puella, bound for Philadelphia with a consignment for one of the firms of Robert Morris. The Committee on Appeals rejected the appeal in this decree and confirmed the state court’s decision. See case file no. 44, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 13:152.


[Page 230]
196 November 15, 1779 I am Sir, with due Regard, Your most Obt., Hble Servt. Sami. J. Atlee RC (PHarH: Records of the Executive Council). 1 This letter was undoubtedly directed to Bayard in his capacity as speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly. 2 The object of Atlee’s complaint was not actually “a late Act of Assembly,” but only a proposed bill, a draft of which had been reported out of committee on November 9. The minutes of the proceedings of the assembly indicate that this letter from Atlee was received on November 16 and “ordered to lie on the table,” but no other mention of his protest is recorded. The effect seems nevertheless to have been to delay the progress of the bill, for not until March 1, 1780, during the following session of the assembly, was it finally enacted into law, although its coverage still failed to include some disbanded army units such as Atlee’s former musket battalion. Minutes of the [First and Second Sessions, 1779-80] . . . of the Fourth General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, DLC(ESR). 3 This extract from Atlee’s “Journal” is in Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 1:512-16. Atlee, appointed commander of the Pennsylvania State Battalion of Musketry in March 1776, was captured on August 27, 1776, during the battle of Long Island and had been a prisoner of war until October 1, 1778. See John B. B. Trussell, Jr., The Pennsylvania Line: Regimental Organization and Operations, 1776-1783 (Harrisburg: Penn sylvania Historical and Museum Commission, 1977), pp. 167, 177-80. 4 The Pennsylvania Assembly had just elected delegates to Congress on November 12, reducing the delegation from seven to five members and omitting Atlee from the new slate. He was, however, reelected to Congress in 1780 and 1781 and attended intermittently during 1780-82. For the credentials of the Pennsylvania delegates elected in November 1779—John Armstrong, James McLene, Frederick A. Muhlenberg, James Searle, and William Shippen, Sr.—see JCC, 15:1263. The other Pennsylvania delegate omitted from the new slate was Henry Wynkoop, for whom no “delegate” letters have been found, but he later claimed compensation for “attendance in Congress from April the sixth 1779 until October [i.e., November] the twelfth, 222 days at £9 per day, £1998.” Henry Wynkoop Accounts, March 25, 1780, Emmet Collection, NN; and Pa. Council Minutes, 12:288. 5 The difficulties experienced by prisoners of war such as Atlee are also reflected in the following letter written two weeks later to treasury commissioner John Gibson, whose assistance he sought in the settlement of his claim for subsistence while a prisoner. “After my Dismission,” Atlee wrote on November 27, “I wrote Congress a Line [not found] requesting an allowance in Specie of my pay and Subsistance whilst a prisoner, to reimburse the Cash procured for my Subsistance by my Family. Congress not having it in their power to provide for the Prisoners at that early period, I was happy to hear from Mr. Mughlenberg that not a member in the House objected to it, and that it was referred to the Board, at which I presume you will preside. I must there fore beg your early Notice of me (as I am daily called upon by those of whom the Money was obtained, but have it not in my Power to Answer their Demands untill I can procure it from those in whose Service it was expended ) and Report a Warrant on the Treasurer, in my favour for the Amount of my pay and Subsistance as a Colonel from the 27th Augt. 1776 the Time I was captured until the 1st Octr 1778 the Time of my Release, deducting the Sum mentioned [in the] Letter to Congress referred to your Board. I think I ought injustice Receive Interest at least from the Time of my Release. I have been paying since it was Borrowed for my Use, a great deal of it immediately after I was taken. “As I seek but for Justice, I can with the more boldness warmly press this Matter upon you, and doubt not your utmost Assistance.” PWcHi. For the ultimate settlement of his claim in April 1780, see JCC, 16:215, 335-37, 365-66.


[Page 231]
November 15, 1779 197 John Fell’s Diary Monday Novr. 15. [1779] Coml Committee. Sundry Letters &c. Motion from Mr Gerry that no member of Congress, should hold any Office or be chose while a Member or for 6 Mo after. 1 Nominated Gentlemen for the Admi ralty Board. 2 MS (DLC). 1 For Elbridge Gerry’s previous attempt to pass a similar motion, see Henry Laurens’ Notes, September 24, 1779. 2 For the election of the board’s commissioners, see Samuel Huntington to Thomas Waring, November 27, 1779. Medical Committee to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 15th. 1779. In Pursuance of a Resolution of Congress of the 4th instant (a Copy of which is enclosed) I am directed by the medical Committee to transmit to your Excellency some Papers relative to a Complaint filed by the Inhabitants of the Town of Danbury against the Deputy director general of the eastern Department. The Papers are marked from No. 1 to No. 4 inclusive, and will with this, be handed you by Doctor Foster, who proposes to wait on your Excellency in his Way to the eastward to receive your Com mands. 1 I have the Honor to be with the highest Esteem And most perfect Respect, your Excellency’s most Obedient And very Humble Servant, Nath. Scudder 2 Chairman RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by Nathaniel Scudder. 1 Dr. Isaac Foster’s conduct as deputy director of the Eastern Department had long been before Congress, the present charges stemming from a December 14, 1778, memorial of “the Inhabitants of the Town of Danbury,” for which see Samuel Holten’s Diary, June 4-5, 1779, note 1. Because Congress and the medical committee had failed to take action on the town’s charges, however, the author of the memorial, Thaddeus Benedict, had renewed the attack on Foster in a letter to Congress of October 26 citing recent denunciations of Foster in the Pennsylvania Packet and offer ing to furnish depositions in support of the original charges. Thus on November 4 Congress ordered an investigation and directed the medical committee to send Benedict’s memorial to Washington along with “such other papers as they may have respecting the matter.” The following day Congress also received a letter from Foster requesting an inquiry into his public conduct. See JCC, 15:1237, 1240. In addition to Congress’ November 4 resolution, the committee sent Washington “Papers . . . marked from No. 1 to No. 4,” which were undoubtedly a May 28 letter by Foster to the medical committee, a May 27 certification by Dr. William Burnet in support of Foster, and Benedict’s and Foster’s October 26 and November 4 letters. All are in the Wash ington Papers, DLC, with the latter two clearly marked “No.3" and “No.4.” On December 4 Washington replied that “whenever the trials that have been pre viously directed are finished, I shall pay the earliest attention to the enquiry ordered.”


[Page 232]
198 November 15, 1779 ft //\ Nathaniel Scudder to George Washington. November 15. 1779


[Page 240]
206 November 16, 1779 succeeding one we condole. Alas! for the southern Disappointment! Indeed the same Day often exhibits a Medley of Mourning and Festivity, of Joy & Lamentation; witness the 11th instant, the Day after we received the melancholly Confirmation of the Repulse of the allied Armies at Savannah. On that Day the President of this State was elected and proclaimed, and on that Day the Funeral of our Friend & fellow laborer Mr. Hewes of North Carolina was attended with the usual mournfull Formalities. About 12 o’clock the Presi dent of the State, Mr. Reed, was proclaimed from the Court House Steps, and a Feu de Joy fired on the Occasion; after which there was a Procession to & Collation at the City Tavern, the Bells chyming joy ously &c. &c. About 4 o’Clock the funeral Procession of the Honble Mr. Hewes began, the Same Bells ringing muffled; and as we proceeded down Market-Street we had a fine View of the continental Colours displayed on Market Street Wharf in Honor to the President. When we arrived at Christ’s Church we were entertained with the usual Service, and a very solemn funeral Anthem, after which the Body was interred. Scarce had the Attendants reached their Homes, before the Bells again unmuffled resumed their festive Sounds, with firings as usual, and the Evening closed with a grand Serenade at the governor’s Door. Sic eminet; & sic transit gloria Mundi. I observe by the last Boston Paper that Mr. Samuel Stockton, who has for a considerable Time acted as Secretary to Mr. William Lee in various parts of Europe, 1 is arrived in that City from Amsterdam; I daily expect him here, and hope for much usefull Information from him, as from our former Intimacy I expect to find him unreservedly communicative. I doubt not he will be very able to unravle some of our foreign Mysteries. Congress is at present very thin, rarely more than 10 States represented, often but 9. Many important Businesses on Progress much as usual. What can the Neglect of your State be attributed to? only one Member here for many Weeks. 2 Mr. Duane is again in the Delegation from New York—Goverr. Morris left out. Mr. Floyd in again, Mr. Lewis out—General Schuyler, Mr. Scot, Mr. Livingston & a Mr. Lommedeau added. Our old worthy Friend Mr. Sherman left out by Connecticut, this I think not a little ominous, as he is one of the Originals. In short, what with the Effect of Manoeuvre on the one hand, and of Necessity on the other, I fear, entre nous, both that State and New Jersey will next year appear in different Colours from what they have heretofore done. As for myself, sheer Necessity com pels me to retire, and I have therefore so ordered it with my Friends as that I expect not even to be balloted for. My Time expires on the first of December, so that I shall be here only one Week after this. 3 I wish I may be happy enough to hear from you before I leave Philadelphia. To morrow at 12 o’Clock is fixed for the public Audience of the New Minister of France. There will be a public Dinner.


[Page 243]
November 18, 1779 209 18. Thursday. The Cevalier paid us a visit, by leaving a card & Mr. Marbo[is], MS (MDaAr). Marine Committee to John Bradford Sir November 17th 1779 Your letter of the 25th ultimo addressed to the President of Con gress having been referred to this Committee, we think proper to direct that you adhere strictly to the Orders already given you respect ing the Sugar to be delivered to the State of New York. 1 We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 For Congress' directive to Bradford to deliver sugar and rum to New York, see Samuel Huntington to George Clinton, October 1, 1779, note. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentn. November 17th 1779 It is become unnecessary any longer to retain the Pilots that you were directed to provide for the Count D’Estaings fleet, therefore on receipt of this we desire they may be discharged. We are Gentlemen, Your Hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). John Fell’s Diary Thursday Nov 18th [1779]. Com[mercial] Com[mittee]. Congress. Sundry Letters, Memorials and Reports, One from the Committee of 12 in order to Regulate Prices was Read & debated. MS (DLC). Samuel Huntington to John Beatty Sir, Philada Novem 18th 1779 You will herewith receive enclos’d an act of Congress of the 16th instant, 1 By which you are directed until the further Order of Con-


[Page 244]
210 November 18, 1779 gress to make the same provision for the Spanish prisoners in New York as is made for the prisoners of the United States keeping a separate Account thereof. I am Sir with respect, your hble Servt, S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For this resolve and Beatty’s original query concerning the needs of “some Spaniards on board the prison-ship at New York,” see JCC, 15:1273; and Marine Committee to Beatty, November 5, 1779. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir Circular Philada Novem. 18th 1779 You will receive herewith enclos’d two acts of Congress of the 12th & 16th instant for reforming the eleven Companies of Artificers raised by the Quartermaster General, making provision for, & grant ing certain benefits to that Corps in particular that they be consider’d as part of the quotas of the eighty Battailions apportion’d on the several States to which they respectively belong. 1 Also another Act of Congress of the 16th instant requesting the aid of the several States for obtaining witnesses & depositions in the trial of cases before Courts martial. 2 I have the honour to be &c, S.H. President. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 15:1261-62, 1276. 2 For this resolve, which was adopted to enable Dr. John Morgan to collect evidence to support charges he had brought against the director general of hospitals, Dr. William Shippen, Jr., see JCC, 15:1277-78. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve to Judge Advocate John Laurance with a brief cover letter the following day. PCC, item 14, fol. 230-31. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir, Philadelphia Novem. 18th 1779 You will herewith receive enclos’d Copy of an Act of Congress of the 15th Instant by which you will be inform’d That two Million of Dollars are advanced to Col. Blaine for the use of the Commissaries Department & for which the Commissary General is to be account able. 1 I am Sir with much Respect your humble Servt. Sami. Huntington President RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 'JCC, 15:1269.


[Page 246]
212 November 18, 1779 business will Expire before another is appointed unless Congress is pushed to It both here and from Your Quarter. A Memorial of the Gen. Officers 3 was Yesterday 4 read and Committed, to Mr. Root, Mr. Morris & Mr. Schuyler. I shall urge a Speedy report, but Entre nous, people here are not So Attentive to business as the vast variety and Importance of what is on hand seems to require. I am Dear Sir with the most Ardent wishes for Your Happiness, Respectfully & faithfully Your Excellency’s most Obedient hum Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 That is, Jeremiah Wadsworth. See Samuel Huntington to Wadsworth, December 4, 1779. 3 A November 15, 1779, memorial of general officers was read in Congress on November 18 and referred to “the committee appointed to consider what allowance ought to be made to the officers in the different departments of the army, to whom the provision of 18 August last doth not extend.” Schuyler had been appointed on November 16 to replace Samuel Atlee on that committee. The committee’s report, which is in the hand of Schuyler, was read in Congress on December 1, but apparently no action was taken. See JCC, 15:1274, 1286, 1335-37; and PCC, item 41, 7:259-66. See also Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall, August 13, 1780. Schuyler’s work on the memorial of the general officers is also reflected in the following letter to him from Maj. Gen. Benedict Arnold. “Since I saw you this morning,” Arnold wrote on November 24, “I made the Inclosed minutes [not found} by which you will see that Six Rations, & Sixteen hundred & Fifty Dollars Subsistance money, is by no means equal to the Rations which the General Officers have allways received. I don’t believe it is the wish of the General Officers to have any Addition (to t]heir Rations. Their pay made good and [a new?] Establishment after the War I believe will [co]ntent them. I have shown the minutes to Mr. Root who is of opinion that it will not be best to make any Alterations in the Rations.” Schuyler Papers, NN. 4 Schuyler may have completed this letter on November 19. The memorial of the general officers was read in Congress on November 18; and this paragraph is slightly separated from the preceding at the bottom of the page. John Fell’s Diary Friday Novr 19th [1779] Com[mercial] Com[mittee]. Congress. Report for regulating Prices @ 20 for 1 agreed to for all home Manufactories &c and all imported articles to bear a Proportion to the above. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Samuel Holten also noted in his diary of this date that “Congress passed several resolutions for regulating prices.” MDaAr. For these resolves, see Samuel Huntington to the States, November 22, 1779.


[Page 248]
214 November 19, 1779 Massachusetts Delegates to Samuel Adams and John Hancock Gentlemen Philadelphia Novr 19. 1779 We beg Leave to inclose You a Copy of a Subscription, originated in this City for the benevolent Purpose of Supporting & educating the Children of our late worthy Friend Major General Warren, 1 by which it will appear that the Name of the General Assembly & also of the Council of Massachusetts Bay is inadvertently used in a Manner which may not be approved by them; for this, & other Reasons, We have tho’t it our Duty to suggest the Impropriety of the Measure, to the Gentlemen who promoted it; for, should the Subscription be more successful than We expect, yet, it is not probable that a Sum will be raised adequate to the purpose, & it may also be hurtful to the Feelings of the Children, to reflect hereafter on the Mode proposed for affording them Relief. Notwithstanding, We shall chearfully con tribute in our private Capacity, We are still of Opinion, that consider ing the Merit of General Warren, the Services which he rendered to his Country, & the distressed Circumstances of these Orphans, some Provission should be made by the publick, more advantageous to the former & consistent with the Honor due to the Memory of our deceased Friend, than what is proposed by the Subscription, & We shall move that a Committee appointed by Congress some Time past to consider this Matter, may be directed to report. How far it will be proper to communicate the Matter to the Gen eral Assembly & to urge their Beneficence, We submit to your Consideration, & shall acquiesce in your Opinion relative to the same. We remain Gentlemen with Respect, your very huml Servants, E Gerry James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Written by Gerry and signed by Gerry and Lovell. 1 For further information on the private subscription for the children of the late Gen. Joseph Warren, which was promoted by Gen. Benedict Arnold but opposed by the Massachusetts delegates because they sought public support for Warren’s dependents, see these Letters, 12:111 -12. A copy of the subscription notice is printed in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:171-73. On July 1, 1780, Congress resolved to pay for the “maintenance and education” of Warren’s children “to the amount of the half-pay of a major-general, to commence at the time of his death, and continue until the youngest of the said children shall be of age.”JCC, 17:581.


[Page 252]
218 November 22, 1779 Polly, commanded by Charles Rowland, on the high seas on July 1, 1778, while it was carrying supplies to the British forces in New York. After the Pennsylvania court’s decision on September 6, 1778, John Bunch of New Providence, the owner of the Polly, claimed that his ship was heading for Halifax to obtain supplies for New Provi dence and was therefore exempt from seizure by Congress and he appealed to Con gress where the case was referred to the Committee on Appeals on October 20, 1778. The committee in this decree dismissed Bunch’s claim and reaffirmed the state court’s decision. See case file no. 33, RG 267, DNA; and JCC, 12:1024. John Fell’s Diary Monday the 22d. [November 1779] Com[mercial] Com[mittee]. Congress. After the dispatches, Com mittee on ways and means brought in a Report, to draw Bills on Mr Laurens and Mr Jay for £100000 Sterlg Each. After long debate agreed to go in a Committee of the whole house to morrow: Mr Griffin and Mr Harnet were appointed to the Commercial Committee. MS (DLC). Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, (Circular) Philada Novem. 22d 1779 You will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of the 19th instant earnestly recommending to the several States forthwith to enact Laws for establishing & carrying into execution a general limi tation of prices throughout their respective Jurisdictions, to com mence in their operations from the first day of February next. 1 I have the honour to be &c. S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 An October 7 “representation” from New Jersey seeking “a general regulation of prices,” with a view to “restoring and rendering permanent the public credit,” had been read in Congress on Octcber 11 and referred to a committee of 13. A month later, the October 20-28 proceedings of the Hartford convention on price regulation were also referred to the same committee, which submitted a report that was read, debated, amended, and adopted on November 15, 18, and 19. In addition to seeking passage of state laws for regulating prices and wages, the enclosed resolves also provided guidelines for state price limitations (“not to exceed twenty fold of the prices current through . . . 1774”), specified exemption (“salt and military stores”), recommended “strict laws against engrossing,” and enjoined all Continental purchasing officers and agents “to conform strictly to all regulations . . . established in the several states.” A decision on the committee’s more controversial recommendation for revision of state legal tender laws was postponed, and Congress did not address itself to the Hartford convention’s call for a follow-up convention to be held in Philadelphia early in January, which had been sent directly to all the states from New Hampshire to Virginia. See JCC, 15:1162, 1254, 1272, 1287, 1289-93; PCC, item 26, fols. 39-44, item 33, fols. 369-90, item 67, 2:218-25, item 68, fols. 467-74; John Fell’s Diary, October 11, 1779; and the following entry.


[Page 253]
November 22, 1779 219 New Jersey Delegates to Caleb Camp Sir, Philada 22 Novr 1779. Enclosed you have the result of the Deliberations of Congress on the representation of the 7th ulto respecting a general Limitation of Prices. 1 We beg Leave to say that with Attention to the Interests of the Union in general and the State in particular, and also to the Convenience of the Legislature, we have left no Means untried to give Success and Dispatch to the Business. The Legislature, we flat ter ourselves, will be disposed to overlook any Defects in the Plan recommended by Congress compared with the Scope and Tenour of their representation, when they reflect that different States as well as Individuals, however they may coincide in the main Substance of a Measure, vary often in their Ideas on particular Parts, and also when they are informed that what we have now the Pleasure to transmit has passed with a great Degree of Unanimity. For the Sake of this and greater Expedition, Policy dictated to concede a little. From Appearances we think ourselves justified to say that the measure recommended will, in all probability, be universally adopted through out the Union. The Date of Commencement is more distant than could have been wished, but when the remoteness of some of the States is considered, as also that many of the Legislatures are not sitting, and that the Limitations ought to take Place at the same Time every where, it could not well be gainsayed. Other Arguments also have been urged tending to shew that this will give fuller Efficacy to the Measure by giving People, an Opportunity to provide against Losses and Disappointments to their essential Prejudice. The ratio of the Prices to those current formerly, though by many thought too large, is set at a Limit which we hope will produce an easy Turn to the Tide of Depreciation, and make a further reduction in due Time more natural and practicable. We have the Honour to be, with all respect, your obedt hble Servants, Jno Witherspoon Nath. Scudder John Fell William Ch. Houston RC (Nj: State Papers). Written by Houston and signed by Houston, Fell, Scudder, and Witherspoon. Addressed: “Honorable Caleb Camp, Esquire, Speaker of the House of Assembly of New-Jersey, Mount-Holly.” 1 See the preceding entry. Nathaniel Scudder to Henry Laurens My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 22d. 1779 I was yesterday, by the Hand of Colonel Laurens honored with your agreeable Favor of the [16th] and 17th instant, and I most sincerely thank you for [them.]


[Page 254]
220 November 22, 1779 The Account we have received since your Departure of our Repulse & Disappointment at Savannah compelled me to adopt the Adage contained in the fi[rst] Line of your Letter, and I think upon the Whole I [can] say “Aye”—altho’ I must confess I cannot fairly see how. Our worthy & amiable Friend Colo. Laurens is gone to Head- Quarters, where I hope he will be determined to quit his military Engagements, and to accept his Appointment to Paris—may I ven ture to say I [can] hardly forgive his Father for not having used his Influence to prevail on him to do so—however being fully acquainted with the Prudence & Delicacy of the Gentleman, who sustains that happy Relation to him, I freely acquiesce. We did not elect a New President on Monday [nor] have we since, but after Several Days absence Mr. Huntington resumed the Chair by general Cofnsent] and Business has proceeded as usual. Congress h[as been?] very thin, rarely more than ten States represented, and frequently no more than nine. Genl. Schuyler and Mr. Robert R. Livingston are now here from New-York. Neither the Doctor 1 nor myself are elected for the ensuing year. The Members elected by New Jersey are [Mr. Fell,] Mr. Houston and Colo. Henderson, who, if he accepts, w[ill be a very? goo]d Man. Congress is doing every Thing possible for the Assistance of the southern States, and we hope to be able to embark the North-Carolina Brigade, and any other Troops General Washington can spare on Board Count De Gras’s Squadron in Chesapeak, which if effected will afford a speedy Reinforcement to your City, and save immense Expence and fatigue. I rejoice to hear some french Frigates are [yet] at Charles Town for it’s present Defence; and I am of Opinion the Embarkation from New York will not take Place while the french Line-of-Battle Ships con tinue hovering on our Coast. We have indeed some Accounts from thence which say they have debarked a great Number of Troops, which they had put on Board. I am now, my Dear Friend, retiring to a private Life, this being my last Week in Congress; 2 but believe me I have no Idea of shrinking from any further Share in this important Contest—No Sir—I will continue to exert myself on all Occasions for the public Good, both by a spirited Opposition to all peculators & public Defaulters, and, if necessary, by again taking up the Sword, and even in the Ranks with those (over whom I lately held a high Command) exposing my Life, which with my Honor are almost all I have left to expose out of that List of Valueables, which when I early signed the General Associa tion I solemnly devoted to the good of my injured Country. I know you pity me for the unequal Sacrifices I have made—I thank you for it. But I know that I have done nothing more than every honest man ought to have done; and I appeal to Heaven [. . ,}nk Necessity alone which compels me [. . . ac]cept public Station. Congress has at Length adopted a set of Resolves whereby they recommend to the States a


[Page 255]
November 22, 1779 221 general Limitation of Prices, so that no Labor or Country Produce shall exceed 20 Prices of the Year 1774. What the Effect will be Time only can demonstrate. We were yesterday, and shall be this Day [laying] a Plan for draw ing upon yourself and Mr. Jay for 100,000 Sterling at 6 months sight—whether we venture a Leap in the Dark I know not; I rather [think] we shall—how would you like to meet with a Number of these Bills on your Arrival at Amsterdam. Desperate Diseases require desperate Rimedies. Mr. John Adams & Mr. Francis Dana accept the Appointment & will sail in a few Days. I thank you for your kind Expressions in Favor of myself and Family, and were it not that I fear to offend your generous Delicacy, I would in the most emphatical Language paint my Gratitude to you for that unmerited Attention you have paid me in Person and for the numerous Favors you have conferrd upon me and my Son—but I will not give you Particulars.] I only wish to continue to share the Honor of [your] Friendship, and that my Son, 3 whom you have been [. . .] so kindly to patronise, may render himself worthy of your goodness and future Attention. He and [his] Sister join in present ing you their most respectfull Complements, and in wishing you a safe & prosperous Voyage. You have my most ardent Prayers for this and every other Success and Blessing [tempora]! & spiritual to which your most sanguine W[. . . as]pire. I shall esteem it a peculiar happiness to hear from you immediately after your safe Arrival in Europe, and as often afterwards as your important Business there will permit. I shall hold my Son attendant on your Commands at least untill the Beginning of the Summer; [In the] mean Time shall urge him to make every Improvement in his Power. If it be agreable to you, you will please to place your Letters to me under cover to the President of Congress, who can conveniently hand them to my Son—mine to you will come through the same Conveyance. And now, my Dear Sir, permit me to repeat my anxious Wishes for your future Wellfare, and to subscribe myself with the highest Regard, Your sincerely affectionate Friend, & most obliged Humble Servant, Nathl Scudder [P.S. Nothing?] in this Day’s Paper worth enclosing. RC (PHi: Jenkins Collection). RC damaged, but many missing words conjectured in an unidentified hand. Alternate readings have been supplied where necessary. 1 That is, John Witherspoon. 2 Scudder’s term was to expire December 1; he apparently last attended Congress on November 25 or 26. 3 Probably Joseph Scudder, who was a clerk for the Board of War.


[Page 256]
222 November 23, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Tuesday 23d [November 1779] Com. Committee. Congress. This day Resolved to draw Bills on Mr Jay and Mr Lawrence for £200000 Sterlg at 6 Mo. sight. 1 I was against the measure. MS (DLC). 1 For the action taken by Congress on the bills of exchange to be drawn on John Jay and Henry Laurens, see JCC, 15:1297, 1299-1300, 1315-16, 1326-27; and Fell’s Diary, November 29, 1779. James Forbes to Thomas Sim Lee? My Dear sir, 1 Philadelphia Novr 23d 1779 I have the pleasure of yours of the 19th Currt. The Inclosed papers gives you all our publick news. Our Army are moving into Winter Quarters, no accounts from N York that are to be depended on, respecting the movements of the Enemy. Congress have recommended to the States a limitation of prices not to exceed twenty for one, to what they were in 1774, should this & the raising Taxes be complyd with a stop may be put to the amazing Depreciation of our money. I hope shall soon have the pleasure of seeing you, as I flatter my self some of our new Delegates will soon appear in Congress. I ever am with perfect Esteam & regard, your affe Friend & Servt, James Forbes 2 RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 Probably Thomas Sim Lee, with whom Forbes corresponded regularly in similar terms. In this letter Forbes also expressed his expectation of being left off the slate of Maryland delegates that were soon to be elected, and in his December 30 letter to Lee he reported his great disappointment that he was included in the new delegation elected December 22. 2 This day also the following brief letter was written by Pennsylvania delegate Fred erick A. Muhlenberg to the Board of War. “There is a certain Captn. Brightman now a Prisoner in the new Jail, who was taken on his Passage from the West Indies to New York in an unarmed Vessel. I should be extreamly happy if Your Honourable Board would admit him on his Parole, & I will be answerable for his good Behaviour & strict Adherence to it.” Society Collection, PHi. The object of Muhlenberg’s solicitation may have been James Brightman, cap tain of the William, who had been captured by a Pennsylvania privateer and was lodged at a Mr. “Boyles” in January 1780. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:93.


[Page 262]
228 November 26, 1779 John Fell’s Diary [November 26-27, 1779] Friday Novr 26. Commercial Comm[ittee]. Congress. 1 Letter from General Washington with the State of the Army &c. Sundry Letters &c. Elected two Members for the Admiralty Board viz. Mr Warring and Mr Whiple. 2 Saturday Novr. 27th. Com Com. Congress. Several Reports Read and debated. NB Dined with Mr Griffin. MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress considered the report of the committee appointed July 22 to respond to the memorial of Pierre Eugene Du Simittere, who sought congressional support to compile and write his proposed “Memoirs and observations on the origin and present state of North America,” based on his extensive collection of books, pamphlets, manuscripts, and maps. Although Congress at first responded favorably to the committee’s report, Du Simitiere’s plan was ultimately rejected in July 1780. See JCC, 14:861, 15:1316-18, 1410, 17:606, 613, 648. For an analysis of Du Simitiere’s career and his collections, see Paul G. Sifton’s “Pierre Eugene Du Simitidre (1737-1784): Collector in Revolutionary America” (Ph.D. diss., University of Pennsylvania, 1960), especially pp. 1-40. Consideration of Du Simitiere’s memorial also may have stimulated an interesting motion by Elbridge Gerry aimed at establishing a sound basis for American Revolu tionary historiography. Evidence for the motion, which is not in the journals or PCC, comes from a letter of John Adams to Gerry written 30 years after the close of the war. “Had your motion in Congress been adopted, and a Man of Sense and Letters appointed in each State to collect Memorials of the Rise Progress and Termination of the Revolution: We should now Possess a Monument of more inestimable Value than all the Histories and Orations that have been written. . . . That Mr. Jay, the President of Congress when your motion was made, admired it, is no Surprize to me. His head could conceive and his heart feel the importance of it.” See the Warren-Adams Letters, 2:380-81. If such a motion was made during Jay’s presidency, it would undoubtedly have been between July 22 and September 28, 1779. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Thomas Waring, November 27, 1779. Samuel Huntington to Oliver Wolcott Sir Philadelphia Novemr 26th. 1779 I am agreably favord with your Letter of the 18th Instant, and had fortune favourd you with black Eyes it seems I might have still been more happy in being favourd with your personal conversation & company, however it seems the matter is not yet so fully desided but that I may have some hopes that good grey eyes will possibly do. The Request you make in behalf of Mr Murdoch shall be attended to and if I can obtain any usefull Information on the Subject it shall be communicated to you or Mr Murdoch. Before this comes to hand you will be Informd Congress have again recommended a limitation of prices Consequent upon the Result


[Page 263]
November 27, 1779 229 of the late convention at Hartford, you well know that every Individ ual in Congress is not So wise as allways to Judge conformable to their resolves and this in particular is a Subject on which Time and Experience only, & the latter repeated will bring all men to agree in Judgment. I have little if any news of Importance which you have not receivd. A part of Count D. Estaings Squadron tis said about Eight Ships of the line and Some Frigates are arrivd in the Chesapeake but their future destination is yet unknown perhaps to refresh & victual & return to the west Indies but this is bare conjecture. I have the pleasure to inform you that as great harmony & con cord Subsists in Congress as ever I knew or can be expected in Such a body, however by a refind practice we use a little too much Scrip ture language for my taste i e our language is too too much ay & no, but tis a Custom Some are fond of as being usefull in their Opinion. I hope the Wisdom of Congress and of the Several States will lead to such Measures the ensuing winter that we may be prepared for peace or war as events may be but I most Sincerely wish the former. I am with Compliments to your Lady & Sincere Esteem & regard for yourself [I am] your humble Servant, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott Papers). William Churchill Houston to Robert Morris Dear Sir Philada. 27 Novr 1779 Yours of 3 instant 1 I received a few Days after Date, and beg you will accept my Acknowledgments for it. The Question relative to the Crown-lands which you mention, 2 is never out of Sight; and I am more and more convinced must, for the Peace of the Union, be settled upon some different Principles. I am as fully convinced of the Weakness of the Claims as before I came to Congress, and not less doubtful whether they will ever tend even to the pecuniary Interest of those who set them up. Certain I am they will never promote, but will probably ruin their political Interest. It is not however the less just that we should have our Share of the Proceeds of those Lands; and here arises a Question which I recom mend to your Consideration. Whether had we better contend for this on United or Confederated Grounds. [Maryland says, as we are; others are of a different Opinion. I would be happy to hear your Sentiments on so interesting a Question, as I am far from being clear that the Charters of some States, or any Muniments by which they can justify a Claim, extend as has been too credulously supposed. It gives me much Pleasure to hear of the Success of the Loan in your County, and am persuaded if Gentlemen of Influence would equally exert themselves in other Places the Effect would be the


[Page 264]
230 November 27, 1779 same. But many rather set idle and wish that Things may go right, than put their Exertions to work to forward them. The Progress of Loans for a while in the present Exigency, is a desirable Object, but this pressing Crisis over, they had better be discontinued in future as being a disadvantageous way of raising Money. You speak of the Eligibility of foreign Loans to a moderate Amount; and I am fortunate to find you agree with my Ideas on this Matter. You know already, or will ere long that this is not a Subject dormant or untouched. But you hold with me I trust that it would not be best to go so far as to make one Tittle of Exertion at Home, and in our own Power, unnecessary. A domestick is preferable before a foreign Debt, unless the latter is contracted at considerable Advan tage above the former. The Idea of interesting European Powers in our Favour, is worthy of the Attention of Statsemen. I hear little from my Friends at Mount Holly but am contented to be neglected, if the high Concerns of the State engross their whole Attention. Can you steal Half an Hour to inform me what is done and doing? The Army, the General writes us, is moving to Quarters, princi pally in New-Jersey. I hope this will be some Relief to our Militia. No News of much Importance, but a Report from the West-Indies that the English Fleet are worsted in the Channel. We wait for a Confir mation, as it has no Mark of Authenticity yet. If you spare Time to look into this [tent?] of Hurry, Squabbling and Noise, beg you will not pass by. Your sincere Friend and hble Servant, William Ch Houston RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 Morris’ draft of his November 3 letter to Houston is in the Morris Papers, NjR. 2 Houston had discussed Virginia’s opposition to the claims of the Vandalia and Indiana companies in his letter to Morris of October 2, and Morris had returned to the subject in his November 3 response. “The new Argument you mention,” Morris noted, “when inquired into I am perswaded will prove ill founded like the others. If the Crown was not intitled [i.e., to grant vacant lands] who was? & in whose name were the Grants made. The denying the right of the Crown, destroys the title to the past Locations & militates against themselves. But suppose the right contravested. This possession was confessedly in the Crown. Let that possession be transferred to Congress & I trust they too will have force to retain it & do the Union justice, at least I’ll stake my life on the Contest.” Ibid. For their continued discussion of the western land issue, see Houston to Morris, March 6, 1780. For the views of a New York delegate, see Philip Schuyler to George Clinton, November 29, 1779. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Waring Sir, Philada Novemr 27th 1779 You will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of the 28th ulto establishing a board of Admiralty to superintend the naval & marine Affairs of these United States. 1


[Page 265]
November 27, 1779 231 Also another Act of Congress of the 26th instant by which you are appointed one of the Commissioners of that board, The other Gen tleman William Whipple Esqr belongs to Portsmouth in New Hamp shire, the third Commissioner is not yet elected, but will probably be a Gentleman from some one of the more central States, 2 it being thot beneficial to the whole to take the Commissioners from diferrent parts of the United States. I am Sir with esteem & respect, your hble Servant, S.H. President. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 15:1216-18. Although adoption of this October 28 resolve for establishing a Board of Admiralty brought a long period of indecision to an end, many weeks elapsed before the new administrative system was in operation. The resolve specified that the new board would “consist of three commissioners not members of Congress, and two members of Congress,’’ but all three nonmembers originally appointed— Waring, William Whipple, and George Bryan—declined their posts. Thus not until Francis Lewis accepted one of these positions on December 8, joining delegates Wil liam Ellery and James Forbes, was the new board organized, the day Congress also resolved to transmit to it “all matters heretofore referred to the marine committee.” For discussion of this administrative reform and the difficulties Congress experi enced in staffing the board, which consequently consisted essentially of Lewis and Ellery during most of its life, see Charles O. Paullin, The Navy of the American Revolution: Its Administration, Its Policy, and Its Achievements (Chicago: Republican Printing Co., 1906), pp. 184 -94, 216-19. See also John Dickinson’s Notes, September ? 1779. 2 Waring, about whom very little is known, was from Charleston, S.C. For the names of those who were put in nomination for commissioners (“not members of Congress”) of the Board of Admiralty on November 15 and 16, and the election of Waring and Whipple on November 26, see JCC, 15:1271, 1277, 1318. For those nominated on November 30 and December 1, and the election of George Bryan of Pennsylvania on December 3 for the third post, see JCC, 15:1330, 1339, 1344. 3 Huntington also wrote a similar letter this day to William Whipple. PCC, item 14, fol. 235. The replies to Huntington from Whipple, Waring, and George Bryan declin ing these appointments, as well as Francis Lewis’ letter of acceptance, are in PCC, item 78, 3:411-14, 14:295-98, 24:163-66, 171-74. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia Novemr 27th 1779 Since the receipt of your Excellency’s favours of the 3d & 5th instant acknowledg’d in my letter of the 11th I am honour’d with yours of the 14th, 18th, & 20th instant. 1 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclos’d a Letter from Doctr J Morgan of the 22d instant together with an Act of Congress of the 24th instant ordering the aforementioned Letter from Doctor Mor gan to be transmitted to the Commander in Chief. 2 I have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, your Excy’s hmble Servt, Sami Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.


[Page 274]
240 November 30, 1779 adviseable to stop the suit already commenced till Judgement is obtained upon the principal question after which it will be in Mr Bingham’s power to discharge himself by delivering to the true own ers the property placed in his Hands for their Use. If you should be of a contrary opinion they request you to furnish Mr Bingham’s Agent with the enclosed papers. 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To the Legislature of the State of Mass. Bay.” 1 William Bingham’s October 6, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs explaining this case was received and referred on November 24 to a committee consisting of Robert R. Livingston, Henry Marchant, and Roger Sherman. The committee’s report, which Congress adopted on November 29, simply recommended that the president transmit Bingham’s letter and enclosed documents to the Massachu setts legislature with this letter of explanation, which was drafted by Livingston. See JCC, 15:1302, 1332; and PCC, item 19, 1:345-46, item 90, fols. 180-205. The follow ing extract from the proceedings of the Massachusetts Council and House of January 4, 1780, pertaining to this case is also filed with these papers in PCC, item 90, fol. 206. “That as in the usual course of Law the two Actions [commenced against Bingham] will be continued to April Court in the County of Suffolk and there is a probability in the mean time of an Accomodation of the Matter in dispute, that the further Consid eration thereof be refer’d to the next Session of this Court.” Robert R. Livingston to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 30th Nov’r 1779. I did myself the honor to write to you last week, 1 but missing the post you will receive that letter by, this conveyance, since which noth ing material has hapned here, except that I find a violent inclination in most of the States to appropriate all the western Lands to the use of the United States, & in proportion, as they feel the weight of taxes, that inclination will increase, till I fear it will at last overpower us, unless we contrive to make a sacrafice of part to secure the remainder. This I think we may do to advantage now, while they treat our title with some respect. I would, therefore, submit it to your Excellency whether it would not be prudent for our Legislature to empower us to agree to make a north line, extended from the northwest corner of Pensilvania to the lake Ontario our western boundary, & from thence along the northwest shore of lake Ontario & the river St. Lawrence to the bounds of Canada, & from thence along those boundaries to the State of New Hampshire. This will secure Niagara to us, and the navigation of Lake Ontario. It will put our claim out of dispute, enable Congress & us to apply our Lands to counter secure our money. In every view this matter appears impor tant to me. I wish our Legislature may see it in the same light. 2 We have already had one attack which we very fortunately warded, tho Virginia is unrepresented. The attempt convinces me of the risk we run by being too insatiable in our demands. 3


[Page 276]
242 November 30. 1779 [is] now before Congress which will soon be acted upon. I wish I had taken with me the number of Inhabitants in our State above the Age of sixteen & desire you would send it to me. I should also be glad to be furnished with the number of Militia which have at sundry times been called into service since the Enemy Left Boston & the Service and term of time for which the Drafts were orderd. Perhaps this may be done by the Comme for Stating Accts &c without much Trouble. For news refer you to the inclosed papers only ading that some french ships of War are in Chesapeake Bay—Destination unknown. I am Sr. with Respect yr. most Humbl Servt, G. Partridge [P.S.] Yesterday a Resolve passed ordering Officers to be chargd. no more than 50 per Cent for Clothing above the former prices. 3 RC (MiU-C: Loammi Baldwin Papers). Addressed: “Sami Freeman Esqr, Clerk to the House of Representatives, Boston.” 1 John Gill, the publisher of the Continental Journal and Weekly Advertiser (Boston). 2 Congress had taken this action on August 18, 1779. SeeJCC, 14:978; andjohnjay to George Washington, August 20, 1779, note 1. 3 Congress actually took this action on November 25 as part of a comprehensive plan to clothe the army and help Continental officers cope with inflation. JCC, 15:1304-6. For a discussion of the background of this problem, see Erna Risch, Supplying Washington's Army (Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1981), pp. 296-98. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir No. 16 Philada Novr. 30th. 1779 Your favour of the 4th instant has been duly Reed. 1 And am extreamly Obliged to you for the information therein Contained— have nothing worth Your Notice to Communicate only that Genl Whipple is appointed a Commissr of the board of high Admiralty for these United States. 2 I earnestly wish your influence with him, to Accept the appointment, as it is a matter of the highest importance, Especially to the Eastern States, for that board to Consist of mem bers whose Knowledge in those matters is Equal to the important Trust that will be reposed in them. C ss have agreed to Draw Bills of Exc on Mr J—y to the amount of £100,000 Sterg and the like Sum on Mr L ns payable at 6 mo. Sight which are to be Sold at the Current Rate of Exchange for the Supply the Treasury. 3 What Effect this will have Cant Say and time only will make Known. I am Sir in hast Your most Obedt. and very huml Servt, Nathl Peabody [P.S.] As I Reed, no letters from your Quarter this Post, Suspect they were intercepted by the way.


[Page 279]
December 2, 1779 245 2. Thursday. A very Stormy day, the rain has been very heavy. I returned from Congress unwell, before they adjourned. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 This day Holten also wrote the following brief letter to the Board of Treasury, which immediately complied with his request. JCC, 15:1344. “Gentlemen, I shall consider myself under obligations, if you’l report to Congress a resolution in my favor for five thousand dollars, for which sum, the state I’ve the Honor to represent, will be Accountable.” Holten Papers, DLC. Samuel Huntington to Richard Bache Sir, Philada Decern 2d 1779 You will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of the first instant refering the Accounts of the Postmaster General to the board of Treasury to be adjusted and liquidated and also augmenting the salaries of the Postmaster General & the Comptrolers to commence on the first Day of September last. 1 I am, Sir, with great respect, your humble Servt, S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 This December 1 resolve was a belated response to Bache’s October 5 letter to Huntington reminding Congress of the insufficiency of Post Office department sala ries and of his continued inability to pay post riders punctually because payments on the department’s accounts were chronically in arrears. See JCC, 15:1149, 1203-4, 1338-39; and PCC, item 61, fols. 43-46, 459-62. Congress had long been aware of deficiencies in the Post Office, but seemed incapa ble of offering more than piecemeal reforms, as it adopted recommendations of the Post Office Committee on four occasions between October 1779 and January 1780 in response to Bache’s complaints. See Huntington to Bache, December 29, 1779, and January 8, 1780; JCC, 15:1411-12, 1415, 16:19, 21-22; and Jennings B. Sanders, Evolution of the Executive Departments of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1935), pp. 155-57. Samuel Huntington to John Rutledge Sir, Philada Decern 2d 1779 You will receive herewith two Letters directed to the Governor or President of Georgia, they contain Acts of Congress the same as those address’d to your Excellency which accompany this. 1 As we are ignorant whether there be any Governor or Civil Gov ernment at present existing in Georgia under the revolution I am to desire your Excellency to forward those letters to the Governor or Supreme executive power in Georgia if any such there be otherwise to retain them until such powers exist in Georgia. 2 I have the honour to be with great respect, your Excy’s hble Servt, S.H. President


[Page 280]
246 December 3, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 The identity of Huntington’s enclosures can only be conjectured, but they may have consisted of all the resolutions for the relief of South Carolina and Georgia Congress had adopted since November 10 when Lincoln’s report on the failure of the siege of Savannah was received. See JCC, 15:1255-57, 1296, 1313-15. If this surmise is accurate, Huntington was sending the first group of these resolves to Rutledge a second time, for he had already transmitted them to the governor the day they were adopted. See Huntington to Rutledge, November 11, 1779. Finally, Huntington may even have enclosed Congress' December 4 resolve endorsing Washington’s decision to march the Virginia troops under his command to South Carolina, since this letter appears in the presidential lettefbopk after other letters dated December 4 and may be misdated. See PCC, item 14, fols. 240-42; and Huntington to Washington, Decem ber 4, 1779. See also John Mathews to Benjamin Lincoln, December 9, and Hunting ton to Lincoln, December 18, 1779. 2 For discussion of conditions in Georgia during this period and her inability to maintain representation in Congress, see Edward Langworthy to John Houstoun, April 5, 1779, note 2. Samuel Huntington to James Wilkinson Sir, Philada Decem 2d 1779 You will receive herewith enclos’d two printed Acts of Congress of the 25th & 26th ulto for your Government on the subj'ect to which they relate in the clothing department. 1 I am Sir, your hble Servant, S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For these “printed Acts” concerning the issuance of clothing for the Continental Army, see JCC, 15:1304-6, 1313-14; and Evans, American Bibliography, no. 16,583. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Philada. Decemr 3d. 1779 I hope my not answering your oblidging favour of the 7th ulto. 1 will not be imputed to neglect, but to other reasons. Agreeable to your kind invitation I had thought of Paying you a Visit at Mount Holly, but these [fears?] of delicasey prevented as it was just about the time of Election for Delegates, another reason just when I Received your Letter Mrs. Fell and Son Peter came to pay me a visit, and you know I could not well leave them. They have been gone 10 Days and very unlickely for me about that time, Dr Weatherspoon and Dr Scudder, left Congress and I cannot leave Mr. Houston without leaving the State unrepresented. As yet we hear nothing of our new Collegue, and I have been informd he will not come, 2 neither have I heard what is like to be done for us. I wait impatiently for the determination of your Honorable House regarding our allow ance as on that must depend my continuing or not in this disagree able situation.


[Page 281]
December 3, 1779 247 There is now a Motion before Congress to Remove to Hartford, it was deliverd in but has not yet been debated. Yesterday Coll. Blaine was appointed Commissary General of Purchases and to have a Sallery of 20000 Ds. is Proposed, but no Commission, and I hope no more Commissions will ever be allowed to any Officer in future either in the Staff or Civil departments. The Treasury Board is put in to Commission, the Members are Mr. Ez. Forman, Mr. Turnbull of Connecticut, and Mr. Gibson late Auditor General. The Marine Committee, now the Board of Admiralty, is also just now finish’d being Put in Commission, the Members chose are a Mr. Warring for S Carolina, Mr Whipple from New Hampshire and Mr. Bryant late Vice President and now a Member of Assembly of this State (Penn sylvania). (Much against my opinion). The Sallery of the Commis sioners is to be 14000 Dolls Per annum for Each Board. The Com mercial Committee have Reported, to have that Put in Commission, by the Style of the Board of Trade. 3 I am Confident if this Board had been Put in Commission with good Men, Millions would have been saved, (from the Experiance I have made). This moment Con gress have determin’d to leave Philadelphia (past 1 oClock) now debating about the time, next will be the Place. I do not imagine the Debates will be finishd this Day. (The time is fixt to Remove on the last Saturday in April; The Places in Nomination are Hartford, Albany & Fredericksburgh. The question to appoint the Place to remove to, is Postponed to the first Monday in January, in order to accomodate the Southern and Eastern Gentlemen, I mention’d Bur lington for their Consideration;) 4 I am Dear sir, With great Respect Your Real friend & Humble Servt, John Fell RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 The draft of Morris’ November 7 letter to Fell is in the Morris Papers, NjR. 2 Dr. Thomas Henderson (1743-1824), who had been elected November 17 to serve with Fell and Houston for the ensuing year, declined the appointment, serving instead in the New Jersey assembly, 1780-84. Abraham Clark, who was elected Decem ber 25 to take Henderson’s place, took his seat in Congress on January 25, 1780. JCC, 15:1323-24, 16:84-85; DAB. 3 For the fate of this report, see Fell's Diary, November 30, 1779, note 2. 4 William Ellery’s December 1 motion seeking “Congress’s removal from the city of Philadelphia” was debated on December 3 when Congress resolved that it would “adjourn from the city of Philadelphia” at the termination of its meeting “the last Saturday of April next.” Consideration of the site was postponed first to January 3, then to February 28, and finally to March 13, when it was delayed indefinitely. Two weeks later, however, Ellery proposed that Congress adjourn to Hartford at the end of April. This motion, as well as a similar one in favor of Trenton, was rejected. Congress also voted against a suggestion that it repeal its December 3 resolution altogether. Nonetheless, this flurry of activity ended the attempt to remove Congress from Philadelphia until 1783 when it became a central and divisive sectional issue. See JCC, 15:1339, 1344, 16:9-10, 211-12, 255, 291-93.


[Page 305]
December 15, 1779 271 their embargoes on provisions from September 1 to the end of the year, see John Jay to Caesar Rodney, August 30, and to the States, September 14, 1779. James Lovell to Henry Laurens Dear Sir Deer. 15. 1779 Fearing yr. Son will suddenly leave this City, I am induced to take up my Pen to communicate an undecided Peice of Business, that perplexes my mind greatly. Was you here I should not feel that Perplexity an hour longer; as my Respect for your Judgement would of course give deciding Weight to whatever Opinion my critical Situa tion might draw from your Friendship, which I am sure is prompt to serve me in every honorable Way. Your Son having declined going to France, it was determined that Tomorrow a Secry. shall be chosen—no Nomination is yet made but Govr. Morris will be the man unless others are named to be in Competition. 1 I know yr. Opinion of him. I think I may say you would not rejoice at his Election; nay you woud have Fears from the measure. Honestly I had rather have suffered many Pains & Penal ties than to have this new Occasion to chuse, and a double number of them than to be chosen. Yet I am not absolutely decided against the latter. And my Reasons I mean now to explain. The 1st & greatest is of the preventive Kind, the 2d is a certain Conviction that I shall have every friendly Aid from you advisory & pecuniary, and the 3d is that you will probably succeed the Doctr. 2 in Case of that Event which makes it necessary to have a faithful Hand now near him at his advanced Age. If I am obliged to leave this City I will not do it without writing to you again on this Subject. I wish you to cover any Line you may think fit to favor me with to Mr. Peabody. Your affectionately attached humble Servant, James Lovell RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23). 1 For Lovell’s explanation of the intricate maneuvering that became involved in this “Competition,” which he was not reluctant to enter personally in order to forestall the selection of Gouverneur Morris, see Lovell to Laurens, December 17; and Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, December 18, 1779. See also Nathaniel Peabody to Laurens, December 17; and Robert R. Livingston to John Jay, December 22, 1779. 2 That is, Benjamin Franklin. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philada. Deer. 15th. 1779 The inclosed Extracts 1 will show the present State of a Business interesting to some brave Men of Massachusetts Bay & Rhode Island


[Page 306]
272 December 15, 1779 who probably are returned from Cape fran^ois and stand in need of an authentic Advertizement of the mode in which they may ob tain the Property adjudged to them at Port de Paix. It is not unlikely that Boston is used for Massachusetts Bay in more Instances than that of Cyren Peek; and it appears as if some of the Names are falsely spelt: One is omitted; but the Seven can tell who the Eighth was. With much Respect, We are, Sir, Your most humble Servants, E. Gerry James Lovell Geo. Partridge S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Gerry, Holten, and Partridge. Addressed: “The Honorable, The President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay. By Mr. McLane.” ' The “Extracts” were from “the Proceedings at Port de Paix relating to the Capture of an English Vessel by Eight American Sailors” in July 1779 and December 6 and 11 resolves of Congress related to the case. According to the proceedings, the eight Americans had sailed from Boston in April 1779 bound for Cape Francois but were captured and taken to Jamaica. There they enlisted as sailors on board the British-owned Greyhound, which they in turn took control of on July 12 and carried into Mole St. Nicholas, Haiti. The French Admiralty officials at Port-de-Paix awarded the ship to the Americans but withheld payment until they "might take proper Steps to authorize them to receive the proceeds.” Nearly one-half of the prize money was advanced to the Americans, but the remainder stayed in French hands. On December 6, the French minister, La Luzerne, brought the case to the attention of Congress, and on Decem ber 11 Congress approved the payment of the money in “equal shares” and directed that the letters and documents be given to the delegates from Massachusetts and Rhode Island, the sailors’ states of residence. Consequently, the Massachusetts delegates forwarded the information to the Massa chusetts Council with this letter. According to the council clerk’s endorsement, the council ordered that the extracts “be Published in Two Boston News Papers in order that the Captors of the Greyhound may be properly advised of the way in which they may Obtain the Property adjudged to them at Port de Paix.” The extracts, which are also in Lovell’s hand, are in the Revolutionary War Letters, M-Ar. SeeJCC, 15:1356, 1372; and Samuel Huntington to La Luzerne, December 8 and 11, 1779. See also Huntington to George Wattson, March 25, 1780. Philip Schuyler to James Duane Saratoga, December 16th 1779. Has just returned home from Philadelphia. “When I arrived at Congress [i.e., ca. November 16} I pressed for the sense of the house whether we should give peace to the Indians or not, and on what terms. The Committee who had been appointed on a letter of mine on that Subject were ordered to report, which was done, and Inclosed you have Copy of the resolutions as agreed to by the house. 1 An additional one was moved ‘That the Indians should be required to cede part of their Country for the benefit and behoof


[Page 312]
278 December 17, 1779 The Gentlemen Now in nomination to fill that important office are Mr Level by Mr Elery, Mr G. Morris by Mr. Mathews, a Lt Col Hamilton by Mr Lovel, and a Lt Col Stewart by Mr. Plater—but who will be Elected I cannot Take upon me to Determine, as I See a Storm Gathering, and the Cloven foot appears again as heretofore. Mr Lovel will Transmit the Journals of Congress published Since your departure, and Some News papers, however will Just observe, that Mr. Gibson, Mr. Trumbul, & a Mr. Foreman are appointed Commissrs at the board of Treasury. And Genl Whipple & a Mr. Wearing, of S. Carolina, and old Daddy Lewis Commissrs to the board of Adm[iralty]. A Col. Greyson a Commissr [to the] board of War. It would be needless for me to attempt mentioning anything Con cerning the Army, as Col Laurens who has so lately Come from H. Quarters will be able to give you the most Authentic Account upon that Head. A Line from you at any time I Should Esteem an Honr done me and would place it among my Choicest Treasures. I most ardently wish you Success equal to the rectitude of your Intentions. I am Honr. Sir, with the highest Consideration of Esteem Your most obedt and very Humble Servt, Nath Peabody RC (Mr. Sol Feinstone, Washington Crossing, Pa., 1979). Endorsed by Laurens: “17th Deer. 1779. Rec’d 11th Janry. Answd. 24th.” Elbridge Gerry to Benjamin Lincoln My dear sir Philadelphia the 18th Deer 1779 Since Your Departure from this place, I have been so involved in Business, & thereby so reduced in my Health, as to have been under the disagreable Necessity of giving up the pleasure of corresponding with those whom I most esteem, but I flatter myself that You will never entertain any Doubts of my warmest Friendship. By Colo Laurens, who will inform You particularly of the State of our affairs in this Quarter, I beg Leave to inclose You the latest Papers, containing some agreable Intelligence. I am now liberated from the Burthen of a Member of the Treasury; & hope my Engagements will be so far lessened as to admit a Com munication of such Occurrences, as may be interesting or agreable to You, & not officially transmitted from the Offices of Congress. I remain sir with every Sentiment of Friendship & Esteem, your most obedt. & very hum sert. E. Gerry RC (MH-H: Autograph File).


[Page 313]
December 18. 1779 279 Samuel Holten to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir. Philadelphia Deer. 18th. 1779. Colo. Laurens informs me he sits out this day to the southward, and my personal respect for you, induces me to embrace so favorable an oppertunity of writing you; tho’ we have nothing in particular here that deserves your attention, but what will be delivered you in a formal manner, or communicated by the bearer. The disordered state of our Finances, under our present circum stances is truly distressing, & calls for the greatest exertions of the good people, in paying in their Taxes and loaning their money, so that the public treasury may be supplied. I have nothing late from Boston, owing (as I suppose) to the roads being much block’d with snow. The Hon. J. Adams, & F. Dana Esqrs. sailed from Boston about four weeks since for France, being charged with important affairs from Congress, which I suppose you are acquainted with. The Chevalier de la Luzerne the new Minister, & Mr. Marbois his secy., are very agreeable Gentlemen, and appear desirous of strengthening the alliance between the two Countries, and assisting us against the common enemy. I inclose you the last public prints. I am, Sir, with great respect, your most obedient servant, S. Holten RC (MB: MS 448). Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia Decemr 18th 1779 You will receive herewith inclos’d a Copy of my letter of the 17th Instant to the Chevalier De la Luzerne Minister of France, and also an Act of Congress of the same date. 1 By these papers you will be informd not only of the measures Congress have taken for the defence of Charles Town and to reinforce the Army under your command, but also the designs of his Catholic Majesty against the Floridas and the inclinations of Congress in Case that Spain by the instrumentallity of the Governor of the Havannah or other ways will assist the American Arms with a Naval Force & Troops sufficient so as to regain the possession of Georgia, to cooperate with them in the reduction of East Florida. For this purpose Congress have been pleased to authorize you or the Commanding Officer for the time being to correspond & concert with the Governor of the Havannah &c such plans as shall in your opinion be best calculated to ensure the reduction of the Enemies


[Page 314]
280 December 18, 1779 force in the State of Georgia, and for the Conquest of East Florida; and the State of South Carolina is also requested to afford every Assistance in their power for carrying the same into effect. These Matters will by the first conveyance be communicated to -his Excellency Governor Rutledge, 2 and the greatest Secrecy the nature of the Case admits is enjoined. You will probably receive other intelligence on this Subject as soon as time will admit from the Governor of the Havannah or some other person on the part of his Catholic Majesty if the propos’d plan should take Effect. I am Sir, with much Esteem, your humble Servt. Sam. Huntington President RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to the chevalier de La Luzerne, December 17, 1779. Actually the “Act of Congress of the same date” is one of December 16 not 17. 2 This day Huntington wrote a similar letter to South Carolina Governor John Rutledge, which contained the following additional paragraph. “You will also observe it is the Desire of Congress that the State of South Carolina may afford a supply of Rice if practicable to his Catholic Majesty’s Islands and Fleet on their request.” PCC, item 14, fols. 258-59. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Deer. 18th 1779 Yr Favr. of Novr. 30th 1 reached me too late on Tuesday the 14th to permit a Line in Return. I now find what you asked for and some french Vouchers intended originally for You. I add some Letters reed, last Evening. I am now to surprise you more than heretofore by telling that Thursday last being fixed upon for the Election of a Secretary to Doctr. Franklin or rather the Embassy which Lt. Col. Laurens had not accepted, the Day passed without even a Nomination. But Yesterday Mr. Mathews named G Morris who is making all Smooth to obtain it. I had intended to name Col. Hamilton. Ellery however was beforehand & put me up. I pursued my Intention & Mr. Plater named a Col Steuart of Maryland. I mentioned to Congress that I should not as some time ago desire my name to be withdrawn as I had not the Opinion of a Self denying Ordinance which I then had, and was fortified in my Change of Sentiments by the late Proceedings of Congress. I declared that my Wish was not implyd but my meer Consent if the Ballots should not happily be general for another. I am pained at my present Situation. 2 You must be free in yr. Opinion upon this Conduct, let the Event be what it may. Yrs. affectionately, James Lovell [P.S.] I shall attend very particularly to yr. Memoranda formerly sent if I should be under the necessity of leaving this City soon.


[Page 326]
292 December 21, 1779 If I do not go abroad, I cannot tarry here unless the State allow in some Proportion nearly resembling the Rise of Expences to me. You will be as much astonished when you come this Way as if you had not known Philadelphia last spring. The Example of 65 dollars for a pr. of Gloves that were high in Boston, at one, formerly, though Deerskins are plentier here than there may serve for a Clue to other Things. 10 & 12 Dollars for Butter is a Pretence for ruining Board. Murmur & Discontent must be the Consequence of the Taxation, for there certainly is not Currency enough circulating, for such Ratios of Demand. I will not say any Thing of the Wants of the Army at this severe Season, The Letter is bad enough already. Yr affec tionate, JL. [P.S.] Affairs of the nature of Capt. McNeilles have multiplied. Thompson & Saltonstall have made Applications, 5 but painful as the Condition of Individuals may be we have mightier Claims in too great number before us now to admit even of a prophesy when the former will be considered. We want immediately, four times more than all in the Treasury. We are dependent on the most strenuous Exertions of the States. I suspect Combinations of the speculating Kind against all our Expedients especially against that of our draw ing Bills of Exchange. As to the Point of starving the army New York alone will prevent it, if only She can be certain that the Accounts of the Supplies from different States will be put on a just Ratio. But how can she give out her Produce at 12 or 15 or even 26 prices if this and other States have 50, 60, & 70, to be liquidated by Taxes hereaf ter imposed in the Citizens of New York in full Quota. I yesterday presented yr. Compliments at the Minister’s. You have a Return in Kind. In the present Stage of Uncertainty you will be cautious of writing to me what may go into wrong hands. J.L. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Samuel Adams’ November 23 and December 2 letters to Lovell have not been found. His December 2 letter to Lovell and Elbridge Gerry is printed under a “Deer” dateline in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:167-68. 2 That is, John Hancock. 3 That is, Gouverneur Morris. 4 Benjamin Franklin. 5 Former Continental Navy captains Thomas Thompson and Dudley Saltonstall, like Hector McNeill, had recently appealed their court-martial dismissals from the navy. See JCC, 15:1193, 1334.


[Page 331]
December 22, 1779 297 FC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). In the hand of Robert R. Livingston. 1 In a December 22 letter to Livingston, La Luzerne had objected to the Continental Army’s use of flour collected for the French navy unless Congress gave strict assur ances that it would be replaced. Livingston Papers, NHi. The issue developed from General Washington’s December 15 letter to Congress, detailing the army’s dire need for provisions and suggesting that “the only temporary resource we seem to have left, ‘till more effectual measures can be adopted, is this: to solicit a loan of four or five thousand barrels out of the quantity provided for the use of the french fleet and army. I am informed upwards of twenty thousand were collected in Maryland, all of which it is probable has not yet been exported.” Washington’s letter was read in Congress on December 20 and referred to a commit tee of James Forbes, Livingston, and Roger Sherman. It is clear from La Luzerne’s letter that the committee first consulted the French naval agent, Jean Holker, and then La Luzerne about Washington’s proposition. JCC, 15:1396; PCC, item 152, 8:247-50; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:272. Despite reservations, La Luzerne approved the release of several hundred barrels of flour collected for the French navy and loaded on three ships in Philadelphia harbor, on the condition that it be replaced and the French government indemnified, an arrangement he explained in a report to the comte de Vergennes of December 26, 1779. Archives du Ministfere des affaires 6trang£res: correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 10:125. For a discussion of Maryland’s seizure during the winter of 1779-80 of flour that had been purchased in the state by agents for the French navy, see Kathryn Sullivan, Maryland and France, 1774-1789 (Philadelphia: Univeristy of Pennsylvania Press, 1936), pp. 70-76. For a meeting of Livingston’s committee with the Pennsylvania Council on Decem ber 20 in a related effort to obtain provisions from “sundry merchants” of Philadel phia during this emergency, see Pa. Council Minutes, 12:203. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam Deer. 22d. 1779 Your sentimental Plaints and the Effusions of yr. estimable Friend ship under Date of Nov. 20th yesterday only came to hand. I find a Sort of Novelty in my Passions at this moment my Head & Heart are brimful of respectful Affection for you and yet both admit a large measure of Pity upon the Sketch of yr. Situation under my Eye from your own Hand. The Chances are great that I shall see yr. Friend & yr. Sons before you; 1 but I shall first see you. I am sure you will compassionate Mrs. L on the Occasion, and you will approve, notwithstanding, the pre ventive motives on which I act. Gr. M s 2 was nominated. Adieu, J.L. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell was referring to his chances of going to France as secretary to the minister plenipotentiary to France. 2 That is, Gouverneur Morris.


[Page 334]
300 December 23, 1779 This letter is not designed for the public Eye, but merely to shew you how sensible I am of your friendship, and in return to request the favor of a line whenever leisure and opportunity permits. I am with the most sincere esteem, Dr Sir, yours, Allen Jones Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Jones, who had been elected October 26 for the ensuing year, first attended Congress on December 8, 1779. JCC, 15:1360-61. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam Deer. 23, 1779 I inclose No. 36 of the Journals and a few News Papers in Course. 1 wrote you a few Lines by the Post two days ago, 1 but hope they will not reach you before these, because I wish to caution you against dropping a single Hint of what I then suggested of seing my worthy Friend abroad. A Gentleman of excellent Character is since nomi nated 2 so that my wishes to withdraw my Name get new Strength; in such an Event any Prior Talk of going would tend to make me appear either too changeable or defeated. Madam, your affectionate, respectful Friend, James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Actually Lovell’s brief letter to Abigail of December 22. 2 Robert R. Livingston, who had been nominated as secretary to the minister pleni potentiary to France on December 22. See Livingston to John Jay, December 22, 1779, note 4. For Lovell’s view of Livingston’s as opposed to Gouverneur Morris’ candidacy for this post, see also Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 16, 1780. William Churchill Houston to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Philadelphia 24 Deer 1779. Yesterday I received yours of the 19th inst, and am sorry to be under the Necessity of postponing a reply to it for sheer Want of Time. Shall take the first Leisure Hour if you will please to inform me where to direct, for I suppose this is the last I shall be able to address to you at Mount Holly, the Stage not going again till next Wednesday, and your Adjournment am told is near. It gives me inexpressible Pleasure to hear that the Legislature are upon the Subject of furnishing Supplies to the Army. The Exigency is alarmingly pressing. A Plan for ascertaining the Amount, and mode of procuring, the State Supplies will contain some further Arrangements than have been transmitted as yet, 1 but am in Hopes they will not be waited for. One probably will be that the Articles be delivered at certain Places most convenient for Transportation to the Army, under the Direction of the Executive of the State and


[Page 346]
312 December 30, 1779 I am, Sr, Your obedient humble servt. Sam. Huntington President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In the hand of Charles Thomson and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “His Excellency Thomas Sim Lee Esqr., Governor of Maryland.” LB (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Letterbooks). Addressed: “Gov. Caswell.” 1 Huntington’s enclosures consisted of copies of two December 27 letters, from Maj. Henry Lee to James Searle and from Washington to Huntington, and an extract of Gen. Anthony Wayne’s December 26 letter to Washington, all on the subject of the sailing of a second British fleet from Sandy Hook on December 26. Lee’s letter is in PCC, item 78, 14:303-4. Washington’s letter and the extract from Wayne’s that he sent to Huntington are in PCC, item 152, 8:271-76; the original of Wayne’s letter is in the Washington Papers, DLC. According to the journals, the “order of Congress” (of December 31) for forward ing the enclosed intelligence directed that it be sent “to the governors of Maryland and Virginia,” but no mention was made of North Carolina. JCC, 15:1424. Hunting ton failed to enclose this intelligence with his letter to Governor Jefferson of Virginia this day, but did so with a brief letter to him 6fJanuary 3, 1780, which is in the Dreer Signers Collection, PHi. Huntington apparently sent these enclosures to the chevalier de La Luzerne also, as his presidential letterbook contains the following letter of this date to “The French Minister.” “Sir, I do myself the honour to lay before you the important intelligence contain’d in the inclos’d papers.” PCC, item 14, fol. 267. Samuel Huntington to Baron de Miklaszewicz Sir, Philada Deer 30th 1779 By the act of Congress of the 23d instant herewith enclos’d you will be inform’d that there is no vacancy in the Marine Service at this time that you cannot be employ’d as there are a number of Officers in that line now out of employ. 1 I am Sir, &c S.H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In a letter of December 15, Miklaszewicz had described himself as a captain experienced in the service of Poland and petitioned Congress for a commission as captain of marines. His petition was referred to the Board of Admiralty, whose recommendation against it was adopted by Congress on the 23d. JCC, 15:1400, 1406; and PCC, item 41, 6:164. Before this decision was transmitted to him, however, he had submitted a second letter to Congress—seeking compensation for his expenses in coming to America and the loss of his baggage—w hich was not acted upon untiljanuary 21. Congress’ resolve rejecting this second appeal w as sent to him by Huntington in a brief letter of transmit tal the same day. See JCC, 15:1410, 16:41, 78; and PCC, item 14, fol. 281, item 78, 15:615-18, item 147, 4:79-80.


[Page 349]
January 3, 1780 315 far as duty requires in any Sphere I am called to act in I am Sir with great Respect, your Obedient humb servt, Sam. Huntington RC (CtHi: Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., Papers). 1 For Trumbull’s appointment as a treasury commissioner and ultimate decision to decline the post, see Huntington tojonathan Trumbull, Jr., November 12, 1779, note 2. George Partridge to Joseph Ward Dear Sir Philadelphia Jany 3d 1780 Yours of the 7th ultimo was duely receivd, but I did not design to have answered it till I could have informed you of the Determina tion of Congress on your repeated application, but least you should misconstrue such Delay, I would inform you that I am almost weary of making fruitless motions on that Matter, 1 no wonder then you’ll say that your Patience is nearly exhausted—true—but when you consider the State of our currency, the State of our finances, and the consequent Difficulty of supplying a suffering Army, the Necessity of recruiting the Regts. & a variety of other Matters which your own Ingenuity will suggest, you will not perhaps think it so strange that it should be difficult to draw the attention of Congress to any Matter which they do not think of the greatest importance immediately to attend to, and which will take them sometime [to] adjust. However I make no doubt but that your Officers will have their Subsistance made good to them equally as Officers of the Line, and to com mence from the same time. I shall not be inattentive to the Matter, but you are sensible that I have but one voice, Sc that a feeble one. It is my sincere wish that you may have ample Justice done you & speedily, & that you may continue to serve your Country in publick character being convinced that your abilities & Disposition are hap pily united to render it important Services. I am with great Regard, your most obedt. Humbe Servt, Geo. Partridge P.S. My Colleagues tell me that they will join with me in pushing this Matter immediately. RC (ICHi: Joseph Ward Papers). Addressed: “To Colo. Joseph Ward, Commissary Genl, of Musters, Morris Town.” 1 For the final resolution of “that Matter,” which resulted in the abolition of Joseph Ward’s mustering department, see Samuel Huntington to Ward, January 14, 1780.


[Page 354]
320 January 5, 1780 Subject—to him therefore we beg Leave to refer & are with the highest Sence of Regard, Yr Excellencys most obt. & very hble Servts, Geo Plater James Forbes [P.S.] The Troops sailed from N York by the last Intelligence 2 are six british Regiments, the Grenadiers & light Infantry of the Army, Rawdon’s Corps—the Legion—the Queens Rangers, & Hessian Grenadiers—making about five thousand effectives. RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Plater and signed by Plater and Forbes. 1 Maj. Henry Lee’s undated letter is in Md. Archives, 43:399. 2 For this “last Intelligence,” see William Ellery to William Greene, January 4, 1780. John Mathews to Thomas Bee Dear sir, Philadelphia Jany. [5?] 1780. 1 I received yours of October 18 (intended by Mr. Rutledge) on the 30th Ulto. by Major Lucas, to whom Rutledge entrusted all his dis patches for this place, having at last given over all thoughts of being able to reach the place of his destination. The account Majr. Lucas gives me of him, is truely melancholy. I hope in God his disorder may take some favourable turn, so as he may be preserved to us, for I think his loss would be a heavy one to his Country, his family, & his friends. The present is not the time, further to discuss the matter of taxation, as I expect ’ere this reaches you, you will be warmly engaged in a business of a far different kind. It is destressing beyond expression, to hear the accounts I do from all quarters, of the disaffection, (I can call their late conduct nothing less) of our back country people. Good God! is their nothing to be done, that will tend either to perswaid, or coerce them to do their duty? Indeed My Dear Friend, the day is not to come, it does not depend on our Militia’s not turning out to repel your present danger, which may subject us to the imputation of a want of vigour, the brand is already fixed on us. In passing through No. Carolina, & Virginia, whenever I urged the necessity of their sending men to our aid, the constant reply was “how can South Carolina expect we will send our men to their support, when they will do nothing for themselves. Our men go there, sacrifice their health, their lives, & the So. Carolina Militia are snug at their own homes. It is too much for them to expect us to fight their battles for them.” Hints of the same kind, have been thrown out in Congress. Where I have princi pally appologized for our men in the first instance, in the second, I have treated such insolence, with the keeness [keenest] severity, for


[Page 355]
January 5, 1780 321 let us be censured by whomever may, Congress are the last class of men on earth, who ought to presume to do so. Before I had received a Copy of Rutleges instructions, I had done everything that they required, except sending some part of the Stores, & it is too late now to be done. The three frigates are I hope safe with you as is likewise the Vessel with Military Stores. The Virginia & No. Carolina lines consisted of 3000 men, but on examining into their times of serving, such as would expire before they could reach you have been detained, which reduces them to about 2300 very fine men. If they were with you, I should be under very little apprehension about the loss of the town, but as they are at this day some 500 & the rest 600 miles from you, I almost despair. The great difficulty was in getting the men on their march, for want of necessaries, particularly Shoes, without which it was impossi ble for them to encounter the inclemencies of the season. Indeed some of the men suffered very severely in coming from camp here, for want of shoes, but now that they are marched, I am confident from the disposition of the Officers, not a moments time will be lost, and if the No. Carolina Militia can but support you, so as to hold the town, you need be under no apprehension about the expiration of their times of service, for before that happens these troops will certainly be with you. Blands & Baylors two Regiments of horse, I am in hopes will not be long after Master Clinton. Had Congress done their duty on the 10 of Novr. when I applyed to them for the troops, 2 they might have been the best part of their way through No. Carolina by this, but they first refused, then hesitated, untill the rivers were shut up by the ice, so that the men must now march the whole way by land. Which misfortunes are principally owing to a want of proper spirit in them at first. I can with a safe conscience say, I have done my duty to my Country, for there is nothing which I thought could be beneficial to it, but what I have applyed for, & by unremitted Sollicitations, as far as continental circumstances would admit of, have in the end procured. If it is too late, the fault is not imputable to me, & I flatter myself my Country will do me the justice to think so, & acquit me of any want of attention to their interest. You say, you wish to hear often from me. At any other time, such a request would have afforded me infinite pleasure, which I always have felt in communicated [communicating] my thoughts to so esteemed a friend. But I am too much with you, & my whole facul ties are at present so much engroced by your destresses, that there is no space left in my mind to turn to anything that passes here. I must therefore reverse the proposition, & intreat of you to give me an account of everything that passes with you, as often as you can find leisure, & opportunity. I sent of an Express in two hours after we got the account of the sailing of the fleet from New York, & I strictly charged him to be there in sixteen days, which if he is, will give you information of it, before they can reach you. God send you success &


[Page 357]
January 6, 1780 323 to them & to Miss Katy, who I am informed also lives with You, but was then absent. I remain Sir with Esteem, Your Friend & very hum Sert. E. Gerry RC (NjP: DeCoppet Collection). Addressed: “William Hunt Esqr. at Watertown.” 1 William Hunt (1749-1804), Watertown, Mass., lawyer and local official, conducted a business supplying the army during the war. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:46-48. 2 No memorial from Hunt pertaining to his accounts with former Commissary General Joseph Trumbull has been found in PCC. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia Jany 6th 1780 I am honoured with your Excellency’s two letters of the 13th ulto with the papers to which they refer. 1 Agreable to your Excellency’s request I have caused one of the lists of the Bonds transmitted to be endorsed which is herewith enclosed. I have the honour to forward by Brown two dozen blank Commis sions with Instructions and Bonds. By late letters I have received from Amsterdam it is abundantly evident that your Excellency’s Correspondence as also that of Gover nor Livingston with Baron V.D. Capelen hath enlighten’d & unde ceived many people in Holland, & produced many Friends & favoura ble sentiments with respect to the cause in which we are engaged. 2 I hope Congress will take some honourary Notice of the Baron. I am told N. Jersey have Just passed a law appointing proper persons to purchase all articles of provision & forage for the army which that State can supply. I was in hopes to procure the act & send it forward by Brown. I believe a regulation of that kind will be generally adopted & cannot but hope it may be attended with benefi cial consequences to the public. I have directed Mr Brown if he can obtain the above mentioned act in the Jersey’s to take it with him. 3 I am favour’d with intelligence on which we place dependance that the late embarkation from N. York on the 23d & 26th ulto had Troops on board to the amount of 5,000 Effective Men their destina tion unknown & no intelligence has been received of them since they sailed. I have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, your Excy’s hble & Servt, Sam. Huntington P.S. The papers formerly Sent to Mr Laurens were deliverd to a Committee of which he was one; 4 I called on him for them before his departure, he deliverd me some of them; The whole I have not been able to Collect, but Shall continue my Search, & if I can recover them will do my Self the honour to forward them immediately to your Excellency. Mr Laurens told me he met with great difficulty to get


[Page 358]
324 January 6, 1780 them Translated: few persons here understand the low Dutch, your last Letter from the Baron, I procured a Dutch Clergeman about Eight miles from this City to Translate. He appears perfect master of the Dutch language but does not write English Elegantly tho, I believe gives the litteral Sense with exactness. I am ut Supra. S.H. RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 One of these letters—endorsed “No 12. 13th December, 1779. To President Huntington, de my letters to Mr Laurens and general limitation of prices,’’—is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:458-60. 2 For Trumbull’s correspondence with baron Joan Derk van der Capellen, see these Letters, 13:561n.l. 3 Apparently the act he sent with his letter to Trumbull of January 17. 4 For the “papers formerly Sent to Mr Laurens,” see Henry Laurens to Trumbull, October 19, 1779, note 1. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Jan. 6. 1780. You will see, lovely Woman, by the Papers which I have sent that we shall have more post-Advantages of Communication than we have had for some time back; 1 but I fear this Remark will tend to my Disadvantage, and if it was not for (Economy I would throw by the present Sheet and take up another in which I would only tell you that I regard, esteem and respect you and will certainly write to you as often as I possibly can. But since I have hinted at increasing Opportunities of Conveyance, I must assure you that the days are too short for me at present by much to get pressing public Business off my Hands; and as to the Nights they are ten times more ruinous to my health than they were in Summer, I therefore hide myself from them within the Bed Curtains the Moment that public duty is discharged. In Truth, I am at length aiming to preserve some Rem nant of a good Constitution for Situations into which you seem to think you would chide me if you was invested with those Rights of Chiding which a Church Parson’s Certificate is presumed to have conveyed to another. You may thus perceive that yr. Letter of Deer. 13 is before me. It was within two Minutes brought from the Office with Information that the Post sets out at 2 p.m. I ought now to be in Congress, but must scratch a Line or two for Boston. Our Affairs are unpleasant in many Views, but not ruined. Every Patriot ought to be allarmed and then all will be safe. I think with Tristram about the Currency, now we have done with the Paper Mill and Press. It seems as if the Signature alone will not make Portia reject the Piece. Yorick, Sterne and Tristram are bearable but Shandy is a wicked Creature. 2


[Page 359]
January 7, 1780 325 Let me again mention to you to mind the pages of 1778 that if I have sent doubles you may return the 2d, or if I omit, you may demand a single Sheet of the Journals. Thank Mr. Cranch for his kind Compliments left for me with Mrs. L. 1 wish him and his every Felicity. I cannot consent so to stint my heartwarm extensive Vows for you— as to pass the Compliments of the Season from my Pen, and thereby risk a Supposition that I had done all which my Affections suggest at the Instant of subscribing myself—your Friend & h. Servt., JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:256-57. 1 Congress had voted on December 27, 1779, to have two regular post deliveries each week from Boston to Philadelphia. JCC, 15:1411. 2 For Abigail’s February 13 response to these allusions to Laurence Sterne and his literary characters, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:273-74n.l. Roger Sherman to Andrew Adams Sir Philadelphia January 7th. 1780 1 Obtain’d last Evening an Account of the prices of the Several Articles, as Stated by the late law of the State of New Jersy which, is to be in force the first of Next month which I have Enclosed. 1 I am informed the law is Absolutely to take effect at the time fixed, with out any proviso in case the other States do not make Similar Laws. The State of Maryland has likewise passed a Law for the regulation of prices. New York Assembly is called on purpose to consider of the Matter. The Commissioners from Several of the States that were present Met last Evening pursuant to the recommendation of the Hartford Convention, viz two from New Hamshire, two from Connecticut, one from New Jersy, And one for Pennsylvania. Mr. L Homedieu was also present from the State of New York but he Says their Assembly made no Special appointment for this convention, & Supposes he has no right to Act/ I dont hear that any other States have appointed Members. 1 believe they expected that the resolution of Congress would Super sede the necessity of this convention. So that I dont think it will be of any advantage for the Assembly to wait, in expectation of having a report from this Convention for I believe there will be None. Mr. Bryan informed us that a great majority of the Assembly of this State were in favour of a regulation of prices before they Adjourned. They meet again the 19th of this month. I Should think Since the Press is Stopt it would not be difficult to reduce prices as low as twenty for one, Some people are much afraid the Money will Soon Appreciate very rapidly, and be attended with more pernicious effects than the depreciation has been. It appears to me that it is of


[Page 360]
326 January 7, 1780 great importance to have its value fixed & Stable. We have no News here but what is contained in the public papers. I am with Great Esteem & Regard Your humble Servant. Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Addressed: “To the Honble. Andrew Adams Esqr., Speaker of the House of Assembly at Hartford.” 1 Sherman undoubtedly enclosed a copy of New Jersey’s December 21, 1779, “Act for Limiting the Prices of Various Articles, and to Prevent the Withholding from Sale the Necessaries of Life”, which was suspended on February 26, 1780, until the neigh boring states passed similar laws. Acts of the General Assembly of the State of New Jersey, From the Establishment of the Present Government. . . 1784 (Trenton: Isaac Collins, 1784), pp. 104-5, 118. 2 Sherman is referring to the first effort to assemble a quorum for the convention to limit prices that had been called by the Hartford convention in October to convene in Philadelphia on January 5, 1780, for which see Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council, November 11, note 3; and Samuel Huntington to the States, November 22, 1779. The two “commissioners” to the convention from New Hampshire were the state’s delegates to Congress, Nathaniel Folsom and Nathaniel Peabody. Connecticut’s two commissioners were delegates Oliver Ellsworth and Roger Sherman. Pennsylva nia had selected John Bayard, George Bryan, John Bull, William Henry, and John Jacobs to represent the state at the convention, but it is not known which commis sioner actually attended at this time. The representative from New Jersey also has not been identified, but it seems probable that he was not the state’s duly accredited commissioner and, like New York delegate Ezra L’Hommedieu, merely appeared at the meeting as a goodwill gesture to indicate his state’ intention to participate in this Continental effort to regulate prices. Silas Condict and Thomas Fenimore had been elected on December 14 to represent New Jersey at the convention, but since they were later explicitly requested to come to Philadelphia, it seems unlikely that either of them were at the meeting of January 6. See the proceedings of the convention in Public Records of Connecticut, 2:572-79. For the results of this convention of the 10 states from Virginia northward, see William Ellery to William Greene, February 15, 1780. See also Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, January 30; Nathaniel Pea body to Woodbury Langdon, February 7; Connecticut Delegates tojonathan Trumbull, February 15; and Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams, February 15, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Richard Bache Sir, Philada Jany. 8. 1780 You will receive herewith enclos’d an act of Congress of the 7th Instant allowing to the Surveyors of the post Office their reasonable Expences in travelling the roads, their accounts of Expences to be rendered to the post master General on oath every three months, and repealing the late act of Congress giving them forty Dollars a day 1 I am Sir, your hble Servt, S.H. Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For this resolve concerning Post Office expenses, see JCC, 16:19, 21-22; PCC, item 61, fols. 465-68; and Huntington to Bache, December 2 and 29, 1779.


[Page 371]
January 12, 1780 337 Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philada. Jany 12. 1780 You will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of this day together with Extracts of three Letters to which the Act refers. 1 These I am directed to lay before the Legislature of Connecticut or in their Reccess before your Excellency in Council, as also the other States therein mentioned, and to urge in the most pressing manner that Immediate supplies of provision be by those several States sent to the army. After the facts stated in the papers enclos’d perswasion & importu nity seems unnecessary. The Army must soon disband unless sup plied with provisions, That cannot be obtained [at the present Con junction of Affairs] 2 without the Aid of the several States now called upon. The Country abounds with the necessary Rescources, but private gain seems the only Object of too many Individuals without any Concern for the public safety. Congress have taken proper Measures to have Justice done those States that shall aford present supplies. The Exertions of N. Jersey are already called forth on the occasion. Must it be said that our Army disbanded for want of provisions in the midst of plenty? Since the resignation of Commissary Wadsworth the Aid of the States is absolutely necessary to afford Supplies until such time as Matters are put in a proper Train which I trust will not be long. 3 I have the honour to be &c, S.H. President LB (PCC, item 14). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Connecticut. N.B. The same to New York, Pennsylvania, & Delaware.” 1 For this resolve, and the three letters from Washington, Gen. William Irvine, and assistant commissary Royal Flint, see JCC, 16:46; PCC, item 152, 8:321-30; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:355-58. 2 Although this passage does not appear in the LB, it is found in the letters that Huntington actually sent. His letter to Gov. George Clinton of New York is in the Clinton Papers, N; his letter to Pres. Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania is at the Omaha Public Library. 3 For the January 15 response of the Pennsylvania Council to this appeal, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:87; and Pa. Council Minutes, 12:227. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia January 12, 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith an Act of Congress of the 8th instant, making further provision for the paying for horses killed in Battle and for reforming the Georgia Battailions &C. 1 Your Excellencys favour by Col. Magaw have this moment receivd & Shall call the Attention of Congress to the Subject to which it


[Page 381]
January 17, 1780 347 The general course of British-American prisoner negotiations has been treated by Larry G. Bowman, “The New Jersey Prisoner Exchange Conferences, 1778-1780,” New Jersey History 97 (Autumn 1979): 149-58. As Lt. Col. Alexander Hamilton was one of the commissioners appointed by Washington to negotiate a cartel at Perth Amboy in March, many of the documents pertinent to the conduct of those negotia tions can be found in Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:271-85, 287-92, 295-301. 3 That is, Cols. Robert Magaw, George Mathews, and John Ely and Lt. Col. Nathan iel Ramsey, the four officers paroled by the British to prod the Americans into reopening prisoner exchange negotiations. Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 15, 1780] 15. Saturday. Congress agreed upon a number of resolutions for establishing a Court of appeals, of members out of Congress. 1 No new intelligence. MS (MDaAr). 1 After lengthy deliberations, Congress this day passed resolves establising a court “for the trial of all appeals from the courts of admiralty in these United States, in cases of capture, to consist of three judges, appointed and commissioned by Congress.” Congress had heard appeals from the state courts of admiralty through the stand ing Committee on Appeals, but the system had experienced difficulties with questions of jurisdiction and venue, and it made great demands on the time of the delegates to Congress who made up the committee. Congress therefore attempted to overcome these defects by transforming the committee into a circuit court authorized to hear “all appeals,” appointing judges who were not members of Congress and urging the states to pass laws authorizing the new court to carry its final decrees “into full and speedy execution.” JCC, 16:61-64. For further information on the creation of the Court of Appeals, see these Letters, 10:624n; and HenryJ. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revolution, 1775-1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society 122 (1977): 114-18. Samuel Huntington to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia January 17th. 1780 I do my Self the honour to Transmit your Excellency an Act of the state of New Jersey for procuring provisions for the Use of the Army &c.‘ I am under the disagreable necessity of Requesting that two thou sand dollars may be advanced to me or my order out of the public Treasury for which I will be Accountable, the profits of my own Estate which under my care with my own Industry used to afford me all necessary Supplies, hath been so long Neglected by me that I am unable to discharge the necessary Expenses incured, and in my pres ent Situation I am unwill[ing] to request any Advancement from the Continental Treasury, which would be rather out of Character.


[Page 386]
352 January 20, 1780 Samuel Huntington to William Livingston and Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia January 20th 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclos’d an Act of Congress of this day together with an Extract of Intelligence, therein refer’d to; which I am directed to lay before your Excellency in order that the most effectual measures may be taken to prevent such nefarious practices of supplying the Enemy with provisions. 1 I have the honour to be, with every sentiment of respect, your Excy’s hble Servt. Sam. Huntington President RC (NN: Livingston Papers; Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 16:74. The enclosed “Extract of Intelligence” (“relative to supplies sent to the enemy from New Jersey and Connecticut”), was taken from a recent report of Washington’s “confidential Correspondent in New York,” which the general had sent to Congress with a letter ofjanuary 18. See PCC, item 152, 8:343-46; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:406-7. Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia Jany 20.1780 You will receive herewith enclosd an Act of Congress of the 17 Instant with the Copy of a Letter from General Washington of the 17 of Decemr & report from the Board of War referr’d to in the Act: By which you will be inform’d that the Case of Monsr la Motte therein mentioned, The Expediency of continuing him in his pres ent employment is referr’d to the Honble Council of Massachusets Bay who are requested to adjust & settle his Accounts at Continental Expence and if they deem his continuance unnecessary to discharge him from any further service. 1 You will also please to observe The Board of War have advanced him three thousand dollars on Account of his pay. I am Sir, with great respect, your hble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (M Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “The President of the Council of the Massachusets Bay.” 1 In his December 17 recommendation of the Rev. Hyacinthe de La Motte, Washing ton had suggested that because of his French background and missionary work among the Indians of the eastern department, La Motte might be usefully employed to “gain intelligence of the enemy,” but cautioned that if he should be inclined to work for the enemy (as Col. John Allan had charged), the effects of employing him might be “mischievous.” The recommendation had been referred to the Board of War, which on December 31 advised against employing La Motte, but because any mission he


[Page 388]
354 January 20, 1780 (Jeorge Plater


[Page 391]
January 21, 1780 357 Depreciation of Money, so that the Treasury was almost exhausted, the purchasers greatly in debt and out of Credit, before any Money could be procured from the States for Taxes. Bills on Spain and Holland are now issued, some of which will be sent to our State. This will give a Temporary relief. Maryland & Delaware being called on have procured a considerable Quantity of Flower, but except the prices can by some means be reduced, or Our Money fixed at some certain Rate I fear it will be with the greatest Difficulty that Supplies for the Army can be procured for the next Campaign. It is under Consideration to call on the several States for to furnish equal Quo tas of Produce & other Necessaries for the Army & support of the war at certain prices to be credited to each State & to be paid for by them out of their Taxes. I am informed that Mr Shearman & some other Eastern Delegates have received information from the New Hampshire Grants [that] they are determined not to submit to the Decision [of Con]gress, their Claim to Independance; but have [named] Agents to send to Congress, with offers to confederate with the United States, or such of them as are willing to confederate with Vermont. 1 I have great reason to believe that great pains will be taken by some of the States (perhaps not openly) to put of[f] the Tryal & prevent any Determination respecting those Lands at present. They are continually strengthening themselves in the Eastern States by selling Lands but I trust Congress will see the necessity of immedi ately hearing and determining a Controversy of so great Importance as well to the United States as to New York. I am Sr with great Respect, Your Obed Servt, Ezra L'Hommedieu Tr (DLC: George and James Clinton Papers). 1 For the arrival of “Agents” from the New Hampshire Grants and their reception in Philadelphia, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 1, 1780, note. James Lovell to Abigail Adams My dear Madam, Jany. 21st. 1780 We have Letters from France to the Middle of Sept, only—none from Doctr. Franklin—nor any Thing material in those that we have seen. Mr. Dobree the Son in Law of Mr. Schweighauser having been traduced, I wrote to the old Gentleman that I should be attentive to produce Counterparts to any Insinuations here to the Prejudice of the Young Man; 1 finding now many private Letters from that Com pany without any one for me, I took the Freedom to open that directed to my worthy Friend yr Husband supposing there might be confidential Communications to him on that particular Subject. I was n istaken—but no Harm is the Consequence. I convey the Letter


[Page 392]
358 January 21, 1780 to you, with a News paper; and beg a Return of one hundredth Part of the Affection with which I constantly subscribe myself your Friend. JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell’s letter has not been found, but for further information on the charges against Peter F. Dobr6e alluded to here, see these Letters, 13:369n.3. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Jan. 21.1779 [i.e„ 1780] We have nothing material from Europe. A Lee writes to me in great haste Sepr. 11th acknowledging mine of 16 & 17 July, and inclosing a Letter to Congress requesting Copies of the Paca-Drayton & Carmichael Informations. 1 We had not a Line from Doctr. Franklin. The Vessel bringing the Letters was sent, I suppose, by Gillon of Sth. Carolina, because almost all the Letters were for that State, tho the Leaden-Mass was directed to Congress. I have before said that I am astonished not a Line comes from you respecting either Vermont or the regulating Convention now sitting here. It is not less surprizing that we have only a Certificate of Election without any Reference to former Instructions. 2 You know that in the Cases of Georgia & North Carolina it was Determined that the Appointment of several Delegates to represent a State, with out any specified No. for a Vote supposed Each one competent. New York demands that Priviledge. Virginia is now represented by one. And I believe every State must oeconomize, The Expence having become intollerable! I was vexed at ours and made Enquiry of Col. Floyd who is at Mrs. House’s but I was far from bettering myself. He is charged forty times 40s for himself & 40 times 20s for his Servant and finds him self with every Thing but Bread, Meat & Lodging. Wood alone is an Estate. The Minister of France is incessant in his Invitations to dine in short weekly periodical. We have never invited him but once for which I dare say we shall have pd. 1000—600 of it & more being for the bare Dinner. We must either totally refuse his Invitations or be seemingly his Table Pensioners—or go into at least monthly Expence. This on a public Score. But what is to become of me on a private? I have been drawn on from one Fright of Prices to another till total Shabiness has come upon me. Indeed it is a Wonder I hang together, having bought one Suit & one Hat in 3 years. This latter hessian le haut being gone beyond Decency I am asked 400 Dollars. 300 for a pr. of Leather Breeches—125 for Shoes—a Suit of Cloaths 1600—that is not 16 pr. of shoes but it is enough to stance my Children unless the State have raised the Allowance for Time & Service to some nearer Proportion to the Expences which they pay for my Sub-


[Page 393]
January 21, 1780 359 sistance here—or consider my decent Cloaths in the Line of my Charge of Expenditures. Thus I have plagued you as 3 RC (NN: Adams Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though signature is missing. 1 Arthur Lee’s September 11, 1779, letter to Lovell has not been found, but his September 10 letter to Congress was read on January 19 and assigned to the Commit tee for Foreign Affairs “that they take order thereon.” He had requested copies of the “intelligence & information concerning me” that “Mr. Paca, Mr. W.H. Drayton, and Mr. Carmichael have been permitted to lay before you.” See JCC, \fr.T2', PCC, item 83, 2:284-87; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:313; and these Letters, 12:410-11. 2 The Massachusetts delegates’ certificate of election had been presented to Con gress on January l.JCC, 16:2. 3 Remainder of RC is missing. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir 21 Jany. 80 Please to deliver or order to be deliver’d the inclosed two Letters from France, and forward to Mrs. Adams mine with the news Paper. I have written to you this Day by post, and hope for an Answer somewhat particular to the Contents of it. We have nothing material from France to Sepr. 25th. A Lee was at Paris the 10th of that month 1 and had got the Journals of Congress to the 12th of June with my private Letters to July 17th. We are, as usual, mightily divided on Elections. The 3 Judges of Appeals are to come from 10 or 12 Nominations. 2 Schuyler and Pickering are chosen for the reforming Comtee., the first as the Member of Congress. 3 Mifflin, Bull & Bodinot divide us; the Rea sons given for not chusing the first, with all his Knowledge & Spirit, are from Devotees to Fabius, 4 who every now & then, by tbeir Behav ior & Arguments appear to think him a most malignant & revenge ful Genius. Tace. Paca, Duane, Bodinot, Hosmer, McKean, Lowell, RT Payne, Sullivan, Wythe are in nomn. for Judges. Huntingdon, Gerrey & Livingston wd. have their Names withdrawn. 5 I would not risque Coll. R H Lee in the present Temper of the House, though I think him extremely well calculated. 6 But, in the Course of Speakg the day before yesterday on Arthur’s Request to have Copies of certain Papers, I found a number of Virulentissimses still cocked & primed at the very Name of Lee. I suppose I have told you that the Genl, of that Name is informed we have no need of his Services. 7 I have other Business than the Duties of Friendship to attend, therefore Adieu, J.L. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 See preceding document, note 1.


[Page 402]
368 January 24, 1780 ing commissioners should “proceed in the business committed to them,” in consulta tion with a newly appointed congressional committee consisting of Schuyler, Allen Jones, and Roger Sherman, but little was accomplished beyond the formulation of an elaborate plan to reform the departments that was submitted to Congress on March 27. And not until new dire warnings were received from Washington and Quarter master General Greene did the delegates overcome their reluctance to empower a regular committee of Congress to undertake a mission to headquarters and deal forcefully with the ills besetting the army. SeeJCC, 16:244, 293-311,332-33, 354-57; Huntington to Mifflin and Pickering, March 11; and Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters, April 6-13, 1780. 2 President Huntington also sent Col. Timothy Pickering a copy of this letter to Mifflin with the following note, dated January 25. “The Letter address’d to General Mifflin which you will receive with this, contains the Acts of Congress the same as the enclos’d. I desire the letters may be sent to him without delay. I have requested him to repair to Philadelphia as soon as may be to act in Conjuntion with yourself. Have also wrote to Genl. Schuyler & enclosed to him Copies of the same acts of Congress, & desired him to repair to Head Quarters without loss of time, and in the Interim to give previous notice of the Time he will be at Head Quarters that the other Commissioners may meet him there.” PCC, item 14, fols. 284-85. Samuel Huntington to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada Jany 24, 1780 You will receive herewith enclos’d an act of Congress of the 20 Instant together with two other Acts of the 14 & 17 of Decemr. last to which the former refers. By these you will be informed that yourself with Colo Pickering & Genl Mifflin are appointed Commissioners for the important & nec essary service mentioned in the Act of the 20th Instant. As a member of Congress you are appointed to this Service and I am to request you to repair to Head Quarters with as much despatch as Circumstances will possibly admit. 1 If you will please to inform me by a letter previous to your setting out what time you expect to be at Head Quarters the other Commissioners shall be duly notified so as to meet you there. From a Consideration of the necessity & importance of the service to which you are appointed the difficulty of finding suitable Gentle men of Experience & ability to perform the same, and as a Member of Congress you are called upon for that purpose. I flatter myself you will lay aside every lesser Consideration and without hesitation or delay afford your Country the Benefit of your Aid & Assistance in the service requested. I have the honour to be &c &c, S. H. Pt LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 It was precisely because he was a member of Congress that Schuyler ultimately declined the appointment herewith offered. His reasons for doing so obviously left him uncomfortable, however, for he felt compelled to explain himself several times to Congress, to Washington, and to friends, and the fine distinctions he drew in the


[Page 403]
January 25, 1780 369 process apparently seemed unconvincing to many delegates. Upon receiving Hunt ington’s letter at Albany, he hinted on February 15 that he could not accept the post but offered little in the way of outright explanation except to state that he would set off at once for Philadelphia to explain in person. PCC, item 153, 3:511-13. On the same day he also unburdened himself to his friend Robert R. Livingston, and in the process probably penned the most direct statement he made on the subject when he wrote that under this appointment he would be acting not “as a member of Congress but as a Commissioner associated with other Commissioners, and Consequently as a Servant of Congress.” Robert R. Livingston Papers, NHi. For his formal explanation to Congress soon after his arrival in Philadelphia, see Schuyler to Huntington, March 6, 1780. For evidence that he was never able to commit a complete explanation of the matter to paper, see also his letters to Washington of March 7 and 13; and Schuyler to Jacob Cuyler, March 11, 1780. Oliver Ellsworth to Samuel Lyman Dear Sir, 1 Philada. Jany. 25. 1780. Congress have lately reed, a packet from France with dispatches down to the 9th Septr—but they contain no very material Intelli gence more than you will pick out from the enclosed papers. The Convention for a Limitation of prices being attended only from N Hampshire, Connecticut, N Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware & Maryland did not think proper to proceed on buisness especially as a resolution of Congress passd. since their being called recommend ing a Limitation of prices seemed to have decided on the Expedi ency & necessity of the measure. They accordingly adjourned with out day. 2 Despair not however of the currency’s receiving a fixedness 8c Justice being done. In my next I will write you more particular on this Subject. The Army are again comfortably supplied. I wish to hear what is done or doing at our assembly—8c any thing else you will please to inform me of. And am Sr. yr. huml Sevt. O Ellsworth RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “Samuel Lyman Esquire, Hartford, Connecti cut.” 1 Lyman is identified in these Letters, 3:192n.l. 2 For the reconvening and proceedings of this convention, see Ellsworth to Jona than Trumbull, Sr., January 30, and February 8, 1779. Oliver Ellsworth to Thomas Mumford Dear sir, Philada. Jany. 25. 1780. I thank you for your Letter of the It of Instt. reed, yesterday—8c the order you have been pleased to give Mr Breed to deliver me a Barrel of Sugar, which I shall avail my self of with proper sentiments


[Page 404]
370 January 25, 1780 of your disposition to oblige me & wish you to direct the Post to call on Mrs. Ellsworth & receive such pay therefor as you shall name to do your self justice. Congress have no very special intelligence from Europe of late; all things however on that side the water continue to look favourable & flattering to American Independance. It is doubtless in Europe a winter of negotiation & I shall be as happy as you should the result be an honorable peace to America in the Spring. As to a foreign Loan Congress have good reason to expect that a small one at least will be negotiated in Holland if not in Spain by the persons they have appointed & authorised thereto. Which if obtained I think it more probable that the money will be funded there & bills drawn thereon rather than that much if any of it will be imported in specie—but this is my own conjecture. A few Bills are now offered by Congress for Sale at 25 dollrs. for 4/6 Sterlg. an equal sum to the purchase money to be at the same lent the Continent on loan office certificates. The Bills I have no doubt will be honored, tho’ I confess I do not like the terms of sale. If you incline to purchase you may doubtless soon be supplied at the Treasury office in Hartford. French Bills here are at 30 for 1 in dollars—& hard money at 38. Measures are in contemplation which may perhaps fix the medium. The general talk this way on the Subject within doors & without is “do ample justice to the holders of the Bills & certificates as far as the nature of the case will admit.” If hereafter it shall at any time be in my power to give you any useful or important information, duty & inclination will prompt me to it. I have not yet had the pleasure of seing Capt. Saltonstal whome you are pleased to name to me; but had other motives sufficient if you had added none to interest me particulary in wishing him a fair & impartial enquiry & I doubt not of his having it. The Convention that was proposed to be held at this Place on the subject of a Limitation of prices, being attended only from N. Hampshire, Connecticut, N Jersey, Pensylvania, Delaware & Mary land—they did not think proper to proceed to business. There is very little probability now I think of such a measures taking place & am led to hope that the strenuous exertions of the States in taxes which they seem well disposed to, in conjunction with other regula tions that may take place will in a great measure superceed the necessity of it. You will be pleased to know that greater Unanimity has at no time prevailed in Congress & that the embarrasments you will easily con ceive must attend them, does but strenthen their reliance on the exertions of America, & that good providence that has conducted us thus far. I am, with sentiments of much Esteem & respect, Dear sir, Your very obedt. & huml Servt, Oliv Ellsworth


[Page 405]
January 25, 1780 RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1973). 371 Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir, Philadelphia Jany 25 1780 It is a long Time since We have heard from our Friends eastward, & We impute it to the Severity of the Winter, but yesterday I received by the Post your agreable Favour of the 27th Deer., the Desire of which was increased by the Detention. I should have been glad to have seen your Remarks on the anony mous Letter, but Mr Lovell informs me, he has not yet received them. 1 The Policy of America will succeed or fail in my Opinion, in pro portion to her Exertions for establishing a Navy. I well remember that You was the first to promote it, & altho it was disapproved by some in Point of Time, the Benefit derived from the Measure has clearly manifested the Wisdom of it. The State of our Finances will check it’s present Growth, but I doubt not that it will soon flourish, & that Time will suggest Improvements in the Arrangements & Regu lations of the Boards that are appointed to cherish & conduct it. I am very sensible that the officers of these Departments have been poorly rewarded, & was lately of a Committee who reported that their present Salaries should have a Retrospect to Novr. 1778, but the Subject is not yet considered by Congress. I think however that You have their fullest Confidence. Congress have not yet determined whether to remove eastward or southward; both are talked of, but your Remarks respecting the Navy are conclusive in my Mind, in Favour of the former. The great objects of Attention in Congress are (Economy & Resources. Necessity dictates their Measures, & I hope will produce salutary Effects. The Departments of the Muster & Barrack Masters are abolished & the Business of the former annexed to the Office of Inspectors. Generals Schuyler & Mifflin & Colo Pickering are appointed a Committee with full Powers to inform themselves by Inspection or otherwise of the State of the Staff Departments, to call in any of the Officers thereof for Information, to discharge all per sons therein that are supernumerary or delinquent, to break up unnecessary issuing Posts, & establish others were requisite, to stop all Issues of Rations not indispensibly necessary for the Service, & in Conjunction with General Washington to reduce the Number of Horses & Waggons in the Service & Expence of Transportation, & to adopt a general Reformation of the Departments. The States are to be also called on for their respective quotas of Supplies, & author ized to stop all purchases by continental officers, when Measures are adopted for complying with the Requisitions of Congress; & to induce the States to purchase cheap they are to be credited equal prices for


[Page 410]
376 January 27, 1780 ested in the event of this controversy for the readyness with which you offer to sacrifice yr. private feelings to the general interest. I have sounded many members about it. Some I find extreamly well disposed to the measure while others again receive it with more coolness rather on account of the novelty of the Institution than from any other motives tho’ perhaps the dismissal of Gen Lee which makes the rank you claim the more important may have some influ ence on their minds. But this last consideration is so much less weighty than the first, that I am persuaded if you would accept Greens place 2 which he wishes to [qu]it that you may have it on your own terms. What I would particularly mention to you is my [earn]est wish that you will comply with the request contained in the resolutions of Congress transmitted to you [by] the President, 3 they apply to you as a member of Congress who are capable of extricating your country from the ruin that threatens it. Should you suffer any personal considerations to interpose or prevent your affording the assistance they request when you act not as their servant but as one of their body, You will offer room to your enimies to alledge that private convenience more than publick reasons have influenced your past conduct. Your Friends will be disappointed & hurt, And a measure which they have so much at heart (to which [they] consider this as preparatory) be entirely defeated. Let me therefore intreat you not only to accept the commission but to do it immediately & without reluctance. The publick requires it of you. And shd. your endeav ours be crowned with success which they can not fail in some sort to be you will acquire more reputation than you or any other person could possibly attain in any other station or upon any other occasion. I can not enlarge (as I fear I have already missed the post) but just so far as to tell you that we have not yet determined where to move to, that question being put off to the 1st of February. 4 Our Affairs are as much deranged as ever, our finance far from being restored— and our army living from hand to mouth. When we shall get thro’ these perplexities I know not. I shall however contribute my mite tho’ not I fear [with] the fairest prospect of success. The fleet which left New York last Month has not yet been heard of. The Cold continues so intense that the Chesapeak bay is froze over. We have a report that St. Augustine & Pensacola are taken by the Spaniards & that Genl. Prevost has left Savannah. It comes by letter from Virginia to Griffin, but as we have yet had no truth from that quarter I doubt the authenticity of this. My best respects attend Mrs. Schuyler and the young ladies. I am Dear Sir, With the greatest esteem, Your Most Obdt Hum. Servt, Robt R Livingston RC (NN: Philip Schuyler Papers). 1 Schuyler had written to Livingston on both December 18, 1779, and January 18, 1780, and both letters discussed issues alluded to by Livingston in this letter. They are in the Robert R. Livingston Papers, NN. See also Livingston to Schuyler, December 20, 1779, note 3.


[Page 416]
382 January 30, 1780 gress from N. York attended, tho’ not specially authorised & gave assurance that their State would abide the measures that might be come into. The Convention having again formed now stands adjourned to Wednesday next, for N Jersey Commissioners who are sent to, to come in—the result of which meeting will perhaps be a further adjournment to a distant day to give Virginia, who has not yet done it, oppertunity to appoint & send commissioners. It does not appear indeed what more can well be done at this time as some of the Commissioners present are not authorised to do any thing unless the Convention should be attended from all the States first proposed. In return for Lord Sterlings late Expedition to Staten Island, a party of the Enemy consisting of one hundred horse & four hun dred foot, last week surprised the out guards at Elizabeth Town & Newark & made four officers & about Sixty men prisoners, & burned some publick buildings at both places. The supplies & prospects of the Army are now comfortable. The General was reduced to the necessity of demanding from the Several Counties in N Jersey specifeck supplies, which with much spirit they complyed with even beyond the requisition. Maryland is said also to have fully complyed with the requisition of Congress to that State for 15,000 barrels of Flour. Delaware has also exerted herself much, in the same way. The Assembly of this State are now together & seem disposed to furnish the 50,000 barrels of Flour requested of them as also to go into such further specifick supplies as may be necessary. 5 South Carolina, justly apprehensive of her danger, is arming three Regiments of blacks. It is highly probable, unless the Embarkation from New York should have blown to the West Indies or suffered much in the Storm, that we shall soon hear of an Attack on Charlestown—tho’ I trust there will be a defence sufficient at least to render it a serious one. The Town scituated on a Neck less than one mile across & not commanded by heights is defensible & well forti fied on the land side—the entrance of the Harbour being very nar row is secured by a number of Frigates, which are the largest Ships that can come over the bar without taking out their Guns. Continen tal troops and Militia are now marching southward but may not arive in season for the Enemy’s first attempts. That policy which has long since directed the Enemy to carry their operations & efforts southward seems now to be attending to & there is much reason to expect that the active part of the next campaign will be in that quarter. I take the liberty to mention to your Excellency that the Scituation of my affairs renders it necessary for me to return home by the begining of March, & to express my wishes that some of the Gentle men on the new election may find it convenient to take their Seats in Congress by that time.


[Page 417]
February 1, 1780 383 I am, Sir, with the highest respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obed Servt Oliver Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Trumbull, January 26, 1780. 2 The Massachusetts commissioner referred to here was Samuel Osgood, who had just arrived in Philadelphia on January 25. His credentials indicate that he was elected jointly with Massachusetts delegate Elbridge Gerry on December 18 to represent the state at the Philadelphia convention. See Samuel Holten’s Diary, January 25, 1780; and Conn. State Records, 2:573. 3 For the appointment of Rhode Island delegate William Ellery as a commissioner to the Philadelphia convention, see ibid., p. 574; and Staples, Rhode Island, p. 269. 4 Although the Philadelphia convention had initially been unable to assemble a quorum, the Pennsylvania commissioners had reported to their assembly on January 28 that the convention might yet convene and conduct proceedings. Thereupon John Bull, William Henry, and William Moore were named to attend the convention in place of the five commissioners who had been elected in November—John Bayard, George Bryan, John Bull, William Henry, and John Jacobs. Journal of the House of Representatives of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania [November 28, 1781], 2 vols. (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1782), 1:398, 401, 410, 412-13, 422. 5 Congress had received notice on January 28 that the Pennsylvania Assembly had appointed a committee to confer with Congress and the state council on the problems of supplying flour and other provisions. JCC, 16:100. Samuel Huntington to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia Feby 1. 1780 I have the pleasure to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Act of Congress of the 31 ulto 1 expressing the high sense they entertain of the attachment & Zeal of the Magistrates and Inhabitants of the State of New Jersey in the Common Cause and of their ready & effectual exertions in providing and furnishing the Army under his Excellency the Commander in Chief with provisions at a time when the difficulty of transportation rendered such Exertions absolutely necessary. May the laudable Example of New Jersey be immitated by the other States. A people possess’d of such generous Sentiments & who can call them into Action as necessity requires are not to be subju gated by any Tyrannical power. I have the honour to be &c, S. H. Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress adopted this resolution in response to a January 27 letter from Washing ton in which the general had explained the recent easing of the army’s provisions crisis because of the efforts of the magistrates and inhabitants of New jersey. “They more than complied with the requisitions in many instances,” he explained, “and owing to their exertions, the Army in a great measure has been kept together.” See JCC, 16:111; PCC, item 152, 8:379-81; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:449-50.


[Page 418]
384 February 1, 1780 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia February 1, 1780 I am honour’d with your Excellency’s favours of the 26, 27, & 29 ulto. which have been laid before Congress. 1 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 31 Ulto 2 (a Copy of which is transmitted to Governor Livingston) Expressing the high sense they entertain of the attachment and Zeal of the Magistrates and Inhabitants of the State of New Jersey in the Common Cause and their ready and effectual Exertions in furnishing provision for the Army under your Excellencies Command. I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excelly’s hble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington is actually acknowledging two letters from Washington of January 26 and two of January 27, all of which had been laid before Congress the previous day. JCC, 16:111. The letter of the 29th is apparently one directed to Elbridge Gerry, who had been corresponding with the general on the subject of recruitment for the Conti nental Army. See PCC, item 152,8:333-35,371 - 81; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:443-47, 449-52, 462-64; and Elbridge Gerry to Washington, January 12, 1780. 2 See the preceding entry. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Feb. 1st. —80 Not a Line of Information from you respecting the Vermont Business. Certain Men are here from the Grants to support its Inde pendence and offer to come into the Union but not to submit the Question of their Existence as an independent State. 1 J.L. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 This day Stephen Bradley, Jonas Fay, and Moses Robinson laid before Congress a copy of their credentials as agents of the “free and independent State” of Vermont, together with “a vindication” of their territorial claim to the “Grants” region being contested by New Hampshire, New York, and Massachusetts, and “Vermonts appeal to the candid and impartial World,” a publication explaining Vermont’s claims and readiness to form “an equitable Union with the other independent States of America.” The significance of their appearance this day was that February 1 had been set as the date for reopening congressional hearings on the claims to the region by New Hampshire, New York, and Massachusetts, whose legislatures had been asked the preceding September “to pass laws expressly authorizing Congress to hear and deter mine all differences between them relative to their respective boundaries.” None of the three was prepared to proceed with such hearings at this time, however, although the delegates of each expressed alarm at Vermont’s pretentions to independent state hood and remained firmly resolved to have the issue treated simply as a dispute between existing states of the union, out of which no new states could be created without their consent. Congress’ task was even further complicated by the appearance on February 7 of agents representing “towns in the northern district of the New Hampshire Grants, on


[Page 419]
February 1, 1780 385 both sides of Connecticut river,” Peter Olcott and Bezaleel Woodward, whose memo rial of that date demonstrated that the inhabitants of the disputed territory were far from united in their claims. The same day. New Hampshire formally announced, through newly arrived delegate Samuel Livermore, its readiness to proceed with the congressional inquiry agreed upon the previous September, and the delegates from both Massachusetts and New York indicated a similar readiness as soon as they received formal authorization from their states, which they expected soon. The Vermont agents, however, had already announced their intention to return home, and weeks elapsed before Massachusetts and New York were prepared to proceed with the hearings, by which time Congress was experiencing difficulty main taining the representation of 12 states—9 in addition to the 3 parties to the dispute—as required by Congress’ previous pledge. As a result, efforts to open the Vermont hearings failed repeatedly, and although the subject was taken up briefly on May 23 and 29 and June 1 and 2, Congress finally resolved on June 9 to postpone hearings until ‘‘the second Tuesday in September next.” See JCC, 16:116, 130-33, 222, 273, 17:448 -53, 471, 481-85, 499; PCC, item 40, 311-24; and Records of the Governor and Council of the State of Vermont, E. P. Walton, ed., 8 vols. (Montpelier: J. & J. M. Poland, 1873-80), 2:235-47. See also John Jay to George Clinton, September 25 and October 5, 1779; Nathaniel Peabody to John Langdon, February 7, notes 5 and 6; New York Delegates to George Clinton, February 9, note 1; and Lovell to Adams, March 9, 1780, note 1. James Lovell to Joseph Ward Dear Sir Feb 1st. 1780 Your kind Wishes for my Prosperity sent from Morris Town the 28th of last Month reached me yesterday; and though they were manifested just at this Time on mistaken Facts, yet I flatter myself they spring out of a Source of long-settled Friendship. I am only one of four in Nomination for the Service in France mentioned by you. As to your Idea of a secretarial Place here for forgn. Affairs; it is wanted by some here but I conceive there can be little Benefit from such an Institution, unless the Officer has a Seat in Congress. What would he be with that Seat more than a member of the Comtee. of foreign Correspondence called a Comtee of for eign Affairs? I shall be attentive and warm whenever I shall perceive an Open ing to promote the Benefit of the United States in Conjunction with your private advantage, persuaded that your enjoyment of the latter will be always sweetned in Proportion to the Progress of the former. 1 Yr. Friend & humble Servant, James Lovell RC (ICHi: Joseph Ward Papers). 1 Col. Joseph Ward, who had lost his position as commissary general of musters when his department had been abolished on January 12, was appointed commissary general of prisoners on April 15, 1780. JCC, 16:47, 366.


[Page 425]
February 7, 1780 391 parts and as far Southward as I have heard is greater than hath been known these forty Years. I have the honour to be, with every sentiment of respect, your Excellency’s hble Servt, Sam. Huntington Feby 8 Another Express is Just arrived from Genl Lincoln. The following is an Extract from the Generals Letter dated Charles Town S. Carolina, Decemr 22, 1779. 3 “Before this reaches you, you will doubtless hear that the Spaniards have been up the river Mississippi and possessed themselves of the English Settlements on that River and that they made nine hundred prisoners, That about the Beginning of this month they [left] Havannah with a Respectable Fleet with Troops for Pensacola or Augustine,[. . . .]” Yours ut supra, S. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington to William Livingston, February 1, 1780. 2 See Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 3 A December 22 letter from Benjamin Lincoln to the committee for corresponding with the southern department, which was read in Congress on February 7, is in PCC, item 158, fols. 309-12, but it does not contain the extract quoted by Huntington. JCC, 16:129-30. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia Feby 7th 1780 I do myself the honour to forward the enclosed letter from Genl Lincoln address’d to your Excellency. As Major Lane the Express charged with this letter was late a Prisoner in Savannah, and your Excellency must be anxious to know the State of the Prisoners in the southern Department, I have exam ined him on that Subject and taken his information in writing which is herewith enclosed, yet hoping you may find in Genl Lincolns Letter a more accurate Account of the Matter. 1 I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excy’s hble Servt, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington apparently enclosed a letter to Washington from Benjamin Lincoln of December 23, 1779, and a statement signed by Maj. Joseph Lane, Jr., concerning his recollection of the status of prisoners of war in the southern department. Lane explained that there had been a “general” exchange of noncommissioned officers and privates, which had left the British indebted 106 men, but only a “partial" exchange of officers, which had left a few Americans unexchanged. These included Col. Sam uel Elbert and assistant commissary Mordecai Sheftall, plus five others he knew by name and a few he could only vaguely remember. A transcript of Lincoln’s letter is in the Sparks Collection, MH-H; an extract from it concerning the enemy’s claim that Elbert should be exchanged as a brigadier, which was appended to a copy of Lane’s “information,” is in the Washington Papers, DLC.


[Page 426]
392 February 7, 1780 Nathaniel Peabody to Woodbury Langdon My Dear sir No 8. Philada. Febry. 7th 1780 I had not the happiness of Receiving a line from you this last Post the last I Reced. was No. 4 which I Noticed last week. 1 Mr. Livermore arrived here the 5th. 2 Puts up in the Chamber You left. Mr. Folsom Lodges at A Mrs Marshals, but where it is, or how he lives I am unable to inform. The affair of Bradford is frequently agitated but we have come to no dicision upon the matter as Yet, though I think we shall in a few days when I am apprehensive the conclusion will be agreable to my wish. 3 The Vermont affair has not come on but will soon. 4 Ira Allen has been going to and fro in the Earth and walking up & down in it, ever since the Month of November last and I am informed Jos. Fay & a Col. Robertson from the Grants is in the Citty, but I have not seen Fay. 5 A Col. Olcott and Mr. Woodword are now here and there views appeare to me verry agreable. 6 I am of opinion they by no means wish to be seperated from the state of N.H. N.Yrk. with their usual industry will exert every nerve to bring their purposes to pass—but what will be the isue is to me uncertain. The state will soon be called upon to fill up their Regiments so as to compleat about 1200 Men, 7 and also to furnish their proportion of supplies, for the Army, that we may be in a situation to carry on a Vigorous campaign the ensuing Year, or to Negociate to advantage if peace should be proposed. The convention is now siting here, who were to have considered the limitation of prices but have not come to a conclusion as Yet. 8 The Spaniards have made considerable progress among the English settlements upon the River Misisippi—taken 900 British Troops &c 9 —no news of the fleet since they left N York nor from Europe a late date—except fresh terminations of the friendly dispositions of the Christian & Catholic Kings—and their willingness to Cooperate with Us in carring on the War. N T otwithstan[din]g the high price every thing bears here, Bills meet with a dull sale. I have proposed to contribute our proportion of the public Expence by building ships &c. What think you of this and at what rate can they be built in sterling money? I would write my mind of men and things with more freedom, but I understand many letters from Congress have of late fallen into bad hands &c. with expectation of obtaining the secrets of Congress so that outward bound letters must be cautiously wrote. I was in great hopes to have been relieved by Mr. Livermore but find I am not, and nothing but the cause of my country and the advice of my friends (among whome I have placed not a little depen dance upon your opinion) Could have induced me to crucify my interest, & by Tarrying here through the winter, and I must


[Page 427]
February 7, 1780 393 beg your influence that I may be releived verry Early in the spring as I shall absolutely if alive within about eight weeks from this time at furtherst. I shall not fail to write to you, and hope for returns. Please to make my Compliments agreable to Your lady, to Mr. Speaker & his lady & all honest friends. I am Dear Sir at 4 Clock in the morning, Your most Obedient and verry Humble servant, Nathl. Peabody FC (PPL: Pemberton Red Book). In the hand of Peabody and endorsed: “To Judge Langdon. Copy. Feby—80.” 1 Not found. 2 Samuel Livermore presented his credentials to Congress this day. JCC, 16:129. 3 Peabody was apparently referring to an effort to remove John Bradford as naval agent and head of the Eastern Navy Board. It was undoubtedly to Bradford that Langdon was referring in a December 21, 1779, letter to Peabody when he discussed the prospects for removing “a certain Agent . . . which you mention is likely (and which must be done or we are ruined).” Roberts Collection, PHC. Bradford, however, remained in office. 4 See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 1, 1780, note. 5 For the activities of Ira Allen in behalf of Vermont statehood at this time, see James B. Wilbur, Ira Allen, Founder of Vermont, 1751-1814 (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1928), pp. 144-52. Although Allen was in Philadelphia at this time, he was apparently acting fairly independently of his fellow agents, Stephen Bradley, Jonas Fay, and Moses Robinson, who submitted representations to Congress on February 1 and 7, but who had already left to return home. Peabody’s disparaging reference to Allen is doubtless to the fact that he used his trip to Philadelphia as an opportunity to visit leaders in New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania in a missionary campaign to develop support for Vermont’s stand before Congress. Some of his accounts for expenses incurred in this endeavor (including £922.8 “Spent in a Jour ney to Maryland and Attending Congress with J. Fay, Mr. Robinson and S. R. Bradley”), as well as a few of those for Bradley, Fay, and Robinson for expenses on their Philadelphia mission, are in “Orders on the Treasurer,” vol. 8, Vt-PR. 6 That is, Peter Olcott and Bezaleel Woodward, representatives of the “towns in the northern district of the New Hampshire Grants, on both sides of the Connecticut river, ” who were opposing Vermont’s pretentions to independence and establish ment of the territory’s boundary at the Connecticut River. 7 New Hampshire’s actual quota as voted by Congress on February 9 was 1,215. See JCC, 16:150; and Samuel Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 8 The Philadelphia convention for limiting prices met this evening and came to a number of resolutions. The commissioners also met briefly the following evening before adjourning “to the fourth day of April next.” See William Ellery to William Greene, February 15, 1780, enclosure. 9 Peabody was apparently referring to the Spanish capture of Baton Rouge, Manchac, and Natchez in Spetember 1779, news of which arrived in letters from Gen. Benjamin Lincoln that were read in Congress this day. JCC, 16:129-30. Nathaniel Peabody to William Whipple Dear Sir, No. 14. Philada. Febr. 7th. 1780. I was favoured this evening with your agreable favour of the 27 of Deer, and am much Obliged to you for part of the information Contained in your letter but am unhappy to find you are not more


[Page 435]
February 9, 1780 401 Samuel Holten’s Diary [February 9-10, 1780] Feby. 9. Wednesday. Congress agreed to resolutions for filling up the army. 1 No news. 10. Thursday. 2 I dined with the Honorable R. Morris Esqr. No post come in. MS (MDaAr). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the State, February 10, 1780. 2 This day Holten also wrote the following brief note to the Board of Treasury, which the board immediately acted upon and Congress endorsed on the 11th. See JCC, 16:154. “I shall consider my-self under obligation if you’l report to Congress a resolution in my favor for 5,000 dollars, for which sum, the state I’ve the Honor to represent will be accountable.” Holten Papers, DLC. William Churchill Houston to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philada. 9 February 1780. I take the Liberty of troubling you with the enclosed Letters to put them in the Way of reaching the several Persons to whom they are addressed, being assured you will excuse it. A Plan at this Time lies before Congress for establishing regular Packets to France 1 which bids fairer to be attended with Success and Execution than any hitherto attempted or projected. It is to be hoped when this is carried into Effect, the Court of France will adopt a similar Measure. The Connection and Intercourse between the two Nations require such an Establishment, and will also be greatly pro moted by it. Should this take Place, the Committee of Foreign Affairs will not find it so difficult to communicate constantly with the Gentle men who manage the Interests of the Union abroad. It is to be lamented that so great a Slackness has prevailed in this respect hitherto, it being indeed difficult to find Conveyances every Way suitable, but the proper Improvement has not been made in many Cases even of such as offered. I have no Wish to increase Your Excellency’s Labour of Corres pondence, but beg Leave to mention that I would willingly endeav our to make your Intelligence more frequent, if agreeable to you, being satisfied that the publick Interest may derive Advantage from the regular Communication of Facts though unattended with reflections. By Dispatches dated 22 December last from General Lincoln 2 at Charlestown in South Carolina we are informed that the Enemy are quiet in the Town of Savanna and it’s Environs, and have not made any Irruptions into the Country as was apprehended. From this I am led to believe that they suffered more deeply than we supposed


[Page 436]
402 February 9, 1780 when the Town was attempted by the allied Forces under the Com mand of Count D’Estaing and General Lincoln. It is also mentioned that the Spaniards have attacked the English Settlements on the Mississippi, and made nine Hundred Prisoners, and that an Expedi tion from the Havanna was shortly expected to proceed against Pensacola or St. Augustine. A large Detachment is ordered from the main Army in New Jersey into the Southern Country, so that in all Probability Things will go well there. Vigorous Preparations are making on our Part for the ensuing Campaign. The Enemy since the Evacation of Rhode-Island possess only York-Island and the two adjacent, and have about the End of last Year embarked six or eight Thousand Men for the Southward or the West-Indies, perhaps both. I beg Leave to request, Sir, you will be so good as to procure me tha Nautical Almanack 3 for 1780 and 81 published in London under the Direction of the Comisioners of Longitude and which, I suppose, can be had in Paris. It is not to be bo’t here, and I had rather give any Price than be without it. I will answer your Bill to any Person in this City, and acknowledge the Kindness by any Services in my Power. I am, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedt Servant, William Ch Houston RC (PPAmP: Bache Collection). 1 The Board of Admiralty’s February 1 plan for establishing three packet boats that would sail between Philadelphia and Nantes on a bimonthly basis is in JCC, 16:117. It was apparently never acted on. 2 Lincoln’s letters of December 19 and 22 to the committee assigned to correspond with the southern department was read in Congress on February 7, 1780, and referred to the Board of War and the Committee of Intelligence. JCC, 16:129-30. 3 That is, The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris, published annually since 1767. New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia 9th Feby 1780. The Great interest which our State have in the speedy determina tion of the controversy between it, & the neighbouring States, as well as their own refractory subjects in the North eastern Counties, lead us to take the earliest opportunity of laying before you all that has passed in Congress relative to that business, & to represent the dis agreeable situation in which we are placed by being unfurnished with the act of Submission, & the necessary materials for defence. 1 We have ordered the papers to be copied, & shall enclose them together with the enteryies of them on the journal. 2 You will not be surprized that we made no motion upon the occasion, & contented ourselves with general declarations, & a succesful opposition to their being committed, which was very much laboured. Had we done otherwise we shd. necessarily have brought on the question—have


[Page 437]
February 9, 1780 403 your legislature agreed to submit the matter? Are your ready for trial? As both must have been answered in the negative, it would have put it in the power of the Other States, & even of the People upon the grants, to insist upon an immediate hearing agreeable to the terms of the resolutions of Congress. We do not chuse to dwell upon the embarrassing & distressed situation to which the delay of Genl. Scot & Mr. Duane have reduced us. We could have wished to have had the benefit of their assistance in a matter of so much moment to the State, or at least, if deprived of that by any unfore seen accident, to have been possessed of such materials as would have enabled us to exert our poor abilities in her behalf. We do ourselves the honour to enclose your Excellency the only paper which we have reed, upon the subject. You will judge how far this could be serviceable to us. As it may be of some consequence to know the disposition of our antagonists We will endeavour to give you all we can collect here. Masachusets seems to be indifferent about their claim. New Hampshire extreamly anxious to have a determination, but more so to come to some amicable settlement by which they may preserve to themselves such towns as wish to be with them, on the east side of the mountains, & to relinquish all on the West side absolutely together with those on the east side which wish to be connected with New York. The people who have the power on the grants are firmly determined as far as we can collect, to opposi tion by arms. From this State of facts we are unanimously of opinion, that agents shd. be appointed to conclude some agreement with New Hampshire, and to form a treaty with them for the restoration of peace and good order in that part of the government. The Issue of an appeal to arms considering the dispo[si]tion of our own people, of those on the grants, & in the eastern States, will we conceive be very doubtful, the Country turbulent & unquiet, & the expence of the force necessary to subdue it beyond our abilities. Nor can it be of importance to have subjects whose natural connection is with another State, the Mountains opposing an insuperable bar to their commer cial intercourse with New York. These sentiments we have taken the liberty to submit to your Excellencys consideration, if you shall think them worthy your atten tion you will communicate them to the Legislature. We also enclose the result of a months conference of delegates from different states in convention. 3 We thought it proper in order to avoid all censure, that one of us shd. attend, & assure them of the disposition of our State to do all that was required of them upon this subject. We must most earnestly recommend it to our Legislature to take immediate measure for informing themselves accurately of the quan tity of flour, grain, & hay, taken for the use of the army, under the Laws of our State, since the first of August last, as it may be of the utmost moment to them. A report now laying before congress for quotas in kind for the use of Army, & remitting two thirds of the tax


[Page 439]
February 10, 1780 405 have formed on good grounds, the restoration of Peace, and the future tranq[uility] of the United States, and particularly those to the Southward, in a great measure depend on the Compleat expulsion of the Enemy by the Operations of the current year. The Proportions of the Several States are far from being esti mated by any precise or Satisfactory rule; and you will perceive a resolution for an equitable adjustment of the expence attending the raising and providing for Such Troops as shall be found to be beyond the due proportions. The Ideas we have of the Circumstances of the State we have the honor to represent determined us to endeavour to obtain a resolu tion for making all the Efforts of the States for raising men, whether as regulars or Militia, a Common expence. 2 We remembered the vast Sums disbursed by the State and vast expences incurred in calling out militia and making extraordinary exertions in a War whose object is common, and whose Operations have been, perhaps, less threaten ing to her than to her Neighbors. We also foresaw, that She must make Still greater Exertions in Consequence of the Enemy having pointed their hostilities principally against the Southern States, and we deem it our duty, especially as doubts were thrown out in debate, to take the Sense of Congress, directly, on the Question in order that the General assembly may be fully informed, on a Subject So Inter esting to their Constituents. We have failed in our motion as you will See by the inclosed Extract from the Journals. The States who voted against it are very Apprehensive of very great, and perhaps unneces sary expence being the Consequence, if Such a resolution were it to have restrospect, but Seem to have no matterial objection to its future Operation. As our State is much Interested in the retrospective operation, we did not chuse to move it in that form without more particular Instructions from the State. 3 Your Excellency’s Ob. Servts., John Penn Thos. Burke. Allen Jones. RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers, Series II). In the hand of Thomas Burke. Tr (N.C. State Records, 15:334-35). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 2 For Burke’s amendment to a motion made by Oliver Ellsworth, which Congress considered on February 6 and rejected on the ninth, see JCC, 16:127 28, 146-49. 3 Remainder of text taken from Tr. Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular Philadelphia Feby 10. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 9th Instant ascertaining the number of men exclusive of Com-


[Page 446]
412 February 12, 1780 Jefferson, who had explained in a December 16 letter that Bland’s claims for addi tional table expenses had been disallowed by the commissaries in Virginia, who were on the point of seizing his property to reimburse the Continent. Although Jefferson had succeeded in delaying their proceedings, he acknowledged that congressional action would ultimately be required to do justice to Bland. See JCC, 16:153-54; Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:228-29,265; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 17:430, 445-47. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve to Bland in a brief letter of this date. PCC, item 14, fol. 296. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 12 Feby 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 11th Instant respecting the State of Georgia, with an Extract of the Min utes of Council of the State of Georgia soliciting the Exchange & Promotion of Colo Elbert who was made Prisoner by the British in Georgia. This Officer though a Colonel in the Continental Army is a Brigadier in the Militia of the State of Georgia and the Enemy claim a Brigadier in Exchange for him. 1 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, your Excy’s hble servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For Georgia’s recommendation that Col. Samuel Elbert be exchanged and promoted, and Congress’ February 11 resolve explaining that Elbert could not be promoted but that Washington would be encouraged to secure his exchange, see PCC, item 73, fols. 256-60; and JCC, 16:155-56. See also Huntington to Washington, February 7, 1780, note. James Lovell to Henry Laurens Dear Sir Feb. 12th. 1780 I send you Gazettes & Journals officially. As your Friend, I send my most affectionate Wishes for your Health & Prosperity. As an American very anxious about our public Cause (too, too much endangered by our vile Currency) I send my earnest Entreat ies that you would persist in your Endeavors to serve your Country, though Individually you have Cause of Complaint against Some of the Rulers of our Union for an ungraceful Negligence in matters essential to your Embassy. The great Points of recruiting the Army and providing Supplies for it, have prevented a Completion of Parts of Business that you wrote about. But I really hope they will speedily be finished & sent forward to you. We shall certainly fight another Year. Holland will therefore probably not treat of Alliance but will nevertheless place


[Page 447]
February 14, 1780 413 no Obstruction in yr. Way of borrowing Money from Individuals. Spain wants all the East Side of Mississipi. 1 Here I think we must absolutely refuse. Her other Wishes are complied with already in the discretionary Powers to Mr. Jay. I have scratched these few Lines because the prints should not go without being accompanied with my Assurances of affection & Esteem, Yr. most humble Servant, James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). Endorsed by Laurens: “James Lovel 12 February 1780. Received 23d March.” 1 For Spain’s interest in the war in America as outlined in the documents recently presented to Congress by the French minister, see JCC, 16:87-89, 102-9, 114 16; and Lovell to Samuel Adams, February 8, 1780. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Phila. Feby. 14th. 1780, Monday 9 o’clock A.M. Mr. Cranch being about setting out to Boston sooner than I expected, affords me ownly time to mention: That, on Saturday last, Congress received a short letter from the Hone. Mr. Jay, dated Marti[nico] Deer. 20th, informing, that off the Banks of Newfound- Land, they lost their masts, sails, &c, and arrived there the day before; And by another letter that came in the same vessel, we understand, that Mr. Gerard, Mr. Jay & family, sailed the 26th of the same month in a french Frigate; 1 so that I hope the delay will not be so great as was feared at first. By a late express from the state of Georgia, Congress have letters from Governor Walton informing, that, the assembly are again going on with business; by this you may see, it is not in the Power of our enemies to Govern one small state. 2 I have the Honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten 3 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honorable The President of the Council of Massachusetts.’’ 1 This is undoubtedly the “letter from Mr. Bingham’’ referred to in the Connecticut Delegates’ February 15 letter to Jonathan Trumbull, which may be the December 25 letter from William Bingham that was read in Congress on February 14 and referred to the Marine Committee. It is not in PCC. JCC, 16:164. Nevertheless, Jay did not leave Martinique until December 28. See Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:689. 2 See Samuel Huntington to George Walton, this date. 3 Holten also recorded in his diary for this day: “I wrote to the President of the council of Masachusetts per Post & to the Hone. J. Palmer Esqr. by Mr. Cranch.” Holten Diary, MDaAr. The letter to Joseph Palmer has not been found.


[Page 449]
February 14, 1780 415 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 11th Instant expressing their sense of the Exertions, firmness & Zeal manifested by the State of Georgia under all their difficulties, and likewise approving of the plan adopted by the State of Georgia for reducing the four Battailions, and having for their Quota the ensuing Cam paign one Battallion of Infantry and one of Cavalry. 2 That the supernumerary Officers be considered as, and entitled to all the privileges of other Supernumeraries in the continental Army. I am also to inform you that a General Exchange of prisoners is now negotiating and I have informed General Washington of the Case of Colo Elbert which will have due attention paid to it, although Congress cannot at present promote Colo Elbert in the Continental Line. 3 By the act of Congress of the 12th Instant 4 also herewith enclosed you will observe that a Warrant is issued in favour of the Governor & Executive Council of the State of Georgia on the Treasurer of Vir ginia for three hundred thousand Dollars and the Board of War are to take the proper Measures to convey the same to Georgia. The other Six thousand Dollars mentioned in the Act are advanced out of the Coninental Treasury here and paid into the hand of John Foster the Messenger whom Capt Nash sent forward from Virginia with the Despatches and who now returns with these. I have the honour to be with much Esteem and respect, your hble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (N: Signers of the Declaration of Independence). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Walton’s December 15 letter to Congress and one of November 30, 1779, from Georgia speaker William Glascock are in PCC, item 73, fols. 250-65. Clement Nash’s January 23 letter to Congress (written from “Cumberland Court House, Virginia”), in which he explained that ill health was forcing him to entrust John Foster with the delivery of these letters, is in PCC, item 78, 17:103-6. In reply, Huntington wrote the following letter to Nash, a captain in the 3d Georgia Battalion, this date. “Your letter by John Foster together with the despatches from Georgia have been duly received and laid before Congress, and the same Messenger now returns, charged with this letter, with a number of Despatches of Importance for North & South Carolina & Georgia. “These Despatches are of such Consequence they must not be delayed one Day and if you are not able to proceed immediately you must see them forwarded with the greatest despatch and Safety so as to prevent any delay or Miscarriage. “I have procured to be advanced out of the Continental Treasury six thousand dollars and paid to the Bearer John Foster agreeable to your Request, also procured him a pair of Shoes and Saddle bags.” PCC, item 14, fols. 300-301. 2 The letters from Glascock and Walton had been read in Congress on February 3 and referred to a committee consisting of Thomas Burke, Cyrus Griffin, and John Mathews, who submitted a report on the 11th whose recommendations formed the core of the resolves transmitted herewith by Huntington. See JCC, 16:122, 155-56; and PCC, item 20, 2:441-42. 3 For the case of Col. Samuel Elbert, whose exchange and promotion had been recommended by the Georgia Council, see Huntington to Washington, February 12, 1780. 4 JCC, 16:160-61.


[Page 451]
February 15, 1780 417 William Ellery to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 15th, 1780. In Consequence of the powers, for meeting a convention for limit ing prices, with which the State was pleased to invest me, 1 I joined it; and, after frequent meetings, we came to the resolutions which are herein inclosed. I did not forget to move and urge the convention to recommend to such States as had passed laws laying restrictions on inland trade, or inland embargoes to repeal them; but they did not chuse to come to any determination thereon until they should have decided on the subject of regulating prices, and so the motion is postponed. For news &c I beg leave to refer your Excellency to Mr Collins’s & my joint letter, 2 and am with great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble Servant, William Ellery ENCLOSURE In Convention Monday Feby. 7th. 1780 Whereas at a Meeting of the several States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island & Providence Plantations, Connecticut, & New York holden at Hartford in Connecticut on the 20th of October 1779, It was then resolved that a Convention of Commis sioners from the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island & Providence Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware & Maryland, & Virginia be requested to meet at Philadelphia on the first Wednesday of January then next for the Purpose of Considering the Expediency of limiting the Prices of Merchandize & Produce. 3 And whereas in Consequence thereof, Commissioners have met in Convention from the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island & Providence Planatations, Connecticut, New Jersey, Penn sylvania, Delaware & Maryland. And whereas, the Assembly of the State of New York has not met since the Adjournment of the Convention at Hartford; but did pre viously authorize her Delegates to Pledge the Faith of the State for carrying into Effect a general Plan for regulating Prices, if recom mended by Congress, 8c this Convention have the fullest Assurance that the Measures which they may adopt will be agreed to by said State. And whereas, it is the Opinion of this Convention, that any Mea sures for regulating Prices, adopted, without the Concurrence of all the States, proposed by the Convention at Hartford might prove ineffectual. Therefore Resolved, That the President be desired to inform the Governor of the State of Virginia of the Proceedings of this Con vention: 8c request him to give the earliest Notice of the Determina-


[Page 456]
422 February 15, 1780 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Feby. 15th. 1780. Congress have come to sundry resolutions, determining the num ber of privates of which the army is to consist, and adjusting the quotas of the States; which we suppose are sent to the State; 1 but as it is possible that they may not reach your Excellency so early as this letter, we will just mention that the whole number of privates is to be thirty five thousand, and our quota eight hundred and ten. We objected to the quota assigned to our state, and proposed that it should not exceed seven hundred men; but were not able to procure any reduction. Several other States made similar objections; but it was thought too late to alter the adjustments and set the matter afloat, and so the report stands as it was offer’d by the board of war, only with the qualifying resolution added to it which you will take notice of. We received a letter last Saturday from Mr. Jay, our minister to the Court of Madrid, informing us that the Confederacy, off the banks of Newfoundland, met with a violent Storm which carried away her masts and Bowspreet, and obliged her to put away for Martinico where she arrived the 19th of December. His letter was dated the 20th. He further advises us that a British Squadron from St Lucia fell in with about 25 french merchant Vessels, under convoy of a frigate, off and bound to Martinico. That the enemy took 14 of them and drove too ashore. Monsieur De le’ Mothe Pequet was dispatch’d to persue them as soon as possible, but, his force being inferior to the enemy, it was not in his power to recover the capture. Mr. Bingham, our agent at Martinico, in a letter of a later date mentions that Mr. Jay sailed in the Aurora frigate for France the 26th of December. We are told that there are letters in Town from St. Eustatius so late as the middle of January; but not a word of news from Europe. The Georgians have organized Government, and are determined to hold their State as long as they can. The Seat of Government is at Augusta. The Spaniards have taken possession of the British Settle ments on the Mississippi; and a respectable fleet with 4000 troops sailed from Havannah for Pensacola or Augustine, or both the begin ning of December. Affairs wear a better aspect to the Southward than they did some time ago. We have not received any intelligence respecting the famous fleet from New York since it sailed. We have nothing further to add at present but that we are with great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedt. humble Servts. William Ellery John Collins P.S. Genl. Lincoln in a letter bearing date Jany. 8th 2 informs that by the last accounts from Savannah be was informed “that the 60th


[Page 457]
February 16, 1780 423 Regiment was order’d to St Augustine. The enemy seem to be alarmed at the movements of the Spaniards. We do not know yet the fate of Mobille or of Pensacola. There is some reason to believe that they are both in the hands of the Spaniards; this is undoubtedly the report in Savannah. I have it from deserters and Mr. Cowen one of our Offs, who lately left it. What foundation there is for the report or what gave rise to it I know not. I have my doubts with respect to the fact, though I think it my duty & that I may safely give the hint on mentioning my authority.” “I am just informed that 6 or 700 of the No. Carolina militia are arrived at Camden.” Camden is 126 miles from Charlestown. The No. Carolina Conti. Brigade were push ing on with forced marches. W E RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 10, 1780. 2 Lincoln’s letter, addressed “to the committee for corresponding with the com manding officer in the southern department,” was read in Congress this day but is not now in PCC.JCC, 16:167. However, a letter of the same date to General Washington, containing similar intelligence on the capture of Mobile and Pensacola, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Carlisle 16th Feby. 1780. Expresses his “uneasy feellings and anx ious apprehensions, on the distracted & melancholly State of our finances. . . . “The first, and fundamental remidy is the Regulation of Prices through all our States by the publick Authority of Law. 2d, a Speedy determined and judicious Reformation of mistakes or abuses, in the two great departments of the Staff, including in it a Retrenchment of Expences, Offices and Officers—and this by the by, cannot in my Opinion be effected otherwise than by the Several States, or their Commissioners, perhaps best appointed in their respective Counties. 3d, The laying in of certain quantities of Grain, at the expence of the Owners in Such Magazines as may be appointed, for which Carriage a moderate Miliage may be allowed, except in the distance of five miles, The Grain to be delivered at the regulated price, or pass in whole, or in part of the Owners Tax. These measures at Once Simple, regular & virtuous, aided by such taxation as the people can bear, which by the way must be greatly lessened to what it now is—and by Domestick Loans, will by the Divine blessing carry us on until a foreign Loan can have time to Operate. But if these Steps be declined, I dread to mention the approaching consequences. As for the Chimerically refined notions of Finance which some men have thrown out, they must be considered as so many Phantoms. The plain high way of Regulation by Law, appears now by fatal experience & dint of necessity the only rational line of our direction—and however


[Page 459]
February 16, 1780 425 Time of the General’s Writing (Jan 8th) had got to be allarmed about St. Augustine and were sending some of their Troops from Savanna to that Place. No Sight of the Enemy’s Fleet was had at Charlestown 16 Days after sailing from New York. Perhaps the News Paper of this Day may retail the Reports from Virginia of another Kind, a quite contrary one. Congress has taken so much notice of Govr Geo Walton’s Com plaints about Brig McIntosh as to inform him his Service in the southern Department is dispensed with, conveying to him a Copy of the Governor’s Letter and a Paragraph of one from the Speaker of the Georgia Assembly. 2 The Spirit of that State, as it appears in those Letters is excellent. Waltons Letter was directed to you or any of the old members from Massachusetts, and Gerry & I have not slighted the fair occasion of cultivating that Confidence which seemed to be placed now in a Spirit which some of Brownson’s Colleagues did not for merly coalesce with as he did. Govr. Walton says he shall certainly be here in the Spring. I suppose as a Delegate special if not general. I hope there has been no printed mention of my going abroad. Your News Papers are remarkable lately for more groundless Para graphs than most others. I have been told of my name, having thus got in. But I am far from Embarking and I own I am pleased, since I find how much Cabal enters into the Business. We are to discuss next Satday the Proposition for appointing a Resident with his official Powers to go to France instead of a Secy to the Embassy. This will dignify the Place enough for R R Livingston: 3 and I am somewhat inclined to think that our Affairs here make several wish to be away from the fatigue which they cause. I do not like the Scale of Influ ence abroad should have Weights from New York rather than from some other State. But I shall not encline to stand against R R L in the Nomination for the new Office tho I will always allow myself to stand as a Check upon Gr M s. 4 Upon the whole I must begin to think altogether of getting along thro’ the War as well as possible upon the old Ground of drudge hard & fare hard too; which is the Lot of most of the faithful in our Cause. I dare not believe the Paragraph from Virginia, in the Paper inclosed. 5 I believe I must forward my Accounts to Boston that I may get the Balances of the 3 years back, what was due in 77 would have so cloathed me that I should not need now to spend twice more for one Suit than I sent my Family through all that Year. 70 Dollrs. I pay for worstead Hose. Yours affectionately, J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Not found, and in Adams’ March 5 reply acknowledging letters recently received from Lovell, none of February 15 is listed. Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:180-81.


[Page 460]
426 February 16, 1780 2 See Samuel Huntington to George Walton, February 14, and to Lachlan McIntosh, February 15, 1780. 3 See Robert R. Livingston to John Jay, February 10, 1779, note 3. 4 That is, Gouverneur Morris. 5 Lovell probably enclosed a copy of this day’s Pennsylvania Gazette which contained an “extract of a letter from York in Virginia” reporting that “the enemy has evacuated Savannah on a certainty.” James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln Dear General 1 Feb. 16. 1780 I have reed. yr. favors up to Janry. 8th and have forwarded regu larly the Letters which you inclosed to my Care. You must not expect very regular Answers to them from the Interruptions to Journying caused by the severest Winter we have known since 1740, I mean severe as to Snow chiefly. We begin to made Shuttle Cocks of as usual when the Enemy are in yr. Quarter. I suspend all Belief but on your Letters, therefore let us have them as often as your greater Business will permit. You will hear from the Comtee. who receive your Letters, 2 what our State of Finance & Supply of Food & Rayment is or rather is not, Yet we are to look for a vigorous Campaign. I hope the States are rousing from a Sort of Lethargy, and that they will be able to carry on the next Campaign well notwithstanding the ill Appearances of the present moment. As to Penobscot we hear almost nothing. But it will be taken into the Plans of Opperation for our Army when recruited. So extensive a Continent calls for great Numbers of Defendants & we can find but few though it is a Land of Plenty, unless Avarice will relax a little of its harpy Demands upon our Treasury. Our State have determined to make good the Pay of their Troops for 3 years back, and have determined a Scale of Depreciation by a mean Ratio on the 4 Commodities of Beef, Indian Corn, Sheeps Wool & Soal Leather taken monthly from Jany. 77 to Jan 80, the last amountg. to 32, 50 [hundreths?] 3 for 1. This is turning the Tables upon the Farmers with a Vengeance I think. But yet Farmers must have done it in Court. I am, likely, to drudge on here another Year, and will be ready for rendering you any Services in my Power but trying to draw you from the Southward till Things look more favorably in that Quarter. Your affectionate, humble Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] All our Family join me in Love & Esteem for you. RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 The recipient of this letter was undoubtedly Gen. Benjamin Lincoln, from whom a letter of January 8 to the "committee for corresponding” with the southern depart-


[Page 461]
February 17, 1780 427 ment had just been received and read in Congress on February 15. See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, February 15, note 2. 2 That is, “the committee for corresponding with the commanding officer in the southern department.” 3 Lovell wrote what appears to be the word “hundreths” above the line at this point. Abraham Clark to the New Jersey Assembly Sir Philada. Febry. 17. 1780 The Convention for regulating prices have Adjourned till April and 1 fear the Attempt will prove Abortive, Virginia seems to hang back, no members have attended from thence, and as far as I can learn none have been Appointed, and their Legislature stands Adjourned till May. I shudder at the prospects before us, a Virgorous War to prosecute, while our money reduced almost to nothing, is Still depreciating with rapidity. The Current exchange here between hard money & paper is from 45 to 50 for one. In the Market, a paper Dollar is estimated at present at one penny and will soon be less than a half penny in all probability. Congress have now under Consideration the Apportionment of Supplies for the Army to be required of each state the present year, 1 One [Our] Quota at present stands at 18000 hundred weight of Beef or pork, 10,000 barrels of Flour, 3,758 bushels of Salt, 3,500 Tons of hay, 30,000 bushels of Corn, Oats or buckwheat. 2 The Estimate of Prices, as follows. Flour 4 1/2 Dollars per hundred, Summer fatted Beef 5 1/2 dollr per neat hundred, fall fatted Do. 6 1/2 dollars, Stall fed killed after Janry. 7 1/2 Dollars, fresh pork 7 dollars per neat hundred; Salted pork 22 dollars per barrl. containing 240 lb. Indian Corn, 3/4 dollar per bushl., Oats 1/2, Rie 1, Buckwheat 2/3 dollar per bushl., best first crop hay 15 dollrs. per Ton, Rum 1 1/2 dollrs. per Gall, Salt 3 dollars per bushl. For my part I dislike the plan altogether, as purchases ought to be made where most Convenient having regard to the places where they are to be consumed & the prices in the several states which must depend upon the seasons in them, but I am assured the plan is Agreable to the wishes of our Legislature, by whose Opinion I shall Always be governed. The Salt I fear will be procured with difficulty in our state, but as the prices above Are all Estimated in Specie & that Article Set at 3 dollars, I dare not refuse it to our State, Specially as other states wish for that Article and offer to take it from us in exchange for flour or Other provisions at the Estimated prices—but as Salt is much higher estimated than any other Article, I think we may exchange provisions for it to much greater Advantage by pri vate Contractor perhaps, by promoting the Manufactory of Iron on publick Acct, we may procure that Article of Salt in exchange for Iron and save our provisions. In Case our Legislature shall desire to


[Page 462]
428 February 17, 1780 be freed from procuring the Salt by taking upon them the Supply of Other Articles Equivalent in Value as Estimated, by Signifying their pleasure thereon, I am persuaded the matter can be affected. Thus far I had wrote before Congress took up the business of Supplies this Day, They had before gone through the Quotas and now took into Consideration the Prices as reported by the Comme. and have Agreed to the price for flour as Above mentioned. The next under Consideration was the Price of Beef, this is not finished but will I believe pass agreable to the report—more of us would be willing to Alter some Articles did we not see that it would deraing all we had before done without any Material Advantage, so that the Prices I have mention[ed], tho’ only as reported from a Come, from Each state will I believe be Agreed to. Should any material Alter ation take place so as to affect our state, we shall Attempt a reconsid eration of the Quotas. I am with all due respects to the Ceneral Assembly, your Obedt. & Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (Nj: State Papers). Addressed: “Caleb Camp Esqr., Speaker.” 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 2 New Jersey’s quota as stated here by Clark remained the same in the resolve adopted on February 25. Cf. JCC, 16:196. John Fell to Robert Morris My Dear sir, Philadelphia Feby 17th. 1780. Yesterday I had the Pleasure of Receiving your kind favour of the 8th Instt. Per Mr Erskine, and am realy sorry to hear of the very disagreeable situation of our distressd County. Since I Receivd your favour from Mount holly I have never had an oppertunity of writing you or certainly I should have done myself the Pleasure. You mention the Reform that you hope has taken Place in Philada. For my Part 1 know of no kind of Reformation, without disapation and extravigance can be deem’d so, to tell you the real truth, I never live’d so disagreeable in all my Life, (except in the Provost) and I some times have my doubts which is best. I want to see you exceedingly, do you not intend to come to Philadelphia, if you do, let me know, and if not, I shall do myself the Pleasure of waiting on you at Trenton; I have not yet heard of Mrs Fells arrival at home. If any inquireing friends at Trenton, Please to Remember me kindly to them; As the Post goes through Trenton twice a Week, I shall now and then ask you how you do. We are now in debate on the Report of the Committee of 12. Respecting the Quotas to be furnish’d per the several States it is, as Reports of this kind usualy are, subject to many amendments, I am under the Necessity of hearing and not speaking. I have got a bad Cold and am so hoarse I can hardly be heard, (Mr. Clark speaks my opinion on the subject).


[Page 473]
February 23, 1780 439 Samuel Holten’s Diary [February 23-25, 1780] 23. Wednesday. The Hone, the medical come, met in my chambr. The weather is cold. 24. Thursday. Congress sit late, upon very important matters. 1 The weather is cold. I wrote to the council of Massachusetts. 2 25. Friday. I wrote to Mrs. Holten (no. 105). 3 Congress called upon the states for large supys. MS (MDaAr). 1 Congress was considering “the report of the committee for estimating supplies.” JCC y 16:191-94. 2 Not found. 3 Not found. James Lovell to George Washington General Washington, Philada. Feb. 23d. 1780 From Expressions in some of your Excellency’s Letters to Con gress and in one lately to Baron Steuben I conceive that you imagine us more regularly informed than we have actually been about Euro pean Affairs—particularly about our Interests in France. 1 The Correspondence with our Ministers at foreign Courts passing especially under my Eye & Finger, I wish you to be persuaded that I will not omit giving you any Information in my Power from time to time which I can judge may conduce either to your Ease in the Formation of military Plans, or to your Relief under Anxieties about Supplies expected from Europe. With the latter View, I was putting some Facts together to warrant a Conclusion that our Letters to the King of France, and Invoices to our Minister there had arrived on the 19th of September. 2 Luckily however I am not left to Inferences, a Packet having come to my Hand from Doctor Franklin dated September 30th in which he men tions the Receipt & consequent Presentation of those Letters & Invoices: He signifies only his Hopes of obtaining all or a great Part of the Articles. But the Minister of France here had some Weeks ago known under a Date of October from Versailles that Supplies were certainly ordered, tho’ it was not clear till now that such Order was posterior to a precise Knowledge of our Wants being conveyed to the King. This is the only Letter received from Doctor Franklin since one of May 26 last year which came to hand Augst. 17th following. Doctor Lee under Date of Deer. 8th from Paris 4 has covered the King of England’s Speech to his Parliament on November 25th and Sir Joseph York’s Memorial to the States General of Holland on the


[Page 478]
444 February 24, 1780 Whatever we do we ought soon to do, or we shall frustrate the Views of our Allies who have pointed out to us plainly that we should be decisively vigorous this Campaign. Whether we do or do not fix the Prices now it would be wise in the Rulers of our State to cast about how they shall procure certainly and most oeconomically 56,000 Cwt of Beef 12,126 Bushels of Salt 195,628 Galls. West Indian Rum so as to furnish the whole in the Course of the year, the first partly on hoof & partly in Barrels. Pork may be given in Lieu of Beef. Continental Rum for W. India with the stipulated allowances if any are stipulated or if not at equitable odds. As to the Greatness of the Tax it should be considered we went on Years without any. What signifies calling for that which is nought? If the millions called for will not produce the Quota of Supplies double or treble millions must be had. And the States will get them with ten times the oeconomy that our commissarial Legions would. Let every Man that has a Tongue preach to bring about a vigorous Campaign. Excuse my slovenly Manner. I am really in want of two pair of Hands. I am alone again on the meek Comtee. of for. Affairs, Mr. Livingston & Mr. Houston being like their predicessors gone for a Season. 4 A Lee writes to the Comtee. of a Paris date Deer. 8 [a] few Words to cover The King of Englands Speech & Yorks memorial, 5 tollerably modest Things. But we ought not, as Arthur does, to conclude that England has no Friends in Europe because the Speech is silent on that Head. It would be wrong to hold up as Friends Those who may soon appear as Mediators. Or if any mean to take an armed active Part the Antagonist should not be forewarned. I own that I conclude from the Speech that England knows of a Certainty that she shall be befriended; And I believe she has been advised to say nothing of America by some intentional mediators. The tickling Story of the Stripes hoisted in Holland may have its Run But I have some Proofs that matters have been conducted more agreably to dutch Politics; and [In] a Way that will produce more sol[i]d Good than the Pleasure of indulging the proud Affectations of an rising Navy. J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 For the publication of the Franco-American treaties, see also Lovell to Horatio Gates, March 4, 1780. 2 Lovell undoubtedly wanted Adams to send Abigail Adams a copy of the Pennsylvania Packet of February 24, which contained extracts from the latest letters from Europe as well as King George Ill’s November 25 speech to Parliament and Sir Joseph Yorke’s November 26, 1779, memorial to the States of Holland.


[Page 482]
448 February 28, 1780 over the 6th Article of the confederation. I own that I felt no zeal of Jealousy on this Occasion. But since the Matter has been agitated & delicately quashed. I hope there will not hereafter be any Room to say that Congress have not Influence with the States nor chuse to let the minister of France try his. He certainly has a Right to treat with particular States thro’ Congress by the sd. 6th Article, in Implication. Surely then he may in that Chanel exhort 8c stimulate to the Fulfill ment of measures recommended by Congress. However, This being not the Question now, I recur to my Entreaty that you would be earnest in promoting all measures for a vigorous Campaign. Tho’ we were enjoyned Secresy; yet the minister had no Idea that the Governments of the States should not know that there is some proba bility of an armed Negociation; when, the Proposals made last yr. by Spain may be again advanced. The Enemy therefore should not be allowed to hold any Parts of the United States on the Day of Cessa tion of Hostilities. We may be assured of the Resources of the Realme of France being used for the Purposes of grand Diversions in our Favor as well as Cooperations here if we get into a Condition for Vigor. The order for this Day was to determine where we shall move to. That is put off for a Fortnight. I am well satisfied we shall not move at all. 4 Another order for this day was a report upon the Letter from our State; put off till Tomorrow It will cause much debating for I will strive to have something definite; whereas the Report touches only the charging all past Advances 8c Encreases of Pay as Deduc tions in the States Account against the Officers 8c Men. But it ought to be known whether the whole is to be a continental Expence. 5 I add herewith an Extract of the ministers Communications. 6 I give it to you as a Secret 8c no Secret to make the most judicious use of in yr. Power. I only say it is not a News Paper Business. Yrs. affectionately, J L 29th. Mr. Brailsford arrived this morning 8c has delivered a Letter with Instructions about the Penobscot affairs 7 8c Col. Allen the Agent. 8 Fessenden has dilly-dallied and will be chopping 8c changing on the Road therefore I send all by Post which I intended by him. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Lovell omitted the year from the dateline and the letter was incorrectly endorsed in an unidentified hand “J. Lovell, Feb. 28. 1778,” but its content clearly indicates it was written in 1780. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 3 This “circular letter to the Govrs. & Presidts. of the respective States” is not mentioned in the journals, but the chevalier de La Luzerne reported to Vergennes in a March 10, 1780, letter that several members of Congress had asked him to write an inspirational leter to the state executives urging greater efforts to raise supplies and taxes. He also reported that he abandoned the plan after other delegates objected to his communicating directly with the state governments. Archives de minist^re des affaires ^trangferes: Correspondance politique, Etats-Unis, 11:73. See also Lovell to Adams, March 17, 1780.


[Page 487]
February 29, 1780 453 ous modes; and our Anxiety for the Success of this most Necessary Measure, has carried us into the mentioning those few we have Suggested, not any opinion that the general assembly will have Occasion for our Advice in a matter, to which their own wisdom is, infinitely, more competent. We call it, Sir, a most Necessary Measure. We will venture to repeat that it is indispensible. We cannot See any thing that can be adopted, in lieu of it, that promises, even the most distant prospect of relief, and we hope from it, for many Essential advantages to the united States in general, and to our own in particular. As to the last, we shall only say that our Industry will be applied for the discharge of our part of the public burthens, at the Same rate with that of the other States, which our local disadvantages would prevent were we to pay in money only. As to the former, we hope the Measure will remove the public Necessity by the provision of Magazines previous to the want of them, that the Supplies, being furnished by all, and the remote coming in aid of those more near, will prevent that excessive demand, and excessive advantage taken of the public, which were the Consequences of procuring them only in the Neighborhood of the Army. That the evil of a numerous Staff department, established in such a manner as to enhance the most ruinous abuses, will be entirely removed. In a word Sir, will give us plenty of Supplies, without incurring heavy public debts; without giving partial advant ages; without causing partial burthens; without leaving us exposed to the abuses of peculation, or danger to our affairs from the precari ous Subsistance of our army. If these happy effects should flow from it, our resources will be as inexhaustible as our Industry. Money will attain to it’s true use and value, for, in Ordinary Commerce, no individual can be under Such Necessity as the public who are main taining a War for their very Existence. If prices of Necessaries con tinue high, those who want them must retrench in the use of them; or increase their Industry to enable them to purchase. The product of that Industry will no where find that Necessity which, at present, every one finds in the public. The market of high prices must be sought among the affluent, who will thus contribute to the support and increase of Industry, but, even among those, prices will find limits beyond which they cannot go; and commerce will so regulate itself 2 that even paper money, will find a Certain fixed value as the general representative of Industry—an Event which may in vain be looked for, so long as the Necessity of the public is Suffered to Continue, by neglecting or failing to foresee and provide for the demands before they arrive. On perusing the report it will be found that Congress have allowed liberal prices for every Article and all as Near as Could be in the same Proportions. The Prices of the year Seventy four were assumed from the best Information that could be obtained, and fifty per cent were added in Consideration of the particular Circumstances of the


[Page 488]
454 February 29, 1780 War. The whole indeed will operate as a loan from the Staple States to the whole union of which they must afterwards be charged with their proportions And be creditors for the Surplus. The States who have not Staples, or fail to Supply, will be debtors to the whole Union. It will easily appear to you that it was Necessary to fix the prices in Specie because nothing that is fluctuating could measure either the whole of the amount of Supplies or the several [propo]r- tional parts, and Consequently nothing else [could be] adopted for doing Justice to the whole or to each. You will find the quotas assigned to North and South Carolina far beyond what is their Supposed proportion but the prospect of a vigorous Campaign in the southern States, the probability of great Armaments being there employed, the impossibility of Supplying them with provisions from any other States, with other reasons which will occur to you, determined the Delegates of those States to assume the quotas as they now are, and induced Congress to make the requisitions. The Same Considera tions will explain the reasons for assigning the different Commodi ties as they appear in the Resolves. We shall only observe that North Carolina assumed the flower because South Carolina could furnish none, and the Troops from Virginia and North Carolina cannot be Subsisted upon rice. We will now Sir dismiss this subject first praying leave to press its importance in the most Strenuous Manner on the State General assembly. RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. FC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke. ‘ See Samuel Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 2 Remainder of RC missing; text taken from FC. Oliver Ellsworth to Samuel Lyman Dr sir. Philada. March 1. 1780 I am this day favourd with yours of the 7th of Feby. What the State of our finances will be three months hense? is indeed to me a hard question. I will as soon as it shall be in my power forward you the result of the deliberations of Congress on this Subject. In the mean time I am not disposed to advise you to any speculations in money, but rather to confine them to the Girls till more certain times open. You will glean from the enclosed papers most of the European intelligence reed, by the late arrivals. You may now put this in the fire. I am D sr., yr obed. hume servt. O Ellsworth 1 RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 Ellsworth also wrote a brief letter this day to his wife Abigail:


[Page 491]
March 1, 1780 457 be charged by Congress to the Debt of the United States and to the Credit of that State.” And, in Compliance with the Desire of the Honble. Assembly to know “whether this Matter has been settled here or considered, and what our Apprehensions of it are,” We beg Leave to inform them that we do not recollect any Act of Congress which settles the Matter; but, we conceive they have no Intention of conducting it agreable to the Expectation of the Assembly. This Opinion is founded on the Debates of Congress previous to their passing the Resolutions of the 17th of Augst. last; 3 as well as on their late Resolve of the 9th of February respecting “the reasonable Expence” incurred by any State “in raising more than its just Propor tion of the Troops serving in the Army.” 4 And we apprehend it is the Intention of Congress that the Expence of making good the original Contract to the Officers and Soldiers shall be defrayed by each State so far as it respects “their just Proportion of the Troops actually serving in the Army from time to time.” We shall pay a particular Attention to the Instructions of the General Assembly respecting their Expenditures in the Penobscot Expedition, 3 and the other Matters contained in their Letter of the 9th of February 6 reed, the 28th and we shall give them the earliest Information of the Measures of Congress on those important Subjects. We have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Respect for the General Assembly and, Yourself, Sir, Your most obedient, and Very humble Servants, E. Gerry James Lovell S Holten Geo Partridge P.S. Inclosed is a Copy of the Letter 7 which we shall send to the several Officers of the Staff for their respective Accounts. RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honorable Jeremiah Pow ell Esqr. President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay.” Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Gerry, Holten, and Partridge. 1 The Massachusetts Council’s January 13 letter to Congress, seeking information on prices in order to adjust military pay “according to the rate of Depreciation,” is in PCC, item 65, 1:420-22. Since it was widely recognized that adjusting the pay of soldiers to the pace of inflation was necessary to maintain recruitment needs, Massa chusetts had moved the previous February to assure her troops “that there should be no failure of a just Settlement & Payment at the End of War agreeable to the true value of their first Engagement.” But no understanding had been reached on whether such added costs would be borne primarily by the state or by the Continent collectively, and most delegates seemed to assume that the issue could be postponed to the general financial settlement that would follow the end of the war. In its letter of January 13, the Massachusetts Council had left the matter rather vague, and Congress’ response to their query failed to clarify this issue, although as the Massachusetts delegates explained in the present letter, “we conceive they have no Intention of conducting it agreable to the Expectation of the Assembly.” For James Lovell’s concern that the operation of the Massachusetts act would work a hardship on the state, see also his letters to Benjamin Lincoln, February 16, and to Horatio Gates, March 4, 1780. 2 On February 29 Congress had resolved that: “all grants and allowances” made by Congress to Continental soldiers “in addition to their pay, rations or bounties, since


[Page 499]
March 5, 1780 465 same time tells you it is only 60 Pence should have his money realized, Or the Butcher that sold his fatt Cow, Yesterday at 20 Dollors a Pound, in that case his Cow would be worth as much as One of the Grand Moguls Eliphants. Or the Landlord that was paid last week for the Rent of a house £300 at the moderate Excha[nge] of 55 for 1. Or the Lawyer who asks you £100 Sterlg for a fee or in Conti at the Exchange. And yet on the other hand there are doubtless many instances were justice only requires it. I expect I shall tire you out before you have read all my nonsence, but I have not done yet. What think you of The Honble Silas Condict being appointed Quarter Master General. 3 Quere would not his Friend General Winds have understood the Business as well. I have not heard from Petersfield in several weeks & I am greatly distressed on the Account; If I had a Horse I believe I should be tempted to goe to see what was become of Mrs Fell and Son Peter. A number of Vessells have come up Yesterday and to day, what Effect it will have on the money I know not, but it seems to be agreed on all hands that money is very scarse hear at Present, A very droll circum stance of One of the Vessells from Cadiz, having along Passage and bad weather had been oblidged to throw her Guns over Board, came up with a Snow of 10 Guns which he boarded and took, and after getting the Guns on Board his own Vessell, he took a Brig, both said to be valuable Cargoes, The Watchman say it is Past 10 o Clock, time to goe to Bedd, so Adieu, Good night. Monday morning [i.e., March 6]. I forgot to tell you last night, when I was out I heard there was letters come from So Carolina on the 10th Feby no account then of the arrival of the British Fleet. On Saturday Congress agreed not to draw any more Bills on Europe till further orders; 4 I have been uniform in opposing the Plan of drawing Bills from the first time it was mentiond for several reasons. P.M. This day has been taken up chiefly in dispatches from Major [General] Lincoln dated the 31st Jany. 5 He says on hearing of the Fleet on the Coast he sent out two frigates, who went and lookt in the River at Georgia where they see 5 Ships which they took to be line of Batle, One of which had an Admirals flag and I think about 14 Sail of other Vessells, but on seeing the Ships, Prepairing to make Sail they made the best of their way to Charlestown agreeable to their orders, they took 2 or 3 Vessells with 40 Dragoons and some Officers. One of the Vessells had had 45 Horses on Board, but had thrown 43 Over Board. 1000 of the No Carolina Militia were arrived and the Express who did not leave Charlestown till the 7th February says General Hogan with his Continental Troops, and Coll Washington with his horse were about 100 Mile off on their way and that several Vessells had arriv’d at Charlestown before he came a way from St.


[Page 500]
466 March 5, 1780 Eustatia with stores &c for the Garrison. If this Letter is not long enough acquaint me in your next. I am with great Respect Your Real friend, John Fell RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 See Samuel Holten’s Diary, March 3-4, 1780, note 3. 2 The “committee for supplying the treasurer,” which had been appointed on Feb ruary 14, had submitted a report that was taken up on March 2 in committee of the whole together with a report of the committee “for apportioning the quotas of bills of credit to the different states.” The two reports thereafter became the focus of congres sional debate on fiscal policy, which occupied the delegates on March 2, 3, 9, and 13-18 and provided the foundation for the landmark resolves adopted on March 18 repudiating the Continental dollar. These authorized the states to meet their cash quotas by submitting old bills to the Continental treasury at the rate of 40 to 1, and provided for the limited emission of new paper issues as the old bills were retired. See JCC, 16:41, 164, 205-8, 216-17, 223-24, 242-43, 255-56, 259, 261-67; and Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. 3 New Jersey governor William Livingston had recommended that Condict be appointed quartermaster general should Nathanael Greene resign his post. See Rob ert R. Livingston to William Livingston, March 20, 1780. 4 See JCC, 16:228. 5 According to the journals the Benjamin Lincoln letter read in Congress on March 6 was dated January 29, 1780. Later in the day, however, Congress did consider a Henry Laurens’ letter dated January 31. JCC, 16:230, 234. For Lincoln’s letter, see Samuel Huntington to Lincoln, March 6, 1780. Samuel Holten’s Diary [March 6, 1780] 6. Monday. I wrote to the President of the Council of Massa Bay, to the Hone. J. Cushing. 1 We have accts that the enemy are arrived in Georgia. 2 MS (MDaAr). 1 For Holten’s letter to the Massachusetts Council, see the following entry; his letter tolohn Cushing has not been found. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln, this date, note. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia March 6th. 1780. I had the honor of addressing you a few days since with my col leagues upon public business, which I hope came safe to hand. 1 The British King has not thought proper to mention America in his late speech; I am at no loss how to acct, for it in my own mind, for if he had observed upon the state of this Country as being in rebellion, I have no reason to think it wou’d be likely to answer a valuable purpose for him, at the several Courts in Europe at this day. His


[Page 504]
470 March 6, 1780 are solid, but as usually happens in such Cases the other Side is not without Somewhat to say. I am still in the Situation I was when I wrote you first, undecided and querying. I am not of Opinion that the Confederation guarantees to the States any Bounds, and much less Bounds which they may claim ad Libitum without any formal Decision or Control. In our United State no Measure can be taken for the Circumscription, with any Tolerable Prospect of Success; I am convinced of this from the Temper I have seen discovered in Discussions of the Subject in Congress, and Claims are set up which I am well persuaded cannot be countenanced by any Documents in the Hands of the Claimants: but confederated, I must take the Lib erty of saying Congress of Right might bring any State to shew their Grounds of Claims and decide whether the Union ought to recog nize and defend the Extent to which they go. It is doubtless a Defect in the Confederation that no Mode is laid down for deciding between the United States and any one of them, in a Matter of this Kind, as well as between any two or more States where a Difference subsists as to Boundary; but this must be taken as inc[. . .to the?] Constitution of the Confederation, it being clear to me that there is within the Limits of the whole Confederacy Lands to which no particular State can shew any Title: and if there is one Mile square there may be a Million, and as no Right can subsist without a remedy of obtaining it, it is proper to make the Search, and to take the means for doing so. Suffer me to state three or four Particulars. 1. The United States are not in Capacity to take or hold Lands. They are associated for Defense and carrying on the War. Do the Acts and Instructions of the several States from which the Deputies come extend to any other Object but this, and those collateral and necessarily incident to it? And on this Footing I have ever opposed all Propositions for purchasing real Property as a Congress, and particularly in a late Instance in which a Proposal was made to sell to the Union the Estate upon which the Fortifications at West-point are erected. 3 2. Pursuing this Idea were there a Territory acknowledged to [. . .] be out of the ownership or Claim of any particular State in the Union, are the United States assembled in Congress constituted or authorised to dispose of it? Or had they a Claim to Land or Territory in any State are they a Person or Body politick to pursue it? In my View, they are at present [under a] mere temporary Association, confederated they would stand on different Ground. 3. You see by the Act I sent you of 19 February last, passed in the State of New-York, 4 that there is a Disposition in that State to have their Limits ascertained, and in Order to satisfy the Discontents of many of their Sister-states they may be disposed to do what is reasonable. Their Example may be followed by other States, and though it may be said this will be more likely to be the Case before the Completion of the Confederation than after; as seems to be your Opinion; I confess it does not strike me, but that there will be a better Disposition to it then than now, while Jealousy


[Page 506]
472 March 6, 1780 March 7 and referred to a committee of Thomas Burke, Samuel Holten, and Roger Sherman. No further action was taken on the measure until a report was made to Congress on June 30. JCC, 16:236, 17:580. The act is in PCC, item 67, 2:250 53; and JCC, 19:208-9. For Houston’s transmittal of it, see Houston to Morris, March 7, 1780; and note 1 above. 5 For the continuation of this letter, see Houston to Morris, March 13, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1780 You will receive Herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of this Day requesting the Governors of Virginia, North, & South Carolina, to use their utmost Exertions in filling up their Continental Battallions, and in the mean Time to raise a Body of Militia to supply the Places of the Battalions. 1 From the Intelligence your Excellency must have received from the southern Department it is presumed the Necessity of reinforcing the Southern Army hath called forth the Exertions of Virginia and the more southern States. Your Excellency’s Dispatches of the 9th ultimo has been received and laid before Congress. 2 I have the honour to be with great respect your Excellency’s hble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For the adoption of this resolve to reinforce the southern army, see JCC, 16:234; and the following entry. Huntington also enclosed this resolve with similar letters of this date to the gover nors of North Carolina and South Carolina. PCC, item 14, fols. 307-8. 2 For Jefferson’s February 9 letter concerning Virginia’s boundary dispute with Pennsylvania, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:286-89; and Huntington to Jefferson, December 30, 1779. Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia March 6. 1780 Your Letter of the 29th January hath been received and laid before Congress this Day; they are disposed to lend every Aid in their Power for the Defence of Charles Town and the southern Depart ment. Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of this Day request ing the States of Virginia, North and South Carolinas, to use their utmost Exertions in filling up their Continental Batallions, and in the mean Time to supply their Place with Militia. 1 You will also observe the Treasury are Directed to report the proper Measures for supplying the military Chest of the southern Army.


[Page 507]
March 6, 1780 473 I hope before this comes to Hand, you may receive such Reinforce ments as shall enable you to defend Charlestown and cover the Country so as to prevent further Incursions of the Enemy. I am Sir with great Respect and Esteem your humble Servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (NcU: Preston Davie Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Lincoln’s January 29 letter reporting the arrival of an enemy fleet off the coast of Georgia and the vulnerability of South Carolina to immediate attack is in PCC, item 158, fols. 313 15. The enclosed resolve, adopted on motion of South Carolina dele gate John Mathews, requested these recruiting measures to augment the southern army under Lincoln’s command as soon as possible, but anticipating that compliance would consume several months went on to specify “that, in the meantime, the said states be requested to raise a body of militia, to join and serve in the southern army until the first day of January next, unless sooner relieved. . . ."JCC, 16:234. See also Committee of Congress to Lincoln, March 7, 1780. Samuel Huntington to William Livingston Sir, Philada March 6. 1780 Your Excellency will receive enclosed an Act of Congress of this Day recommending to the Legislature of New Jersey to take Mea sures for the Payment of the Accounts arising for Supplies lately furnished to the Army in Consequence of the Application of the Commander in Chief, in the mode which they may judge most con ducive to the Relief of those who have furnished them including the same in account against the United States subject to Examination as other Charges. 1 I have the honour to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress adopted this resolve in response to a Board of Treasury report which explained that simply as a practical matter supplies recently collected in New Jersey “can be more conveniently paid and settled under the direction of the State than in any other mode.” See JCC, 16:235-36. Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington Sir Philadelphia March 6th. 1780 In the letter which I had the honor to address your Excellency on the 15th ult. from Saratoga I purposed personally to have explained myself to Congress on the Subject of the Appointment of the 21st of January last 1 but reflecting that notwithstanding the entire confi dence 1 entertain of the honor and candour of every Individual member of Congress It is nevertheless possible that thro want of perpescuity in Expressing myself or misapprehension in others, what 1 may verbally deliver on the Subject may be unintentionally Con-


[Page 515]
March 9, 1780 481 And also to order the further Sum of five hundred & forty six Louis D’ors to be advanced to you in Bills of Exchange on Account. I have the honour to be, with Sentiments of Esteem & Regard, your hble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Steuben papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Congress adopted the enclosed March 7 resolve for compensating Steuben pursu ant to a February 28 recommendation of the Board of War, for which see JCC, 16:204, 215-16, 231-33, 237. For the baron’s efforts to put his private finances in order and to cope with the staggering depreciation of Continental currency, see also John M. Palmer, General von Steuben (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1937), pp. 223-24. Samuel Huntington to John Benezet Sir, Philada March 9. 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 8th Instant herewith enclosed you will be informed they have directed that Bills of Exchange be drawn on the Honble John Jay Esquire to the Amount of five thousand Pounds Sterling and forwarded to Mr Wm Bingham or delivered to you his Agent, to discharge in part the Debts due from the United States to Mr Bingham. 1 And also that Congress have been pleased to grant Leave to Mr Bingham to return to Philadelphia agreeable to his request. 2 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 This action marked the settlement of a long-standing claim against the Committee of Commerce that William Bingham, Continental agent at Martinique, had been actively pursuing since the preceding September. John Benezet (d. 1781), a Philadel phia lawyer who was married to Bingham’s sister Hannah, had been representing his brother-in-law in this proceeding. SeeJCC, 15:1036, 1384, 16:190, 241; PCC, item 90, 1:172-79; and Robert C. Alberts, The Golden Voyage: The Life and Times of William Bingham, 1752 1804 (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1969), pp. 70-73, 78-81, 86-87, 101. 2 Bingham boarded ship to return home to Philadelphia from Martinique on March 30, 1780, long before he learned of Congress’ adoption of this resolution. Alberts, Golden Voyage, pp. 81-82, 86. 3 This day Huntington also wrote a brief letter to William Smith, former delegate to Congress and Continental agent at Baltimore, enclosing a resolve of March 6 concern ing payment of interest on Continental loan office certificates issued in the state of Georgia. Smith had appealed to Congress for relief because the collapse of govern ment in Georgia had made it impossible to collect interest on such certificates, which he had recently received in payment on a business transaction. By Congress’ resolve of the sixth, Smith was advised that the government was “now again in operation,” and since interest could only be paid “by the person who is possessed of the books of the office” the certificates would have to be presented at the Georgia Continental loan office. See JCC, 16:231; and PCC, item 14, fol. 312, item 78, 20:503-6.


[Page 516]
482 March 9, 1780 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia March 9. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 8th Instant, recommending to the States of Virginia, North, and South Carolina to have in readiness to act as the Operations of the Campaign shall require a Body of five thousand Militia, or State Troops over and above their Quotas of Continental, and to be called into actual Service whenever the Commanding Officer in the south ern Department shall deem it necessary. 1 Your Excellency will also observe the discretionary Directions given to make such Detachment from the Troops under your immediate Command as their Strength and Circumstances will permit to rein force the southern Army. 2 You have also enclosed an Act of the 6th Instant requesting the Exertions of Virginia and the two Carolinas in filling up their Battailions &c. 3 It were much to be desired we could obtain a more accurate Knowl edge of the number and Strength of the Enemy to the Southward and their intended Operations. I have the honour to be, with the greatest Respect, your Excy’s hble servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 'JCC, 16:239-40. 2 Washington was reluctant to detach troops to the southern department in keeping with this “discretionary” request until he was better informed of the enemy’s inten tions for the 1780 campaign, but on April 2 he informed Congress that despite the risk involved in weakening his main army, he was placing “the Maryland line and the Delaware Regiment under marching Orders immediately,” and he asked assistance in arranging their transportation southward of the Delaware River. See PCC, item 152, 8:487-91; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:197-200. 3 For these measures to reinforce the southern department, see Huntington’s let ters to Thomas Jefferson and to Benjamin Lincoln, March 6, 1780. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir March 9. 1780 Be so kind as to place with the Navy Board the Letters for France and forward to Mrs. A Adams those for her. By some fatality the Letter of our Court of Deer. 2d never reached Congress but in a Copy two days ago: Nor had a Line from you or any body else come to the Delegates on the Subject. 1 The next Post will probably convey a Proclamation for Fasting &c. on the last Wednesday of April. New York presses Congress hard upon the Resolves in regard to Vermont but I believe there will be much parrying. The plain Truth is the People of the Grants gave assur-


[Page 517]
March 10, 1780 483 ances to our half Comtee. that visited them last Summer, 2 of a Will ingness to submit to a Decision of Congress. New York did the same. We asked others to follow. The Grant People now refuse. New York & N.H. are desirous of our going on. 3 States cannot vote, two are represented by members not here in Sepr. & Octr: Ellery & Burke who will not believe they have any right whatever to discuss the Independce. of Vermont. Others with the Discussion 10 years off. Thus stands the Matter. But I heartily wish to know what Mass, has to say. They were “disconted [discontented] with the” Decission of the King in Council of 1739. 3 So they were with the Navigation Act of an hundred years & more. Did they ever signify that between 1739 and the breaking out of this War. Col. R H Lee, Doctr. Wetherspoon and Genl. Roberdeau present their Compliments. The Letters bro’t by the Mercury contained nothing so new as we had before reed. I donot think it proper to publish from Dr. F that Portugal is very friendly and that her Ports may be shortly opened to us. 4 Yrs. affectionately, Jas. Lovell [P.S.] The Bearer has blank Commissions for the State directed to the president of the Council, but I believe without a Letter of Advice. I reed, them from our Messenger Patten to be sent by the first oppy. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 In September Congress had called upon Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and New York “to pass laws expressly authorizing Congress to hear and determine all differences between them” relative to Vermont, pledging in return to open hearings on the subject on February 1, 1780. Lovell is referring here to the Massachusetts Council’s December 2 response to that appeal, which was finally received by Congress with the council’s letter of February 7. See PCC, item 65, 1:416-18, 424-25;John Jay to Thomas Chittenden, September 25; and Massachusetts Delegates to the Council, October 4, 1779. For Adams’ explanation of Massachusetts' slow response to this appeal, see Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:180-81, 183-87. 2 For the activities of the “half Comtee” that went to Vermont in June 1779 to evaluate prospects for a congressional settlement of rival claims to the region, see Committee of Congress to Samuel Minott et al., June 23, 1779, note 2. 3 Lovell is referring to the “Order in Council” of December 27, 1739, which estab lished the boundary between Massachusetts and New Hampshire. It is summarized in NYHS Collections, 3 (1870): 110. In his March 25 reply to Lovell, Adams explained that “They were discontented with the Decision in 1739, and I think afterwards directed their Agent Mr Bollan to manifest it to the King in Council.” Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:184. 4 A reference to Benjamin Franklin’s October 4, 1779, letter to Congress. See Lovell to Horatio Gates, March 4, 1780, note 6. John Collins to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia March the 10th. 1780 I have nothing of Consequence to inform you. The Committee appointed to take into Consideration your letter, Reported a day or


[Page 523]
March 12, 1780 489 may truly deserve that pleasing appellation is my sincerest wish, my fervent prayer, Adieu, my friend, and believe me to be sincerely such, Ph. Scuyler Tr (PRO: C.O. 5, 110:101-2). Endorsed: “Rebel Intercepted Letters No. 1 and 2 taken at Paramus the 23d of March 1780 (No. 1) In Major Genl. Robertsons of 26 March 1780.” 1 The intended recipient of this letter may have been Jacob Cuyler, deputy commis sary general of purchases at Albany and a correspondent of Schuyler’s. William Smith, the loyalist former chief justice of New York, stated in his journal for March 30, 1780, that “The Governor [i.e., Gen. James Robertson} produced this Day to the Council at Mr. Elliot’s an intercepted Letter of Philip Schuyler’s (I believe) to Jacob Cuyler, a Commissary at Albany, for the Wrapper was lost; and another from Francis Lewis to his Son Morgan Lewis. He intended, he said, to cause them to be published in the News Papers.” William Smith, Historical Memoirs from 26 August 1778 to 12 November 1783 of William Smith . . ., ed. William H. W. Sabine (1958; reprint ed., New York: Arno Press, 1971), p. 247; and Milton M. Klein and Ronald W. Howard, eds.. The Twilight of British Rule in Revolutionary America: The New York Letter Book of General James Robertson, 1780- 1783 (Cooperstown, N.Y.: New York State Historical Association, 1983), p. 82nn.9-10. Schuyler’s letter, with another captured at the same time, from Francis Lewis to Morgan Lewis of the same date, was printed by James Rivington in the Royal Gazette, April 1, 1780. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear sir, Philada. March 12th. 1780. Sunday. I wrote you last week, of great expectations, of a Plan for fixing the Quotas and supplying the Treasury &c. After several days spent in a Committee of the whole, it was agree’d to recommit all the Papers to a Committee of 6 who have not yet Reported. 1 There is a Phraise often made use of that we are Pretty near the End of the tether, that realy appears to be too much the Case. However if we can hold out a little longer we have a hope in Pro[v]idence yet for Yesterday a Committee brought in a draft of a proclamation for a Fast &c on Wednesday 26th of April, which was Read; 2 I thought there was an omition and moved for an amendment, which was inserted, but it seems I Laugh’d at the time, for which Mr Clark seemd much displeasd with me, however he got up and said he thought some of us, acted like Infidells (I suppose he meant me). Tomorrow is the day fixt for Congress to determine, whether they will adjourn from Philadelphia. It is also the order of the day (but I do not remember wheth[er] I wrote you last week). The great and Important day, big with the Fate of the People, of the New Hamp shire Grants (Alias the State of Vermont) Neither of which I imagine will come to any thing determinate. Yesterday a Report of a Commit tee, for Reccomending to the several States, the Revising or Repeal ing the Tender Law as it is calld, 3 And though I was one that gave my Assent to it, I think it has been Productive of more mischief in its


[Page 524]
490 March 12, 1780 Effects, then any one Act that ever was Past, I can speak from woefull experiance. P.M. Monday 5 OClock [March 13]. The Adjournment of Congress, and the State of Vermont (as some would have it,) were both Postponed, to take up a Report from a Committee on Finance, which was Read and afterwards went in to a Committee of the whole, but as it will take some time to digest I shall say no more on the subject at Present. I am with great Esteem, Your Real friend & Humble Servt, John Fell NB Eastern Post not come in yet. RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 For the report of this committee, see the following entry. For the fiscal resolves adopted by Congress on March 18, see Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. 2 JCC, 16:252-53. s The report of the committee “respecting tender laws” had been referred to the “Committee on Finance.” JCC, 16:253. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia March 13 [ 12]th 1780 1 Since my last the business of Finance has been Committed agreable to my wish. Livingston, Holten, Houston, Elsworth, Burke & Schuyler were appointed. They have put the finishing hand to the business this day. I sincerely wish the Supposed Sanctity of the day may have An Influence on the deed, the report will be delivered to Morrow. 2 The Great Object In view is Speedily to Call out of Circulation the present circulating medium, to give It In the Interim a permanent Value by assigning a certain proportion to Each State for the pur pose of redemption, to Emit new Bills on State Credit and to fund them on Specific and permanent taxes laid as a farther Security In case of the failure of a particular State to pledge the faith of the Confederacy, and to Issue them In a limitted proportion to those now In circulation and as these Shall be destroyed, so as that their shall never be of old at 40 for 1 and new at par above ten million In Circulation—the New to bear Interest payable In Specie at the End of Six Years or Annually by bills on france. Altho Congress found me determined not to Accept any office which would carry the appearance of my being their Servant they had the Indelicacy to appoint me one of a Committee to assist Gen. Mifflin & Mr Pickering for the purpose mentioned In the resolution of the 20th January. I am determined not to Commit my reputation on a Business which I foresee from the Manner In which It will be Conducted, will neither redound to the honor of the Agents or the


[Page 528]
494 March 13, 1780 The Numbers of men assign’d for New Hamp, to furnish is about one 6th part more, in my opinion, than would be their Just Quota. Yet as Congress did on the 9th ulto Resolve “That the reasonable expence any State hath incur’d or may incur by raising and having in the Continental Army more than what shall hereafter appear to have been their Just proportions of the Troops Actually serving in the Said Army from time to time, Shall be allowed to Such States & Equitably adjusted in a final Settlement of their account with the United States” the Injury will not be so great, or in other words, a prospect of future Justice will make the present Grievance more Tolerable. As to the apportionment, and prices, of supplies, appear to me an Object of Very Great magnitude and ought to be thoroughly investigated—Tho’ I cannot say the amount of Supplies alloted to New Hampr. to furnish, Estimated at the rates affixed to them, very far exceeds their due proportion, Yet I must Confess I feel no Small degree of Anxiety when I take a short retrospect of the various manners practiced in order to obtain those resolutions Especially that for affixing prices; which must evidently appear to every impartial person, well acquainted with the rates at which those articles were formerly or are at the present day, usually Sold in the Various parts of the Continent respectively Calld upon to furnish the same, it was by no means founded upon those Just and impartial principles of equallity & reciprocity which ought, at all times, to Govern in every important decision, as being the only Sure means of Cementing the Union of these States, or whereby a Nation can ever rationally expect to be Exalted. The ratio by which those prices in Specie were pretended to have been determined was for all Articles of American produce at 50 per Cent advance upon the prices Such articles were usually Sold for at the places of delivery, in the respective States in the year 1774—And Articles Imported from foreign ports in the same proportion with a reasonable additional Allowance for the Charge and risk of Importa tion. Let us now examine how far this Rule has been observed? Indian Corn in the Southern States was formerly Sold at from 21 to 24 90ths of a Dollar per Bushel, it is now rated at 67 1/2 90ths which instead of being 50, is 200 per Cent advance. Rye, Oats, and Many Other Articles of short forage nearly in the same proportion! The price of the best first Crop hay at the Market was formerly about 6, or 7 Dollars per Ton, it is now rated at more than Cent, per Cent. 3 advance above the former prices. The price of Merchantable flour in this City was formerly about Two Dollars per Cwt, Tho it was often Lower, Now rated at 4 Dollars & 1/2, which is 125 per Cent advance, but enough has been said to shew that Such States, whose distance from the Theatre of War, or other Circumstances, will not Admit of furnishing their proportions of these and many other


[Page 549]
March 17, 1780 515 Congress. 3 “G. Britain will acknowledge the Independce. of all the States except Sth. Carola. & Georgia & the Province of Main wch. are to be given to Great Britain. Mr. T is to be allowed to draw for whatever Sums of Money he thinks proper.” The following were offered by the British King and rejected by Mr. T . “The U.S. to join their Arms wth G.B. against Spain. If this cannot be obtained, the sd. States not to assist Spain against G Br. If this shd. be rejected then the best Terms possible on this Head to be made”. I cannot say what Credit is to be given to this Information but I know the Hint will make you watch & put Things together as they turn up tending to prove or disprove the Story now told. I suppose you are convinced that nobody can tell what Value common Consent will from day to day put upon our continental Bills. 300 for one may be demanded next Week; tho’ it is evident that there is not enough now for the Prices current. Something must immediately be done I hope we shall decide Tomorrow; And I doubt not the States will provide Funds. Pensylvania is most earnestly engaged in providing for her Quota. It behoves our State to be looking about for her Foundation whether in Plate or Lands or both. But I shall lose the Post if I do not drop any further Explanation. Yrs. J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 For this reference to the chevalier de La Luzerne, see Lovell to Adams, February 28, 1780, note 3. 2 See the letters of the Massachusetts Delegates to La Luzerne and to the Massachu setts Council of March 15, 1780. 3 This rumor that John Temple was bringing new peace offers from Britain proved to be false, although he did return to Boston in October 1781 for a sojourn of two years. For his previous unsuccessful attempt at diplomacy in America, see these Letters, 10:553-55, where he is also identified. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Sir Philada., Friday 3 ck. P.M. 17th March 1780. I have only time to observe that Congress have this moment received the following information, 1 and may probably be depended upon as to Substance—viz. “Mr. Temple is comming out with the following propositions to Congress. G.B. to acknowledge the Inde pendance of all the States except So. Carolina & Georgia, and that part of Massa bay Call’d the Province of Maine, this together with So. Carolina & Georgia to be given to G Britain. Mr. Temple to be allowed to Draw for whatever Sums of money he pleases. The follow ing propositions were offered by the B. King & rejected by Mr Temple viz the United States to Join their Arms with G. Britain a[gains]t Spain—if this Cannot be obtained—the Said States not to


[Page 550]
516 March 18, 1780 assist Spain against Britain—if this shoud be rejected then to make the best Terms on this Head he Can. “This intelligence Comes from Holland to a Gentleman of high rank in this City by a letter dated 29 Deer 79.” The post waiting. I have the Honr to be with great Esteem your most Obedt. & very Humble Sevt. Nathl. Peabody 2 RC (Nh -Ar: Weare Papers). 1 See the preceding document, note 3. 2 Peabody endorsed his draft of this letter, which is in Nh-Ar, Miscellaneous Revolu tionary Documents, and N.H. State Papers, 17:389-90: “Wrote Letters much of the same Tenor & Date to Col. Bartlett & to Speaker [John] Langdon. Copy of Letters Sent to President Weare, Col Langdon and Col. Bartlett, Mar. 17. 1780. Communica tion respecting Temple.” To his letter to Josiah Bartlett, however, Peabody added the following final paragraph: “The 200,000 Dollars Charged to the State July 1778 was without foundation. Shall give the particulars—the mistake is rectified.” Bartlett Papers, NhD. Samuel Holten’s Diary March 18 [1780] Saturday. Congress agreed to call in all the paper currency by taxes. I wrote to General Lincoln. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found. William Churchill Houston to the New Jersey General Assembly Sir, Philada 18 March 1780 I have the Honour to enclose you the Proceedings of a General Court-martial, held for the Trial of Major General Benedict Arnold on various Charges exhibited against him by the President and Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania. 1 I could obtain but a single Copy otherwise I should have sent one for each House. I must take the Liberty here to repeat what I have a few Minutes ago requested in a hasty Letter, 2 that the Legislature will sit so long as to attend to the Subject of the Resolutions of to-day which that Letter encloses; and shall hope to be allowed to lay before them my Thoughts upon those Resolutions as soon as I have Time to commit them to Paper. I am, Sir, with much respect, your obedt. and very hble sevt, William Ch. Houston


[Page 551]
March 19, 1780 517 RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Addressed: “His Exly the Presidt of the Council, and the Honble the Speaker of the Assembly, New Jersey.” ' For Arnold's court-martial and the published Proceedings that Houston enclosed, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, March 11, 1780, note 4. 2 Not found, but the “Resolutions of to-day” enclosed in it were undoubtedly the fiscal plan that was sent in the letter of Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia March 19. 1780 I do myself the honour to transmit your Excellency the enclosed Intelligence No 1 & No 2 this Moment received from Charles Town South Carolina. 1 And have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s hble servt, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These consisted of: “No. 1,” an extract from Benjamin Lincoln’s February 22 letter to Congress; and “No. 2,” a February 25 letter identified by its endorsement— "The express who brings this Says it is an Extract Taken from the late President Laurens in Charles Town which he saw Copied off.” Both reported the recent arrival of a large British expedition under the command of Sir Henry Clinton just south of Charlestown. Washington Papers, DLC. Lincoln’s letter is in PCC, item 158, fols. 325 30. It was read in Congress with two earlier ones from the general on March 20. JCC, 16:269. John Mathews to Benjamin Lincoln Dear sir Philadelphia March 19th 1780 The Committee have nothing new to communicate, 1 therefore do not write by this opportunity. I most anxiously wait for the arrival of Mr. Kinloch, 2 or some Express, to get some information of your situation, and the move ments of the enemy, for we have received no account, from your quarter since the 29th Jany. announcing the appearance of the enemy off our coast. 3 We have had a variety of reports here respecting them, but on which not the least dependence is to be placed. I think it cannot be many days longer before we must hear from you. I should take it as a particular favour if you could contrive to get the inclosed letter to Miss Wragg. 4 It is of great importance to me, 8c respects my private affairs, The management of which, in the situa tion the Country is, must devolve entirely on her, as every man, who had any concern in them must either be in the field, or probably in a much worse situation. Mr. John Allen Walter, of Collo. Harry’s light horse, I believe, can give you the best information where she is. If you cannot get it safe to her, I must trouble you to inclose it, 8c return it to me again.


[Page 554]
520 March 20, 1780 old, that the old may be drawn out of circulation as Soon as possible to prevent further imposition by counterfeits and if there Should be a Scarcity of money people might be allowed to pay their rates in provisions to be delivered at the magazines at the prices fixed by Congress. The New Bills will be prepared and forwarded to the States as Soon As possible. We hear that the Honorable Assembly have ordered a New Emis sion of Bills. 2 We beg leave to Submit to Your Excellency whether it will not be expedient to Stop the issuing of them, and immediately adopt the plan recommended by Congress. We Should be Sorry to have that fail of the good effects expected from it by any Act or omission on the part of the States. The Same proportions are kept up in the present requisitions as in the resolution of the 7th of October last, Wherein Connecticut is rated much too high, but hope that wont prevent her compliance at least to the amount of her quota, which would be about one twelfth part, in case none of the States were disabled by the events of the war from raising their quotas. Perhaps her quota in present circumstances, would be more than one eleventh part of the whole—repeated Assur ances have been given by Congress that those States which do more than their proportion Shall be equitably compensated. There is a report before Congress for fixing the rate in Specie at which the loan office certificates Shall be paid. 3 It is expected that a new regulation of the Quarter Master’s and other Staff departments will Soon be established on the most Eco nomical plans whereby much expence will be Saved. They will be Accommodated to the late regulation of making the purchases by the States. The prices of the Specific Articles to be furnished by the States were estimated at about 50 per cent above the prices in 1774. They include all expences of purchasing and delivering them into the Magazines. The motives for Adopting that measure were, the rendering the Supplies more certain and equable among the States, and to prevent frauds & abuses. And the aid of the States in procur ing Supplies was found to be absolutely necessary. By a Letter from General Lincoln of the 22d Ultimo we are informed that part of the British forces that left New York were Landed on St Johns, & James’s Islands, near Charles town the Num bers not Assertained, but he thinks there is a good prospect of mak ing a Successful opposition to them. 4 Mr. Lawrence expected to Sail for Europe the 26th of Feby. We are, with the greatest respect, your Excellency’s humble Servants, Roger Sherman Oliver Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman, and signed by Sherman and Ellsworth. 1 See the following entry.


[Page 558]
524 March 20, 1780 James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Philadelphia Monday March 20th. 1780. The extreme badness of the roads and frequency of rains ren dered my journey so slow that I did not reach this place till Saturday last. 1 The only public intelligence I have to communicate is that the great and progressive depreciation of the paper currency had intro duced such disorder and perplexity into public affairs for the pres ent and threatened to load the United States with such an intolerable burden of debt, that Congress have thought it expedient to convert the 200,000,000 of Dollars now in circulation into a real debt of 5,000,000 by establishing the exchange at 40 for 1. And taxes for calling it in during the ensuing year, are to be payable at the option of the people in specie or paper according to that difference. In order to carry on public measures in future money is to be emitted under the combined faith of Congress and the several States, secured on permanent and specific funds to be- provided by the latter. This scheme was finally resolved on on Saturday last. 2 It has not yet been printed but will be immediately. I shall transmit a copy to you by the first opportunity. The little time I have been here makes it impossi ble for me to enter into a particular delineation of it. It will probably create great proplexity and complaints in many private transactions. Congress have recommended to the States to repeal their tender laws, and to take measures for preventing injustice as much as possible. It is probable that in the case of loans to the public, the state of depreciation at the time they were made will be the rule of payment, but nothing is yet decided on that point. I expect to be more at leisure to write fully by next post. Yrs. &c. &c. James Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:3. 1 Madison, who had been elected to Congress December 14, 1779, presented his credentials this day. JCC, 16:268. 2 See Samuel Huntington to the States, this date. For a lengthy essay that Madison had recently written on the general subject of “Money,” which he was apparently prompted to draft as a result of his election to Congress, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 1:302-10. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia 20th March 1780 Since the Receipt of your Letter of Febry. 9th the Attention of Congress has been so engaged with the Affairs of the Army & Finance, as to preclude an Opportunity of making any propositions respecting the Expenditures of the State in the Penobscot Expedition,


[Page 559]
March 20, 1780 525 but We hope this Business will not be much longer delayed. 1 The Resolution mentioned in your Letter would be useful on this Occasion, & not being able to find it in the Journals, after the most careful Examination thereof, We are under the necessity of request ing You to point it out. We are nevertheless convinced of the Justice of the Claim, & shall prefer it to Congress by the earliest Oppertunity, being sir with great Respect your most obedt. & very humble Servts. E Gerry James Lovell S. Holten Geo. Partridge RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Holten, Lovell, and Partridge. Addressed: “Hona. Jeremiah Powell. Esqr. president of the Council of Massa. Bay.” Endorsed: ‘‘In Council April 8, 1780. Read & sent down with Several Papers Accompanying. John Avery, D Scy.” 1 For Massachusetts’ application for Continental reimbursement of expenses for the Penobscot Bay expedition, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, April 9; and Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council, April 14, 1780. William Shippen, Sr., to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philada. March 20h 1780. 1 I reced your Favor of the 19th Feby inclosing a Note for Tho Paine Clerk of our Assembly wch I delivered. We hear from Carolina that the Troops to the amount of 8000 are arrived & Landed, some on Johns Island, some on James’s Island & some elsewhere, a number of their Ships much shattered, some 3 foundered, all their Horses lost. That one 64 Gun Ship & 2 or 3 smaller appear off the harbour. Sulivan says that if they delay their motion 2 or 3 Weeks he hopes to be prepared for them, that he has expected the Virginia Troops 18 Months not arrived the 24th Feby. Mr Laurens was to sail for Statia the next day. The Vessel wch John Adams sailed in arrived at Corunna in 18 Days. I wish I could inform you of a prospect of an honorable Peace but I guess the fluctuating state of our Finances will encourage our obstinate Foes to struggle hard to prolong the war, by the inclosed imperfect sketch of our present System passed yester day you’l see how unequal we are to the work. The Credit of our Money is so low that it is absolutely necessary to attempt something. If I have the pleasure to see your Sons in Philada. on their way to Virginia I shall observe your directions. I have wrote you several times by the Post & directed agreably to your advice but I dont find you have reced any of my Letters. 2 Inclosed is a Letter from D Scudder, Young Madison one of your Delegates came into Congress yesterday. I cant find any good Sonchong Tea but have bot you one pound very fine Hyson at a Guinea but how to send it I know not. Best Compts to Mrs. Lee & Famy. W. Shippen


[Page 561]
March 21, 1780 527 Samuel Livermore to Meshech Weare Dear sir Philadelphia March 21st. 1780. Our plan of Finance has at length passed the Congress; but not just as I expected. As it is lengthy & you will have it officially trans mitted 1 I need not copy it. It keeps up the idea of forty for one; but as it proposes sinking the whole paper Currency in six years, I fear the burthen will prove too great; it depends on the several states adopting the plan by Acts of Assembly for that purpose, which it is thot will not be complid with. Vermont business hangs by the eyelids, Masa. Bay not ready, I am tired of waiting & must set out as soon as travelling will permit. 2 The Carolina News is in the enclosed papers to the 25th Feb. I am anxious for the event. However we are in high spirits, as the attack is far short of what the enemy intended. Genl Lincoln I hope will be able to keep the ground. I am Your most obedient humble servant. Samuel Livermore RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington to the States, March 20, 1780. 2 Livermore, whose delegate credentials had expired the last day of February, left Philadelphia on April 8. Samuel Holten’s Diary, April 8, 1780. MDaAr. James Lovell to Abigail Adams March 21st. 1780 I most sincerely rejoice with you 1 on the safe Arrival of Mr. Adams in Spain after so short a Passage tho’ attended with some Hardships. In addition to the News in the Prints I venture, upon some confi dential assurances from the worthy Genl. Lincoln, to excite your Hopes as to our affairs in that Quarter. It is recommended to redeem the continental Currency at 40 for 1 and to model the Tender Laws equitably. It is a Thing of uncertain Event and the Balance of Blessings and Cursings consequent cannot shortly be fixed. It is one of those Decisions about which much very much may and will be said on both sides. I believe that most of those who said nay here on the Determination were glad it was carried against them. I cannot see how the Continent can suppose that Con gress has any separate Interest to guide their Determination on this inportant Point. Yrs. affly., J Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:314. 1 The recipient of this letter is incorrectly identified as John Adams in Burnett, Letters, 5:85.


[Page 571]
March 23, 1780 537 lina Brigade of Continental troops had arived—& that the Virginia line were met on their march tho’ at the unexpected distance of four hundred miles. 4 We have the honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excel lency’s most obedt. humbl. Servants, Roger Sherman Oliv Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Ellsworth, and signed by Ellsworth and Sherman. 1 Jonathan Trumbull’s March 10 letter to Congress requesting a review of Connecti cut’s troop quota and the retention of Jesse Brown as a postrider, was read in Con gress on March 22. See JCC, 16:275; and PCC, item 66, 2:170-71. His letter of the same date to the Connecticut delegates is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 3:17-19. 2 Governor Trumbull’s request to retain Brown as an express had been referred to the Post Office Committee. The committee’s report recommending adoption of the governor’s request is in the hand of Roger Sherman. See JCC, 16:275, 282-83; and PCC, item 20, 1:259-60. 3 Francis Kinloch, who took his seat in Congress on March 25. See JCC, 16:285; and John Mathews to George Washington, March 24, 1780. 4 Ellsworth apparently sent this same information to another Connecticut corre spondent at about this time, since a similar paragraph was printed in the Connecticut Courant and the Weekly Intelligencer on April 4 with additional “Extracts of Letters from an Hon. Member of Congress to a Gentleman in this Town [Hartford], dated 22d and 24th March.” “No very late letters, from Europe—Charlestown was safe the 25th of February: the enemy were approaching it from island to island, and had got upon James’s Island, which is the nearest, and within half a league of the town. The garrison were in good spirits; and the General trusted, if the aid he had called for from the country season ably came in; to make effectual defence. “It appears from deserters and prisoners, that the enemy suffered exceedingly going from New-York; several of their ships foundered, many were damaged, some taken, and some missing; and they have scarce a horse left for their artillery or any other purpose. “By a Delegate just arrived from South Carolina we learn that Charlestown was safe the 1st instant, and the enemy remained in the same situation as on the 25th of February and motionless. The North-Carolina Brigade of Continental troops had arrived: The Virginia Line were also on the march, though at so great a distance that they cant have arrived yet.” The following “Extract of a letter from an Hon. Member of Congress from this State, dated Philadelphia, March 22d, 1780” also appeared in the same issue of the Courant, but it was probably the work of Samuel Huntington or Roger Sherman. “The measures taken by the Assembly of our State, I think, are wise and judicious, and founded on the same principles as the plan adopted by Congress, which was a considerable time under consideration before it was compleated; and if it is adopted by the several States, I make no doubt, but that it will relieve us from all the evils of a depreciating currency in future .... It gives me great pleasure to see the coincidence of councils in Congress, and the State I have the honor to represent.” Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, March 23, 1780 Permit me as a private citizen to express my wishes that the late resolutions of Congress on the subject of finance, may meet your


[Page 573]
March 23, 1780 539 least respecting the bills already forwarded to Connecticut—of which you will have notice as soon as may be. A Petition from sundry Creditors of your late Department, with the sanction of our assembly is come forward & will be immediately laid before Congress & I hope such measures will be taken thereon as to right & justice appertain. Some late resolutions have passed Congress respecting the cur rency, which I have enclosed to Mr. Lyman 3 —as they are lengthy & I have not time to copy them have desired him to furnish you with the perusal of them. Something farther is under consideration respect ing the Loans— the result of which I will send you as soon as it shall be ready for publication. I am, Dear Sir, with much respect & Esteem, your obed. huml Sevt. Oliver Ellsworth 4 [P.S.] Exchange at abt. 60. RC (DSoC). 1 In the absence of Wadsworth’s letter, we can only conjecture that Wadsworth had recommended Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., as secretary to the American minister in Paris. Trumbull was later nominated as a special envoy to France on December 9, 1780, but John Laurens was unanimously elected to the post. JCC, 18:1138, 1141. 2 Col. Ephraim Blaine had replaced Wadsworth as commissary general of pur chases in December 1779. 3 Ellsworth’s letter to Samuel Lyman has not been found. The resolutions enclosed were doubtless the landmark fiscal resolves of March 18. 4 Ellsworth also wrote a brief note this day to his wife, Abigail, discussing the “mighty smart” look of his new blue velvet breeches. Ellsworth Papers, CtHi. Samuel Huntington to Certain States and Continental Officers Sir, Philadelphia March 23. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant, Recommending to the governments of the several States to sus pend making new Appointments of Officers in the Regiments of their respective Lines except where the Commander in Chief, or Commanding Officer in the southern Department shall deem such Appointment indispensibly necessary. The Design of this Act is to aid the Intentions of Congress in retrenching the supernumerary Officers as soon as Circumstances will admit without doing Injury or Injustice to the Officers. 1 By the Act of Congress of this Day which is also enclosed, your Excellency will observe Jesse Brown is to be continued an Express rider, and I presume Notice will be given whenever it is thought proper he should be discharged from that Service. 2 I have the honour to be &c, S.H.


[Page 574]
540 March 23, 1780 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “Governor Trumbull. N.B. The same (excepting the last paragraph) to New York, Rhode Island, Massachusets Bay, New Hampshire, General Washington & Genl Lincoln.” Huntington also sent the first two paragraphs of this letter to New Jersey governor William Livingston. Livingston Papers, NN. 'JCC, 16:272-73. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, this date, note 2. Charles Thomson to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philada. March 23 1780 I am honoured with your letter of the 10th instant accompanied with sundry state papers for which I thank you and shall have them deposited in the office. 1 My view is to have as compleat a collection of the public papers of every state as I can deposited here, Where the delegates from the several states may have access to them And as the governments are new and doubtless many experiments must be made in legislation before they can reach perfection, I would wish to have the first essays as well as those perfected by experience. The former may to a legislator in another state be almost as useful as the latter. They may serve as landmarks & teach him the folly of repeat ing or attempting a similar law in his own state, & thus by the experi ence of one a benefit may redound to all. I now enclose you the Journal of Congress for Feby last and am, with due respect, Your excellency’s most obedient humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 For Trumbull’s March 10 letter to Thomson, enclosing “a Copy of the Original Confederation of the first Inhabitants of this State, dated in 1638 . . ., the Charter of King Charles the second . . . Dated in 1662 . . ., and the Act approving the Declaration of the Independance of these United States, passd in October 1776,” see PCC, item 66, 2:127-55. For the secretary’s request for these and other state papers, see Thom son to the States, November 20, 1779. Samuel Holten to Joseph Palmer Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 24th 1780. 1 I have been favored with yours of the 17th ulto. with the enclo sures one of which I have forwarded (without charge) to Mr. Hud son & the other I shall inclose, as Mr. Cranch has left this City. The deranged state of our Finances & want of money in the public Treasury has greatly embarrassed our affairs, & for some time past engaged (nearly) all the Attention of congress, but a few days since they went into a number of resolutions respecting the same, and as they may not come to hand before this, I will endeavor to give you some of the outlines (vizt.) 2


[Page 575]
March 24, 1780 541 I am wholely unacquainted, “of the price of Epsom salts,” but will make some inquiry as I have oppertunity (if it should not slip my memory) & let you know. By the last account from Genl Lincoln, I think it is likely that the enemy have attacked Charlestown before this time but I hope sir Harry will have reason to repent of this undertaking. I am, my dear Sir, with great respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Congress did not convene this day. As Holten explained in his diary entry for March 23: “Congress have adjourned to Saturday, tomorrow is good Friday.” MDaAr. 2 Holten left several lines blank at this point in the FC. Samuel Holten to James Sullivan Dear Sir, 1 Philada. March 24th 1780. I have been favored with yours of the 23d ulto. It was delivered me in Congress at the very moment we were debating about taking up the business to which it refers, 2 and it strengthened me in my opinion upon finding it so exactly agreed with yours and I had not only given it as my Judgment, but that I believed it to be the mind of my constituents; The resolutions of Congress that passed in Sepr. last respecting this affair 3 wou’d have been far from being unani mous (in my opinion) if it had not been expected that these people wou’d have submitted the whole matter to Congress, but they have absolutely refused so far as respects their being an independant state. Congress have ownly determined as yet that the affair be not taken up ’till nine states are present inclusive of the states supposed to be intended and you may be assured that when it shall again come before Congress, it will engage all my attention, & I believe I may venture to say the same of Congress. The deranged state of our Finances & want of money in the public Treasury has greatly embarrassed our affairs, & for some time past engaged (nearly) all the attention of Congress but a few days since they came into a number of resolutions respecting the same, which I expect will be sent forward by the bearer of this, & to which I beg leave to refer you. It gives me some concern about our new pro posed constitution when I consider how very difficult it must be to git two thirds of the people to like any one form. I wou’d make some remarks upon the report of the come, did I not consider it as too late, supposing it has passed in convention with many alterations. By the last accounts from Genl. Lincoln, I think it is likely that the enemy have attacked Charlestown before this time, but I hope sir Harry will have reason to repent of this undertaking. I am, my dear Sir, with great respect, your most obedient.


[Page 584]
550 March 28, 1780 The delegates from Mastts. agreeable to their instructions made a full representation to Congress respecting the Penobscot affair & proposed Several resolutions, which after some consideration were committed, & it is my opinion the reasonable expences of that expe dition will be paid by Congress. The Hone. Mr. Forbes deed, on Saturday last. I am, my dear Sir, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Holten undoubtedly enclosed a copy of the “Act for funding and redeeming the Bills of Credit of the United States of America, . . . founded on the Act of Congress of the 18th instant,” which the Pennsylvania Assembly had ordered printed before its second reading, and which appeared in the March 25 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet and also circulated as a handbill. Samuel Holten to William Gordon My dear Sir. Philadelphia March 28th. 1780. When I did myself the pleasure of addressing you last, 1 I had tho’ts of leaving Congress soon after, & I think mentioned that as my last epistle, but the season wou’d not admit of it & so great are rhy present engagements that it is still uncertain when I shall have the opportunity of paying you my personal respects & I consider myself as under obligation for past favors ’tho’ I am not behind in numbers. When we engaged in this War with Britain, what wou’d be our greatest difficulty we shou’d have to encounter was unknown to the best politicians, but from experience we find that the depreciation of our currency is attended with very distressing consequences, by deranging our Finances & greatly embarrassing the public affairs, & for some time past engaged (nearly) all the attention of Congress, but about a week since they came into a number of resolutions respecting the same, which I suppose will come to hand before this, and it gives me some satisfaction to hear that they are generally approved of by the good people here, and I conclude my virtuous countrymen in New England will not be wanting in their exertions to carry the same into effect. By the last accounts from Genl. Lincoln, I think it is likely that the enemy have attacked Charlestown before this time, but I hope Sir Harry will have cause to repent of this undertaking. I expect we must have another Campaign & much greater exertions (I appre hend) are necessary than the people in general are Sensible of. I am, Sir, with Sincere respect your most obedient. FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Holten to Gordon, December 7, 1779.


[Page 586]
552 March 28, 1780 James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir March 28th. 1780 By your Favor of the 5th received Yesterday I find a very unpleas ing Circumstance to excuse your long Silence: I had attributed it altogether to public Occupations. 1 I hope that your Health is fully restored by this Time. We have had a very trying Winter for the Constitution of any one advanced to the Afternoon of Life even if his Body was not like yours exposed to the natural Effects of a daily intense Application of your Mind to very important and intricate State Subjects. We are really in Pain here continually about Supplies of every Kind. No Man can tell what will be the Event of the Measures recom mended to the States. It lays with the Farmer to say whether he will at any Rate furnish the Army. He may see now that his Labors are not mortgaged for Generations to make Silver & Gold of That which by general Consent has been reduced to meer Rags a second Time. The whole daily Allowance which you mention will not here pur chase two Pounds of Mutton, 2 the Price of that Article being from 13 to 15 Dollars Per lb. Indeed, Sir, I am totally unable to go on at this Rate. For if I could do without any Cloathing myself will my whole Income give Food alone to my Dependents? Yet they look for Rai ment also from my Labors. You will have Accounts from your military Officers in regard to the Wants of the Army. Transportation is the grand Difficulty at this Period. Our public Horses have been starved for Want of Forage tho’ there has been given to that Department almost Paper enough to litter the whole Number. By Mr. Partridge I shall send my Accounts, his Expenditures being a just Test of mine lately; and as to former Time the moderate Footing will be sufficent. I hope to have another and better Opportunity of writing this Week by Mr. Adams Express from Doctr. Foster. The Southern Post is not in, but Col. Lee was lately well & sent his regards to you. Yr. affectionate humble Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] The Paragraph in the Paper respectg. Clinton’s mishaps is from good Authority though Genl. W n desired it might not be authenticated here in print. 3 RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 In his March 5 letter to Lovell, Adams had explained that he had been spending his time “partly in my sick Chamber and partly in our Convention for forming a Constitution.” Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:180-81. 2 In the same letter, Adams informed Lovell that he had been allowed “Twenty five Dollars per Day and Expenses” for his service as a delegate in 1779, so “that you may judge whether the Allowance for Time & Service is raisd in Proportion to other things.” Ibid.


[Page 588]
554 March 29, 1780 which I have the honor to represent in Congress, had passed a resolve at their Session held on the fourth Monday of last month, for raising eight hundred and ten men including those already raised in Col Greene’s and Col. Angel’s regiments, that he had at the request of the Genl. Assembly written to your excellency, desiring that one of those regiments might be stationed in the State, the ensueing campaign, and expressing his wishes that, if I should find it necessary, I would also address you on this occasion. 1 I know not what arguments he hath urged on this subject; if I did I am sensible that I could not add a new one, nor enforce what he hath said; but as I esteem his desires as commands, your excellency will give me leave to suggest such reasons as voluntarily offer them selves to my mind. These are—the exhausted and exposed state of our republic, the vigorous exertions it is making to complete its continental battalions which will draw off a large number of its men, and the great injury and expense which must accrue from keeping up a body of militia for its protection and defence. These considera tions are obvious and appear to me to be important. I hope your Excellency will view them in the same light, and be induced to com ply with the request of the legislature; in expectation whereof and with the highest sentiments of respect, I am, Yr Excellency’s most obedt. Servt. William Ellery P.S. Your Excellency hath doubtless heard of Mr. Adams’s arrival in Spain. He writes from thence, that the Court of Madrid were disposed to receive a minister from these States to acknowledge our independency and enter into treaties with us. W.E. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Gov. William Greene’s March 8 letter to Ellery, in which he explained that he was appealing to Washington to station a regiment of Rhode Island troops in the state for its defense, is in Staples, Rhode Island, p. 276. His letter of the same date to Washing ton is in the Washington Papers, DLC. In his responses to Greene and Ellery, Washington avoided rejecting their appeals directly but strongly hinted “the improbability” of being able to comply with their request. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:172-73, 241-42. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir Philadelphia March 29. 1780 I have been honoured with your Excellency’s Favours of the 6th, 8th, 17th, 20th, 23d, 26th & 27th Instant—and laid them before Congress. 1 Have received no later Intelligence from the southern Army than that which you was pleased to communicate. Your Excellency will herewith receive a printed Copy of the Pro ceeding of the Court Martial on the Trial of Majr Genl Arnold 2 and


[Page 589]
March 30, 1780 555 also an Act of Congress of this Day by which you will be informed that Genl Du Portail is directed to repair with all possible Despatch to the southern Army. 3 I have the honour to be with the most per fect Respect your Excy’s hble servt, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 8:427-30, 435-38, 451-66, 471-74; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:92-94, 121-22, 127-28, 145-46, 152-56, 163-64. Washington’s letters of March 6 and 8 are actually a single letter begun on March 6 and completed on the eighth. 2 See Huntington to Washington, March 11, 1780, note 4. 3 This decision was taken in response to Washington’s March 27 recommendation to send Gen. Louis Le B&gue Duportail, chief engineer of the Continental Army, to the southern department immediately to assist in the defense of Charleston. JCC, 16:316. Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir Phila. March 30. 1780. There is now Stored at or near Squan a quantity of Blankets designed for the use of the Army; These with other Articles of Cloathing are under the direction of the board of War till put under the care of the Clothier general. How and from whence those blan kets came to the Above place, I am not Able to inform your Excellency, but it appears they are of British Manufacture and on that Account liable to seizure, and it is said that a Number of the Inhabitants of New Jersey having knowledge of the said goods and determind to Avail themselves of the Law Authorizing Seizures in case of their Removal, This embarrasses the board of War. The Law eluded to impowers the Commander in Chief of the Army or your Excellency to grant pass ports for the safe conveyance of any goods even in case they Actually come out of the Enemies Lines. As those blankets are the property of the United States, and at this Time much wanted, the granting a pass port for their safe removal appears a Necessary and Justifiable measure, for the obtaining which, the Secretary of the board of War will wait upon your Excellency, which I presume your Excellency will not hesitate in granting, or Advising the Commander in Chief of the Army to do it, that the board may proceed in the business with Safety. 1 I am Sir, Your Excellency’s Obedt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Clark requested a special passport from Governor Livingston for blankets origi nally procured in New York City through a special agent of the Board of War under a plan approved by Congress on December 31, 1779. Livingston enclosed Clark’s request in an April 3 letter to Washington with the explanation that since this was “an affair wholly relating to the Army, it seems most proper that the passport come from your


[Page 590]
556 March 31, 1780 Excellency.” Washington immediately transmitted the necessary passport to the board. See JCC, 15:1421, 1424; Board of War to Washington, March 30, and Livingston to Washington and Washington to Livingston, April 3, in the Washington Papers, DLC; and Washington to the Board of War, April 3, 1780, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:212-13, especially note 60. Elbridge Gerry to Benjamin Lincoln My dear sir, Philadelphia 31 March 1780 Being informed late this Evening, that General Duportail is to set off in the Morning for Charlestown, I shall improve the Oppertunity of acknowledging your agreable Favour of the 22d Jany, 1 & of trans mitting You the latest Intelligence in this Quarter: this is principally contained in the papers inclosed, which also shew the Measures taken by Congress relative to Finance. You have undoubtedly seen the publications respecting the Uneasiness of Ireland, which We shall hope will increase; altho Lord North has proposed to the brit- ish parliament a plan of Accommodation, which in their opinion a few Years past would not have consisted with the Honor & Dignity of that august Assembly: but pride often precedes Humility. I shall put up the Journals from the Date of those transmitted by Major Rice, & send them by the General, if the package is not too bulky. I have lately received a Letter from our Friend Mr John Adams, 2 who after a very short but perilous passage arrived at Ferrol. The french Frigate Le Sensible in which he was passenger, was so leaky, that every person on board was under the Necessity of taking his Turn at the pumps four Times a Day, & She made seven feet of Water in the Hold in an hour after her Arrival. Mr Adams men tions nothing in particular, excepting the friendly Reception which he had met with from the Spanish officers, & their warm Attach ment to the Cause of America. By Letters from the Massachusetts I learn that the Convention have agreed to a Constitution which is to be sent to the Towns & Districts for their Approbation. All Eyes are at present towards Charlestown & I am very happy to inform You, that my Friend General Lincoln has the full Confidence of his Countrymen(as well Citizens as Soldiers) in this Quarter; & We have the pleasure of hearing that he is not less esteemed by our Brethren at the southward. You have hinted something of your being blamed for not writing, but I can assure You that it was not by Congress, at least whilst I have been in it or I should have informed You thereof. I Shall not suggest any thing relative to your Operations, because I am not a Soldier; nor informed of your Circumstances: & I am fully persuaded that every Measure will be taken to defend the City & secure a Retreat if necessary. That Heavens Blessings may attend You, & crown you with Success & immortal Honor is the most ardent Wish of Dear sir Your affectionate Friend & most hum ser. E. Gerry


[Page 598]
564 Index Board of admiralty: creation proposed, 130; commissioners nominated, 197; assumes control of naval administration, 216; commissioners appointed, 228, 242, 277, 394; reorganized, 231, 247; John Brown appointed secretary, 257; pay and allowances, 394; proposes plan for packet service to France, 402; mentioned, 239, 269, 278, 312, 441, 449, 485 Board of treasury: letters from, 340, 341; letters to, 245, 512; ☆ terms of commission ers debated, 55; pay and allowances, 103, 287, 329; commissioners appointed, 166, 169, 181, 185, 189, 224, 247, 287, 314, 329; clearsjoseph Baldesqui's paymaster accounts, 310; sells bills of exchange, 316; seeks settlement of overdue Convention Army accounts, 340—42; recommends replacement of lost bills of exchange, 456; requests New Jersey’s aid in paying commissary accounts, 473; honors specie value of Peter Chevalier claim, 544; mentioned, 196, 260, 277, 278, 345, 375, 401, 414, 429, 445, 519, 521, 557 Board of war: letter to, 222; ☆ on provisioning Convention Army, 91; purchases leather, 131; recommends exchange of John Connolly, 137; recommends quarter master reforms, 213; empowered to oversee commissary and quartermaster departments, 227; revises furlough regulations, 254; William Grayson appointed to, 257; recommends William Galvan, 307; recommends reorganization of Pulaski's legion, 311; on Virginia generals’ seniority dispute, 327; opposes use of French missionary to gain Canadian intelligence, 352; recommends Colonel Armand, 410; disbursements, 415; requests Maryland flour, 478; recommends provisioning French forces, 485; urges sending a committee to headquarters, 502; seeks pass for enemy trade goods, 555; mentioned, 54, 105, 181, 278, 306, 308, 331, 336, 355, 407, 434, 459, 475, 481 Bollan, William, 483 Bond, George, 15, 51, 134, 173, 176, 178, 185, 192, 211, 275 Bond, Thomas, 512 Bondfield, John, 75 Bonhomme Richard (Continental ship), 267 Bonn, John, submits Moravian claims against hospital department, 256 Boston, Mass., 272, 364 Boston (Continental frigate), 174 Boston (Massachusetts privateer), 31 Boudinot, Elias: nominated to court of appeals, 359; mentioned, 225 Bouille, Fran^ois-Claude-Amour, marquis de, 484 Bourbon (Continental frigate), 64, 102 Bourguignon, Henry J., Federal Appellate Prize Court, 347 Bowen, Capt., 178 Bowen, Jabez, 533 Bowman, Larry G., “The New Jersey Prisoner Exchange Conferences, 1778-1780,” 347 Boyles, Mr., 222 Bradford, John: letters to, 209, 216; ☆ seeks protection for prize goods, 157; Bradford v. Brimmer appeal, 159—60; marine committee instructions, 209; ordered to deliver rum and sugar to commissary general, 227; removal sought, 392-93; mentioned, 3, 161 Bradford, Thomas: identified, 71; letter to, 70; mentioned, 270 Bradford v. Brimmer, committee on appeals decree, 159—60 Bradley, Stephen: Vermont agent to Congress, 384; mentioned, 393, 437 Brailsford, Norton, 448 Braxton, Carter, 363 Bread, 14, 19, 36, 66, 106, 282 Breed, Mr., 369 Brightman, James, 222 Brimmer, Martin, Bradford v. Brimmer appeal, 159-60 British army: deployment conjectured, 33, 159, 190, 250, 264, 294, 310, 320, 353, 389; siege of Savannah, 106; redeployment reported, 165; indemnification for


[Page 599]
Index 565 property destroyed by sought, 225; southern expedition, 361, 465, 473, 491, 493, 517, 525, 542, 548—49, 553, 558; raids New Jersey, 382, 386; cavalry, 465, 548—49; mercenaries, 479; intercepts letters, 489; strength, 502; see also Clinton, Henry; Convention Army; Prisoners of war British navy: destination conjectured, 303—4, 312, 316, 322, 390, 408, 459; West Indies operations, 421-22; southern expedition 436-37; mentioned, 285 Brodhead, Daniel: conducts expedition against Indians, 132; protests Virginia en croachments on Delaware Indian lands, 167: mentioned, 67 Brooks, David, Brooks v. Lopez appeal, 430 Brooks v. Lopez, committee on appeals decree, 430 Brown, Mr., 513 Brown, Gustavus Richard: seeks permission to return to Scotland, 361; mentioned, 449 Brown, Jesse: retained as express rider, 536, 539; mentioned, 184, 189, 192, 323 Brown, John: letters from, 125, 215; letter to, 257; ☆ appointed secretary to board of admiralty, 257; mentioned, 104 Brown, William, 388 Brownson, Nathan, 425 Bryan, George: declines appointment to board of admiralty, 231; appointed to board of admiralty, 247; on regulating prices, 325; Philadelphia convention delegate, 326; mentioned, 504 Bryer, Thomas, exchange proposed, 215 Buckley, Comfort, captures Greyhound, 544 Buckskin (ship), 153 Buckwheat, in kind quotas of, 427 Bull, John: Philadelphia convention delegate, 326, 383, 418; mentioned, 359, 362, 460 Bulla, Thomas, 193 Bullock, Joseph, 543 Bunch, John, Taylor v. Bunch appeal, 217 Burgoyne, John, 342 Burke, Thomas: letters from, 108, 281, 293, 360, 363, 404, 451; letter to, 49; ☆ attends Congress, xxi, 277; elected to Congress, xxi; reports to North Carolina Assembly, 108—20; on civil-military relations, 110; on taxation, 110; on Deane-Lee controversy, 111 — 14; on peace terms, 116—18; opposes a partial confederation, 119; and peace terms debate, 139; requests forage estimates, 281, 293; seeks to make militia costs a Continental expense, 405; on in kind quotas, 451—54; opposes Benedict Arnold court martial sentence, 487; finance committee, 488, 490; on quartermaster reform, 511; mentioned, 54, 250, 415, 472, 483 Burnet, William, testifies for Isaac Foster, 197 Burnett, Edmund C., Continental Congress, 523 Burnett, Edmund C., Letters, 21 Burrows, John, seeks indemnification for destruction of mill, 225 Butter, price, 292 Cabot, Samuel, Cabot v. Sagarra appeal, 154—55 Cabot v. Sagarra, committee on appeals decree, 154—55 Cadiz, Spain, 136, 543 Cameron, Alexander, solicits Cherokee aid, 106 Camp, Caleb: identified, 27; letters to, 25, 181, 219, 282, 427; mentioned, 24 Campbell, James, 32, 37 Campbell, Robert, Taylor v. Jennings appeal, 378 Canada: invasion recommended, 460; mentioned, 461 Cannon, naval, 20 Capellen, tot den Pol, Joan Derk, baron van der: corresponds with Jonathan Trumbull, 96, 184, 284, 323; promotes Dutch loan, 306; mentioned, 67 Cap-Fran^ais, Haiti, 272, 544


[Page 600]
566 Index Carlisle, Pa., 335, 364, 423, 502 Carlton, Osgood, 410 Carmichael, William: letter to, 89; ☆ elected to Congress, xviii; appointed secretary to mission to Spain, 7, 60, 84, 147; and Deane-Lee controversy, 358; mentioned, 22, 46, 50, 93, 163, 295, 545 Carpenter, Elisha, captures Greyhound, 544 “Case of the Sloop Active,” 183 Caswell, Richard: letters to, 52, 54, 101, 107, 134, 150, 164, 175, 190, 210, 216, 218, 250, 267, 270, 299, 311,350, 360, 363, 367, 386, 404, 405, 446, 451,472, 498, 521; mentioned, 88 Catholics, Roman, Christmas services, 299 Cattle, 353, 510 Cavalry: for southern department, 257-59; supply needs, 309; pay and allowances, 327; mentioned, 254, 269, 321,337, 406, 414; see also Lee, Henry; Pulaski, Casimir Caylor, Henry, 464 Cayuga Indians, 120, 236 The Cedars, Canada, American captives at, 433-34 Chaffault, comte; see Du Chaffault de Besne, Louis-Charles, comte Chamberlaine, James Lloyd, 355 Chance (New Jersey privateer), 378 Chaplains, 479 Charles II, king of England, 540 Charleston, S.C.: defense assessed, 542; defense preparations, 555; mentioned, 105, 173, 180, 190, 223, 252, 257, 275, 279, 316, 322, 353, 360, 361, 382, 391, 395, 400, 401, 408, 425, 465, 472, 491, 492, 493, 513, 517, 520, 536, 541, 547, 550, 556, 559 Charlottesville, Va., 91, 259, 411 Charming Nancy (sloop), 319 Cheesboro, John, recommended for deputy commissary post, 249 Cherokee Indians, attacked by South Carolina, 106 Chesapeake Bay: frozen over, 376, 408; mentioned, 211,224, 229, 242, 250, 251,294, 310,459 Chevalier, John, Peter Chevalier estate executor, 543 Chevalier, Mary, Peter Chevalier estate executrix, 543 Chevalier, Peter, committee of commerce account, 543 Chittenden, Thomas, letter to, 15 Cipher letters, xxviii, 69, 408-9, 441 Claims; see Accounts Clark, Abraham: letters from, 427, 555; ☆ attends Congress, xx, 247, 469; elected to Congress, xx; on in kind quotas, 427; on price regulation, 427; defends fast day proclamation, 489; seeks pass for enemy trade goods, 555; nominates Joseph Ward treasury commissioner, 557; mentioned, 428 Clark, John: letters to, 200, 429; ☆ resignation, 200; accounts, 429 Clark, Thomas: ordered to South Carolina, 28; mentioned, 47 Clark, William Bell, Gallant John Barry, 158 Clark, William Bell, “John Ashmead Story,” 90 Clarke, Joseph, 317 Clarkson, Matthew: challenges authority of Pennsylvania, 118; mentioned, 173, 174, 176, 177, 186, 211, 257 Classical allusions and quotations, 47, 68, 162, 183, 206, 546 Cleveland, Stephen: Cleveland v. Luca appeal, 135—36; Cabot v. Sagarra appeal, 155; mentioned, 49 Cleveland v. Luca, committee on appeals decree, 135—36. Clinton, George: letters to, 3, 15, 29, 38, 44, 52, 61, 101, 134, 210, 216, 218, 234, 240, 266, 267, 270, 289, 337, 350, 356, 378, 386, 402, 405, 421,436, 446, 498, 505, 521, 529, 539; ☆ letter quoted, 40; on New York western land claims, 241; issues proclamation against plundering, 289; opposes extradition of New York loyalists, 290; mentioned, 80, 294


[Page 601]
Index 567 Clinton, Henry: and prisoner exchange negotiations, 183, 338; recalls prisoners on parole, 434; mentioned, 310, 316, 321,341,353, 379, 389, 408, 459, 461,501,502, 517, 541, 547, 549, 550, 551, 552, 558 Cloth, price, 125 Clothier general’s department: regulations revised, 213; reformed, 246; mentioned, 468 Clothing: shortage predicted, 42; imported, 458; mentioned, 106, 242, 264, 314, 440, 455, 478, 487, 555 Cochineal, 136, 155 Cochran, John, 158 Collier, George, 304 Collins, John: letters from, 422, 434, 445, 458, 483, 526, 531; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; returns home, 62, 533; mentioned, 417 Comet (Pennsylvania privateer), 217, 378 Commerce; see Trade Commissary general’s department: contracts for flour, 135; expenditures, 210; re forms recommended, 266; shortages reported, 282-83; disbursements, 334; and Convention Army accounts, 344; appointment of clerks authorized, 349; effects of weather on provisions delivery, 353; expenses retrenched, 380; terminates issuance of provisions to delegates, 380; corruption prosecuted, 438; mentioned, 299, 406, 446, 450, 539; see also Blaine, Ephraim; Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments); Wadsworth, Jeremiah Commissary of prisoners: authorized to exchange John Connolly, 137; mentioned, 71; see also Beatty, John Commissioners at Paris: auditor for appointed, 7, 89; pay and allowances, 23, 30—31, 60, 85, 98; bills of exchange drawn on, 558; mentioned, 439; see also Adams, John; Deane, Silas; Franklin, Benjamin; Lee, Arthur Committee at headquarters: letter from, 251; confers with Washington, 251—52; dis courages Spanish proposal for joint attack on Florida, 252; mentioned, 276, 286, 501, 534 Committee for foreign affairs: letters from, 65, 71,89, 260, 441; ☆ recommends state implementation of treaty rights for French citizens, 351; lacks European intelligence, 439; mentioned, 240, 266, 385, 388, 401, 444 Committee of commerce: letters from, 66, 89, 143, 264, 543; ☆ seeks gunpowder, 90, 264; reorganization proposed, 239; lethargy of, 443; accounts with William Bingham, 481; honors specie value of Peter Chevalier claim, 543; mentioned, 3,9, 15, 23, 34, 38, 46, 49, 55, 67, 71, 79, 80, 94, 102, 103, 120, 121, 129, 130, 132, 137, 149, 152, 157, 160, 166, 172, 174, 181, 192, 197, 200, 207, 209, 212, 215, 218, 222, 224, 228, 233 Committee of Congress (on boards and departments), report debated, 94 Committee of Congress (on departmental reform): appointed, 368; submits report, 526 Committee of Congress (on quartermaster estimates): letter from, 281; mentioned, 294 Committee of Congress (on troop reduction), letter from, 330 Committee of Congress (to correspond with the southern commander): letters from, 174, 180, 303, 475; ☆ reinforces southern department, 180; mentioned, 258 Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster depart ments): letters from, 34, 66, 135, 165, 227; ☆ recommends barter transaction, 5-6; requisitions flour, 135; seeks to control engrossment, 165; mentioned, 216 Committee on appeals: decrees, 135, 154, 156, 159, 191, 217, 318, 377—78, 430; ☆ Cleveland v. Luca decree, 135-36; Cabot v. Sagarra decree, 154-55; Tracy v. Llano decree, 156; Bradford v. Brimmer decree, 159—60; Gurney v. Ploy decree, 191; Taylor v. Bunch decree, 217; Elderkin v. Edwards decree, 318-19; refuses to hear Harridan v. Hope appeal, 374; Taylor v. Jennings decree, 377—78; Brooks v, Lopez decree, 430; mentioned, 347; see also Admiralty proceedings Committee on ways and means, recommends drawing bills on ministers abroad, 218


[Page 602]
568 Index Conand, Joseph, committee of commerce payment, 143 Condict, Silas: Philadelphia convention delegate, 326, 418; recommended as quarter master general, 465, 523 Confederacy (Continental frigate): dismasted, 416, 422, 424; mentioned, 8, 61, 64, 69, 71, 75, 80, 84, 88, 97, 104, 108, 121, 147, 388, 485 Confederation, Articles of: jurisdiction over western lands challenged, 10, 470; and jurisdiction in interstate disputes, 15; partial ratification contemplated, 119; Mary land opposition to, 134; and Connecticut-Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 287; and congressional privilege, 435—36; mentioned, 448 Congress: chronology, xii; authorizes barter transactions, 5—6, 36; admiralty jurisdic tion challenged, 6; appoints minister to Spain, 7; appoints secretaries to missions abroad, 7; debates western land claims, 10; authorizes embargo exemptions, 14, 19, 66; seeks authority to arbitrate Vermont dispute, 15, 20—21, 29, 58—59; debates salaries for ministers abroad, 23, 30—31, 60; factionalism lamented, 25; orders rein forcements to southern department, 28; debates fiscal quotas, 38; endorses Washington’s order to delay southern reinforcements, 47; authorizes provisions stockpiling, 48; ways and means committee reports, 49; authorizes domestic loan, 51; sets fiscal quotas, 52; examines Benedict Arnold’s accounts, 57; debates Silas Deane’s expenses, 60; debates price regulation, 63, 212, 215; authorizes Arthur Lee’s return to America, 66; rejects motion to recede from Mississippi River claims, 67, 70; receives Arthur Lee’s resignation, 68; debates president’s title of address, 71; appoints day of thanksgiving, 72, 79, 99-101; commends John Sullivan, 72—73; rejects foreign loan proposal, 80, 94; adopts peace terms, 81-82; instructs John Adams on commercial treaty, 83-84; instructs John Jay on Spanish treaty, 85—87; debates departmental reform, 94; seeks Dutch loan, 97; orders investigation of impressment practices, 104; jurisdiction over western lands debated, 121; appropri ations, 124, 130, 194, 210, 314, 345, 415, 445, 512, 544; requests Virginia to suspend western land sales, 132, 134, 145, 148, 151, 311; instructs Henry Laurens on Dutch loan, 133—34; authorizes exchange of John Connolly, 137; debates peace terms, 138—40; temporarily adjourns for lack of president, 142^13; convened by Secretary Thomson, 149; jurisdiction over western lands contested, 150-51; pro vides transportation for foreign officers’ return home, 153; provisions Spanish prisoners of war, 153, 210; receives French minister, 157, 199, 207; seeks state protection for Continental prize goods, 157; appoints treasury commissioners, 166, 181; opposes Virginia encroachments on Delaware Indian lands, 167; authorizes governors to dismiss supernumerary staff officers, 168; observes funeral of Joseph Hewes, 172, 206; orders frigates to South Carolina, 173, 177, 180; rejects state pleas to retain Continental taxes, 175, 203—4, 307; requests correspondence files from ex-presidents, 176; accepts John Sullivan’s resignation, 184; and conflict of interest proposal, 197; orders investigation of Isaac Foster, 197; rejects motion to supply civilian prisoners of war, 200; attendance thin, 206, 220; debates suspension of preparations for joint Franco-American operations, 211; receives general officers’ petition for depreciation pay, 212; orders payments for orphans of Joseph Warren, 214; authorizes appointment of Continental advocate in maritime cases, 216; cre ates file of state legislation adopted at Continental request, 216; recommends price regulation, 218-21, 222, 228—29, 332; resolves to draw bills on ministers abroad, 222, 242, 250, 260, 463; rejects Du Simitiere plan to collect historical documents, 228; creates board of admiralty, 230-31; orders investigation of William Shippen, Jr., 231-32; adopts instructions for negotiating with Six Nations, 234-37, 272-74; receives committee of commerce reorganization plan, 239; recommends suspen sion of Massachusetts admiralty proceedings against prize taken to Martinique, 239-40; adopts Post Office reforms, 245; reforms clothing department, 246; rein forces southern department, 246, 249—51, 279, 472; debates adjournment from Philadelphia, 247; accepts resignation of Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth, 248; dispatches committee to headquarters, 251—52; compensates Moravians for use of property, 257; reassigns Convention Army guard, 259; sets in kind quotas, 267-69, 293, 419, 427-28, 431,437, 444, 446-47, 450, 453-54, 494-96, 511, 520;


[Page 608]
574 Index Fooks, Paul: letter to, 291; salary increased, 291 Forage; scarcity, 255, 277; estimates sought, 281, 293; mentioned, 323, 332, 380, 492, 552 Forbes, James: letters from, 19, 25, 48, 222, 309, 319, 333, 361, 440, 449, 477; ☆ attends Congress, xix, 277; elected to Congress, xix; appointed to board of admiralty, 231; Indian affairs committee, 234; confers with Jean Holker on stockpiled flour, 297; health, 310, 449, 521; requests permission to resign, 310; on Virginia sales of western land, 311; death, 531, 544, 550; mentioned, 353 Foreign affairs: Spanish mediation offer, 74, 115; Anglo-American peace terms adopted, 81—82; Anglo-American commercial treaty sought, 83-84; Spanish- American alliance sought, 85—87; Anglo-Russian relations, 114; guarantee of Franco- American treaty rights urged, 351; restructuring of U.S. mission to France proposed, 425; see also Commissioners at Paris; Committee for foreign affairs; Franco-American alliance; Loans, foreign; Peace terms; and individual countries Foreign officers; see Continental Army, foreign officers Forman, Ezekiel, appointed treasury commissioner, 166, 169, 185, 247, 278, 314 Forman, Joseph, 464 Fort Pitt, Pa., 67, 167 Fort Stanwix, Treaty of, and Indiana Company land claims, 149 “Fort Wilson” incident, 16, 24—25, 32—33, 35, 45 Foster, Isaac: conduct investigated, 150, 197-99; mentioned, 552 Foster, John, 415 Foster, Joseph, 202 Fowey (H.M.S.), 106 Fowler, Alexander, 68 Fox, Edward, 30 Fraer, Peter, 266, 289 France: secretary to U.S. mission to appointed, 12-13; reimburses Massachusetts privateers, 30; exempts Americans from droit d’aubaine, 351; and U.S. peace terms, 397; restructuring of U.S. mission to proposed, 425; mentioned, 373; see also Estaing, Charles-Henri, comte d’; French navy; Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre,; Holker, Jean; La Luzerne, Anne-Cesar, chevalier de; Louis XVI;, Vergennes, Charles Gravier comte d’ Franco-American alliance: and U.S. peace terms, 82; treaty interpreted, 202; state implementation of treaty rights for French citizens urged, 351; treaties printed, 443 Franklin, Benjamin: letters to, 62, 71, 84, 401,441; ☆ instructed to supply diplomats abroad, 74, 85, 97, 146-47; and Deane-Lee controversy, 111-14; recall debated, 163, 545; successor conjectured, 271; infrequency of correspondence lamented, 439; cipher letters, 441-42; presents supply request to French court, 443; reports improved relations with Portugal, 461, 483; complains of Continental bills drawn on him at Paris, 463; mentioned, xxviii, 7,46,50,89,100,280,291,357,455,458,459, 532; see also Commissioners at Paris Fredericksburg, Va., congressional adjournment to proposed, 247 Freeman, Samuel; letter to, 241; mentioned, 411 French navy: provisioning, 34, 48, 66, 165, 314, 485; arrival anticipated, 48, 50, 53, 78, 129, 133, 145, 181; reported in Chesapeake Bay, 211, 224, 229, 242, 250, 294; sought to convoy U.S. troops, 251; provisions needs, 296-97; West Indies operations, 421-22; mentioned, 220, 458; see also De Grasse, Fran^ois-Joseph-Paul, comte; Estaing, Charles-Henri, comte d’; Holker, Jean French W'est Indies, and American privateers, 256, 272, 544 Frost, George, elected to Congress, xx Gaine, Hugh, 450 Galt, Nathaniel, exchange proposed, 215 Galvan, William: letter to, 307; ☆ seeks lieutenant colonelcy, 307; mentioned, 346 Galvez. Bernardo de, 398


[Page 609]
Index 575 Galvez, Jos£ de, 276, 398 Gambier, James, 131 Garcia de Luca, Joachim; see Luca, Joachim de Gardner, Joseph: committee on Active appeal, 6; mentioned, 528 Garland, George, 71 Gates, Horatio: letters to, 87, 158, 178, 361,423, 459, 460, 500; ☆ reoccupies Newport, 152, 158, 164; recommends Canadian invasion, 460; on southern defense, 500—1; urges attack on New York, 502; mentioned, 77, 107, 186, 270, 366 Gawalt, Gerard W.^ohn Paul Jones' Memoir, 440 Geddes, William, appointed accounts commissioner, 185 George III: issues invasion warning proclamation, 43; rejects Spanish mediation offer, 74; speech to Parliament, 439; mentioned, 444, 450, 458, 466 Georgia: unrepresented, xviii; western land claims, 237, 471; sent assurances of Conti nental support, 245; vulnerability assessed, 251-52; urged to meet supply quota, 267; Continental troops reorganized, 327, 337, 414; restores civil government, 389, 395, 400, 413, 422; exempted from Continental troop quotas, 407; sent money, 415; exempted from in kind quotas, 447; Continental loan office, 481; mentioned, 80; see also Howly, Richard; Southern military department Georgia Assembly, seeks Lachlan McIntosh’s removal, 420, 425 Georgia Council, recommends exchange of Samuel Elbert, 412, 415 Georgia delegates, quorum requirement, 358 Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre: returns to France, 7—8; lauds New York constitution, 39; and Du Coudray claim, 62; mentioned, xxvi, 22, 69, 71, 75, 77, 89, 93, 96, 97, 108, 118, 171, 398, 413, 416, 477, 484 Germany, as source of British mercenaries, 372 Gerry, Elbridge: letters from, 20, 55, 143, 144, 200, 203, 214, 225, 271, 278, 303, 305, 322, 329, 336, 364, 371, 396, 410, 419, 429, 430, 435, 456, 507, 524, 556; letter to, 436; ☆ attends Congress, xix, 276; elected to Congress, xix; on alliance with Spain, 7; nominates John Laurens to mission to France, 13; on congressional jurisdiction in Vermont dispute, 15; on Massachusetts constitution, 56; committee on Jay’s instructions, 87; opposes John Sullivan’s resignation, 184; proposes conflict of interest resolve, 197; proposes collection of historical documents, 228; troop reduction committee, 330; committee on manpower needs, 336; nominated to court of appeals, 359; recommends Ephraim Blaine, 364; Philadelphia convention delegate, 372, 383, 416—19; privilege dispute with Congress, 430—33, 435—36; challenges Massa chusetts’ in kind quotas, 431; mentioned, 147, 291, 362, 381, 384, 425, 502 Gerry, Samuel R., letter to, 144 Gervais, John Lewis, 13, 91 Gibraltar: as Spanish peace term, 548; mentioned, 266 Gibson, John: letter to, 196; appointed treasury commissioner, 169, 181, 185, 224, 247, 278, 314 Gill, John, 241 Gillon, Alexander: undertakes South Carolina mission abroad, 18; mentioned, 358 Glascock, William: seeks Lachlan McIntosh’s removal, 420; mentioned, 415 Gloves, price, 292 Gold, price, 120 Good Intent (schooner), 191 Gordon, William, letters to, 253, 550 Gouverneur, Isaac, 89 Gouvion, Jean-Baptiste de: seeks leave extension from French army, 346; granted leave extension from French army, 485 Governors Island, 108 Govett, William, appointed accounts commissioner, 185 Grayson, Mr., 353 Grayson, William: letter to, 257; appointed to board of war, 257, 278 Great Barrington, Mass., 363


[Page 612]
578 Index House, Mary, 227, 358 Houston, William C.: letters from, 9, 16, 25, 181, 219, 229, 258, 260, 282, 300, 340, 341, 388, 401, 467, 476, 491, 510, 516, 557; ☆ attends Congress, xxi, 71, 94, 277, 445, 468; elected to Congress, xxi, 220; on western land policy, 10, 229—30, 469-71; on Arthur Lee recall, 11; recommends John Fell, 16-17; on Deane-Lee controversy, 25—26; death of child, 99; returns home, 99, 429; committee to receive French minister, 157; on admiralty appeals, 182-83; on taxation, 182; on fiscal policy, 230; committee for foreign affairs, 260, 388, 401, 443, 444; on commissary shortages, 282—83; on in kind state quotas, 300—1; committee on manpower needs, 336; board of treasury, 340, 342; on Vermont dispute, 468-69; finance committee, 488, 490; opposes payment of taxes in certificates, 491—92; and Continental lottery, 510; mentioned, 24, 246 Houston v. Olmsted', appeal opposed by Pennsylvania, 182—83; mentioned, 6 Howe, Richard, 4th viscount Howe, 285 Howe, William, 162, 434 Howly, Richard; letters to, 447, 498, 521; seeks Lachlan McIntosh’s removal, 420 Hudson, Jonathan, 540 Hughes, Hugh, 40 Hunt, William: identified, 323; letter to, 322; commissary accounts, 322 Huntington, Benjamin: letter from, 100; elected to Congress, xvii Huntington, Martha Devotion (Mrs. Samuel): inoculated for smallpox, 343; mentioned, 192 Huntington, Samuel: letters from, 3, 5, 6, 12, 14, 15, 28, 35, 46, 47, 51,52, 57, 67, 72, 81, 83, 84, 85, 88, 90, 101, 104, 121, 122, 129, 130, 131, 132, 133, 134, 137, 152, 157, 167, 168, 173, 175, 176, 177, 184, 185, 192, 209, 210, 211, 213, 218, 225, 226, 228, 230, 231, 234, 239, 245, 246, 248, 249, 254, 256, 257, 259, 261,262, 267, 268, 270, 274, 279, 284, 290, 291, 301,304, 306, 307, 308, 310, 311, 312, 314, 323, 326, 327, 328, 337, 344, 345, 347, 348, 349, 350, 352, 355, 366, 368, 373, 374, 380, 383, 384, 386, 387, 390, 391,405, 406, 410, 411,412, 414, 420, 433, 436, 445, 446, 449, 459, 472, 473, 480, 481,482, 484, 485, 486, 487, 498, 511,517, 521,539, 544, 554, 557; letters to, 80, 430, 435, 473; ☆ attends Congress, xvii, 172, 277; elected to Congress, xvii; portrait, xxv, 4; elected president of Congress, 37; on Roman virtue, 47; credentials expire, 142, 146; urges Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. to accept treasury appointment, 314; delegate expenses, 347—48; nominated to court of appeals, 359; mentioned, 96, 220, 287, 529 Hutchinson, Israel, 146, 372, 411 Imlay, John, 378 Imports; see Trade Indian affairs, eastern department, use of French missionary investigated, 352 Indian affairs, middle department: and Daniel Brodhead expedition, 55, 132; Treaty of Fort Stanwix and Indiana Company land claims, 149; Virginia encroachments on Delaware Indian lands, 167; mentioned, 67 Indian affairs, northern department: Sullivan expedition, 23, 57, 67, 72—73; negotia tions with Six Nations proposed, 234—37, 272-74 Indian affairs, southern department, Williamson expedition against Cherokees, 106 Indiana Company: western land claims, 10, 46, 130, 134, 148, 150, 166, 230; mentioned, 121 Indians; see Cayuga Indians; Cherokee Indians; Delaware Indians; Mingo Indians; Muncy Indians; Oneida Indians; Seneca Indians; Six Nations Indigo, 136, 155 Inflation; see Paper currency Inspector general’s department, William Galvan appointed major, 307 Intercepted letters, 489 Interstate relations: Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute, 305, 472; Connecticut- Pennsylvania boundary dispute, 429; see also Confederation, Articles of; Lands, western; Vermont


[Page 620]
586 Index Morris, Nesbitt & Co., purchases cannon, 20 Morristown, N.J., 250 Moss, John, purchases clothing for Virginia, 314 Moultrie, William, 542 Muhlenberg, Frederick A.: letters from, 199, 222, 478; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 277; elected to Congress, xxii, 196; recommends James Brightman, 222; recom mends Friederich Melzheimer, 478; mentioned, 96 Muhlenberg, Peter: letter to, 327; seniority, 327 Mumford, Nathaniel: letter to, 185; appointed accounts commissioner, 185, 202 Mumford, Thomas: letter to, 369; letter quoted, 122 Muncy Indians, and Brodhead expedition, 132 Munitions; see Arms and ammunition Muster department: abolished, 99, 315, 345, 385; abolition recommended, 244; pay and allowances, 396 Mutton, price, 552 Nantes, France, 402, 559 Nash, Abner, 51 Nash, Clement, 414 Natchez, 393 The Nautical Almanac and Astronomical Ephemeris, 402 Navarro, Diego Jose, 248, 276, 475 Navy board; see Eastern navy board; Middle department navy board Navy; see British navy; Continental Navy; French navy Needham, Mr., 146 Negroes; see Blacks Nelson, Thomas, and Deane-Lee controversy, 113 Nesbitt, John Maxwell, 20 Netherlands, United Provinces of the: loan from sought, 97, 106, 133—34, 141; mentioned, 412, 439, 444 Neustra Senora de Merced (Spanish brigantine), 155 New Castle, Co., Del., 70 New Hampshire: and Vermont claims, 38—40, 58—59, 125, 332, 384—85,403,483, 506; fiscal quota, 38, 52; fiscal quota reduced, 60, 93, 125; receives price regulation proposal, 95; and western land claims, 151; shipbuilding, 158, 216; arrests Samuel Hobart, 171; elects congressional delegates, 233; urged to meet supply quota, 267; and Philadelphia price regulation convention, 326; Continental troops, 392; Conti nental troop quota, 394, 398—99, 494; authorizes Congress to arbitrate Vermont controversy, 399; sent money, 399; in kind quotas, 438, 494-96; see also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire delegates: letter from, 462; relations with Woodbury Langdon, 126—27 New Hampshire grants; see Vermont New Haven, Conn., 189, 319 New Jersey: protests fiscal quota, 38; militia, 48, 108; fiscal quota, 52, 182, 464; proposes price regulation, 55, 62—63, 65, 79, 95, 101, 218—19, 263, 288; unrep resented, 71; flour sought, 135, 261, 268, 282-83; opposes Virginia land claims, 149; and status of civilian prisoners of war, 226; forage sought, 293; adopts price regulations, 305, 325, 332, 356, 379, 424; and Philadelphia price regulation convention, 326, 382, 418; requisitions provisions, 334, 347; trade with the enemy condemned, 352; provisions Continental Army, 382; commended for provisioning efforts, 383-84, 390; British raid, 386; Continental troop quota, 398; in kind quotas, 427; requested to aid treasury in paying commissary accounts, 473; and enemy trade restrictions, 555; mentioned, 331; see also Livingston, William New Jersey admiralty court, Taylor v. Jennings appeal, 377—78 New Jersey Assembly, letters to, 219, 427, 516 New Jersey delegates: letter from, 219; attendance, 71, 246; cost of living, 258 New London, Conn., 36, 121, 122


[Page 621]
Index 587 New Orleans, 201 New Providence, Bahamas, 218 New York: seeks sugar and rum, 3, 209; Vermont dispute, 29, 38—40, 73, 126, 172, 266, 384-85, 402-^, 437, 468-69, 483, 493, 506, 531; fiscal quota, 38, 52; constitu tion lauded, 39; western land claims, 41, 240; fiscal quota reduced, 44; militia, 48, 108; Continental loan office, 130; negotiates with Six Nations, 234; and Indian land claims, 235-37; urged to meet supply quota, 267; moves to curb plundering, 289; opposes extradition of loyalists to, 289-90; forage sought, 293; provisions sought, 337; Continental troop quota, 398; requested to submit Vermont dispute to con gressional arbitration, 404; and Philadelphia price regulation convention, 418; taxation, 421; limits western land claims, 470, 476, 506; see also Clinton, George New York, N.Y.: attack on urged, 502; trade with, 555 New York delegates: letters from, 402, 529; ☆ attendance, 73, 421; quorum requirement, 358; explain devaluation of the Continental dollar, 529—31 New York Gazette, 450 Newark, N.J., 382 Newfoundland, 133, 134, 139, 413, 421, 424 Newport, R.I.: evacuation predicted, 122; evacuated, 124, 152, 169, 185, 270; reoccu pied by General Gates, 158; mentioned, 237, 430 Niagara, 240 Nicholas, George, 480 Nicholson, James: letter to, 36; ☆ appointed to command Trumbull, 35—36, 184; mentioned, 64 Nicholson, Samuel, Bradford v. Brimmer appeal, 160 Nimes, France, 92 Noirmont de La Neuville; see La Neuville, Rene-Hippolyte Penot Lombart de Noirmont de North, Frederick (Lord), peace plan reported, 556 North Carolina: troops ordered to South Carolina, 28, 47, 50, 190, 250, 257; fiscal quota, 38, 50, 52, 286; instructs congressional delegates on confederation, 119; opposes restrictions on western land sales, 145; opposes Indiana Company land claims, 150-51; accounts, 152; requested to reinforce South Carolina, 175-77, 180, 482; western land claims, 237, 471; urged to meet supply quota, 267; Continental troops, 321; seeks arms, 360, 363; French consul in appointed, 366; Continental troop quota, 398, 472; militia, 405, 423, 472, 482; seeks to make militia costs a Continental expense, 405; in kind quotas, 454; see also Caswell, Richard North Carolina Assembly, queries congressional delegates, 108 North Carolina delegates: letters from, 150, 249, 360, 363, 404, 451; ☆ and recall debate, 112; instructed on confederation, 119; recommend John Cheesboro, 249; congressional expenses, 251; quorum requirement, 358 Norwich, Conn., 400 Nourse, Joseph, 151 Nova Scotia: as a peace term, 139; prize schooner released, 203; mentioned, 449 Oats: in kind quotas of, 427; mentioned, 494 O’Donnell, William E., The Chevalier de La Luzerne, 388 Officers; see Continental Army, foreign officers; Continental officers Ohio County, Va., 167 Ohio River, 237 Olcott, Peter: and New Hampshire grants claims, 385, 392-94; mentioned, 438 Oliphant, David: letter to, 445; ☆ seeks establishment of southern medical department, 53; opposes authority of director general Shippen, 445 Olive oil, 136 Olmsted, Gideon, Houston v. Olmsted appeal, 6 Oneida Indians, friendship with U.S. commended, 57 Ontario, 237 Onuf, Peter S., Origins of the Federal Republic, 41


[Page 623]
Index 589 treason, 171; embargo act, 181; challenges Continental authority in admiralty appeals, 182—83; Continental troops capture prize schooner, 191; counterfeiting, 193; grants embargo exemption, 205; and status of civilian prisoners of war, 226; seeks arbitration of boundary dispute with Connecticut, 287; forage sought, 293; taxation, 304; boundary dispute with Virginia, 305, 472; and Philadelphia price regulation convention, 326, 383; provisions sought, 337; fiscal quota in arrears, 345; confers with Congress on in kind quotas, 382; Continental troop quota, 398; boundary dispute with Connecticut, 429; Lutherans of, 479; requested to provision French forces, 485; new emission money act, 550, 553; see also Philadelphia Pennsylvania admiralty court: Gurney v. Ploy appeal, 191; Taylor v. Bunch appeal, 217 Pennsylvania Assembly: letters to, 196, 199; ☆ opposes Active appeal, 6; veterans’ benefits proposals protested, 194—96; elects congressional delegates, 196; invited to reception of French minister, 199; mentioned, 419 Pennsylvania Council: letters to, 66, 345; ☆ regulates wagon hire, 67; confers with Congress on flour crisis, 297; opposes Virginia sale of unappropriated lands, 311; see also Reed, Joseph Pennsylvania delegates: letter from, 199; attendance, 196, 504 Pennsylvania Gazette, 44, 183, 207 Pennsylvania Packet, 31, 44, 54, 183, 207, 266, 362, 372, 444, 550, 553 Pennsylvania supreme court, pay and allowances, 193 Penobscot expedition: repulsed, 77; Massachusetts seeks reimbursement for, 79, 174, 203-4, 457; mentioned, 298, 308, 426, 448, 524, 528, 551 Pensacola, Fla.: capture rumored, 295, 316; mentioned, 376, 389, 390, 395, 400, 402, 408, 422, 436 Perth Amboy, N.J.: prisoner exchange conference, 347; mentioned, 346 Peters, Richard, 54, 407 Pettit, Charles: letter to, 308; ☆ ordered to provide forage estimates, 281; seeks money, 345; sent money, 445 Phelps, Charles: fidelity to New York questioned, 38, 333; mentioned, 61, 73 Philadelphia: view of, xxv; “Fort Wilson” incident, 16, 35, 45; rioting condemned, 39; cost of living, 50, 161, 241,289, 292, 298, 343, 358, 394, 464-65, 552; price regula tion movement, 125; congressional adjournment from voted, 247, 289, 353, 376, 449; court of appeals site, 387; dissipation of lamented, 428, 463; mentioned, 218 Philadelphia price convention: price regulation proposals, 326, 393, 427; adjournment, 356, 369-70, 374, 379, 381; minutes of proceedings, 417-19, 438; mentioned, 334, 339, 358, 372, 395, 411 Phillips, William: seeks parole, 192; and Convention Army accounts, 342; proposes prisoner exchange, 343; mentioned, 340, 346 Pickering, John, appointed Continental advocate for New Hampshire, 215 Pickering, Timothy: letters to, 368, 374, 486; ☆ appointed commissioner on depart mental reform, 359, 367-68, 371,379, 400, 511; instructed to confer with Congress, 486; proposes reform of staff departments, 502; mentioned, 322, 474, 480, 490, 518, 535 Picquet de La Motte, Toussaint-Guillaume, 421, 422 Pilgrim (Massachusetts privateer), 155, 239 Pittsburgh, Pa.; see Fort Pitt, Pa. Plater, George: letters from, 309, 319, 353, 386, 440, 477; ☆ attends Congress, xix, 277; elected to Congress, xix; portrait, xxvii, 354; mentioned, 276, 278, 280, 291, 295 Ploy, Tam, Guerney v. Ploy appeal, 191 Plundering, New York proclamation against, 289 Plymouth County, Mass., 329 Pollock, Oliver, letter to, 143 Polly (sloop), 217 Poole (ship), 443 Pope, Charles: letter to, 262; resignation, 262 Pork: price, 289; in kind quotas of, 427; mentioned, 66, 106, 313, 444


[Page 624]
590 Index Port au Paix, St. Dominque, admiralty proceedings, 256, 272 Port Tobacco, Md., 361 Portsmouth, N.H., 158 Portugal, improved relations with U.S. reported, 461, 483 Post office: reform proposed, 123; accounts, 245; reforms adopted, 245; express rider service abolished, 305—6, 308; limited express rider service restored, 308, 346, 536; pay and allowances, 326 Post office committee, 104 Potatoes, 509 Potts, Jonathan, sent money, 512 Poughkeepsie, N.Y., 266, 289 Powder, 65, 66, 90, 264 Powell, Jeremiah, letters to, 15, 20, 204, 457, 508, 525 President of Congress: title of address debated, 71; requested to return presidential letterbooks, 176; see also Huntington, Samuel; Jay, John Prevost, Augustine, 43, 76, 105, 190, 376, 408 Prices: Philadelphia price regulation movement, 16, 125; flour, 25, 235, 289, 298, 343, 431, 494; rum, 25, 495; regulation proposed, 55, 62—63, 65, 79, 95, 101, 175, 194,209,212,215,218-21,222,228-29,263,269,288,334-35,356,364,374,379, 416-19, 423-24, 502-4; corn, 78, 343, 494; wheat, 78, 356; cloth, 125; shoes, 125, 161,358; hats, 161,358; silver, 225; beef, 289,431,495,498; cordwood, 289, 343; in Philadelphia, 289, 292, 298, 343; pork, 289; butter, 292; gloves, 292; regulation instituted, 305, 325, 332; turkeys, 464; wine, 464; hay, 494; mutton, 552; mentioned, 241; see also Philadelphia price convention Prisoners of war: and Continental officer seniority rights, 88; exchange of prisoners at Antigua sought, 124; John Connolly exchange, 137; provisioning, 153, 210, 304, 375; exchange proposals, 183, 215, 262, 343, 391, 412, 415; seek parole, 192; neglect of protested, 195—96; supply of civilian prisoners debated, 200; release of civilian prisoners sought, 226; renewal of exchange negotiations proposed, 338; overdue Convention Army accounts threaten exchange proposals, 340—42; resump tion of exchange negotiations authorized, 346, 375; in southern department, 391; militia rank as deterrent in exchange negotiations, 412; paroled prisoners recalled, 434; German mercenary seeks Pennsylvania residence, 478; mentioned, 3, 70, 344, 350; see also Beatty, John; Convention Army Privateering: France reimburses Massachusetts privateers, 31; Nova Scotian prize released, 203; and French West Indies admiralty courts, 256, 272, 544; Connecticut commissions, 323; Massachusetts commissions, 483; mentioned, 70, 144; see also Admiralty proceedings Prizes: share distribution, 6, 544; sloop Thom, 64; Continental advocates appointed, 215; mentioned, 70 Providence, R.I., 288 Provisions; see Commissary general’s department; Committee of Congress (to superin tend the commissary and quartermaster departments); Continental Army; Conti nental Navy; Embargo; French navy; Holker, Jean Prussia, 114 Public debt; see Board of treasury; Continental loan office; Loans, domestic; Loans, foreign Pulaski, Casimir: death, 57, 174, 179, 189, 193, 258; legion reorganized, 311, 410; mentioned, 105, 310, 388, 462 Purviance, Robert, 144 Purviance, Samuel, Jr., 144 Putnam, Israel, suffers stroke, 461 Quartermaster general’s department: artificer arrangements, 192; expenditures reported, 192; artificer arrangements revised, 210, 213; reforms proposed, 266, 534—35; forage estimates sought, 281; expenses retrenched, 380; sent money, 445; limitation on use of certificates proposed, 492; prepares magazines for in kind


[Page 628]
594 Index South Carolina: seeks foreign aid, 18; fiscal quota, 38, 52; rice sought, 49; attacks Cherokees, 106; supplies leather, 131; sent Continental frigates, 173, 177, 180, 190; military inertia criticized, 179; western land claims, 237, 471; vulnerability assessed, 251—52, 320; urged to meet supply quota, 267; rice sought for Cuba, 275, 280; militia, 320, 472, 482; recruits blacks, 382; Continental troop quota, 398, 472; in kind quotas, 454; defense, 482; see also Rutledge, John; Southern military department South Carolina delegates, letter from, 48 Southern military department: reinforcements delayed, 28, 47, 50, 190; hospital department proposals, 53; supply needs, 54; reinforced, 173, 175—77, 180, 246, 249-51, 254, 257-59, 321, 389, 423, 465, 472, 482, 486, 537, 542; defense needs, 186; vulnerability assessed, 251-52; joint Spanish-American operations proposed, 274—76, 279; Pulaski’s legion reorganized, 311; prisoners of war, 391; military chest, 414, 472; and Lachlan McIntosh suspension, 420, 425; hospital department administration in, 445; engineers assigned to, 555, 558; mentioned, 327, 501 Spain: minister to appointed, 65, 69; mediation offer rejected, 74; terms for treaty with adopted, 85-87; offers mediation to Britain, 115; prisoners of war provisioned by Congress, 153, 210, 304; and U.S. claims to navigation of Mississippi River, 201; proposes joint Spanish-American attack on Florida, 252, 274-76, 279, 475; besieges Gibraltar, 266; attacks West Florida, 391—93, 395, 398, 422; and U.S. peace terms, 397; Florida claims, 413; peace terms, 434; and Gibraltar, 548; mentioned, 331, 373, 461, 554; see also Miralles, Juan de Spanish navy, seeks rice, 280 Specie, 446, 543 Spencer, Joseph, elected to Congress, xviii Sprague, William B., 142—43 Squan, N.J., 555 Staten Island: Lord Stirling raid, 382, 386; mentioned, 108 States’ rights: state implementation of treaty rights for French citizens urged, 351; see also Lands, western Stediford, Garret, seeks Continental Army vacancy, 88 Sterne, Laurence, 324 Steuben, Friedrich Wilhelm Ludolf Gerhard Augustin, baron von: letter to, 480; ☆ confers with Congress, 440; reimbursed for expenses to America, 480; mentioned, 439 Stevens, John, letters to, 127, 258, 450 Steward, William, 30 Stewart, Charles, letters to, 249, 380, 487 Stewart, Walter, nominated secretary to mission to France, 276, 278, 280, 291, 295, 409 Stirling, Lord; see Alexander William Stockton, Samuel W., identified, 207 Stockton, Thomas, dismissed as commissary, 168 Stony Point, N.Y.: evacuated, 107, 120, 122, 124; mentioned, 152 Success (Massachusetts privateer), 156 Suffolk County, Mass., 240 Sugar: bartered for flour, 6; mentioned, 3, 34, 36, 46, 209, 216, 227, 369 Sullivan, James, letter to, 541 Sullivan, John: letters to, 72, 184; ☆ reports results of expedition against Indians, 23, 37, 53; threatens Iroquois tribes, 57; commended for expedition against Indians, 72-73; resignation, 184, 192, 239; nominated to court of appeals, 359; mentioned, 48, 171, 234, 329, 525 Sullivan expedition, 23, 37, 50, 53, 67, 234 Superintending committee; see Committee of Congress (to superintend the commis sary and quartermaster departments) Supplies; see Arms and ammunition; Clothier general’s department; Clothing; Com mittee of commerce; Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and


[Page 633]
Index 599 Wythe, George: letter to, 386; ☆ nominated to court of appeals, 359; appointed to court of appeals, 379; declines appointment to court of appeals, 387 Yarmouth, N.S., 203 Yohogania County, Va., 167 York, Pa., 380 Yorke, Joseph, 439, 444 Young, Moses: appointed secretary to Henry Laurens, 193; mentioned, 90 Young, Samuel, 455


[Page 634]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd* Editor o/The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield* Editor in Chief Emeritus o/The Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Jack P. Greene Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen* Editor o/The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia University George C. Rogers, Jr. Caroline McKissick Dial Professor of American History, University of South Carolina *Deceased. 600
