Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 8, September 19, 1777 to January 31, 1778
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_08/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v DNA DeHi ICarbS I Hi M-Ar MA MB MH-H MHi MWalB MdAA MdBJ-G MdFreHi MdHi MeHi MiDbEI MnHi N NBLiHi NHi NHpR NN NNC NNPM Nc-Ar NcU Nh-Ar NhD NhHi Nj NjHi NjMoHP NjP OCIWHi PBMCA PHC PHarH PHi PPAmP PPL National Archives and Records Service Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington Southern Illinois University, Carbondale Illinois State Historical Library, Springfield Massachusetts Archives, Boston Amherst College, Amherst, Mass. Boston Public Library Harvard University, Houghton Library Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston Brandeis University, Waltham, Mass. Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins Univer sity, Baltimore, Md. Historical Society of Frederick County, Frederick, Md. Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum &: Greenfield Village Library, Dearborn, Mich. Minnesota Historical Society, St. Paul New York State Library, Albany Long Island Historical Society, Brooklyn New-York Historical Society, New York Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y. New York Public Library, New York Columbia University, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord New Jersey State Library, Trenton New Jersey Historical Society, Newark Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, N.J. Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio Moravian Church Northern Province Archives, Bethlehem, Pa. Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia Library Company of Philadelphia


[Page 10]
vi Editorial Method and Apparatus PPRF Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia PU University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PYHi Historical Society of York County, York, Pa. R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence RPB-JH John Hay Library, Brown University, Providence, R.I. RPJCB John Carter Brown Library, Providence, R.I. ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViHi Virginia Historical Society, Richmond ViStrR Robert E. Lee Memorial Association, Stratford, Va. ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Abbreviations and short titles frequently cited in the present volume are identified below. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) Adams, John. Diary and Autobiography of John Adams. Edited by Lyman H. Butterfield et al. 4 vols. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1961. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963-. Adams, Works (Adams) Adams, John. The Works of John Adams, Second President of the United States. . . . Edited by Charles Francis Adams. 10 vols. Boston: Charles C. Little and James Brown, 1850-56. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writing of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1828-29. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. Clinton, Papers (Hastings) Clinton, George. Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777—1795, 1801—1804. Edited by Hugh Hastings and


[Page 17]
Chronology of Congress September 19, 1777-January 31, 1778 September 19-26 September 27 September 30 October 1 October 2 October 4 October 7 October 8 October 9-14 October 15 October 17 October 20 October 22 October 23-30 October 29 October 31 November 1 November 4 Delegates in flight to Lancaster, Pa. Convenes at Lancaster; adjourns to York. Convenes at York. Resolves to meet twice daily. Authorizes delegates to draw provisions from Continental commissaries. Commends sundry officers for bravery in defense against General Burgoyne’s northern invasion. Debates “mode of voting” under draft Articles of Confederation. Adopts penalties for “communicating” with the enemy; commends Washington for the “brave exertions” of his army at Germantown. Debates taxation proposals under draft Articles of Confederation. Debates powers of Congress under draft Articles of Confederation. Reorganizes the Board of War. Exonerates Gen. John Sullivan for failure of Staten Island expedition; learns informally of General Gates’ capture of General Burgoyne’s army at Saratoga. Orders inquiry into the conduct of Indian Com missioner George Morgan. Debates and revises draft Articles of Confedera tion. President Hancock takes leave of Congress. Receives official notification of the Saratoga Convention. Elects Henry Laurens president of Congress. Commends General Gates and his army for their defense against Burgoyne’s invasion and various other officers and units for their defense of the Delaware. xiii


[Page 18]
xiv November 7 November 10-14 November 15 November 17 November 19 November 20 November 21 November 22 November 24 November 27 November 28 November 29 December 1 December 3 December 8 December 10 Chronology of Congress Names new appointees to reorganized Board of War. Conducts final debates on Articles of Confedera tion. Adopts Articles of Confederation. Transmits Articles of Confederation to states for their consideration. Directs General Washington to inquire into the treatment of American prisoners. Adopts report on pacification of the western frontier. Recalls Commissioner Silas Deane from the court of France. Adopts economic program asking the states to levy taxes, call in paper money, and regulate prices. Adopts measures for improving the provision ing of the army. Recommends confiscation of loyalist property in the states; completes reconstitution of the Board of War, Horatio Gates named president. Appoints committee to confer with General Washington; orders inquiry into the failures of the Rhode Island expedition and the Delaware River defenses; appoints John Adams commis sioner to France. Appoints committee to obtain a French trans lation of the Articles of Confederation and to invite Canada “to accede to the union of these states.” Rejects alteration of the Saratoga Convention to permit embarkation of Burgoyne’s army from Rhode Island. Resolves to seek $2 million loan from France and Spain; directs suppression of Delaware loyalists; adopts instructions for retaining con tinued neutrality of the Six Nations; endorses proposal for a surprise attack against Lake Champlain. Orders Silas Deane’s immediate return to Con gress. Denounces Gen. William Howe’s treatment of American prisoners; authorizes General Wash ington to impress supplies in Pennsylvania.


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress xvii Richard Law Elected: October 10, 1776 Attended: September to December 3, 1777 Roger Sherman Elected: October 10, 1776; October 11, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 William Williams Elected: October 10, 1776 Attended: September to December 3, 1777 Oliver Wolcott Elected: October 10, 1776; October 11, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 DELAWARE Thomas McKean Elected: December 17, 1777 Attended: January 30-31, 1778 George Read Elected: November 8, 1776 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 Caesar Rodney Elected: December 17, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 James Sykes Elected: February 22, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 Nicholas Van Dyke Elected: February 22; December 17, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 GEORGIA Nathan Brownson Elected: June 7, 1777 Attended: September to October 9, 1777 Lyman Hall Elected: June 7, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 Edward Langworthy Elected: June 7, 1777 Attended: November 17, 1777, to January 31, 1778 George Walton Elected: June 7, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Joseph Wood Elected: June 7, 1777 Attended: November 17, 1777, to January 31, 1778 MARYLAND Charles Carroll of Carrollton Elected: February 15; December 5, 1777 Attended: September 27 to October 16? 1777; January 17-21, 1778 Samuel Chase Elected: February 15; December 5, 1777 Attended: September 27 to October 16? 1777 James Forbes Elected: December 22, 1777 Attended: January 1-31, 1778 John Henry Elected: December 22, 1777 Attended: January 20-31, 1778 Joseph Nicholson Elected: December 5, 1777 Declined William Paca Elected: February 15; December 5, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 George Plater Elected: December 5, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 Benjamin Rumsey Elected: February 15, 1777 Attended: November 4? to December 24? 1777 William Smith Elected: February 15, 1777 Attended: October 4 to December 24? 1777 Thomas Stone Elected: February 15; December 5, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 MASSACHUSETTS John Adams Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Attended: September to November 10, 1777 Samuel Adams Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Attended: September to November 10, 1777


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix Francis Dana Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Attended: November 17, 1777, to January 31, 1778 (on mission with committee at camp, ca. January 17 to March 1778) Elbridge Gerry Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Attended: September 1777 to January 31, 1778 (on mission with committee at headquarters, ca. November 29 to December 15, 1777) John Hancock Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Attended: September to October 29, 1777 James Lovell Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Attended: September 1777 to January 31, 1778 Robert Treat Paine Elected: November 15, 1776; December 4, 1777 Did not attend in 1777-78 NEW HAMPSHIRE Josiah Bartlett Elected: December 25, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 Nathaniel Folsom Elected: April 1, 1777 Attended: September 1777 to January 31, 1778 (on mission with committee at camp, ca. January 17 to March 1778) George Frost Elected: April 1, 1777 Attended: December 8, 1777, to January 31, 1778 William Whipple Elected: December 25, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 NEW JERSEY Elias Boudinot Elected: November 20, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 to January 1778 Abraham Clark Elected: November 30, 1776; November 20, 1777 Attended: December 11, 1777, to January 31, 1778 Jonathan Elmer Elected: November 30, 1776; November 20, 1777 Attended: October 14?-November 21, 1777


[Page 27]
Illustrations Map of Pennsylvania endpapers Lancaster and York, Pennsylvania, where Congress convened when the British moved into Philadephia in September 1777 and continued to meet through June 1778, are visible on the southeast quarter of a map of Pennsylvania by Robert Sayer and John Bennett, “exhibiting not only the improved parts of that Province, but also its extensive frontiers: Laid down from actual surveys and chiefly from the late map of W. Scull published in 1770; and humbly inscribed to the Honourable Thomas Penn and Richard Penn, Esquires, true and absolute proprietaries & Governors of the Province of Pennsylvania and the territories thereunto belonging.” (London, 1775). Geography and Map Division, Library of Congress. Lancaster, Pennsylvania 23 Threatened by the advance of Gen. William Howe’s army against Philadelphia, Congress adjourned on September 18, 1777, to Lan caster, Pa., where it convened on Saturday, September 27. Here the delegates deliberated but a single day, however, adjourning the same afternoon to the comparatively greater safety of York about a dozen miles west of the Susquehannah. As a town consisting of about 550 “taxables,” Lancaster in 1777 had a population estimated at approx imately 2,200 inhabitants. During the British occupation of Phila delphia, it was swollen nearly beyond its capacity to house all who sought safety within its boundaries, for in addition to the many Philadelphians who attempted to find refuge there, Pennsylvania officials had selected Lancaster as the temporary site of the state’s government. This drawing of the town by Edouard C. V. Colbert, comte de Maulevrier, made during the Frenchman’s trip through the state twenty years later, is one of the few surviving late eighteenth century sketches of Lancaster. From Voyage dans I’interieur des Etats-Unis et au Canada (Balti more: Johns Hopkins Press, 1935). The Old Court House of York County, Pennsylvania 40 As the nation’s capital from September 30, 1777, to June 27, 1778, York occupies a unique place in American history. It was here that Congress was meeting when work was completed on the Articles of Confederation and here that the delegates wrestled with problems xxiii


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii Thomas Conway’s December 29, 1777, Letter to Washington 328 Thomas Conway, though born in Ireland, was taken to France as a boy and entered the royal army while still a youth, rising to the rank of colonel in 1772. On the strength of an introduction from Silas Deane and the very favorable first impression he made on Washington and his staff at Morristown in May 1777, Conway was elected to the rank of brigadier general and assigned to John Sullivan’s division, which saw action in the battles of Brandywine and Germantown. His conduct during that period of the campaign for possession of Philadelphia won him many admirers, but by November he had become the center of controversy and offered his resignation to Congress. General Washington early saw him as a troublemaker, who stimulated dissension in the army and agitated to have General Gates named commander in chief. On the other hand, a small group of delegates and officers rallied to Conway in an effort to undermine Washington, whose lackluster performance during the 1776 and 1777 campaigns they contrasted with Gates’ heroics at Saratoga. For a time Conway’s star was ascendant; his resignation was not only rejected, but on December 13, 1777, he was promoted to major general over the heads of 23 senior brigadiers and named to the newly created post of inspector general of the Continental Army. Almost immediately, however, his support began to disintegrate. His continued intriguing against Washington played into the hands of officers such as Lafayette and Stirling who thought him untrustworthy and dangerous, and many delegates who voted for his promotion turned against him when they learned of his intrigues. Although historians have dramatized discontent with Washington during the winter of 1777-78 by labeling such expressions of dis satisfaction the “Conway Cabal,” documents in volumes eight and nine of these Letters confirm that few leaders held Washington responsible for the ills of the Continental Army or voiced dis enchantment with his performance. Indeed, except for a notable letter by Gen. Thomas Mifflin and several by James Lovell, these volumes testify to the solidity of Washington’s support and suggest that Conway’s career in America has been misunderstood. George Washington Papers, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress. Jonathan Bayard Smith 443 Smith, a prominent Philadelphia merchant who graduated from the College of New Jersey in 1760, played a prominent role in Pennsylvania’s opposition to imperial control during the prerevolu tionary decade. As a member or as secretary, he served on several


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix that he planned to renounce the convention as soon as his army was released, and they passed a resolution on January 8, 1778, suspending the agreement until the British government formally notified Con gress that it accepted the convention’s terms. Since the ministry could not do so without implicitly recognizing the legitimacy of Congress, plans for returning the army to Britain were suspended. Although Burgoyne himself was permitted to return to England in April 1778, his troops remained in the hands of their captors and most of them were subsequently marched southward to spend the remainder of the war at various locations in Virginia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania. Engraving by Robert I. Pollard, from James Murray, An Impartial History of the Present War in America (London, 1778). Francis Lightfoot Lee 500 Lee, a scion of a distinguished Virginia family that contributed several leaders who played important roles on the Continental stage during the American Revolution, was a well-to-do planter who had been in the forefront of his colony’s opposition to British imperial policy since 1763. Entering Congress in 1775, Lee was convinced that Great Britain was pursuing a deliberate “design of establishing arbitrary government in America” and consequently became one of the earliest congressional advocates of independence. In order to make independence a reality, Lee devoted much of his attention in Congress to military affairs, becoming a key member of the Board of War and several committees dealing with matters of concern to the Continental Army. His efforts to obtain provisions for Wash ington’s troops as chairman of the Committee on Emergency Pro visions in December 1777 typify his work in this vital area. Although Lee lacked the forensic skill of his more celebrated brother Richard Henry, he won the respect of the delegates for his diligent committee work and was briefly considered as a possible successor to John Han cock as president of Congress in 1777. After serving in Congress to 1779 and subsequently in the Virginia Senate to 1782, Lee retired from public life to spend the remainder of his days at his Richmond County “Menokin” plantation. Etching courtesy of the Virginia Historical Society. John Witherspoon 552 John Witherspoon, a distinguished Scottish clergyman and presi dent of the College of New Jersey, was elected to Congress seven times from 1776 to 1782 and compiled one of the most enviable of all records for diligent service to the Continental cause. Having arrived at the conclusion that British rule was incompatible with


[Page 34]
XXX Illustrations American liberties, Witherspoon entered Congress just in time to witness the end of the debate on independence and affix his signa ture to the Declaration. An able penman, a shrewd debater, and an indefatigable committeeman, Witherspoon was deeply involved in many areas of congressional affairs, working on more than a hun dred committees during his career as a delegate, including the Board of War and Committee for Foreign Affairs. Although he was greatly concerned about issues ranging from confederation and Continental finance to the organization of executive departments, Witherspoon focused on Congress’ conduct of foreign affairs. In addition to serving as a translator for French officers in their dealings with Congress, he also followed closely the activities of America’s diplomats abroad and helped to formulate instructions for the commissioners appointed to negotiate peace with Britain. Witherspoon is also of special interest to students of Congress because the texts of some of his congressional speeches have survived, often providing insights into proceedings of Congress available in no other source. Of particular interest in this volume is his lengthy January 8, 1778, address advo cating suspension of the Saratoga Convention. Painting by Charles Willson Peale, ca. 1783. Independence Na tional Historical Park Collection. Resolves on Prisoners, December 1777 and January 1778 626 Congress had long been concerned about the harsh treatment of American prisoners of war, and General Washington had conducted an extensive correspondence with the British commander in chief Sir William Howe to bring about improvements in their condition. Although legally the British considered captured Americans as rebels guilty of treason, in practice they treated them as ordinary prisoners of war. Despite this concession to necessity, the lot of the prisoners was generally deplorable, characterized as it was by primitive prison facilities, inadequate diet and medical care, and insufficient clothing. As reports of particularly abusive treatment of American prisoners began to filter out of Philadelphia in November 1777, Congress asked Washington to investigate and report back to it. Washington, Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot, and Col. Moses Rawlings a Maryland officer who made an unusual personal appearance before Congress on December 17, 1777, to testify about the treatment our prisoners in the hands of the enemy receive”—subsequently con firmed the truth of these allegations, and at the same time the Board of War conducted an extensive inquiry, all of which provided grist for Congress’ December 19 and January 21 resolves on prisoners. Washington transmitted a handbill containing a text of these resolves with his January 30, 1778, letter to General Howe. The note at the bottom of the first page of the illustration shown here, taken


[Page 35]
Illustrations xxxi from a retained copy of the handbill which Washington sent to Congress the following April, is in the hand of Washington’s secre tary, Col. Robert H. Harrison. Numbers in the margin on the second page of the document (not shown) indicate points on which Wash ington demanded “a speedy and explicit answer” from Howe. Un fortunately, the British commander never responded to these points in his correspondence with Washington, and there is no evidence the resolves led to significant improvements in the treatment of American prisoners. From the Papers of the Continental Congress, National Archives and Records Service. Francis Dana 674 Francis Dana, a Massachusetts lawyer who graduated from Harvard College in 1762, had a long career of public service which included election to the Massachusetts Council in 1776 and to the Continental Congress in December of the same year. During his first term in Congress—which he actually attended in 1777-78 and 1784—Dana had the good fortune to serve with both his college roommate, James Lovell of Massachusetts, and his father-in-law, William Ellery of Rhode Island. He worked on many committees, including the Marine Committee and the influential Board of War, but Dana probably made his most important contribution to the American cause as chairman of the Committee at Camp, which met for several months with Washington and his officers at Valley Forge and played a key role in reorganizing the Continental Army during the critical early months of 1778. Between terms in Congress Dana also served the United States abroad, appointed first as secretary to peace com missioner John Adams in France in 1779 and then as the first American minister to Russia in 1780, both of which appointments proved to be frustrating experiences for the young diplomat. He was subsequently appointed a delegate to the Annapolis and Philadelphia Conventions but attended neither, although he was instrumental in securing ratification of the federal Constitution by the Massachusetts Convention. His public career was capped with his appointment in 1785 to the Massachusetts Supreme Court, where he presided as chief justice from 1792 to 1806, but his tenure on the court was some times noteworthy for decidedly unjudicial behavior. He was not above taking advantage of his position to propagate High Federalist views, and he has been quoted as once admonishing a grand jury: “Democracy has two Excesses to avoid, the Spirit of Inequality, which leads to Aristocracy, and the Spirit of Extreme Equality which leads to Despotic power.” Painting by James Sharples. Photograph courtesy of Mr. and Mrs. Victor Notarangelo.


[Page 42]
6 September 20, 1777 of a very Important action which happened on the eleventh Instant on the Heights near Brandywine Creek. 1 Ever since we have been in Constant Expectation of another General Engagement, and not free from apprehensions from the Consequences. I for my own part would be at ease could I confide in the Abilities of our Superior General officers, for I had Occular proof that our Troops are very good. The Question for adjournment from Philadelphia was dayly agitated in Congress, but always overruled. On the Night before last it received a compleat decision. Intelligence was received from the General Officer Commanding on Schuylkill that the Enemy were then attempting to cross and that they could not be prevented, and avising the Congress immediately to remove from the City. The movement was made not by a vote but by universal Consent, for every Member Consulted his own particular safety. I was wakened by a Servant about two oClock and tho’ I lost no time in preparing to depart, yet I did not chuse to retreat with precipitation. I was not indeed fully persuaded of the Necessity of the measure, and not very Apprehensive for my personal Safety. About sunrise I crossed the Delaware and made my retreat hither where I shall wait the Issue of a Battle. It is now well known that the Alarm was groundless. No Enemy has yet passed, nor do’s it appear that they will be able to pass. I have the Honor to be, Sir your very obdt Servt, Tho Burke RC (NN). i See Burke to Caswell, September 17, 1777. James Lovell to William Whipple? Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 20 Sept. 1777. My evil genius tempted me back into this Sodom after I had break fasted yesterday morning with the other night fugitives at Bristol, I was sure the alarm was not sufficient, though given by the General’s aid de camp Hamilton, who said his horse was shot, and one of his oarsmen, and that the enemy could throw a body of troops into the city before morning. I had left some linen in this place and expected some things by a waggon which left Boston the 25th ult, and I had a prospect of serving several gentlemen besides Col R. H. Lee whom I much esteem; therefore to this vile place I returned, and in the last evening had my pocket book stolen with 260 dollars and your tickets, with sundry other papers. I have gained a hint of the book and almanac which were found on a wharf below the Coffee House. It is in possession of a light horse man at Mount Holley in the Jersies, who picked it up in company with a man now in this place. I know not the number of your tickets nor any description, as they


[Page 51]
September 24, 1777 15 of Patapsco River at 1 o Clock the 18th, twenty or thirty ships having passed down several days before. He judged Baltimore to be rendered so safe hereby that he intended to send a few additional companies of militia to join Gen. Washington. He also acquainted Govr. Henry to the movement of the ships that the Virginia militia then collected might march so as to be useful in case Howe should move but slowly or we should be unfortunate. Are you not astonished in New England at hearing that the enemy have marched 70 miles, that their ships are rounding the Cape of Cheseapeak to come the Delaware and that day after day passes without even a skirmish? I dare not be more minute as to the causes than only to tell you that the Philadelphians them selves say “it would not be so in New England, every stone wall would rattle about their ears.” I hope, however, you will not give the least entertainment to despair of precious cause. Consider that Galloway, the Allens &c are conducting the enemy thro the most torified tracts assisted by Sherrifs of counties who know all the paths accurately, while our worthy Chief is intirely among foes, who will not or friends who dare not act the part of spies for him. Should the enemy be coming down on this side of Schuylkill from Sweed’s ford or higher up the case will be altered, the roads known and the people some what faithful to him. Commodore Hazlewood expected to have had a chance of burning some of the Enemy’s Ships last Saturday morning. He fell down the River over night, but his object slipped away, perhaps with intend [intent] to draw him into broad water further down than Chester, but his orders are contrary. There seems to be no want either of fireworks or Manly spirit on the Delaware. Unless there should be a fatal de ficiency of the latter on the country part Philadelphia will not go to ruin in this tryal of Sr William & My lord conjunctly. I am chagrined at not hearing from Genl. Gates 13 days. In his last, he said that “perhaps few hours will discover whether Mr. Bourgoine will risque a Battle or slip back to Tyconderoga.” That letter reached us in 3 days. You will be affected by not receiving News papers from hence. The failure of them makes a general melancholy impression. We took early care to remove types as a valuable article. I can scarcely read yr eastern papers now, the types are so blount with use. Let the people know that the Papers are not stopped by Congress to “conceal bad news” as Tories used to propagate last winter. Upon enquirey I find from Coll Hamilton that a small party of Hessians & Light Horse crossed about 18 miles up the River and there remain! Scandalous! The militia here seem to turn out only for the pay, without Intention to fight at all. Genl. Washington is at Monotamy watching the main body of the Enemy which lays at Pots- grove on the opposite bank of Schuylkill 35 miles from this. He will not expose his baggage & stores, laying in the neighbourhood of Read-


[Page 52]
16 September 24, 1777 ing, to save this City from a Fright or even Destruction, finding the Inhabitants of the State do not think it worth strugling for. The city post master slipped away last evening to Bristol, and I am suddenly called on by the postmaster of the army. Peletiah Webster who intends to remain here urged me to take from him 200 Dollars, money belonging to our State. I did it without Authority, having been bro’t to want it by a villainous Pickpocket last Friday evening, who took my Book wth. 260 Dollars and a Number of Lottery Tickets I think 15 belonging to Col. Whipple. My Family was in want before. This Blow will oblidge me to quit, here, and return speedily to seek some mode of aiding them nearer home. The Evening Post has nothing new; nor was there any thing in teresting in a packet which I reed. 3 days ago from the Hague of June 11th. 2 Both French & Dutch seem to be waiting till we are free 8c independent by our exertions, and then they will dare to feel so them selves. I am, with much Regard, Sir, Your Friend 8c humb Servt. James Lovell [P.S.] I believe the Chester Letter writer of Sepr. 12th has aggrivated the Enemy’s loss of General officers, otherwise his account is tollerable. RC (MHi). i Lovell also wrote the following brief note to William Whipple this morning. “The City was almost evacuated last night upon an alarm that the enemy were at Chestnut Hill. I was warned off, but I trust to the Delaware in my rear. I have wrote largely to Boston. You will get their papers.” Peter Force Collection, DLC. 2 Perhaps a reference to Charles W. F. Dumas’ letter of June 14, 1777, in which he reported: “Let us hear of a successful campaign, and your friends will show themselves, your partisans will multiply.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:340-41. John Adams’ Diary 1777. Thursday. Septr. 25. Rode from Bethlehem through Allan Town, Yesterday, to a German Tavern, about 18 Miles from Reading. Rode this Morning to Reading, where We breakfasted, and heard for certain that Mr. Howes Army had crossed the Schuylkill. Coll. Hartley gave me an Account of the late Battle, between the Enemy and General Wayne. 1 Hartley thinks that the Place was improper for Battle, and that there ought to have been a Retreat. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:267. 1 Adams is referring to the surprise night attack and defeat of Gen. Anthony Wayne’s force at Paoli on September 20.


[Page 53]
September 25, 1777 17 Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Father Lancaster 25th Septr. 1777. I arrived here yesterday. I believe we shall make up a Congress tomorrow. I expect the Enemy took possession of Pha. yesterday evening or this morning. If the garrison at the fort will hold out a few day perhaps Mr. Howe may repent his going into Pha. General Washington is assembling & collecting troops from all sides. His army is much broken down with their late marches but a few days rest I hope will revive their strength & spirits. Gen. Washington crossed the Schuylkill with a full intention of attacking the enemy but the great rain which fell last Wednesday prevented the battle. Our amunition got so much damaged that our army was obliged to retire to strong grounds to get fresh ammunition. I am your affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton [P.S.] A Post soon will be established between this & Baltimore town when our correspondence will be more regular & frequent. RC (MdHi). Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson My Dear Sir, Lancaster Septr. 25. 1777. I dropt You a Line from Reading the Day before yesterday, 1 I there received your Letter of the 16th. I write this by an Express Carrying orders to the Virginia Militia. I expect We shall make up a Congress before Sunday, & then I expect a regular Conveyance will be established weekly to Baltimore. 23rd Septr. 1777 “The Enemy, by a variety of perplexing Manouvres, thro a Country from which I cod. not derive the least Intelligence, being to a Man disaffected, contrived to pass the Schuylkill last Night, at the flatland &: other fords in the Neighbourhood of it. They marched immediately towards Philada & I imagine their advanced parties will be near that City to Night. They had so far got the Start before I reced certain Intelligence that any considerable Number had crossed, that I found it in vain to think of overtaking their Rear with Troops harrassed as ours had been with constant Marching since the Battle of Brandewyne, & therefore concluded by the advice of all the General officers to march from this place (near Potts Grove) tomorrow Morn ing towards Philadelphia, & on the Way endeavor to form a Junction with the Continental Troops under General McDougal from Peeks kill & the Jersey Militia under Genl. Dickinson, both of whom are,


[Page 58]
22 September 27, 1777 French. Mr. Peters moreover informs me that to his certain knowl edge several of these cartridges boxes were converted by the soldiers into cantenes & by some officers into shaving boxes. Commissary Flowers also acquainted me that there are now at Carlile upwards of 2000 tin cartridges boxes: if these are wanted in the army they may be immediately sent for. I am sorry to observe that two officers in high command in our army are said to be much addicted to liquor: what trust, what con fidence can be reposed in such men? They may disconcert the wisest & best laid plans: such men ought to be removed from their command 8c the army, for their example, besides the mischief which may be occasioned by a clouded & muddled brain, will have a pernicious in fluence on others: but how are they to be removed from their command? 1 1 could wish to know your Excellencys Sentiments on this Subject. The interest of the best 8c most glorious cause ought not to be sacrificed to a false delicacy: these are not times to put into competition the interests of a few with those of a great community. Nothing but severe punishments will, in my opinion, make the Commissaries 8c quartermasters attentive to their duty: your Excel lency has the power, and I hope will not want the will to punish such as deserve punishment. I hope your Excellency will excuse the freedom of this Letter; my Zeal for our country or my wishes for your Success have impelled me to write thus freely on a subject which claims all your attention, the reformation of the army 8c of the abuses prevalent in the two important departments of the Quarter Master 8c Commissary General. I am with much esteem, Yr. Excel lencys most obedt. hum. Servt. Ch. Carroll Carrollton RC (DLC). i Carroll probably had in mind Maj. Gens. William Alexander and Adam Stephen. Stephen was dismissed from the service, for drunkenness and un officerlike conduct at the battle of Germantown, on November 20, 1777. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:89. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Sir Lancaster Sepr. 27. 1777 I did myself the Honor of writing Your Excellency a few days ago from Philadelphia, since which Congress have been obliged to De camp, Genl. How having by many different Maneouvers got between Our Army 8c the City, 8c can when he pleases take possession of it. But it seems his intention is to Come to another Battle with Our Army first. Genl. Washington will in a day or two be reinforced with 1500 Regulars under Genl. McDugal from Peekskiin 8c 2000 Virginians 8c we hope will be able to Circumvent Howes schemes. Should he meet with a severe Check now, his Scituation will be rendered uneasy to


[Page 59]
September 27, 1777 23 Lancaster, Pennsylvania


[Page 63]
September 30, 1777 27 John Adams to Abigail Adams York Town Pensylvania, My best Friend Septr. 30. 1777 Tuesday It is now a long Time, since I had an Opportunity of writing to you, and I fear you have suffered unnecessary Anxiety on my Ac count. In the Morning of the 19th Inst., the Congress were allarmed, in their Beds, by a Letter from Mr. Hamilton one of General Wash ingtons Family, that the Enemy were in Possession of the Ford over the Schuylkill, and the Boats, so that they had it in their Power to be in Philadelphia, before Morning. The Papers of Congress, belonging to the Secretary’s Office, the War Office, the Treasury Office, &c. were before sent to Bristol. The President, and all the other Gentlemen were gone that Road, so I followed, with my Friend Mr. Merchant of Rhode Island, to Trenton in the Jersies. We stayed at Trenton, untill the 21 when We set off, to Easton upon the Forks of Delaware. From Easton We went to Bethlehem, from thence to Reading, from thence to Lancaster, and from thence to this Town, which is about a dozen Miles over the Susquehannah River. Here Congress is to sit. In order to convey the Papers, with safety, which are of more Im portance than all the Members, We were induced to take this Circuit, which is near 180 Miles, whereas this Town by the directest Road is not more than 88 Miles from Philadelphia. This Tour has given me an Opportunity of seeing many Parts of this Country, which I never saw before. This Morning Major Throop arrived here with a large Packett from General Gates, containing very agreable Intelligence, 1 which I need not repeat, as you have much earlier Intelligence from that Part than We have. I wish Affairs here wore as pleasing an Aspect. But alass they do not. I shall avoid every Thing like History, and make no Reflections. However, General Washington is in a Condition tolerably respect able, and the Militia are now turning out, from Virginia, Maryland and Pensilvania, in small Numbers. All the Apology that can be made, for this Part of the World is that Mr. Howes march from Elke to Philadelphia, was thro the very Regions of Passive obedience. The whole Country thro which he passed, is inhabited by Quakers. There is not such another Body of Quakers in all America, perhaps not in all the World. I am still of Opinion that Philadelphia will be no Loss to Us. I am very comfortably situated, here, in the House of General Roberdeau, whose Hospitality has taken in Mr. S[amuel] A[dams], Mr. G[erry] and me. My Health is as good as common, and I assure you my Spirits not the worse for the Loss of Philadelphia. Biddle in the Continental Frigate at S. Carolina has made a noble Cruise and taken four very valuable W.I. Prizes.


[Page 64]
28 September 80, 1777 Continue to write me by the Post, and I shall pay my Debts. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:849-50. i The packet of letters brought by Maj. Robert Troup included Gen. Horatio Gates’ September 22 letter containing news of the battle at Freeman’s Farm. See JCC, 8:756-57. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dr Sir, York. Septr. 30 1777, Tuesday Noon Since Writing to You this Morning 1 Congress have received Letters from Genl. Gates, the same in Substance 8c almost in the words of Wilkinsons Letter. Inclosed is the List of our Loss. Gates has above 7000 effective Rank 8c file, above 2,000 Militia are marching to rein force him. Adieu, Y[our]s, S Chase RC (MdHi). 1 Not found. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, York Town in Pennsylvania Sepr. 30th. 1777. Since my departure from Philadelphia, I have to acknowledge the receipt of your favrs. to 23d Inst. I met the Congress on Saturday last at Lancaster, 8c upon consultation it was judged most prudent to adjourn to this place, where we now are 8c where we can deliberate 8c prosecute business without interruption, 8c where your dispatches will meet us. I have just now reciev’d by general Gates’s Aid de Camp (Major Troup) sundry Letters, Copies of which I have the honour to inclose you, by which it appears that our affairs in the northern department wear a favourable aspect, and I hope soon to transmit you an Account of an issue to the contest in that quarter. I wish soon to receive the most pleasing accounts from you, we are in daily expectation of agreeable tidings, 8c that Genl. Howe is totally reduced. I beg leave to refer you to the inclosed papers, and am with the utmost respect 8c esteem, Sir, your most Obedt. 8c very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] Inclos’d I send you a South Carolina Paper, by which you will See the Success Capt Biddle in the Frigate Randolph has met, which when you have perus’d, I ask the favr. you will please to order to be Deliver’d to Coll. Pinkney of South Carolina, who is at Camp, 8c


[Page 65]
September 30, 1777 29 whose the paper is, I requested it of the South Carolina delegates first to be sent to you. RC (DLC). In a clerical hand, with signature and postscript by Hancock. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Dear Sir. York Town Pennsylvania Sept 30. 1777 I take the liberty to inform your Excellency that Congress have at last fixed themselves in this Town, where they in all probability will remain for some time. An express has been this day received from Genl Gates, who informs Congress of an action which happened on the 19th Instant, within three miles of Stillwater, between our army under his command and that of the Enemy under Genl Burguoyn. It continued several hours, but night put a stop to it. Both armies retreated to their Encampments leaving the field to be again disputed on another day. The left wing of our Army was only engaged against the whole of the British and most of the Foreign Troops. A heavy and brisk fire was kept up on both sides, we had 2 Lieut Colls, 3 Captains, 3 Subs, 2 Sergeants, 2 drummers and phifers, and 51 rank & file killed. Several officers and 180 odd wounded. The Enemy’s loss was very considerable supposed to be at least 1200 killed and wounded. It is said by Prisoners and Deserters that Genl Burguoin received a wound in his shoulder. His situation is so very critical that we have the most sanguine expectation of hearing in a few days of his meeting with a total defeat. Genl Lincoln has taken by a party sent from his army 200 Battailions [i.e. Batteaux] on lake George and Lake Champlaine, upwards of 200 prisoners with their arms, and released 100 of our men who were prisoners in that Quarter, and it is sup posed a successful attack will be made on Ticonderoga very soon. I wish I had it in my power to give your Excellency as pleasing an account of our affairs in this Quarter, Genl Howe is, or can be in possession of Philadelphia when he pleases. Genl Washington’s army are upon Schuylkill, betwixt Reading & Philadelphia, a reinforce ment of 1500 Regulars under Genl. McDugal has joined him, and upwards of 2000 Virginians are on their march for the same purpose. And it is believed Genl Washington will march to Philadelphia, or near it, and that another general Battle will be fought in a few days. The Enemy are not as yet in possession of the River. Our Troops and armed Vessels intend to defend the Fort to the last extremity. A firing was heard on Saturday last, which continued some hours, sup posed to be between some of the Enemy’s ships and the Fort. The particulars have not as yet been received by Congress. I shall be very happy to receive a line from you as often as you can find leisure.


[Page 67]
September 30, 1777 31 as I am satisfied in many instances it must yours but where I was satisfied the public good wod. result from the measure, I shod, en deavour to stifle those emotions of Humanity and Tenderness for individual distress, which in different circumstances wod. claim my attention and benevolence. In times like the present and in situations like ours, Rigour to internal Foes is absolutely necessary, and I think has been too long delayed. To Friends I wod afford every possible support and protection, to Tories and equivocal Characters I wod. yield the measure meeted by the Enemey to our Friends. I think this is the general Sentiment of our Body, and of almost every Whig I converse with. How far you can prevail on yourself to carry them into execution your own feelings must determine. The right of retaliation cannot be disputed, and it is equally just and wise to benefit ourselves of those necessaries wch. it is probable shod, we neglect to do so, may advantage the Enemy. In pursuing this line individuals may suffer hardship, but it is a sacrifice our friend shod, willingly make in the general good. Pray excuse these loose thoughts, I offer them with freedom. You are equally free to disregard them. Success and happi ness attend you. Yr. affect Servt. Jos. Jones [P.S.] Gibsons Battalion came in today. They are but thin. RC (DLC). i Washington’s September 17 letter, in which he declined Jones’ offer to buy his carriage but urged his fellow Virginian to use it, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:232-33. See also Jones to Washington, September 14, 1777. 2 In a September 27 letter to the commanding officer of Virginia militia at Lancaster, Washington ordered one thousand of those “best Armed and equipped for the Season” to join his army immediately and suggested that those without arms might return home. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:273-74. In an attempt to help a Virginia militia battalion secure needed arms, Richard Henry Lee sent this brief request from “Susquehannah” on the 28th to William Henry, deputy commissary and treasurer of Lancaster County, Pa.: "This will be delivered you by Major Picket of the Virginia Militia, many of whose men are unarmed and must be supplied out of the 500 stand that you proposed to collect. As these are good men, they ought to have good arms, and I entreat you Sir to furnish them, if in your power, to the satisfaction of Major Picket.’’ PMHB 11 (1887): 502. Some arms must have been supplied because by Washington’s gen eral orders of October 8 William Pickett’s battalion was attached to Gen. William Woodford’s brigade. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:341. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son 1 York Town, 30 Septm 1777 I thank you for your late favors under the 24th 8c 26th & wait for one in return to a Letter which I sent from Reading 2 by the hand of Colonel Hartley at whose House I have apartments & am now writing. Perfectly satisfied that you will be guardian of the better parts,


[Page 69]
September 30, 1777 33 8c reputation are deeply Interested, be your present views 8c feelings what they may. To the Letters above mentioned I add one from Harry. 4 On his Account I likewise wish to see you, I would wish now to remove him from England to a foreign School perhaps a military Academy, or if practicable to America. From Charles Town I have Letters scarcely a month old, as late as 1st September, but have learnt nothing extraordinary, for nothing is so in the line of some Mens conduct. General Gadsden moved by means of the Chief Justice in August the House of Assembly to enquire into the nature of General Howe’s appointment. The House by a large majority rejected the proposi tion. The humble General immediately stripped off the Bauble as he call’d it, the Ribband, in the House, tendered his Commission to G H, who politely declines to receive it abruptly. He threw it as politely into the General’s Hat, next day he appeared in plain habit 8c the day following it was signified in Public orders that General Gadsden had resigned. What follies spring from a sensible Man. 5 This minute Mr Heyward has brought in Letters from Charles Town of the 11th Septem. Capt Biddle of the Randolph within four or five days after sailing from our port John McQueen a Volunteer on board had taken 8c carried in 4 valuable prizes, two of them Armed Vessels, 1 of 20 6-pounders, Cargoes 700 Hdds Rum 8c much Sugar 8cc intended for the gentry now in Philadelphia, these added to other late Captures carried into Charles Town shew we have taken upward of 1200 Hdds Jamaica Rum intended for the Enemy’s Army. I wish half the quantity was here for the use of our own. I am called away. Adieu my Dear son. Henry Laurens [P.S.] Did you obtain any quantity of Cloth, Blankets 8c Shoes from Philadelphia in Colo Hamilton’s expedition? Return my Letters from M L 8c H L. We must think also of Cloths for poor Benny. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). i John Laurens (1754-82), who had recently returned to America after a six- year stay in Switzerland and England. He was at this time serving as a volunteer aide to General Washington. DAB. 2 John Laurens’ September 26 letter to his father is in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 60. Laurens’ “Letter . . . from Reading’’ has not been found. 3 Martha Manning Laurens (d. 1781). 4 Henry Laurens, Jr. (1763-1821), who remained in England to continue his education throughout the War for Independence. David D. Wallace, The Life of Henry Laurens (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1915), pp. 182, 190, 365, 369, 379. 3 The feud between Gens. Christopher Gadsden and Robert Howe is discussed in Edward McCrady, The History of South Carolina in the Revolution, 1775- 1780 (New York: Macmillan Co., 1901), pp. 305-8. Congress accepted Gadsden’s resignation on October 2. JCC, 8:757.


[Page 70]
34 September 30, 1777 Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, York, State of Pensylvania, Sepr. 30th. 1777 Fryday Morning Congress left the City of Philadelphia, in Con sequence of the British Armys gaining the Banks of Schuylkill at a fording Place about 17 miles from the City, They have since possessed themselves of the City. Genl. Washington from the Enemys move ments expected they were determined to cross over at a considerable Distance further up, and indeed that they meant an Attack upon Redding where we had Considerable Stores. In short the number of fording Places it seems rendered it impracticable to hinder their pass ing. How entered the City last Thursday. Genl. Washington is ap proaching the City. His army are daily reinforcing. Genl. McDougall joind him with 1500 New Engd. Continentals & six hundred Jersey millitia. The Virginians are marching down thro’ this Town daily with great Spirit. We have still the Possession of the River & have reinforced strongly Fort Island which defends the Cheveau de Frize. This with the Floating Batteries, Fire Ships and Gallies we are in Hopes will be a Defence against Hows Fleet should they attempt to come up. And Our army in the Rear must cutt off all Resources from the Enemys army, till it shall be thought expedient to make a general Attack. I think they are well disposed of, till they are better disposed of. I congratulate you Sir upon Our Successes at the Northward, and the general Prospect we have of completing a glorious Campaign. This is my Hope and this by the Blessing of Heaven I think we have the most rational Expectations of. I am Honored Sir, Yr. most obedt., humble Servt. Hy. Marchant P.S. The enclosed Letter handed to me by one of the Delegates from So. Carolina, I beg yr. particular Care of. RC (R-Ar). William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond Sir York 30 Sepr 1777 Having in a joint Letter of this Date given you an Acco. of our present Situation & the Circumstances of public Affairs in these parts, have not much to add. 1 It is long since I have heard from you or my dear Friends in Lebanon & Connecticut, which gives me much Pain. I wod gladly have come home to see 8c find how They were 8cc instead of the tedious circum round about Journey of 160 or 70 miles to this Place, had I not been sensible the Tongue of slander wod have been busie; I intended when I came from home to have returned in Octo.


[Page 71]
September 30, 1777 35 but the Events which have taken place, oblige me to postpone it a little longer, but hope to return soon, if it please God, the road may be safe, & have great hope the Affairs at the Northward will be happy which will also contribute greatly to alter their situation in this quar ter for the better. Majr. Troup, G Gates’s Aid De Camp, came in this day with Let ters from him 8cc which seem to exhillerate the Spirits of Congress, quite enow & indeed they were not too much depresd before, strongly hoping & expecting a reverse. I wish our Confidence was more placed 8c founded on the infinite Mercy 8c Goodness of God, 8c less on vain self Confidence 8c Sufficiency, but I hope God has great 8c merciful Designs for Us, notwithstandg. our infinite unworthiness. I intended at Philadelpa. to have wrote a Letter of Resignation to our Assembly, lest They shod reelect me for a Delegate (tho probably there wod have been no danger) but being driven to this Distance it may be impossible for me to get home in season especially if We shod be worsted at the Northwd 8c to be here without business wod be painful enow 8c believe I shall neglect it. They will do as they please but I have no Wish nor Design to attend again, sometime, if ever I shod be desired. 2 The People of this State appear to be very many of them, weary of the Stagnation of Business, by the shutting up the Ports whereby They have so much lost their Gain, which seems to be all the God they know 8c are disaffected to the Cause for that 8c governmental 8c other Causes. They despise Continental Money, 8c take it only thro fear, 8c most extravagant quantitys for Trifles. It is worse at Lancaster than at Phila. 8c not better here, tho I think the People are of a better Disposition in some respects. The Town complain that they suffer in the midst of great Plenty, 8c there never was greater of the precious Fruits of the Earth; but the farmers refuse to bring in or to sell, unless for Salt 8c other necessaries. They say they get a Load of wood here for one Silver Dollar, 8c must give four continental 8c so in proportion. Fine broad Cloths are £12 per yard 8cc here. I hope a heavy Tax will tend to reduce things to order which Congress will certainly recom mend very soon. A Comte had been appointed to prepare, apportion 8cc at P. but we were obliged to decamp before it was brot in. 3 Tho nothing but Success against our Enemys will effectually extricate us from the Distresses respecting our Currency 8cc into which we are plunged. May God grant us Salvation for his own great Mercy 8c Name Sake 8c enable Us to Say not unto Us 8cc for I am sure we dont deserve it. I had but a faint Idea of the wickedness of the Country till I had traveled to this Country, seen 8c heard so much of 8c from the middle 8c southern parts. Well may we admire 8c adore the infinite Patience 8c long suffering of our God. 4 RC (NN).


[Page 73]
October 1, 1777 37 larger Proportions than the Rest. We are also informed that recruit ing goes on well in Virginia 8c that a considerable Number of con tinental Troops (Recruits) are on their Way. One hundred & ten arrived this Day, but naked & unarmed & how they 8c the Rest are to be armed 8c equipped is yet a Mystery. Could not the Arms be taken from the sick 8c given to those who are well. Chester County would afford a great supply of Blanketts if they were taken from the dis affected; 8c it is to be wished Mr Mease would appoint some Place for delivering out Cloathing. Shoes are engrossed all over the Country 8c can be obtained upon no Terms but such as are extravagant except they are siezed 8c paid for at a reasonable Price. I enclose a Letter from Major Nicholas who was sent for the Arms at Springfield 8c Brookfield 8c altho it appeared from the Returns now in the Office that there were at least 6,000, your Excellency will see how difficult it has been to obtain the Number mentioned in the Letter. 2 How this can happen is difficult to determine. The Board request you will be pleased to send off Orders to Major Nicholas what he shall do with the Arms 8c any Stores he may bring. It is rather Malapropos to bring Stores into this State at this Time. General Heath should be ordered to send all the Arms he keeps for the Regts to be raised 8c let them be delivered to those which are raised. The Arms kept in Connecticut In Case of an Invasion should be ordered where there is actually an Invasion as I concieve. But no Doubt some Order will be taken in this Matter. Will your Excellency be pleased to direct what shall be done with the Recruits who cannot from all Appearances be armed 8c clothed here? As the Board meet but irregularly owing to Matters not being in a proper Train here yet, I have suggested much of this Letter to Your Excellency 8c if there be too much Haste 8c Egotism you will be pleased to excuse it 8c believe me to be with the greatest Respect Your Excellency’s very obed. 8c most hble Servt, Richard Peters P.S. By a Letter from Major Nicholas since writing the above it seems that Col. Cheevers is on his Way with 2,000 Stands of Arms beside those intended to be brought by the Major. As I have no Assistant my Deputy not being here it will prevent my Attention to the forwarding the Troops in the Manner I could wish as I am 8c shall be much en gaged in the Arrangement of the Office for a few Days when I shall be ready to execute with the greatest Industry 8c readiness any Com mands your Excellency may be pleased to honour me with. I shall forward the Troops as they arrive here to Lancaster 8c if I hear of any Difficulties there shall go thither to surmount them as far as I can. 3 RC (DLC). i Washington’s September 28 letter requesting the board to expedite the progress o£ the southern militia detachments coming to reinforce the army is in Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:277.


[Page 74]
38 October 1, 1777 2 In his September 24 letter from Lebanon, Conn., Samuel Nicholas reported that he had been able to collect only 2,600 stand of arms because General Heath was keeping 600 for regiments that “are raising” and the Connecticut governor and council were retaining most of the arms lent them “in case of invasion.” Wash ington Papers, DLC. In reaction to an earlier report from Nicholas, Richard Peters had written the following note to Washington’s military secretary Tench Tilghman on September 29: “I cannot help informing you that I have just had the Mortification to receive by Express from Springfield an Account that there are but about fifteen hundred Arms at that Place instead of Six thousand which by the Returns in the Office signed by the Commissary of Stores at that Place & at Boston appeared to be at Springfield & Brookfield. Major Nicholas who was dispatched about the Business has sent off to Boston to know what has become of the Arms. Has any been ordered by the General? or can any Account be given why Returns should be made which are not founded in Truth unless Orders have been given since the Returns. I heard Genl Knox had ordered 2,000 but know not how this Matter is. Unless the whole Conduct of the Arms & Stores are in one Body or Person we shall have a confused & flemish Account of our military Stores.” Ibid. 3 The next day Peters sent Washington the following report on this subject. “One hundred & eighteen Recruits belonging to the 2d & 4th Virginia & 2d Maryland Regiments were sent off to Day. The Returns I have the Honour to enclose you. Shoes have been furnished them but they want everything else. As I did not know where the Clothier or Commissary General’s Stores were deposited they are ordered to Reading on a Presumption that the Articles they want have been sent thither. They were so very destitute that it was thought best not to send them to the Army immediately lest they should be more an Incumbrance than otherwise. They are under the Command of a Capt Caimis of Col. Spots wood’s Regt who is ordered to send to your Excellency to know where they can be equipped. When the Clothier or Commisary Genl become Stationary it would be well for them to inform the Board, & perhaps your Excellency will be pleased to appoint some Place for all Recruits passing thro’ York or Lancaster to be sent.” Ibid. John Hancock to Dorothy Hancock York Town in Pennsylvania My Dear, Dear Dolly, 90 miles from Philada. 1st Octor. 1777 You would not wonder at my not having wrote you oftner since your Departure from Philada. if you knew my Scituation since that time. I have been in a constant hurry, & very soon after you left me our Alarms began & continued Day & night untill the morng. of the 19th Sepr. when about one oClock (& I was not in bed, nor had my Cloaths off for three Nights before) I Rec’d an Express from the General’s aid De Camp recommending the immediate Removal of Congress, as the Enemy had it in their power to throw a party that Night into the City. I instantly gave the alarm, Rous’d the Members, collected my Waggons, Horses, Carriage See and after having fix’d my Packages, Papers &c in the Waggons and Sent them off, about 3 oClock in the morning I Set off myself for Bristol, from thence by a round about course of several Days I reach’d this place, where Congress is


[Page 75]
October 1, 1777 39 now sitting. I could not come the direct Road, being prevented by the Enemy. I am very well Accommodated in point of lodging, 8c the place is pleasant enough, & if I had you with me I should be happy. After what I have mention’d of the Scenes I have pass’d thro’ since your Departure, I know you will hold me excus’d that I have not oftner wrote. 1 confess I have wrote you but once, & that by the Post under cover to Mr. Bant, which hope you Rec’d, tho’ a short one. 1 I Rec’d a Letter from Mr Burr, & was glad to find you had got safe thus far. I have Rec’d two Letters from Capt Newell, the last from New Haven where you was well which gave me much pleasure. The Day before yesterday Dodd Return’d here, and brought me your Letter from Worcester, which Rejoic’d me exceedingly, & I could wish to have been with you. I have wrote to Mr Bant 2 to Tell Mr Sprigs to have the light Chariott well look’d to & made strong, I would not have it painted, I want it well repair’d, that it may be ready if I should want it to meet me on the Road on my Return, or if I should hereafter find myself obliged to Spend the winter here, the Carriage will be ready to bring you to me, for most assuredly in that case I shall Send for you; tho’ I hope the Campaign will soon be over, & give me an Oppory of Returning home, at least for a time, but of this more hereafter. I am exceedingly well Scituated with respect to a House & Lodgings, the Lady with whom I am is a most agreeable, pleasant woman. Mr. Chace lodges in the same house 8c no others. I find my Carpets very convenient. I got all my things safe here. I have had since your Departure a Touch of the Cholick, which worried me much, I Rode in the Rain & was much wet, which beleive brought it on; and I have been sadly Afflicted with my old disorder, it has not yet left me, I am still unwell, but hope soon to be better. General Howe is beyond a Doubt in possession of Philada. tho’ I have Rec’d no particulars. If you Ask me how he came to pass our Army without a Battle, 8c get into the City, my Answer must be suspended till I receive a full Accott. of the Transactions, 8c then you shall know. It is impossible for me fully to determine as to my Stay here, but hope in my next to be able to be more certain. I wish you may have thought by the return waggon George to Send me a little Keg of pickled peppers. I want some much, but if not sent, it is no matter. I wish you to go to Bridgwater 8c pay a Visit to my Mother, 8c pray Remember me to her in the most affectionate terms, 8c to the whole Family. I will write you again in a few days, I must beg that you will improve every oppory. of writing to me, I am sure if you knew the pleasure 8c Satisfaction it gives me to hear from you, you would Seek oppors. of Gratifying me by frequent Letters. I intreat you to write, 8c desire Mr Bant to write me. Pray let the things at Mr Woodburn’s


[Page 77]
October 1, 1777 41 be Taken care of, let the Case of plate be in your lodging Chamber. I will order down the Trunk of things at Stratford, & then you can take the Stuff you want, some Waggons are going down. Remember me to all Friends as if nam’d, I have not time to be par ticular. I am surrounded with persons applying about Business, some French as usual, that I must close, and Defer untill the next Letter what I have further to Say. I long to See you, 8c hope for that pleasure soon. Adieu, My Dear Dolly. May a kind providence ever Guard you, 8c with my best wishes for every Good, Am, Yours most affectionately, John Hancock [P.S.] Pray Take good Care of Vilet, 8c let her spend a few days in Boston among her friends. Remember me to Mrs Homes, 8c to Mr Woodburn’s Family. To morrow I Expect Mr. 8c Mrs. Hillegas 8c the whole Family here, they are to Reside here, I Sup’d with them at Reading on my way here, and Lodg’d at Mrs. Graydon’s, they all beg’d to be Remembred to you most affectionately. If you See Doer Cooper pray Remember me to him 8c Lady, 8c to Mr W. Cooper 8c Lady, 8c to all Friends, let them know how my time is engross’d by the publick, which must be my Apology for not writing them. Do Send me all the Newspapers, 8c everything stirring. RG (RPB-JH). Addressed: “To Mrs. Hancock, To the Care of Mr. William Bant, who is requested to forward it by a special Messenger to whatever place Mrs. Hancock may be.” 1 Probably Hancock’s September 17 letter to Dorothy. 2 Not found. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town Octr. 1 1777 General Gates’s Letters with enclosures to Congress Per express this day are refered to the Committee of Intelligence for publication and will be sent this Afternoon to Lancaster for that purpose, 1 therefore transcripts are less necessary, but I would furnish them for the satis faction of Council if I was not very unwell, as thereby they might be furnished with the news a few hours sooner. The Express give a verbal account that two Spys were decoied by some Continental Troops round our Genl. Clinton’s Quarters habited like unto the Brittish Soldiers for the very purpose. The Spy’s asked when they landed, they were told the day before—where Gen. Clinton was, for they had some thing to communicate, they were told they should be counducted to him—when they came into his presence,


[Page 80]
44 October 2, 1777 William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. W Williams Obedt, 2d Oct [1777] Thursday Since the above Mr Brown is arrived by whom I have the Pleasure & Honor of your kind Favour, 8c rejoyce to hear of Your, & the Welfare of my dear Friends. Have had nothing directly from Genl Washington these 2 or 3 Days, but hear he has approached nearer to Howe probably a most important Action will soon insue. Also that the Enemy have taken the Delaware Frigate in the River, not by their Ships which had not been able to get up but that the Master who commanded her (dont know his Name) came up to the Wharf, 8c tis supposed gave or sold her. With her help I expect they will demolish the other Ships 8c Fire Craft 8cc 8cc which were confident of defending the river, near the Cheavaux de Frize 8c soon have their Fleet in possession of it. If true, language cant express my Feelings towd the accursed Villain. 1 Capt Biddle of the Randolph, has just carrd in to Charlestown S. Cara 4 important Prizes, one of 20 Gun, with 700 puncheons of rum, 8c 300 Hds Sugar 8cc, the rest very valuable. Please to acknowledge for me, to Genl Huntington, Mr Sherman 8c Mr Hosmer the receipt of their very agreable Favors. I regret that I cod not answer Them, but my Colleagues obliged me to write so much 8cc it was impossible, in the Intervals of Congress, meeting now twice a day. 2 Mr Law writes Mr. Hosmer, my respectful Compliments attend them, 8c the other Gentlemen 8c very kindly accept Mr Wales’s Compliments, in Col Dyers Letter. May the God of all Mercy appear for our help &: Salvation, 8c the Glory be his only 8c forever. I have not room to add, but that I am now 8c ever, with the greatest Respect 8c affection, your dutiful 8c most [P.S.] My most Friendly 8c sincere Compliments to Col. Jos. T., Bror Davd. 8c Jona. if at home. Tho I dont often mention, tis not because I ever forget my hond 8c dear Mother Trumbull. RC (NN). A continuation of Williams to Trumbull, September 30, 1777. i The Delaware had been captured after running aground. See Marine Com mittee to Charles Alexander, September 26, 1777, note. 2 It was resolved on October 1 “That, until further order, Congress shall meet precisely at ten o’clock a.m. sit to one, then adjourn to four, p.m.: then to meet and proceed on business.’’ JCC, 8:756.


[Page 85]
October 5, 1777 49 James Lovell to Robert Treat Paine Dear Sir, York Octr. 3d 1777 Removed thus far more distant from you than the Head Quarters of our Army, you cannot expect so early Intelligence of military movements from me as from Persons near the General. Indeed I can acquaint you with nothing at this Time only that Congress is thrown within the Department of the Commissary of the Army for Support of itself, its Officers in various Boards, its Servants 8c Horses. 1 Mr. Howe will want Burgoine’s Assistance this Winter as a Writer of Comedies in Philadelphia, for, in Philadelphia I fear he will remain from the best Judgements I could form of Things as I passed into the Neighbourhood of our Army in my Rout from Philadelphia hither. If you have more pleasing Expectations excited by Letters from Head Quarters I wish not to deprive you of the Satisfaction of them by my Forebodings. I hope yr. Privateers will pick up some Transport with Shoes 8c other Necessaries for the Army which by the late Marches 8c Counter marches thro Brook, Creeks, Rivers, Bushes, Swamps and the whole Variety of rocky Ground is much tattered I assure you. I think more so than they would have been in 3 or 4 pitched Battles. Our main Hope is the northern Army. By their Valour New England may enjoy a comfortable Winter. I wish it most sincerely, and am, Dear Sir, yr. Friend 8c humb Servt. James Lovell RC (MHi). 1 The delegates’ inability to obtain adequate personal supplies in York led them on October 2 to resolve that commissary and quartermaster officials should provide “such articles ... as may be required by the several members [o£ Con gress], for the use of themselves, their servants and horses, the said members paying the cost of the said articles; and that this resolution extend to the secretaries, treasurer and the officers of the several boards and committees of Congress.’’ JCC, 8:760. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, York 5th Oct. 1777. My last gave you an account of the fight between Gates 8c Burgoyne; we have not reed, since any news from that quarter from whence I presume Burgoyne did not renew his attack between the 19th 8c 20th for had another battle been fought in that interval the news would have reached Congress before this time; and I also con clude from this inaction of Burgoyne that his army must have suffered considerably in the conflict of the 19th, 8c perhaps he himself may


[Page 88]
52 October 5, 1777 Enemy lost in killed and wounded 1970; besides Desertions & those who fell in skirmishes before & since. General Washington’s Army is movd down near German Town. When his Reinforcements are arrived he will endeavour to repair his past misfortunes & I sincerely hope I maybe able to send you some more agreable Intelligence than At present in my power. General St Clair is neither tried nor Arraigned. How can it be ex pected in the critical situation of our Affairs: & when his Hearing is to be preceeded by the Report of a Committee who are to collect materials from A Variety of distant Sources for the purpose? With respect to yourself I think you have determined wisely: I advise you however to write a civil Letter to Congress requesting them to give you a Copy of your Charge and assign a day for the Hearing, hinting that a delay in your painful Situation is a Severity which you neither merit from your Country, nor have any Reason to expect from Congress. 1 Give my Compls to Maj. H.B. Livingston & tell him he is promoted to the Rank of Lieut Colonel as is Col. Troup for the news from the northern Army. 2 I shoud first have said that a Monument is ordered to be erected in Honour of the Memory of Genl Herkimer—Genl Stark advancd to the Rank of Brig. Genl, in the Continental service. Gansevoort has the Thanks of Congress; & is appointed Col. Com- modant of Fort Schuyler—Willet the Thanks of Congress & a Sword. Present my Compls to Mrs. Schuyler, the young Ladies & all our Friends, and believe me to be, Dear Sir, with great Regard, Your most Obed & very huml Servant, Jas Duane P.S. What became of my Crop? Were the Barrack’s or Barn finished? Where is J Ellice? I have not a word about my Farm; & am banished (contrary to the promises of them who prevaild on me to come to this State) already six tedious months. Am I never to be relievd? RC (NN). i For a discussion of the congressional investigation of Generals St. Clair and Schuyler, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 2 See JCC, 9:769-70. President Hancock informed Henry Brockhoist Livings ton and Robert Troup of their promotions in brief letters that he wrote to them on October 5 and 6 respectively. PCC, item 12A, fols. 285, 294. James Duane to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir York Town 5h Octobr. 1777 Your Letter to Congress has been read 8c refered to the Board of Treasury. 1 I coud not however lose a moment in assuring you that you have reced a very wrong Impression from the Report to which you refer: There is no Officer in the Continental Service who stands


[Page 89]
October 5, 1777 53 higher than yourself in the Esteem of the Board of Treasury & of Congress in general: & the Board will at all times be pleasd to give you every honourable testimonial in Justification of your Conduct. To me be assurd it will be a singular pleasure. You will have some thing more formal on this Subject soon. In the mean believe that I am, with very great Respect, Dear Sir, Your most Obedt, huml Sert, Jas. Duane RC (CtHi). 1 On October 2 Congress read a September 20 letter from Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., deputy paymaster general in the northern department, complaining about a September 6 resolve which expressed disapproval of "the stoppages made by [Trumbull], out of the pay of the troops in that department on account of clothing.” Congress referred this letter to the Board of Treasury, of which Duane was chairman, but otherwise took no action on it. See JCC, 8:716, 758; and PCC, item 78, 22:529-30. John Hancock to Peter Gansevoort Sir, York Town: Pennsylvania. Octr. 5th. 1777. It is with Pleasure I comply with the Order of Congress in trans mitting the enclosed Resolve, in which you will percieve they have voted Thanks to you, and to the officers & Troops under your Command for the Bravery & Perseverance which were displayed in the Defence of Fort Schuyler. In Consideration of your gallant Behaviour the Congress have been pleased to appoint you Colonel Commandant of the Fort. 1 I must beg you will please to communicate to the Officers & Troops under your Command this distinguished Mark of the Approbation of their Country. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obed. 8c very hble Servt. J.H. Presidt LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Colonel Gansevoort, Colo. Commandt. of Fort Schuyler.” 1 See JCC, 9:771. This day Hancock also wrote a letter to Col. Marinus Willet of New York, informing him that Congress had decided to present him with “an elegant Sword” in recognition of “the Successful Sally you made on the Enemy while they invested Fort Schuyler.” Berg Collection, NN; PCC, item 12A, fol. 287; and JCC, 9:771-72. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, York Town: Pennsylvania, Octr. 5th. 1777. I have been duely honored with your Favours of the 22d ulto. by Major Troup (accompanied with sundry Inclosures) and immediately


[Page 90]
54 October 5, 1777 communicated to Congress the very agreeable Intelligence it con tained. The Success of our Arms in the late Repulse of Genl. Burgoyne, and the favourable aspect of Affairs in your Quarter, gave the highest Pleasure to Congress. They have particularly, as you will find by the enclosed Resolves, expressed their warmest approbation of the Bravery and Conduct of the Troops under your Command in the late Engage ment with the British Army under Genl. Burgoyne, and I must beg you will communicate to them the Sense of their Country with Regard to their Behaviour on that Occasion. 1 I entertain the most pleasing Expectation that from your Vigilance, Spirit, & Activity, the Army of the United States, will be ere long crowned with full & complete Victory over the Enemies of America, & the Rights of Mankind, in the Department committed to your Care. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the enclosed Resolves, and, wishing you every private and public Prosperity, I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. &: very hble Serv. J.H. Presid P.S. Octr. 7th. Since writing the foregoing Congress have passed sevl. other Resolves which I enclose. They have also received a Letter from Genl. Putnam, a Copy of which with the Resolve in Consequence thereof I forward to you. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 9:770. 2 On October 6 Congress read a September 29 letter from Gen. Israel Putnam reporting that 3,000 British and German troops had recently arrived in New York City, that the British were apparently preparing to attack Peekskill, and that he needed reinforcements to defend this post. PCC, item 159, fols. 99-100. Con sequently, on the same day Congress approved resolves asking Generals Gates and Washington to adopt the measures they deemed necessary to cope with these developments. Congress also adopted a resolve on the 6th concerning Gates’ objections to certain financial claims in the northern department. JCC, 9:773-74, 776. John Hancock to Robert Morris Dear Sir, York, 5th Octr, 1777. The Business allotted me by Congress after sitting till 9 o’clock last evening prevents me the honour and pleasure of waiting on you agreeable to your kind invitation and my wish. I have expresses going to Genl Gates, Genl Putnam and to Head Quarters: which makes me very busy. The Inclos’d Letters for you and Coll Harrison I have just rec’d & judging it would be agreeable to you both to have them soon, I therefore dispatch one of my Expresses with them. I have not a word


[Page 99]
October 6, 1777 63 Delaware below, and have hopes of keeping it, so as to prevent the British fleet from getting up to the City. Should this be the case Genl. Howe’s visit cannot be of long duration. You say that “the vessels of the United States will be received at the Havannah as those of France, the most favored nation.’’ 2 We wish to be exactly informed whether north American products may be car ried thither, or Prizes taken to, & disposed of in that port, or any other port of his catholic Majesty in America. You likewise mention a late Draught of the Mississippi taken for the Government of Gr. Britain. We are desirous of being furnished with a copy. It is with pleasure we read your assurance of sending the soldiers cloathing and other materials for the army, in time to meet the approaching cold season. They will be greatly wanted. As the degree of success the enemy have met with this year will probably support the hopes of a vindictive court, and occasion the straining of every Nerve for the accomplish ment of its tyrannic views, we doubt not your most strenuous exer tions to prevent Gr. Britain from obtaining Russian or German Aux iliaries for the next campaign; And we think with you that it is an object of great importance to cultivate & secure the friendship of his Prussian Majesty, as well for the preventing this evil, as for obtaining his public recognition of our Independence, and leave of his ports for the purposes of commerce & disposal of Prizes. The original Papers which you mention in a triplicate to have sent, never came to hand; so that we can only make conjectures as to the disposition of that Monarch. 3 The marine force of the enemy is so considerable, in these seas, & so overproportionate to our infant navy, that it seems quite necessary and wise to send our ships to distress the commerce of our enemies in other parts of the world. For this purpose, the marine committee have already ordered some vessels to France under your directions as to their future operation, and we expect more will be sent. 4 But our Frigates are not capable of carrying much bulky commodity for com mercial purposes, without unfitting them for war, besides the con sideration of our being obliged to get them away how & when we can or endanger their being taken, which prevents our sending them to those Staple Colonies where the commodities wanted are to be ob tained. The reciprocal benefits of Commerce cannot flow from or to N. America until some maritime power in Europe will aid our cause with marine strength; and this circumstance gives us pain, least it should be considered on our part as unwillingness to pay our debts, when the truth is that we have the greatest desire of doing so, have materials in abundance, but not the power of conveying them. This leads us to reflect on the great advantages that must unavoidably accrue to all parties if France &: Spain were to afford effectual aid on the Sea, by loan or sale of Ships of war, according to the former pro positions of Congress; or, if the Farmers General could be prevailed


[Page 101]
October 6, 1777 65 tract from coming to America; because the suspension of the question concerning vacant lands will not obstruct his views of getting the quantity he may want, either by original entry, or by purchase on the most reasonable terms upon the frontiers of those states where vacant lands are in abundance to be met with. We are warranted to say that such rank, as that Nobleman may have when he leaves service in Europe will be granted to him here. Congress clearly discern with you the all important concern of sup porting the credit of our continental money, and, with this view, have proposed, as you will see by the inclosed resolve to pay the interest of twenty millions of dollars by bills drawn on you. This we hope will in time replenish the Loan Offices so effectually, as, with the aid of taxation now generally taking place, to prevent the necessity of future emissions. 3 By your letter of the 25th of May we have no doubt but that those bills will be paid with all due punctuality. 4 About 5 millions only of the twenty voted are yet borrowed, and the interest on these 5 will not to be drawn for in bills of exchange till near a twelve month. We are, Gentlemen, Your humble Servants. Benja Harrison Richard Henry Lee Robt Morris James Lovell Jno Witherspoon Thos. Heyward Junr. RC (PPAmP). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Harrison, Heyward, Lee, Morris, and Witherspoon. t The commissioners’ letter of May 26 dealing with the appropriation of vacant land has not been found. 2 The question of the ownership and control of western lands had been de bated many times. Efforts to give Congress exclusive control over the western boundaries of the states in the Articles of Confederation were conclusively de feated on October 15, 1777. JCC, 9:806-9. s The committee undoubtedly enclosed the September 10 resolve authorizing the payment of interest on loan office certificates in bills of exchange drawn on the American commissioners at Paris. JCC, 8:730-31. 4 The commissioners’ May 25 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:322-25. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir, York Town in Pennsylva. 6th Octr 1777 I am favoured with yours of Sepr. 15th 1 & suppose that eer this will reach You the Orders of the Commercial Committee, 2 for the Disposal of the several Cargoes consigned to You by Messers Gardoquis, will be received. The Anchors &: Cordage will of Course be delivered to your navy Board; & with respect to the Duck, Medicines, & Salt, I


[Page 102]
66 October 6, 1777 think it will be the surest Way, to deliver to the Board what is im mediately wanted of each, & inform Congress thereof, together with the Necessity that led to this Measure. My Reason for this proposal is that the Disposition already made of these Cargoes, will require a Reconsideration, wch Committees as well as Congress are generally averse to: whereas, there will be no Difficulty in approving your Con duct, when evidently founded on the Necessity of the Case. The Blankets, I fear, cannot be spared from the army. A timely application to the marine Board for such other Articles as may be wanted, which should be particularly enumerated, will produce the Order which You desire. Since my last, some of the Important Events that have taken place, prove, that those of war are very uncertain. From Circumstances whether favourable or unfortunate, We are apt to expect similar Consequences; & the reverse frequently happens; from whence We may learn, in Times of prosperity, Caution, & of Adversity, persever ance & a firm Resolution not to despond. The Loss of Philadelphia, which In the End I think will be a salutary Event, is owing under providence to several Causes. The Misbehaviour of the Militia of Pennsylvania is one, & is attributed to the Militia Act, which invests the people with the power of appointing the regimental officers. Be the Cause what it may, nothing could equal their Timidity; As I am informed by some of the principal Inhabitants of the State that twenty five Hessians put to Flight two Regiments at the Battle of the Brandywine, & that when the General ordered them to supply the place of a Brigade, which he had ordered from Chads Ford to rein force General Sullivan at Jones Ford, they refused to comply with his orders from apprehensions of Danger, & by those means put the Enemy in Possession of our Lines, wch they would not have at tempted to attack, had they been properly manned. Another Cause is said to have been the Circumstance of the Country thro which the Enemy marched to the City, it being inhabited by Tories, who gave the best of Intelligence to the Enemy, 8c deceived General Washing ton. These are undoubted Facts, 8c by the best Information that I can get, there is not such a Collection of disaffected people on the Con tinent, as of the quakers inhabiting that part of Pennsylvania. The Disputes about the Constitution of this State, have produced such a Division & Torpor thro out the same, as renders it at present an inac tive, lifeless, unwieldy, Mass. Thus much for this State; 8c the Militia of Maryland 8c Delaware are but little better, but the principal Cause of their obtaining the City without a second Battle, which at the Time of my writing my last Letter was hourly expected, was a heavy rain that happened on the Day of the Meeting of the Armies, 8c after their advanced parties were engaged; this obliged them to retire, 8c the Baggage of our Army was so far distant, that the Tents could not be procured; by which Means all the Ammunition of the Soldiers was


[Page 103]
October 6, 1777 67 destroyed, their Arms hurt, & the Army so injured, that they were under the Necessity of marching the next Day twenty Miles into the Country to avoid a Battle; which must have been fought on our Side by Bayonets & Artillery only. But I am apprehensive, that the Vanity of the southern States, which has produced such Instances of Invec tive against the eastern officers & Troops whenever they have misbe haved, stimulated them to oppose General Howe with as little Assistance as possible from the eastern States, that they might have had the Opportunity of boasting how much the united States owed their Liberties to the southern, who opposed themselves to the main Army of the Enemy. This I am led to beleive, from the Declarations that were made previous to the Battle of the Brandywine, & likewise from the Neglect to draw off more Troops from Peeks Kill when the Enemy landed at Elk; but since the late Occurrences, Reason seems to have taken place, the eastern officers Sc Troops are highly spoken of, the others indifferently by their own People, 8c I hope that each will be convinced, that a party Spirit is not Only unprofitable but destruc tive to both. Generals Washington 8c Mifflin are however ever averse to such a Spirit. We have heard from the northern Army 8c I congratulate You on the Success of Colo Brown, 8c the good Conduct of our Troops in the Action of the 19th Sepr; We are in daily Expectation of some decisive Action in that Quarter, which may be very important. By a Letter from General Putnam of the 29th Sepr. he supposed that a Reinforcement of three thousand Men had arrived at New York 8c that more were expected; if so, we must increase our Exertions to meet the most vigorous Efforts 8c perhaps the last that our Enemies can make. He reed his Information from one of our field officers which he has lately exchanged, but I strongly suspect 8c hope that it will turn out to be a Feint, 8c that the Transports were sent from the Enemy’s Fleet, when they arrived at the Capes of Virginia, for this purpose. A Fleet consisting of sixty Sail was seen the 25th of August in the Latitude of the Capes, standing with the Wind at S S E to the Eastward, 8c is probably the same that arrived at New York, but You will undoubtedly be able to ascertain the Fact, by the Time this reaches You. General Washington on the Morning of the 4th Instant about 1/2 past 5 surprized the Enemy’s Camp at German Town; the particulars We have not yet reed or a Line from the General; but a Mr McClure who is a reputable Citizen of Baltimore, 8c as a Volunteer was in both the Actions of Prince Town 8c the Brandywine, 8c also in this, declares that it by far exceeds the others. By his Account our army advanced in three Divisions, the left of which did not come up for Reasons unknown, the other two attacked the Enemy, drove them thro German Town to their Lines, 8c attacked them therein for a con siderable Time, untill the General ordered them to retreat. The


[Page 104]
68 October 6, 1777 Carnage he says was great, 8c particularly on the side of the Enemy; General Nash is wounded, 8c General Sullivans Brigade Majors are said to be mortally wounded. I suppose his aid de Camps are in tended, the wounded were brot off, 8c a Field peice of the Enemy’s. Our Troops behaved with great Bravery. This is confirmed by a Letter wch General Mifflin, who is sick at Redding reed from an officer in his Department 8c forwarded to Congress. You will soon have more authentic accounts 8c I hope they will be agreable from this as well as other quarters. General Howe has issued a proclamation confirming his promises of protection 8c pardon to such of the Inhabitants of the middle States as remained in their Homes 8c returned to their Allegiance in Conse quence of his proclamation when he landed at Elk, 8c as shall continue to merit it by their future Behavior 8c excluded all other persons whatever from the Benefit thereof; this shews what the Consequences of a Conquest Would be, more than Volumes could do on the Sub ject. 3 With the heartiest Wishes for your Health 8c Happiness I remain sir yours very sincerely, E Gerry [P.S.] One of the Continental Ships in the Delaware was brot against the City, 8c by some Means unknown to us at present, has fallen into the Hands of the Enemy. A 20 Gun Ship, [10?] Gun Brig 8c 700 hhds Rum with abt 200 of Sugar was taken by Capt Biddle in the Randolph at So Carolina. 8th. Inclosed is a Copy of a Letter from General Washington containg an authentic Account of the action of the 4th. 4 I must beg the Favour of your requesting the Hona Assembly to send a Member to supply my place in Congress abt the 1st of December, as my Health requires some relaxation from Business. RC (MHi). i Warren’s September 15 letter to Gerry is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Cor respondence, pp. 81-82. 2 Not found. a For Gen. William Howe’s September 28 proclamation, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, No. 15324. 4 Washington’s October 5 letter to President Hancock containing an account of the battle of Germantown was read in Congress on October 8. See JCC, 9:782; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:308-11. John Hancock to John Nixon Sir, York Town: Pennsylvania, October 6th. 1777. I have received your Favour wherein you request Leave to resign on Account of Indisposition, and immediately laid it before Congress. In Consequence of which I have it in Charge to inform you that they


[Page 114]
78 October 8, 1777 never have occasion to Censure me for not keeping up to it. Pray have you paid a Visit to my Mother, I wish to hear how she enjoys her health, & how the Family is. Remember me to your Father, & the Family, and to all Friends as if nam’d. A Letter for you reach’d me yesterday. I found it inclos’d Letters for Genl St Clair with a few Lines from Mrs. Bayard. Do Take care of Violet, let her go 8c spend a little time in Boston among her Friends. I shall very soon come to a final Determination as to my future proceedings and you shall immediately be made Acquainted. My Respects to all Friends, I wish to See them. I am call’d upon 8c must Close, 8c must Defer what I have further to Say to that happy time when I shall have the Satisfaction of Seeing you, which I hope will not be long first, either at this place or at Worcester. I beg you will bear upon your mind constantly, that it gives me the highest pleasure 8c Satisfaction when I hear from you by Letter, 8c I hope that impression will produce a frequent attention to the object of it. My best wishes attend you for every Felicity 8c I am with the utmost Affection, My Dear Girl, Yours for ever, John Hancock RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Not found. John Hancock to the Massachusetts General Court Congress Chamber York Town in Pennsylva. Honble Gentlemen, October 8th. 1777 Before this reaches you, the particular Circumstances and reasons of the Departure of Congress from the City of Philadelphia must have come to your Knowledge, I shall therefore wave the Subject, and only Say that the Congress is tolerably well Accommodated in this place, and are now Conducting the Publick Business here. On Saturday last, after General Washington had made the proper Dispositions for an Attack upon General Howe’s Army, he with his Army proceeded to carry into Effect his Determination; all the par ticulars and Circumstances attending the Attack that have come to our knowledge, are contain’d in a Letter which I have this moment Rec’d by Express from General Washington, a Copy of which I have the Honour to Inclose you, 8c to which I Beg leave to Refer you. I have avail’d my self of the Orders given out by the General previous to the Attack; as also of a Proclamation lately Issued by General Howe, Copies of both I inclose you. As soon as any Material Occurrencies Take place, you shall be made Acquainted.


[Page 115]
October 8, 1777 79 Our Troops are in high Spirits & wishing for another Attack, I hope soon to be able to give you the pleasing Accott, of our Regain ing Philadelphia. I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Honble Gentlemen, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [PA.] I have it in Charge from Congress to Request, that you will be pleas’d to Enlarge Lieut Colonel Campbell on giving the same Parole that you have laid other officers under. 1 RC (M-Ar). Addressed: “Hone Council of Massachuss. Bay, & Assembly.” 1 Congress had passed a resolution to this effect on August 19, 1777. JCC, 8:653. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen York Town 8 Octr. 1777 4 oClock P.M. Since I wrote you in the morng. A Gentleman of Veracity is Arriv’d, who has been at Camp, 8c informs that Genl Howe’s Army has met with a most severe Blow, Genl. Agnew Kill’d, Coll. Walcott also Kill’d, & a Number of officers, Genl. Kniphausen Wounded, his Son Kill’d, 300 Waggons with wounded Soldiers went from the Field; that the whole City was Alarm’d, Quakers 8c Tories decamp’d; & that Genl Howe had sent a large detachmt. to Chester which must be to Secure a Retreat; The Enemy’s Loss very great. Our Loss by the best Accotts in Kill’d, Wounded 8c missing does not Exceed 700; I momently Expect the particr. from the Genl. As soon as I Receive it, it shall be transmitted. I flatter myself I shall soon Send you further more Agreeable Accotts. I cannot Add, as I Keep Congress waiting 8c must Attend. I have the Honr. to be, Gentn. in haste, Your very hum set. John Hancock Prest. RC (M-Ar). Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir York 8th October 1777. Two days ago I dispatched a few lines to you by the hand of Sir Patrick Houston, probably this which is intended by Muckinfuss may reach you first, by him I also send an old packet to Govr. Rutledge in which I beleive is one of the 18th September inclosed for you. I found it at this place in possession of certain very tardy Travellers. I mean now to trouble you with a rather long epistle but from an


[Page 121]
October 8, 1777 85 James Lovell to William Whipple My Dear Sir, York 8th Oct. [1777] It is impossible for me to write lengthily to you as I am doing all the writing which is to be sent to our Commissioners, Mr Payne not having yet got here. I have not had the pen out of my hands two days. The Boston papers will give you the sum of the accounts of last Saturday’s fight. We were near giving a total overthrow to the enemy, and yet we finally have no advantage. I fear we shall not get so good a chance again. Every thing was well planned and no body seems blameable for the failure, Fog and Fortune of War, excepted. Your affecty, J.L. Tr (DLC). William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. York Town Octo. 8. 1777, In Congress. By the inclosed Copy of a Letter just receivd from Genii Washing ton, You will learn, that there has been another important action between his & the Army of our Enemies, & which has ended not to our advantage, tho it seems to be thot we are not the worse on any Acco save the Loss of Men, which is supposed to be at least ballanced by that of our Enemies. The Prospect was a good while very promising, but it pleased God to blast it by the intervention of a Fog. With what infinite Ease in the random Course of Providence are the grandest Events influenced & determined, a striking Instance of which is this, & so also the very heavy rain which parted the Armys at the moment of Action, abt the 17th ulto. How strange, that so many disbelieve, or at least totally disregard it. We were not prepared for so great a Salvation as seemd to be opening Sc almost in possession. We have reason to think that many of our brave Men are fallen, 8c a number of principal officers killed 8c wounded, Among the latter Brigr. Gen. Nash of Maryland, 1 a brave officer, mortally. A Gent, in the Action, says it was much warmer than that of Prince Town or Brandywine in both which he was also present. We cannot say much more for want of Information. The Enemy have got the Delawar Frigate, 8c the Forts on the River, 8c probably are in full possession of the River. Tho these things look against Us, We yet hope in the divine Mercy. I suspect I cannot obtain the Copy in season. The Action was on the 4th near 8c at German Town, We drove Them a mile or two, with much slaughter, but the Fog was so thick They cod not distinguish each Other, 8c the Smoke stood over them without Motion 8c darkend


[Page 132]
96 October 10, 1777 Among a number of Persons who accompanied Monsr. du Coudray from France (a Gentleman, to whom this Continent is in a great de gree indebted for the very large Supplies of Artillery and Military Stores which have arrived in it) is a Person perfectly well acquainted with the Process of extracting and refining Salt Petre, making Pow der, constructing Powder Mills on the best Principles, and in short with every thing which relates to the Manufactory of Powder. 1 Since Mr. Coudray has been unfortunately drown’d, this Person with sev eral other valuable Officers and Artificers who came with him propose returning to France, unless Proposals should be made to them in order to induce them to stay in America. Mr. Duane and myself are extremely anxious that this Powder Maker, in particular, and two or three other Valuable officers should be retain’d for the service of our State: and we therefore wish that the Legislature would be pleas’d to vest us with discretionary Powers to offer such Terms to them as we shall think adequate to their particular Merits. You may depend on it that we will not abuse a trust, which we only wish to exercise for the Interest of our State. We have ample Testimonials that this Powder Maker is without Exception the first Artist in France, and had he not been Smuggled out under the Character of an Officer of Bombadiers, great Opposition would have been made to his coming over. I beg a speedy Answer on this Subject. I am, dear Sir, very Sin cerely, Your Obedt. Hble Servt. Wm. Duer. [P.S.] I must refer you to Mr. Duane for Intelligence. RC (PHi). i Duer is referring to Nicholas Fouquet, who with his son Mark was employed by the Board of War in 1778 to serve as a powder maker and inspector of powder magazines. See JCC, 9:877, 10:57, 109, 122; and Andr^ Lasseray, Les Francois sous les treize etoiles, 1775—1783, 2 vols. (Macon and Paris: Imprimerie Protat Freres, 1935), 1:82, 218-19. Elbridge Gerry and John Penn to Elias Boudinot Dr. Sir York Town Octr 10th 1777 Mr. Wilson a British officer of the 55th Regiment, being destitute of such Articles as are essentially necessary for his Convenience whilst a prisoner, is desirous of being exchanged, or, if this cannot be pro cured, of being permitted to go into New York on Parole, to furnish himself with Necessaries as aforesd. General Mifflin has strongly rec ommended him, as a Gentleman whose good Conduct intitles him to particular Notice. I should with pleasure have moved for an Order


[Page 139]
October 10, 1777 103 [P.S.] Since writing this letter I am told that Genl. Washington is Marching towards Philada. to give Genl. How another attack. His men are in high Spirits, we are still in possession of the River. Miss Lucy Leonard a Young Lady lately out of the City says the British Officers have long Faces & declare that they have not such a Drubing since Bunker Hill, that the City Appears to be in Mourning, the Cry of the Tories was that they must leave the Town with Genl. Howe, that all the Hospitals with several empty Houses could not Contain their wounded, that Genls. Agnew, Grant, Kniphausin & Sir William Erskin had died of their Wounds. Your Son is well. I am told that Genl. Nash was wounded in the begining a great way off by Accident as he could not be seen. A Gentn. informs me he was so ill as to make any assistance unnecessary & that he left him on Mon day at the Last Gasp. I am, Yours &c, J P RC (PU). 1 A letter from William Buchanan to Caswell on this subject, dated October 17, 1777, is in N.C. Stale Records, 11:656. If this was the letter Penn enclosed, it was obviously misdated when printed. 2 Not found. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton.Dear Sir, York Town Octr. 10th. 1777 I am honored with your favor of this date, and with concern I find the alarm taken by the State, at the hint thrown out respecting the calling of a Convention in a few hasty lines the production of a very few minutes while the Express waited. As my time is too much engross’d to take Copies of my Letters I cannot recur to what I wrote, but I meant only to convey this Idea that some real Friends of our State Members of Congress were of Opinion that the Salvation of the State depended on calling of a Convention, which was construed by Council and Assembly as appears from a Letter I am honoured with from the Speaker, confirmed by the Attorney General, into a serious Intention in Congress of interfering in the internal Police of our State so far at least as to influence into the measures in Question, whereas it arose in a tete a tete betwixt some, as I have already said, real Friends and myself, nor will you be be surprised with the sentiment when you are acquainted with the motives. It was pub- lickly and confidently said in and out of Congress that a Quorum of the Legislature could not be got together. 1 And as the necessity of the Times required the most vigorous measures, and the season for taking the sense of the people for or against a Convention was at hand, their voice in Convention to lay down a system to be executed by Committees of that Body, dispersed thro’ the State was thought


[Page 140]
104 October 10, 1777 the best succedaneum for the want of an established Legislature, and such Laws compitent to the emergency of the times, which were not provided. That these Exertions were necessary to the Situation of the State, and it’s safety and liberty would be provided for better than by the interference of Congress, until such Convention had appointed a Legislative Body. This was thought the best Expedient, for these Reasons, and might prove a healing measure to our unhappy Divi sions. A mistake of the day of Election and that the Constitution had appointed the first Tuesday of this present month, which I could not contradict (as in the hurry of removing, my Copy containing the Constitution was mislaid) influenced to the hint offered you as above, for in this place there was not the least appearance of an Election, from whence it was judged that the people were in such a maze that the day of Election had throughout the State elapsed [. . .] (nor could I satisfy Enquirers on this head) or at best that a partial Election would obtain and our Country continue to suffer through want of exertion. Thus was I distracted until Dr. Ewing informed me that the Assembly and Council were preparing the most salutary Laws, 2 of which I am more fully convinced by the specimen of one put into my hands by Mr. Sergeant, which rejoiced my heart, and is a full proof that under my apprehensions there was no other way of supply ing the very powers given but by a Convention. I heartily congratu late you on the concurring Providences which enliven the prospect of publick Affairs. I am very respectfully, Dr Sir, Yr. most obt. and very huml. Serv, Daniel Roberdeau RC (MeHi). iThe Pennsylvania Assembly, which had adjourned from Phdadelphia on September 18, was scheduled to reconvene in Lancaster on September 25, but not until October 6 did it finally secure a quorum. After a brief flurry of legislative activity it adjourned on October 13 with the intention of reconvening on the 27th, but in fact was unable to attain a quorum until November 20, 1777. Minutes of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, DLC(ESR). 2 For one of the "salutary Laws’’ that the assembly had in preparation at this very time—providing for the creation of a council of safety to cope with the crisis resulting from the recent penetration of the state by British troops—see Roberdeau to Wharton, October 14, 1777, note 1. Eliphalet Dyer to John Sullivan Si r York town Octobr 11th 1777 I had the pleasure of hearing your letter read in Congress yester day. I was pleased with your manly Justification and Appeal but as I had often rise in Congress for your Vindication against the Unjust & Malign Calumny of your Enemies (which every good, brave, spirited & Virtuous man will have) I could not bare after you had often braved & defyed every danger from the Enemies of your Country,


[Page 146]
110 October 12, 1777 The purpose of this information is that you may indubitably know I gave Congress all the intelligence and opinions concerning you here set down; and then to ask in direct terms if you meant the disrespect ful expressions in your late letter to Congress on the subject of your conduct at Brandywine, to be applied to me? If you did sir, I must inform you, you are mistaken in the matter contained in those ex pressions. My demeanour was entirely devoid of parade and ostenta tion and entirely simple and attentive. I did not gallop my horse at all but when I attempted to rally some of your flying troops. 1 The manner of those expressions, which I suppose you meant for wit and sarcasm, is as unbecoming the soldier as the gentleman, and inconsistent with that plain and dignified simplicity which ought to be the stile of persons in either rank. Were quaint witticisms my talent I should not 2 Tr (DLC). J „ I In his September 27 letter to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on October 10, Gen. John Sullivan lashed out at congressional critics of his con duct at the battle of Brandywine by accusing them of “Loading him with Blame, Infamy & Reproaches upon the false Representations of a Single Person who Don Quixot Like pranced at a Distance from the fight & felt as Little of the Severity of the Engagement as he knows about the Disposition of our Troops or that of the Enemy.” Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 1:462. Although Sullivan did not know that Burke was the “Don Quixot” in question when he wrote this letter to Hancock, after receiving Burke’s letter of explanation he refused to retract any of his criticisms and bluntly informed the North Carolinian on October 27: “Your peremptory demand of an explanation of my letter to con gress must be as peremptorily denied; so far as you are conscious the Garment suits I have no objection to your wearing it; that part which does not fit, you need not meddle with.” Ibid., p. 566. This exchange initiated a long feud between Burke and Sullivan that almost led to a duel in 1781. See ibid., 2:35, 3:271-75, 296-98, 320-21; Charles P. Whittemore, A General of the Revolution: John Sullivan of New Hampshire (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961), pp. 64-65, 67, 76-77, 82, 173; and John S. Watterson III, “Dr. Thomas Burke, A Revolutionary Career” (Ph.D. diss.. Northwestern University, 1970), pp. 107-19. 2 According to the transcriber’s note, “The remainder of this letter is wanting. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, York 12 Octo. 1777. P.M. 8 o’clock I have just read letters from Gen Washington of the 7th 8c 9th instants; the former covered a return of the killed, wounded 8c miss ing in the late action of the 4th instant vizt. in the whole 1609 killed 116—wounded 397—missing 849. These 3 numbers only make 1472. How the deficiency arises I know not perhaps from some error of mine in taking down the numbers. On recollection the above numbers consist only of rank 8c file 8c the 137, the deficiency are com-


[Page 149]
October 12, 1777 113 any of his subjects vessels having a regular clearance should be seized on that pretence, he woud demand restitution 8c in case of refusal make reprisals. Baron de Kalb who a few days ago was made a major General this day set off from hence to join General Washington. He is said to be a very good officer. We stand much in need of such. We hear that several officers in General Steven’s division have lodged complaints agt. him. I believe them to be well founded for Stevens (entre nous) drinks. I hope this campaign will yet end successfully for us. If Gen. Clin ton has no greater force than what we have reason to think he has (about 3000) altho’ he should gain the forts in the high lands, if the cheveaux de frize can not be weighed up, I flatter myself he will not be able to form a junction with Burgoyne, or make so powerful a diversion in his favor as to give him the ascendancy over Gates. Wash ington will act on the offensive; and consequently must be stronger than Howe. The event of battles however depends on so many inci dents, that it is difficult to decide for whom victory will declare. Our cause is just, our men are becoming more warlike, the blood already spilt will raise a spirit of obstinacy 8c revenge which will supply the place in some measure of discipline. We have many resources, if we have sense enough to [use] them; then let us hope we shall make use of them, and that we shall conquer in the end. My love to Molly, Mrs. Darnall 8c the little ones. I sincerely wish you a continuance, of health and am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. I had almost forgot to mention that the Enemy who had taken possession of Billingsport on the Jersey side of the Delaware below Fort Mifflin have evacuated in it—I suppose to reinforce Howe. The intercepted letter from England mentioned above complains much of the decay of trade, 8c intimated that unless something decisive is done this campaign great disturbances will arise in England. The let ter is from a custom house officer to his friend or relation at New York. RC (MdHi). 1A brief letter Carroll wrote to his father on October 11, in which he had discussed some of this same information, is also in the Carroll Papers, MdHi. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler My dear Sir, York Town Pennsylva. October 12th. 1777. I was duely honoured with your Favour of the 27th ulto. and im-. mediately laid it before Congress; in Consequence of which they have


[Page 156]
120 October 14, 1777 your Assembly. He has been treated in such a manner as to make it his highest interest to be quite particular to his connexions. It may not be amiss, however, in me to give you the clue to our ill success in that part of Pennsylvania which borders upon the Brandywine where I hoped Mr Howe would be long detained, or I should have been less encouraging in some of my past letters to my friends. It was the opinion of General Greene constantly and also of Genl Washington himself that Howe’s first object was worsting our army before he could attempt Philadelphia; but such was the wonder and discontent of most classes of people at having Philadelphia left open, by our army keeping always the right of Howe’s left wing, with a determination to study a defeat of him in that part, that our General was obliged to post himself too long at Newark and gave Howe op portunity to cross high up the Brandywine. After the battle of the 12th it was a severe long continued rain that put our army into a condition unfit for battle and made a retreat necessary. For the enemy were without their tents as well as we, yet they had good blankets, were better clothed and had had tin cases for their car tridges while our men lost 700,000 as I have been well informed. It is inconceivable almost how they suffered by passing breast high through water sometimes, and by marches in some very hard country. The General now writes as if he had good hope of finishing the campaign well. God grant it. As to the Northern army, there is as usual a growing discontent among the leaders. I fear Arnold has taken for his motto, aut Caesar aut nullus, and yet is only an instru ment in the operations of S r. 1 It will be hard to prevent factions against General Gates with a known enemy and a very aspiring half friend at best in his department watching and writing at him. I have information that not less success in prizes appears in your ports at the Eastward than what I told you of at Carolina; yet, it is said, every thing is extravagant. There is a very great want of shoes, stockings &c. in this Middle Army. I hope you will not be backward to supply them with your overplus, but I equally hope you will not suffer yourselves to be imposed upon as heretofore. You have thanklessly neglected your own soldiers through New England— let it be so no more. Indeed you have prevented exertions in the Middle States by your over-care for them. Your friend and servant, J-L. Tr (DLC). i That is, Gen. Philip Schuyler.


[Page 159]
October 16, 1777 123 John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend York Town Octr. 15. 1777 I have not been able of late to keep up tny Correspondence with you, so constantly, as my Heart inclined me to do. But I hope now to write you oftener—but I dont incline to write, very particularly, least my Letters should be intercepted. I am in tolerable Health, but oppressed, with a Load of public Cares. I have long foreseen, that We should be brought down to a great Degree of Depression before the People of America would be con vinced of their real Danger, of the true Causes of it, and be stimu lated to take the necessary Steps for a Reformation. Government and Law in the states, large Taxation, and Strict Discipline in our Armies, are the only Things Wanting, as human Means. These with the Blessing of Heaven, will certainly produce Glory, Tryumph, Liberty and Safety and Peace, and nothing but these will do. I long with the Utmost Impatience to come home—dont send a servant for me. The Expence is so enormous that I cannot bear the Thought of it. I will crawl home, upon my little Pony, and wait upon myself as well as I can. I think you had better sell my Horse. The People are universally calling for Fighting and for Blood. Washington is getting into the Humour of fighting and How begins to dread it—and well he may. Fighting will certainly answer the End altho We may be beaten every Time for a great While. We have been heretofore greatly deceived conc[ern]ing the Num bers of Militia. But there are Numbers enough if they knew how to fight, which as soon as their Generals will let them, they will learn. I am, with every tender Sentiment, yours forevermore. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:353-54. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir, York, 16 October 1777. Yesterday by the hand of Mr. Lawrence a Brother of my Neighbor at the distillery I sent you all the Intelligence of the day, 1 this Morn ing has produced me the enclosed Letter from my Son & Copy of Eastern Intelligence on which I congratulate with the freinds of America. 2 Colo. Pinckney is not come in yet, I wish I had J.L. s Letter by him, tis probable it contains minutia. A long Letter this Morning from General Washington, 3 it does not appear that he has in contemplation an immediate attack upon the


[Page 160]
124 October 16, 1777 Enemy, on the contrary he complains of the want of many essential articles. He is the most to be pitied of any Man I know. These essentials are to be had 8c now I suppose will be. Had they been pro vided sometime ago with those articles we should have prevented hundreds perhaps Thousands of desertions 8c there would have been no Howe in Philadelphia. O what my Pen could truly tell you would I indulge it. But I must not at present. A Letter from Camp General Smallwood of the 14th maintains notwithstanding Mr. Humphry’s New Lying Paper that the loss of the Enemy in killed 8c wounded 8c prisoners the 4th Inst, was not less than 1600—indeed the glaring, the impudent Lies published under Gen. Howe’s permission in Philadel phia which you will see in J.L.’s Letter invalidates every thing they say. 4 Our President gave notice yesterday of his purpose to quit the Chair 8c Congress next week. I moved the House to intreat 8c solicit his continuance, to my surprise I was seconded 8c no more. 5 Several other Members are about leaving us, I regret the apparent defection. Our House will be reduced in a few days to barely twenty or twenty one Members. Mr Hall now waits for me. I will only desire my Compliments to His Excellency, to Mr 8c Mrs Manigault, to Mrs. Gervais 8c to each other friend Scca. P.S. Dont let the good News from Eastward lull you. The struggle here will be arduous but tis far from impossible 8c we ought to beleive it probable Ships 8c Troops will attempt a Winter expedition to the Southward. Let us be prepared—it will be Wise if there should be no attack—to be prepared may discourage an attack. LB (ScHi). i Laurens’ brief and uninformative October 15 letter to Gervais is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Col. John Laurens’ October 15 letter to his father, transmitting news of Gates’ victory over Burgoyne at the battle of Bemis Heights on October 7, is in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 60-61. On the verso of this letter Henry Laurens made the following notations sometime after learning about Burgoyne’s surrender to Gates: "1 Lt Gen. 2 Major Generals. 7 Brig. 2 Eng, 1 Irish Noblem. A qty of Clothing. 5000 Privats. 1500 Stand Arms. 40 Brass Cann[o]n.” Ibid., p. 61. 3 Washington’s October 13 letter to President Hancock is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:364-68. 4 Brig. Gen. William Smallwood’s letter is not mentioned in the journals. 5 There is no mention in the journals for October 15 of John Hancock’s intended resignation as president. Eventually Hancock took his leave of Congress and de livered a florid farewell speech to the delegates on October 29. At that time either James Duane or William Duer of New York caused a minor furor by moving that Congress formally thank Hancock for his faithful service as president. Con gress considered this motion on October 31, at which time opponents offered a counter motion that “it is improper to thank any president for the discharge of the duties of that office.’’ The substitute motion was defeated by a tie vote of five states to five, and Congress then passed the original motion of thanks by a vote of six states to four. Much to Laurens’ chagrin, Congress elected him


[Page 161]
October 16, 1777 125 as Hancock’s successor on November 1. See JCC, 9:846, 852—54; Hancock to Washington, October 17, and to Dorothy Hancock, October 18; and Samuel Adams to James Warren, October 30, 1777. There is a humorous, loyalist burlesque of Hancock’s farewell speech in Frank Moore, ed.. Diary of the American Revolu tion from Newspapers and Original Documents, 2 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner, 1860), 1:517-18. William Fowler, “John Hancock: The Parodoxical President,’’ New England Historical and Genealogical Register 130 (July 1976): 164-77, surveys Hancock’s presidency of Congress. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 16 October 1777 Your favours first by express & next by Colo. Pinckney are both come to hand & are now both on their Journey to Charles Town where they will be very acceptable as they have been here to several, & both merit my particular thanks. Yesterday a Letter of yours of the 26th of Septr. came to hand, I fancy one of mine about the 8th or 9th Inst, is also lagging by the way. The enclosed is from Major Butler relative to two Horses which he hopes are in Colo. Moylan’s hand & if found to be sent to mine, if you learn anything of them be so polite as to inform me. Poor Berry! I am sorry for him, James is absent today endeavour ing to get Fish, when he returns I will enquire & if the Truss is in bur possession send it on, otherwise get another when you let me know the side of the weak part. I am writing in Congress & in the midst of much talk (not regular Congress) buz! says one “I would if I had been Commander of that Army with such powers have procured all the necessities which are said to be wanted without such whining Complaints.” “I would says 2d have prevented the amazing desertions which have happened, it only wants proper attention at fountain head.” 3d “It is very easy too to prevent intercourse between the Army 8c the Enemy 8c as easy to gain Intelligence but we never mind who comes in 8c who goes out of our Camp.” “In short 4th our Army is under no regulation nor discipline” 8cc 8c 8cc 8c See. 1 You know I abhor tell tales but these sounds hurt me exceedingly. I know the effects of loose Tongues, I know the cruelty of tongues speaking the fulness of designing hearts. Nevertheless I am afraid there may be some ground for some of these remarks, a good Heart may be too diffident, too apprehensive of doing right righteous proper Acts, lest such should be interpreted arbitrary. But good God, shall we [save?] five hundred 8c destroy five Million. The subject is too delicate to dwell upon I wish I was well acquainted with the Man


[Page 169]
October 17, 1777 133 Henry Laurens to William Brisbane Dear Sir York 17th October 1777 Since I wrote to you on the 14th August last, your favour of the 29th July has honoured me & requires my thanks for your kind attention to my distressed affairs at Wrights Savanna. The circum stance of March’s temerity had been transmitted & my answer Sent to Coll Gervais Some time before the receipt of your Letter. It is impossible for me to give with precision & therefore I will not at tempt any directions relative to the plantation above mentioned. I know you & my other friends will act for me as you would for yourselves, I shall therefore only remark that it will be necessary if Doctor Cuffee Should again come to that Plantation to exercise great Severity upon him 8c also upon Montezuma. Cuffee has been tr[e]ad- ing in the Steps of his Mother who had long been the bane of my Negro families before She had corrupted 8c ruined March who before his connexion with her had been an honest orderly fellow. Severity or Seperation is therefore necessary, the former may reduce 8c reform, but I prefer the latter, if he shall make another elopement 8c come within your reach I intreat you to cause him to be Sent in Irons to Mr. Gervais whom I will authorize to Sell him. The removal of Such leaven may stop a contagion 8c when he is seperated from his Mother 8c other corrupters he may make, as he is very able, an excellent Ser vant. The Same also with respect to Zuma. I beg you will charge Casper not to let them slip through his fingers. I have already re quested Mr. Gervais to attempt the Sale of Mary but I would by no means have either of these great transgressors be sold in the neigh borhood of any of my Plantations. I have regularly transmitted to Colonel Gervais the Intelligence from the Scene of War 8c Chamber of politics which you must have soon been informed of, indeed my time has been generally so fully engaged as not to admit of regularity or exactness in my advices but what I have omitted has been better Supplied by other hands 8c I have no doubt but you have learned every circumstance of impor tance which has happened antecedent to the present time. We have our attention now, to three grand points. General Clinton of the Enemys Army with many Ships of War 8c about 5000 Men had penetrated Hudsons River so high as to take Fort Mont gomery in which we had a Garrison of about 600 Men. Govr. Clinton of New York commanded 8c had the aid of his Brother Brigadier James Clinton, the latter was wounded badly in the thigh but with his Brother the Governor 8c about 350 of the Garrison after having bravely three times repulsed 8c killed many of the Enemy found means to make their escape. Our loss of that important pass arose from the desperate Situation of Burgoyne which had induced the British General Clinton to make as desperate an attempt to distract


[Page 170]
134 October 17, 1777 our Arms in the Northern department & to form a junction or secure the retreat of that eminent manufacturer of Proclamations, & in order to effect this, tis highly probable New York has been Stripped of Troops & might have been taken by a very small body of spirited Troops if we had had such to Spare for the purpose. However I trust all will end to our advantage. We learn that Burgoyne was totally defeated about the 7th Inst, the day after Clinton had conquered Fort Montgomery, that General Gates’s Army was in full pursuit of such as he had not been killed 1 or Captured 8c we expect every hour an Account of particulars from the General, in consequence of this happy event it will be easy not only to reinforce General Putnam at the passes about Peeks Kill but to bring the Enemy Clinton between two fires 8c to leave him no alternative but to fight under the great est disadvantages or to get on board his Ships again 8c return to New York, content with having destroyed our Forts 8c two Frigates; losses which altho’ very heavy to us are more easily repaired than the loss of Burgoyne’s whole Army—to say nothing of the loss of his pompous Character for Generalship. Should events in the two circumstances above mentioned prove as favourable as I modestly expect, we shall then for our Winter’s amusement have little to do but with General Howe whose Situation in 8c about Philadelphia I can assure you from good authority is already very uneasy to him. The purchase even if he should succeed 8c keep footing would be counted very dear. De pend upon it in the Actions of Brandywine 8c German Town their Loss does not amount to less than 3000 Men to which may be added at least another Thousand by Sickness, desertion 8c Capture. Many considerable, 8c to them valuable Officers, are included in the Loss. The British fleet have pushed hard to get up the Deleware. As hardly has the brave Commodore Hazelwood under amazing discourage ments by desertions from his fleet, pushed them back again. What will be the issue God knows but unless the British fleet can come up to the City General Howe’s Situation must be extremely hazardous as well as uneasy. If that fleet Succeeds 8c gets to the City our loss in shipping will be amazingly great, but their Army must nevertheless soon quit the Shore 8c March down by Water, the fleet will be so far beneficial to them but they dare not trust them in the River above a Month longer. The present moment is big with events. When these come forth you shall be farther informed as fully as time will permit. 8cca. LB (ScHi). i Thus in LB.


[Page 172]
136 October 18, 1777 three Tons of Lead have arrived from Maryland & large Supplies it is hoped are coming on from the Southward.” Washington Papers, DLC. 2 Thus in manuscript. 3 This plan has not been found, but for the steps taken by the Pennsylvania Council of Safety to seize the supplies needed for the army, see Pa. Council Minutes, 11:328-30. 4 For Washington’s October 22 reply, in which he explained why returns had not been made regularly, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:414-16. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Honourable Gentlemen York Town Octr 18th. 1777 We have the pleasure of inclosing to you the copy of a letter from General Gates containing the circumstances of a Victory gained over General Burgoyne on the 7th. 1 This event must defeat the main view of General Clinton in proceeding up Hudsons River. He has, it is true, got possession of Fort Montgomery, but with much Loss, as we hear. Though the enemy may boast at this acquisition yet we are persuaded the consequences will be little profitable to them, as Governour Clinton of New York & his Brother Genl. James Clinton are acting vigorously in concert with Genl. Putnam who commands in that Quarter. Our army under General Washington is numerous & in good Spirits, while General Howe is busied in forming obstructions in the roads leading to the City of Philadelphia by which he supports his hopes of keeping our troops from routing him out of his stolen Quarters. The enclosed Resolves 2 need no comment from us, being sufficient of themselves to determine your conduct in the points to which they relate. It is with concern we find that British property has lately been covered in French bottoms; which practice pursued, and American Search disliked by France, it is obvious that the most vulnerable part of Great Britain—her Commerce—will be secured against us, and that by the intervention of our professed friends. We desire therefore, Gentlemen, that you will confer with the Ministers of France on this subject, and satisfy them of the propriety and even necessity which there is that either this commerce should be prohibited, or that the United States be [at] liberty to search into & make distinc tion between the bottom and the enemy’s property conveyed in that bottom. To prevent ill impressions being made by a number of Officers who are returning to France we think it proper to observe that, with out totally deranging & endangering even the annihilation of the American Armies, it was not possible to provide for many of those


[Page 174]
138 October 18, 1777 Desir’d Mr Bant to Accompany you in the Carriage, & when we meet he can take my Sulkey, & I return with you in the Carriage to Town. Mr Bant must hire or borrow a Servant to attend you on Horseback, as Harry & Ned are both with me, & Joe is not Suitable. My Dear, I hope your health will admit of your coming with Mr. Bant, I long to See you; I shall Close all my Business in three Days, & indeed have already nearly finish’d, & when once I set out shall travel with great Speed, nothing will prevent my Seeing you Soon, with the leave of providence, but a prevention of passing the North River, I shall push hard to get over, even if I go so far as Albany. I need not Tell you there will be no occasion of your writing me after the Receipt of this. My best wishes attend you for every Good. I have much to Say, which I leave to a Chearful Evening with you in person. God Bless you, my Dear Dolly, I am, Yours most Affectionately, John Hancock MS not found; reprinted from New England Historical and Genealogical Register 12 (April 1858): 106. 1 Only Hancock’s September 17 and October 1 and 8 letters to Dorothy have been found. 2 Secretary Thomson’s journals do not indicate that Hancock notified Congress of his “Intentions,” but for the president’s resignation, see Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, October 16, 1777, note 5. John Harvie to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir York Septr. [i.e., October] 18th. 1777 1 This Morning the Inclosed Interesting Intelligence was received by Congress from General Gates. As I am sure you will receive pleasure in reviewing even the Minutia of this great and Glorious Victory I shall make no Apology for sending you a Copy of the sev eral Letters in the Rough dress you see them haveing made it off in a Hurry at the Clerks Table. 2 Gates’s Rapid Successes to the Northward does him honour as a Great and deserving Oficer. The British General Clinton some short time since reduced Fort Mont gomery on the North River and placed a Strong Garrison in it. However Sanguine Spirits here prophecy his Speedy Evacuation of that post. I wish the Event may Evince the truth of their pre diction but as I know nothing of the place I have no Opinion about it. We yet Command the Delaware above Fort Island and the Enemy have been repuls’d with some Damage in every Attempt that they have made on our Batterys and little Navy. The Commodore is a Gallant Oficer of whose conduct Congress have expressed their high approbation. The president inform’d me to day that there are a Body of troops in Motion for Wilmington. Probably a few days will bring


[Page 178]
142 October 18, 1777 Colonel Tarlon lately took the trouble of a pair of Flax Hackles to be delivered in his way to Charles Town at Mepkin, he intended going that way & to call at Cumingtee. The Chief Justice’s reply to the Georgia Proclamation will please himself as little upon a review as it has pleased his readers in this part of America at first Sight. 5 Your Assembly made a Short Session but surely long enough to have nominated two or more Delegates in the room of the Gentlemen now retiring. This my Dear freind is an important concern, let me intreat you bring it upon the tapis the very first day of your next meeting, & if possible obtain leave for my return & come yourself. But for God’s sake for our Country’s sake send men of diligence as well as understanding. You will send none whose Integrity is doubt ful. The Prizes which have been carried into your port have® 20th October [1777] I have been an hundred times taken off, I can say no more at present but to congratulate with you & all the friends of America on the amazing events which have lately happened & which you will read in papers here inclosed. Illuminate your Houses—illuminate your Hearts with gratitude to God 8c do good to your fellow Creatures— illuminate your Heads 8c prepare your Selves to meet the Enemy at your own doors 8c to repel them. By a Note which you will see I had put at the foot of one of the inclosed papers I did expect Burgoyne in his Strong Camp had nothing to eat. Hunger is as powerful as Lead. Adieu my dear friend. P.S. I wrote to Mr. Brisbane 8c to Casper before I left Chas. Town to give Mr. a Barrel of Rice which was what he requested for his S[t]aying at Wright Savanna. My Copy Book of Plantation Letters will shew by whom the Letter was sent. LB (ScHi). 1 For a discussion of the case of George McIntosh, who had been accused of illegally trading with the British in East Florida, see John Hancock to Archibald Bulloch, January 8, 1777. 2 See the August 6 and October 6 resolves on the Continental lottery in JCC, 8:619, 9:775. 3 Gervais had explained his opposition to the use of Continental loan office certificates as a medium of exchange in an August 2 letter to Laurens that is printed in South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 19-21. 4 On September 12 Congress had referred the case of Weyman v. Arthur—an appeal by Capt. George Arthur of a decree of the South Carolina admiralty court—to the Committee on Appeals, but the committee, which reversed the state court’s decree, did not render its decision until August 7, 1778. See ibid., p. 21; and JCC, 8:738. The legal records pertaining to this case are in Records of the Supreme Court of the United States, Record Group 267, case no. 24. For a study of the subject of prize courts and law during the revolutionary era, see Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the


[Page 180]
144 October 19, 1777 John Hancock to William Palfrey Dear Palfrey York 19 Octor. 1777 I have only Time to bid you Farewell; immediately on Return of this Express I shall set out for Boston, I have notified Congress in form; Sc have by this Express Taken my Leave of the General for two or three months. 1 1 am wore down, however I have a Consciousness of not having been Negligent, but as far as my small Abilities enabled me, have Executed the Business of Congress with Dispatch 8c Fidelity, thus much I may Say, & Add that the prospect of Gain did not in fluence me; I have Expended my own Money 8c in that Case had a Right to drink wine if I pleas’d. I have order’d my Carriage 8c four horses to meet me at Hartford, 8c have desir’d Mrs Hancock to Take a Seat in it. Will you not Send me a Line for Mrs. Palfrey, I shall See her. Give me a Line by Return of this Express. God Bless you 8c believe me, your Real Friend, John Hancock RC (MH-H). i For further information on Hancock’s resignation, see Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, October 16, 1777, note 5. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir York 19th October 1777 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 16th by the hands of Mr. G.A. Hall an abstract of which shall be Subjoined 8c inclosed a duplicate of the Resolve therein referred to thus doubled from an opinion that the bearer hereof will reach Charles Town 2 or 3 days earlier than Mr. Hall 8c in order that not an hour may be lost in a matter which Congress is pleased to declare to be of great Im portance. Besides the Resolve above mentioned Your Excellency will receive with this Seven more 1 which the President has desired me to forward upon my application to him for blank Commissions for Privateers, of these the President intimates he can at present Supply only fifteen, when they come the exact number shall be mentioned. The Board of War have entered into Resolves by which ’tis in tended to take General Howe out of the Brigadiers List 8c to call him to General Washington’s head Quarters. This arrangement will prob ably afford Satisfaction to the General 8c at the Same time remove from our State a bone of contention, every body here as far as I have been able to learn are Surprized his Command in South Carolina has given offence to any one. 2 In the Same paper Your Excellency will See that Mr. Massey is recommended for Dep. Muster Master General for South Carolina 8: Georgia. The Resolves are to be reported to


[Page 182]
146 October 19, 1777 Richard Henry Lee to George Wythe Dear Sir York in Pennsylva. Octr. 19, 1777 I have once before, since our session here, given you an account of the progress of war in these parts and further North, but the irreg ularity of the Post gives reason to doubt whether you have received my letter. 1 The boasting Burgoyne having been beaten in two pitched battles is on his return, with his shattered army, but whether he will be able to get back or not, time must discover. The want of a Press here obliges us to furnish manuscript accounts of military events, and this is attended with great difficulty amidst the pressure of much business. You will for this reason excuse my referring you to the inclosures sent Mr. President Page, 2 for a full account of the last action with Gen. Burgoyne & an entertaining correspondence between him & Gates subsequent to the battle. Danger appears now to be thickening about Gen. Howe, so that I hope to be able e’er long to give you favorable accounts from the neighborhood of Phila delphia. Permit me now Sir to trespass a little on your time and friendship with my private concerns. I am sure to be indulged by the latter and therefore more confidently complain of the malicious perseverance of my enemies, who, I am informed, propose to bring my letter to Mr. Scot before the approaching session of Assembly. 3 It is realy difficult to say whether the folly or the malice of these people is greatest, but it is certainly very insultive & degrading to the Great Council of the Commonwealth, to make it a Court of Scandal, and a Vehicle for conveying Slander against the reputation of innocent men; when the great and important affairs of Defence, Finance, and Courts of Justice, call so loudly for quick and wise determination. Let the date of my letter to Scott be attended to, the State of paper money at the time, the reasons and principles upon which my proposal was founded, and my conduct will appear not only innocent but laudable. For it is certainly praiseworthy to prevent ones family from ruin by means that are just and fair. {If by a proper reflection upon Men and things, It was clear to me that my rents established under different laws, from the present, and upon principles that then appeared proper and permanent, would most probably, by the change that was working in our political system, be rendered of little value, where was the harm in proposing a change, by which I might be saved from ruin, and the Tenant not injured? Nor could this have operation upon a currency that then scarcely began to exist and which from its then scarcity was as good as any money whatever. In truth it was so scarce, that my Tenants either could not, or would not get it to pay me my rents, but offered me produce in lieu of money. In fact my plan was rather to affect futurity that the present time, and a bargain made before the existence of the currency could not be intended to injure it.) The question then is,


[Page 183]
October 19, 1777 147 was I obliged by law when these contracts were made, to receive any thing like the present currency in discharge of the rent reserved. You Sir will say no. When therefore the exigence of public affairs rendered it necessary to issue such quantities of paper money as to lessen its value some hundred per Cents, and that a law should be made to establish its currency, this being subsequent to, and destructive of private contracts made under the faith of former laws, should not Individuals be saved from the retrospective destruction wrought by the change. And the more especially in instances where this can be done without injury to the other contracting party. For in this case the Tenants produce rises in value in proportion to the super abundance of circulating money. Reasoning upon the probility of the change, and as a good Citizen, willing to procure a just alteration before events took place that might render such an attempt liable to misconstruction, I long since endeavoured to procure that which would only in good faith obtain the original design of both the contracting parties. And this point of reason and justice would long ago have taken place without murmur or noise had it not been for some malicious enemies, Pseudo Patriots, and a few Knavish Tenants, who under the cloak of public spirit have raised this clamor. Perhaps I may be considered as standing in the way of some private views. My wish is only to lend my helping hand to fix the independence of America on wise and permanent foundation, and then with infinite pleasure I will return to my farm and eat the bread of industry in freedom and ease. I have no doubt Sir, but that you will on all proper occasions, as well upon principles of justice to injured character, as on account of the long friendship that has subsisted between us, place this matter in the clear light that your abilities enable you to do. It is long since my letter to Mr. Scott was written, and having mislaid the copy, I do not perfectly remember its contents, but conscious of the purest intentions I am sure that no sentiment can be found therein inconsistent with virtuous patriotism. And after all it will be a ridiculous gratification of private malice for the Assembly to take up the consideration of such an affair as this. I have inclosed you a letter from Colo. Marshall to me on the subject, and one to yourself from me, 4 which I leave to your discretion and friendship to produce to the House or not, if any attempt shd. be made there to my prejudice. I am, with particular esteem, dear Sir, your affectionate friend and obliged humble servant, R. H. Lee FC (PPAmP). 1 Not found. 2 Not found. 3 William Booth, in an October 7 letter which is in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), l:304n., had warned Lee that his enemies planned to resume their attack on him in the assembly. For the outcome of previous accusations made against Lee, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 26, 1777, note 1. 4 Not found. Wythe subsequently reported in a November 6 letter to Lee that


[Page 185]
October 20, 1777 149 Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Dear General York 20th October 1777. Your favour of the 28th August reached me the very Evening of the peoples’s flight from Philadelphia. I fled not. Having foreseen from amazing remissness where there ought to have been the utmost attention & vigilance I had sent forward my Baggage, followed it that Evening & next Morning after many thousands had passed by me I made my breakfast, filled my Pipe & soberly entered my Carriage, drove gently on to Bristol, took in the wounded Marquis delafayette & proceeded to Bethleham, thence to Reading & Lancaster. Here Congress were soon convened but hearts were still fluttering in some bosoms 8c a motion made for adjourning to this Town. We have been here about twenty days. Within this time frequent opportunities have offered but I chose to defer paying my respects to you till I could say something to the purpose & fortune has now thrown much in my way. I refer you to the papers which will accompany this. As I have no doubt the report of the Board of War will be this Morning confirmed I will take it for granted, & with great pleasure congratulate with you on your promotion. The removal I hope will rather afford you Satisfaction, it will place you in a more honourable Sphere & withdraw a Subject for contention by a people some of whom of both parties I am persuaded you Love & esteem 8c I perceive those good people were dividing fast. The motion the Notice I mean for an intended Motion in the Assembly at their next meeting is now barred 8c a great deal of ill grounded debate Strangled. I will say nothing further on the Subject but to tell you that I am happy in this event in which my endeavours 8c wishes are crowned with Success. Let not my happiness be abated by learning that you are not perfectly Satisfied. Rank has been hitherto Strangely conducted 8c occasion for complaint given to Some brave Officers. These however have in gen eral Submitted to the Resolves of Congress 8c there have been but few instances of Resignation; hereafter we may expect more accuracy 8c regularity in Army arrangements from an establishment of a new Board of War. 1 I congratulate with you also on the News from Saratoga. This Intelligence will make your generous Soldierly heart bound with joy surpassing every feeling from circumstances confined to your Self. While General Howe keeps near his Canoes we can entertain no well grounded hopes of adding a Knight of the Bath to our list of prisoners but upon my honour if Hazlewood perseveres in his manly opposition to the fleet 8c that our Fort Mifflin 8c Cheveau de frise are sustained a few days longer such an event will begin to be possible. Already his Situation is rendered very painful to him 8c as General Washington has again approached within ten Miles of his Camp we may expect every hour to hear of another action. His vicinity however keeps the


[Page 190]
154 October 20, 1777 War suggests both considerable approval of his forthrightness and the per suasiveness of his letter. See JCC, 9:958, 1023-26; and, for Conway’s September 25 letter requesting promotion and November 14 letter to Carroll, PCC, item 159, fols, 453-55, 461-67. 2 See Henry Laurens to Robert Howe, this date, note 1. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Pennsylvania York Octr. 20th 1777 General Washington attacked General Howe’s Army the 4th Inst near German Town, the enemy were surprized and gave way in every quarter, we drove them for three hours, and should undoubtedly have obtained a Compleat victory had not two Divisions of our Troops mistaken each other for enemies and retreated, disorder soon took place and it was impossible to rally the men again. General Howe was so alarmed that it is confidantly aserted he had given directions to retreat to Chester, had we not saved him the trouble. This misfortune was owing to a great Fogg and no air, to carry off the smoke, which prevented a man’s seeing fifty yards, our Soldiers behaved with great resolution (& some pushed Bayonets) untill the mistake happened. General Nash was wounded by a Cannonball early in the engage ment & died two days after, his death is greatly to be lamented, he was highly esteemed by all that knew him. Colos Buncomb and Irwin were taken prisoners. We have the pleasure to inform you that those of our Countrymen that were engaged behaved well. The enemy’s loss must have been very considerable, as there were it is said near 300 waggon loads of wounded carried to the Hospitals in Philada. General Howe refused to suffer any of the Inhabitants to walk on the field, untill the dead were taken care of. General Agnew was killed in the action, General Grant we are told died soon after, Kniphauson, & Sir William Erskine were wounded, the reports differ whether they are dead or not. General Washington has been busie in preparing every necessary for another attack, which by letters from some of the officers in his Army we expect will be every hour, and as the spirits of our Soldiers are great, in Consequence of there having discovered that they can make their enemies run, we hope for great things. Should General Howe meet with a defeat he will be ruined as we are still in possession of the river Delaware. We Congratulate Your Excellency on the great & important success of the Army under the Command of General Gates. The account we had from Colo. Trumble several days ago differed little from Gen Gates’s letter, that with others from him & Genl. Burgoyne we inclose for your amusement.


[Page 191]
October 21, 1777 155 Yesterday we were informed by a letter from the Chairman of the Committee at Albany directed to a Friend of his in New York, that Burgoyne & his whole Army had surrendered themselves prisoners of war, it is generally beleived here, indeed it is nothing more than what we expected as that army had very little provision & were few in number compared to ours. The Revd. Mr. Duche has acted such a part as will for ever disgrace him, in short he may be said to be the first of Villains, we can not help suspecting that the letter he wrote to our Worthy Genl, must have been dictated by a Howe, the design of the letter was to prevail on the Genl, to negotiate Terms for himself &: Army. You know, administration have tried Bribary & Corruption, nothing is too dirty or mean for the British Court & those that are employed against us, however we Trust that the day is not far off when we shall all be free & happy. The confusion the different Clerks have been in for some time with regard to their books &c has prevented our getting a Copy of the account of such sums of money as has been received by direc tion of our State, we will inclose it as soon as we can possibly get it, to your Excelly. Doctor Burke left us last week, when he set out for North Carolina. We are with due Respect, Sir, Your obt. Servts. J Penn Cornl Harnett P.S. Mr. Duche remained in Phila. & of course fell into the enemy’s hands. 21st. Burgoyne & his whole Army are prisoners. I have seen Govr. Clinton’s letter this morning giving an account of the matter. General Howe has run away & recrossed Schuylkill, our Army is in pursuit of the runaways. Our little Fleet has kept the river agt. Lord Howe & all he could do, the Roebuck & another large Ship are rendered unfit for service. The day is ours. John Penn RC (NN). Written by Penn and signed by Penn and Harnett. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry Dear Brother York Town Octr 21. 1777 My Absence from Philadelphia in July last, upon a Committee to the Camp, prevented an earlier Answer than that wch You received to the Letters mentioned in your Favour of Sepr. 22, containing Matters of Importance; altho I am often under the Necessity of so far yeilding to the pressure of publick Business, as to omit answering the Letters of my most intimate Friends.


[Page 192]
156 October 21, 1777 The Prices of the Ticklenburg, Twine, 8c Needles, which You took for the Inhabitants of the Town, cannot be ascertained untill I see Colo Chase; as to him is referred the Settlement of the prices of the other parcells, first intended to have been payed for here. The Russia Duck which You want for your own Use, I will lend, 8c You will also be pleased to take what is wanted for the True Blue, if she should be again fitted out on our joint Account. I think it adviseable to pur chase, rather than sell, notwithstanding her Cruises have not been remarkably successful. The Risque which You unavoidably took of the other Privateer, without Doubt intitles You to the Share of all her prizes, which You had Advices of, previous to the Receipt of my Letter; after that Time, the Bargain was compleated, 8c had the Vessel been taken the Loss would have been justly mine, notwithstanding such Capture might have happened some Time before You received my Letter, therefore the share of all prizes, of whose Capture, Advices shall have arrived after you received my letter, will by the same principle be mine. I cannot advise You at present to send your Vessel to Virginia, but am in Hopes that the Bay will be much less infested about the latter End of next Month, before which Time You may think it adviseable to pursue the other plan mentioned in your Letter. The Money wch I mentioned before to have been overpayed by Messers Purviances shall be repayed to Mr Cary, whenever he shall have an Oppertunity to adjust the Matter. I have minuted the 50 Dollars wch You reed from Mr Saunders and am sorry to hear that he is no more. With respect to publick Affairs, I think Providence has of late remarkably favoured our Cause, 8c to him alone be all the Glory. The News of the Captivity of General Burgoyne with his whole Army, which We have reed from Governor Clinton, is great, 8c has had such an Effect on General Howe as to induce him to leave German Town, so that my next will I hope be dated at Philadelphia. If the States are vigorous, they may destroy the Residue of the British Army in Amer ica before Reinforcements can be sent from Britain, 8c thus put an End to a most unnatural 8c inhuman War. I had forgot to mention, that the Enemy suffered greatly (as was imagined from the Accounts collected by Major Clarke from Philadelphia) in the last Action at Germantown; their Loss is supposed to have been at least 1500. 1 My Love to Mrs Gerry, Brothers, Sisters 8c Little Friends 8: believe me to be yours very sincerely, E Gerry [P.S.] Their General Agnew is killed 8c their [. . .] supposed to be mortally wounded. 2 RC (MHi). i Some of the information collected by Maj. John Clark is contained in an other document in Gerry’s hand located in the Gerry-Knight Collection, MHi. The MS bears the heading: “Intelligence just reed from Major Clark, Aid de Camp to General Green, 4 o’C P.M. Octr 8th 1777.”


[Page 193]
October 21, 1777 157 “The Enemy in the Action of the 4th Instant lost the following officers— General Agnew killed, Colonels Ambercombie, Bird, Waterly, & General D Heisters Son killed. General Knyphausen wounded in the Hand, between two & three hundred Waggons loaded with wounded Soldiers came into the City before (a quaker who left the City after the Action, & is well known to Major Clark as a Man of Veracity, but desires to have his Name secreted) M left it, Several Quakers who were at Yearly (held in the City) Meeting confirms the Above & further say that 2000 Hessians were sent over Schuykill towards Chester since, probably to secure a retreat. Our loss about 700 chiefly wounded & taken. General Nash dead of his Wounds; Doctor (Member of Congress) Witherspoon’s Son killed, two Aids de Camp mortally wounded—White & Sherburns (of Portsmouth) of General Sullivans Family—Colo Hendricks, Stone, & Lewis. Colo. Parker of Virginia wounded, included in the above.” 2 After he sealed this letter, Gerry added the following note to the cover. “Octr 26, 7 oClock P.M. The within Intelligence relative to the Attacks on Fort Mifflin, & the Fort at Red Bank is confirm’d by Letters from General Wash ington; except that 78 only of the Enemy were killed at the latter, & 72 of the wounded taken prisoner amongst whom were Count Donop & his Brigade Major. 300 Arms were also taken from the Enemy. The two ships that were burnt mounted 60 & 20 Guns. “According to the Number killed abt 150 of the Enemy’s wounded have escaped.” For a longer account of the attacks mentioned here, see Gerry to Thomas Gerry, October 26, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir York 21 Octobr. 1777. - If I should add any thing to the much good News Sent you this Morning by Dorst an Express it would be that General Putnam the 16th confirms the Account of Burgoyne’s absolute surrendering as prisoner of War 1 —that our Army are in pursuit of General Howe 8c that part of our Troops are in actual possession of Philadelphia but this I believe is premature—however it will be so. Inclosed is Capt Salter’s Note for Sixty five Dollars. Receive the money 8c place to the Credit of yours 8cca. LB (ScHi). i This day Congress read Gen. Israel Putnam’s October 16 letter to President Hancock and an enclosed October 15 letter from Gov. George Clinton of New York, “giving intelligence that at 8 o’clock on the evening of the 14th, a capitulation was signed, whereby General Burgoyne and [his] whole army sur rendered themselves prisoners of war.” JCC, 9:824—25; and PCC, item 159, fol. 107. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear sir, York Town Oct 21st 1777 I am to acknowledge the receipt of your two favors of the 22d and 30th of last month delivered two days ago, together, so that you will perceive we have had an interrupted post conveyance—very mortify-


[Page 197]
October 22, 1777 161 als, 7 Brigadiers, 5000 men, 15,000 Stand of Arms, 40 pieces of Can non and a considerable quantity of Cloathing. 1 FC (ViU). 1 Lee drafted this letter on the verso of a copy of his October 18 letter to Shippen in which he enclosed 100 dollars for 25 gallons of wine. “I feel too sensibly,” Lee had explained, “the number and weight of the obligations under which your goodness has laid me not to entreat earnestly that you will excuse me from this last effort of your friendship, and that you will suffer me to pay for the wine I had of you. The friendship that bears alltogether on one side may be opressive, and the excellence if not the existence of this virtue, depends on reciprocal communication of benefits.” John Penn to James Wilson Dear Sir York Town Octobr. 22 1777 As I really wish not to be forgotten by a Gentleman I esteem as much as I do you, Have Inclosed you some extracts out of a very long letter written by Mr Duche to General Washington. Could you have thought it possible that he could have been such a . I leave it to you to [fill] up the blank. I congratulate you on our success to the Northward. General Burgoyne and his whole Army are prisoners & sent to Massachusetts Bay. General Gates is moving towards New York to attack Genl. -Clinton. We are informed that Genl. Howe is retreating over Schuylkill towards Chester & that Genl W[ashin]gton is in pursuit. I hope great things. Indeed my good Sir, their Army must exert themselves now or be altogether eclipsed by the militia of the Eastern States. Too much praise cannot be given to Commadore Hazlewood, he has been superior to Lord Howe, who commanded in the late action in the Roebuck, that ship & another were rendered useless in the last action we hear. Several days ago the enemy sent a Flag to the Commadore 1 advis ing him to submit, that it would be in vain to Contend agt. their great Force, promising him pardon 8cc, his answer was that he be lieved them Brave 8c was determined to merit their esteem by a Gal lant defence, 8c that he would oppose them while he had one man left, that if any more Flags were sent he would fire on them. My Complts. to your Lady 8c am with great regard, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. John Penn [P.S.] Let me hear from you. RC (OCIWHi). ijohn Hazelwood.


[Page 198]
162 October 22, 1777 William Williams to Jabez Huntington Dear Sir. York, Oct. 22, 1777 Your Favor of the 14th Sept by Mr. Brown, and [. . .] some time before [....] [It] was not possible to acknowledge the same [sooner, and] am now stealing time from public Business [to] thank you for your Favors, and am sorry I have [none] to return you. A multitude of incidental [matters] which I cant well describe and which cant [pos]- sibly be dispensed with swallows up great part [of] the Time of Congress. Provisions and Regulations [of many] kinds and of great importance in [conducting] the affairs of such vast Extent and magni tude you can easily conceive are necessary and have [been] in [no] inconsiderable Degree realized in our Council of safe[ty] and other Departments. [We] are really much bent and engaged to get thro [the] Confed eration and Devote as much Time as [poss]ible to it, two or three Articles are pasd upon [of which] I wrote the Govor 1 (which I hope has [reached] him) but of less importance than those, the plan of a large Taxation seems also fully adopted, but they conceive it will go out with much more weight with or after the Confederation, there are reasons for this, tho I am not satisfied it is best to [wait for that] so long as this will necessarily carry it. [The ex]orbitant rise of every article etc. as [well as] depreciation [of the currency] is greatly alarm ing the States [and the device] of coercive [measures and] of regulat ing [prices they find] it impossible to execute and Congress [have] no practicable way to remedy the great and growing [evil] but a firm Union to establish the Credit of the [currency] which the Tribe of Speculators and other [gentry] begin to pick Flaws in etc., to [limit the quantity] but if possible to reduce it, before [. . . and to meet] future expenses by Taxation. These [measures will] certainly relieve us, if soon accomplished [and ch]earfully born, and if it please God, to grant [us] success against our [enemies] and [. . .] we hope it will crown the attempt with [success. . . .] MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:529. i See Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, October 11, 1777. Eliphalet Dyer to John Sullivan Dear Genii York Town Octobr 23d. 1777 I received your favor of the 15th Instant acknowledging the re ceipt of mine to you, 1 and giving me a very particular Account of the late Engagement near German town and of the part our Genii officers


[Page 205]
October 23, 1777 169 Indignation an astonishing Letter, 2 of 4 sheets from our late Chap lain, the great Patriot, Whig & reputedly very pious Mr Duche who stayd in town wherein He [...]& regrets his own Conduct in taking [. . .] paints Congress in a most con[temptible . . .]ted Light, un worthy Wretch [. . .] by all the respectable Characters [. . .] composed it & a pack of Attornys, Bankrupts 8c Men of desperate Fortunes, the Officers of the army no better, & the whole as a ragged Banditti, our Finances desperate, the Army beaten 8c driven, the navy despicable, taken, burnt 8c blocked up 8cc, 8c every misfortune exagerated, 8c magnifies the mighty power of How, the vast Ease with which he has possesd the Capital of America, the impossibility of resisting him, ridiculing the Idea of French asistance 8cc, the prospect of being now restored to Grace 8c Favor 8c constitutional Liberty, 8c professing the greatest affection for him 3 8c conjuring him to recommend a Cessa tion of Hostilities 8cc 8cc, that all rests upon him solely 8c intirely as there is not a Man in America to second him, or keep his Men to gether 8cc 8c if every thing else fails, to Negotiate for America at the Head of his Army. A temptation 8c a tfryal of such?] Magnitude 8c Design, second to no[ne since the?] Prince of Devils, practiced upon our first Parents, but blessed be God, it did not find an Eve. If I had Time it wod be needless to descant upon the more than infernal Turpitude, Baseness 8c Folly of the Wretch. If I can obtain will eer long send you a Copy. There has been a debate, whether Copys shod be sufferd, is not for bidden, tho there were many minds. You are kind enow to mention the affair of my Kinsman, if he shod settle on the Terms, in the wretched State of our money he must starve without question, all the Hope is in the restitution of its Credit, if it please God to prosper Us, that must be the case, 8c with out the former [. . .]tter for the latter nor any other [. . .] affair but I find my Bror. d[. . .] 4 or can stay. The M[. . .] is drinking the Cup, if it please [God to?] restore Us the City, among other Things the taking it, will be the most happy means to distinguish 8c seperate the Chaff from the Wheat. I used every effort to persuade our Mr Webster to go out but in vain. He is by many thot a vile Tory also. The heart of man is deceitful 8c above all things desperately wicked. There have been striking In stances enow, without a Duche. We know not the present State of the North River, I hope in kind Providence, that Harry Clinton may catch a Tartar, as well as his Spy. Anxiously wish to hear a happy Issue to the Rhode Island Ex pedition. Our News from France looks still like a War but sure I am their own Interest will now 8c forever govern their Conduct. I trust Mr. Brown will be sent back very soon as He is established a Continental Express, shod be much obliged if you will please to


[Page 206]
170 October 23, 1777 [. . .] by Him with an Account of all our Emi[tted . . .] bills, their Periods, & the Taxes that [have been levied?] since this unhappy War took place. We have abundant Reason to bless &: praise the God of Armys, for the Success He has granted our nothern Forces. 5 RC (NHi). This damaged, incomplete letter is in the hand of William Williams. i This action was taken on October 21 after Trumbull’s October 14 letter recommending Jesse Brown was read in Congress. JCC, 9:825. 2 See Henry Laurens to Robert Howe, October 20, 1777, note 2. s A reference to Washington. 4 Three or four words missing. 5 For the continuation of this letter, see Williams to Trumbull, October 26, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend York Town Octr. 24, 1777 It is with shame that I recollect that I have not written you more than two or three Letters these 5 Weeks, and those very short. News I am afraid to write, because I never know untill it is too late what is true. From last Sunday to this Moment Fryday afternoon 4 o Clock, We have been in a state of tormenting Uncertainty concerning our Affairs at the Northward. On Sunday, We had News, from the Committee of Albany, through Governor Clinton and G. Washington, of a Capitulation of Burgoine and his whole Army. To this Moment We have no Express from Gates, nor any Authentic Confirmation. Howe has drawn his Army into the City and Washington is at Germantown. Supplies will be cutt off, from the British Army, in a great Measure. I am &c. yours forever, John Adams [P.S.] We shall finish a Plan of Confederation in a few days. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:357. 1A final draft of the Articles of Confederation was not approved for sub mission to the states until November 15. JCC, 9:907-28. John Adams to James Warren My Dear Sir, York Town, Octr. 24, 1777 We have got to a Part of the World, where We are scarcely able to procure any Intelligence. We have as yet no certain Information, concerning the events at


[Page 207]
October 24, 1777 171 the Northward, on the 14 and 15th of this Month, the whole of which I dare say before this Time are familiar to you. We have had Rumours, which lifted us up to the Stars. We are now upon Confederation, and have nearly compleated it. I really expect it will be finished by the Middle of next Week. We dispatched some Affairs, last Evening for your Board which Dr. Linn I suppose will convey to you. 1 We shall consider immediately a Plan of Taxes for all the States. This is our Resource. I rejoice with Joy unspeakable that your As sembly, have adopted a Plan of such consummate Wisdom. I am, John Adams MS not found; reprinted from Warren-Adams Letters, 1:373-74. 1 See JCC, 9:836-37; and Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, October 26, 1777. Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock Sir, York October 24th 1777 The Secret Committee of Congress being dissolved we have been appointed under the Stile & Title of the Commercial Committee to take up and continue the Business. We find they wrote you a long Letter on 12th June by Capt. LeMere to which we refer you. The present serving to acknowledge the Receipt of your Letters by Capt Pickles addressed to a former Committee of Congress which we have laid before Congress and by some inattention of the Secretary are now mislaid. 1 The chief purport being to advise us of the arrival of some Stores from Spain intended for the Service of this Continent and of the very favourable Disposition of the Governor Don Bernardo DeGalvez, we shall proceed to say what is necessary on these Subjects. Herein you will find inclosed a Letter for the Governor 2 which please to deliver and procure it to be well translated into Spanish for him, in this Letter we have requested him if Money be wanting in New Orleans for the due Execution of our Business to furnish what may be needful under Assurance that it will be repaid by our Ambassador at the Court of Spain and we doubt not he will comply. This precaution we have now taken in consequence of Mr. Morris informing us that he finds you have made some Remittances on his Houses Account that will reduce the Balance he expected in your hands. With respect to the Stores sent out from Spain to New Orleans for our Service we are anxious to get them soon & safe to this part of America where they are much wanted & would be very useful. We have had it in Contemplation to order them up the Mississippi to Fort Pitt, but the length of time that would require, the heavy Ex pence & the Danger of Robbery by Indians has deterred us; therefore


[Page 209]
October 24, 1777 173 Committee of Congress to Edward Hand Sir, York Town Octr. 24th. 1777 We enclose you herewith a resolve of Congress appointing us a Committee for the purpose described in the resolution, and we apply to you Sir as a Friend to the cause of America, and as an Officer high in rank in the United States, to give us the most full and particular assistance in your power, for the better accomplishing the end of our appointment. 1 We understand that Coll. Morgan has lately been confined on suspicion of disaffection to the interest of the United States. We wish to know the truth of this, and if true, the cause of it. Whether any and what inquiry was made into the affair, and on what principles an acquittal was founded. We rely upon your best aid in all things, that may contribute to the right discharge of our duty in this business, as it must be obvious of how great consiquence it is, that the Agents for Indian Affairs should be of unquestioned attachment to the United States, and your residence for some time in that part of the Country, which has been Colonel Morgan’s Scene of action, may furnish you with knowledge on this Subject, that dis tance denies to us. 2 We have the pleasure to inform you that the friendship & alliance of the Northern and Southern Indians comes well authenticated to Congress. It will be very hard and unaccount able that those in the middle district should alone be our Enemies. We are, Sir, Yr. most obt 8c most huml. Servts. Richard Henry Lee Richd. Law Daniel Roberdeau RC (NN). Written by Roberdeau and signed by Roberdeau, Law, and Lee. i This committee had been appointed on October 22 to investigate charges that George Morgan, agent for Indian affairs in the middle department, was conspiring against the American cause. On the 30th the committee sent Morgan a copy of the resolve authorizing their investigation and requested that he “take due Notice thereof and give your Attendance agreable to the Requissition con tained therein that a proper Enquiery may be made in the Premisses.” This letter—which was written by Law, signed by Law, Lee, and Roberdeau, and directed to Morgan “att Lancaster”—and Morgan’s November 11 reply are in the Dreer Collection, PHi. On the basis of the committee’s November 20 report, Morgan was restored to his position as Indian agent and appointed deputy commissary general of pur chases in the western district pending further investigation by three commissioners ordered to Fort Pitt; and on March 27, 1778, the commissioners cleared Morgan of all charges and praised his “uncommon degree of diligence in discharging the duties of his employment.” See JCC, 9:881, 943; 10:313-14; and Max Savelle, George Morgan: Colony Builder (New York: Columbia University Press, 1932), pp. 145-54. 2 Hand’s December 21 response, in which he explained that he had released Morgan after confirming that the allegations against him were unfounded, is in PMHB 40 (October 1916): 467-69. For additional information on the general


[Page 210]
174 October 24, 1777 conditions that Hand confronted on the western frontier during the autumn of 1777, see Edward G. Williams, Fort Pitt and the Revolution on the Western Frontier (Pittsburgh: Historical Society of Western Pennsylvania, 1978), pp. 71-78. Committee of Congress to Unknown Sir, 1 York Town in Pena. 24th Octr. 1777 The inclosed resolve will explain to you the design of our ap pointment, and the reason of our present application. As a friend to the cause of America, and as a Gentleman living on the spot which has been Colo. Morgans scene of action since his appointment under the United States, we are to request of you Sir your candid senti ments on the subject of charge against Colo. Morgan and you will further oblige us by obtaining the fair and uninfluenced testimony of disinterested persons on the same point. We wish to be well in formed touching the political character of Mr. McGee, 2 whether he is considered as an Agent, or Friend, of G.B. and whether he does not profess himself a Subject of the British King. Whether Colo. Morgan has much intimacy with Mr. McGee & whether the latter was not carried by the former along with him on a visit to some of the Indian nations, and whether it was by Colo. Morgans influence that the Indians were induced to insist on Mr. McGees continuing to reside where he now does. Whether any letter has been seen from Mr. Hamilton the Governor of Detroit to Colo. Morgan, & what were the Contents of such letter. 3 We are satisfied that you will ex cuse the trouble we have here given you, when you reflect how im portant a thing it is that the department of Agent for Indian Affairs should be filled by a person of clear and unquestioned attachments to the United States, and the impossibility from our remoteness, of rightly answering the end of our [appointment] unless by the mediation of American friends in [that part] of the Country. We are Sir your most obedient servants, R.H. Lee for the Committee of Congress FC (PPAmP). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee; and endorsed: “Copy of letter to Fort Pitt concerning accusations agst Colo George Morgan.” i The recipient may have been the “Mr. Irvine” mentioned in Daniel Rober- deau’s October 30 letter to Edward Hand. 2 Alexander McKee—formerly a British deputy Indian agent at Ft. Pitt and recently an agent employed by Morgan—who had also been arrested by General Hand. See PMHB 40 (October 1916): 468; 58 (January 1934): 26-36. 2 This alleged Henry Hamilton letter was the focus of the brief note of in quiry sent by the committee to Jasper Yeates this date. "Having acted in quality of Commissioner for Indian affairs in that quarter where Colonel Morgan’s scene of action has been as Agent under the United States, we have reason to think you may illucidate the subject of our inquiry. We desire particularly to be informed by you, concerning a letter written to Colo. Morgan by Mr. Hamilton


[Page 211]
October 24, 1777 175 Governor of Detroit.” Written by Daniel Roberdeau, signed by Roberdeau, Richard Law, and Lee, and addressed to Yeates at Lancaster, this letter is in the Special Collections, MWalB. The commissioners investigating the allegations against Morgan apparently did not find any letters from Hamilton to discredit Morgan. However, it should be noted that Morgan had written to Hamilton in 1776 to gain his cooperation in maintaining the neutrality of the Indians. Max Savelle, George Morgan: Colony Builder (New York: Columbia University Press, 1932), p. 152. Henry Laurens to Pierce Butler Dear sir. 1 York Town Pennsylvania 24thOctober 1777 Captain Allen from our Charles Town called on me last Evening & seeing the inclosed Letter in his hands I judged it best from the authorities with which you had vested me in this Parlour to return it. I hope I am doing right. You will also receive inclosed Papers which will shew you the trifling News of the day, the Authority of that which recites Mr. Burgoyne’s surrender is not yet established by a formal Letter from General Gates, nevertheless that event has been announced by such heralds & so often repeated by different persons through different Channels as puts the fact, in general, beyond all doubt in my mind^ The Action of the 7th when the Proclamation General 2 quitted with the field of Battle, his Tents, Camp Equippage 8c much Baggage 8c also bequeathed his Hospital of wounded Officers to the Victor had been whispered here three or four days before we received an authentic Account. General Gates did not write till the 12th. His Letter concluded “I am so pressed by business on all hands it is im possible to be minute, but my next shall be so.” The Capitulation at Saratoga is said to have been Signed the 14th, the formality of grounding Arms 8c surrendering reserved for the 15th. You know too much of Military affairs to admit the whole business to have been completed in a day—then allow our General five days as in the former Case for receiving returns arranging the March of the Great, Noble, 8c Inferior Captives 8c a little moment for reflection. If he did not write till the 21st upon this ground of computation his Messenger to Congress may be expected to morrow or the 26th, but there are people here who talk as if they beleived that a proper receipt 8c disposition of ten Generals 8c a whole Conquered Army were to be accomplished in as few seconds as they require to repeat the words in Congress. If the Intelligence should prove to have been mere report I shall enjoy in the mean time the pleasure of beleiv- ing it true 8c that what is said to have happened will infallibly come to pass. I am with great respect, Dr Sir, y. M. H. Serv. [P.S.] The Account from Delaware gives a dawn of hope that Your


[Page 216]
180 October 25, 1777 My best wishes attend you for every Good, & believe me, with Sentiments of Real Esteem & Regard, Dear Sir Your most Obed Huml Servt., John Hancock RC (NNPM). i Hancock wrote two letters of a personal nature to fellow delegates before he left Congress a few days later. He penned the following brief note this day to Robert Morris: “Mr Hancock presents his most sincere Regards to his friend Mr Morris, sends him the Ballance of his Acco. & must beg his excuse that he has neglected it so long. “Mr H. observing that Mr Morris frequently walks with a cane takes the freedom to send him a gold Head for a cane of which he Requests Mr Morris’s acceptance as a small token of his real regard and friendship for him.” NYHS Collections 11 (1879): 431-32. And on October 30 he wrote an even briefer note to Richard Henry Lee assuring the Virginia delegate that he would “take the greatest Care to have the Letter Colo. Lee mentioned safely delivered; and . . . will give the French Gentlemen all the assistance in his Power, and in the Way Colo. Lee requests, if it should be necessary.” Lee Family Papers, ViU. John Hancock to William Phillips, Isaac Smith, Sr., and Ebenezer Storer Gentlemen York Town 25th Octor. 1777 Inclos’d you have a Warrant on Mr. Appleton the Loan officer at Boston for Three thousand one hundred & eighty Dollars & 45/90, being to Discharge the Balla, which you represent to be due to Winthrop Sargent Esqr. which you will please to apply accordingly. 1 As I shall hope nearly as soon as this reaches you, to have a personal Interview with you, designing to Set out for Boston to mor row morning, I waite adding but that I am with Sentiments of Esteem, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt Servt. J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). t Congress approved the payment of this money to Phillips, Smith, and Storer in connection with their work as “agents appointed by the Marine Committee, for settling the accounts of the prizes taken by vessels fitted out by order of General Washington.” JCC, 9:836. For further information on this subject, see the Marine Committee’s letter to these three men of March 21, as well as John Adams to Isaac Smith, Sr., March 20, 1777. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, York Town, Pennsylvania October 25th. 1777 I have been duely honoured with your Favours of the 18th. and 21st 1 and immediately laid them before Congress; from whom I have it in Charge to forward the enclosed Resolves, with a Request that you will pay that Attention to them which they require. 2


[Page 217]
October 25, 1777 181 You will receive herewith two Bundles of Commissions, which I should have forwarded sooner, had I not been prevented from sign ing them, by a severe Fit of the Gout. I have not as yet heard a word from Genl. Gates with Respect to the important Intelligence of the Surrender of Genl. Burgoyne and his Army. Should the agreeable News reach York Town before my Departure I will instantly forward it to you; or should it not arrive till afterwards my Successor will undoubtedly do himself that Pleasure. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem, Sir, Your most obed &: very hble Servt. John Hancock Presid RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. i See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:392, 406-8. The October 21 letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:143-44. 2 The enclosed resolves, which were passed on October 20 and 22, dealt with Maryland artillery regiments, Gen. John Sullivan, certain military appointments and promotions, John Moore, the commissary of purchases, and army rations. JCC, 9:822-23, 828-31. John Hancock to George Washington Dear Sir, York Town Pennsylvania October 25th. 1777. I was duely honoured with your Favour of the 22d and am much obliged by the Expressions of Politeness & Friendship which it con tains. 1 A few Months Relaxation, will, I hope, restore my Health and Constitution, and enable me still to contribute my feeble Efforts, in some Mode or other, to the Advancement of the Cause of Freedom in America. If I should not return to Congress, 2 it will be the Height of my Inclination, as it will also be in my Power, to render some Service to the general Interest, in my own native Country. As I propose setting out on Monday and shall go thro’ Bethlehem, I must request that the Escort of Horse you so politely offered to at tend me, may meet me there. 3 Should I reach Bethlehem before them, I shall wait their Arrival. In the present critical State of our Affairs, I believe I should decline setting out for a few Days; but having wrote to Mrs. Hancock to meet me at some distance from Boston, I am under a Necessity of beginning my Journey on Monday Morning. I am, dear Sir, with great Esteem and Regard, your most obed & most hble Servt. John Hancock RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. i See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:413-14. 2 This day Congress approved a report of the committee of the treasury, which had audited Hancock’s presidential account, recommending that he be paid $1,392 32/90 “for expenditures by him for the use of Congress.” JCC, 9:839. 2 For a description of the escort Hancock received, see Hancock’s second letter to Washington, October 17, 1777, note.


[Page 218]
182 October 25, 1777 John Harvie to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir [25 October 1777] 1 I wrote you about ten days ago that General Gates had obtain’d a Signal Victory over General Burgoyne on the 7th. Inst. & now have the pleasure of informing you that a few days after this defeat Burgoyne with his whole Army Surrend’d themselves prisoners of War to the American General. It is said the prisoners Stores &c. taken are as followeth Viz 1 Lt. General, 2 Major Generals, 7 Brigadier Do. 5000 privates, 2 English noblemen, 1 Irish Do. 15,000 Stand of Arms 40 Brass Cannon and a Considerable Quantity of Cloathing. This great and Important News I transmit to you on the Authority of the Committee of Albany, Governor Clinton, and General Washington’s Letters to Congress (except the Enumeration of Officers &c. which we have from another Quarter). No one doubts the truth of this happy Event Yet many feel the greatest Anxiety for a Confirmation of it under General Gates’s own hand. Almost every day brings us News of some Advantage or other over the Enemy. Yesterday We received an account that General Howe had Abandon’d German Town & collected his whole force in Phila delphia & its Subberbs & that General Washingtons head Quarters was between German Town & the City. To day Major Clark Aid de Camp to General Green writes General Roberdeau that on the 22nd at 4 in the afternoon the Enemy made Several Attacks on Fort Miff lin, but were as often repuls’d. The Cannonade was very Severe & Continued till eight in the Evening. The next Morning it was renew’d with Redoubled Vigour. Two large Ships endeavour’d to pass the Chevaux de Freze while a Brisk fire was kept up from Pro vince Island. At the same time a party of 3000 Attack’d Red Bank so that a Continual Fire was kept on all sides which lasted from 6 in the Morning till 4 in the afternoon without the least Intermission at which time the Enemy Quitted the Ships, haveing first set them on fire, & they soon after blew up. The explosion was dreadful. Thus ended the Day. Every thing seems quiet this Morning (the 24 being the Date of his Letter). He believes this will be their last effort & that they will certainly quit Philadelphia. He was inform’d one of the Ships was call’d the Augusta & that 300 Hessians were drown’d. Could you have thought these Forts and Batteries were so formid able? As this is Saturday evening and of course Holliday with Con gress 2 haveing heard you several times mention Mr. Dechsay with Approbation I will give you the Conclusion of a Severe Libel against Congress & the Army Address’d by him to General Washington. After Attempting to refute the Idea of foreign Assistance or a Euro pean War, Magnifying the power 8c Clemency of Great Britain, Re- probateing his own Conduct for the part he took Early in the Dis pute—he very Modestly Advises the General to demand of Congress


[Page 219]
October 25, 1777 183 an Immediate Negotiation with Lord & General Howe and if they re fuse a ready Compliance to disavow their Authority, give up the Seditious Members as proper Sacrifices to Government and treat for America in his own person at the Head of his Army. What think you of this Invidious Hyprocrite now? On viewing what I have wrote You may infer this was a publick Address. No such thing, it was Couched in a Letter to the General in which he makes the warmest professions of Esteem 8c friendship 8c sent by a secret Emissary. I should have been more Minute if I was not certain you would see a Copy of the whole Letter in Virginia as the names of one or two of our Countrymen are mention’d with high Encomiums— 3 & you know they have friends here who would not wish to See Mr. Dechsay’s panygerick on them Conceal’d from the Eyes of the publick. I hope we shall get through Confederation time enough for our Assembly to take it up this Session as the Attention of Congress is principally Confin’d to this Object. I fear the Length of my Letters will exhaust your patience but as you know my Motive is to give you the fullest 8c Earliest Intelligence of Matters highly Interesting you’l require no Apolegy for prolixity. What am I to do with your Money for Colo. Spotswood as I understand he has return’d to Virginia? Be Kind enough to inform Mr. Wythe that Doctr. Redman is in Philadelphia 8c that it is a Rule with Congress for no Seal’d Letter to go into the City. I have his to that Gentleman still in my poss[essio]n 8c should be glad of his directions about it. I am Dr. Sir Yr. most Obt. servt., Jno. Harvie RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:37-39. 1 This letter has been dated on the basis of internal evidence. Harvie states that he was writing on a Saturday and most of the news reported had reached York during the week preceding Saturday, October 25, 1777. 2 Congress did not hold an afternoon session on October 25. 3 At this point Harvie inserted above the line “B & H,” a reference to Carter Braxton and Benjamin Harrison. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Dear General, York 25th October 1777 Permit me to refer to my late Letter of the 20th by Durst an Ex press. I have notified Mr. Hancock of the present Safe conveyance 8c again requested the honour of transmitting his Letter with your Commission. 1 Depend upon it I will Send them to you in time if possible, was his reply—granting the possibility 8c you will find his packet in Company with this, but the embarrassment which no doubt he feels from a variety of business in the moment of his leaving Con gress, will probably prove an impediment. By a New hand from the Northern department we have a Scrap


[Page 222]
186 October 25, 1777 William Williams to Mary Williams [ante October 25, 1777] 1... it seems to me, a Spirit of Slumber is fallen upon the Children of God, & the rest of the World are asleep in Death. A want of Patriot ism, Virtue, Love of our Country seems to have pervaded all Orders. A Selfish, oppressive Spirit, a thirst after money & preferment, pleasure & Vanity, amazingly prevails & God is not in all our Thoughts. This is black & dark, but Gods Mercy is boundless & infinite, & endures forever, 8c tho we deserve & can expect nothing for our own Sakes, yet our God remembers Mercy for thousands of Generations of them that Love & fear Him, doubtless our forefathers were of that happy number, 8c I hope & trust He will not forsake Us, their degenerate Children, but will work for his own Name Sake. Octo 25 Notwithstanding our unworthiness We have had great Success at the northward, blessed be God, & there is reason to hope How will not hold his Possession. The last news is, contrary to reasonable Expectation, that our Forts & Ships yet hold the river, 8c have de stroyed, or caused to be destroyed two Ships of about 60 Gun each, as I have wrote my Bror Doer, 2 8c that How is distressed for Wood, Houses 8cc, pays 20 pounds a Cord 8cc 8c indeed it is not much better here as to things in general. Tea is abt. £9 the pound, Coffee 12/ or more, bad brown Sugar 10 8c 11/ a pound, salt without bounds 5 or 6/ a pint, butter 8c Cheese 5 8c 6/ a pound 8cc. I cod write another Sheet, but it is high Time to stop, 8c more so as I hope to hear from you again soon. Mr Brown is by Congress estab lished a Continental Express, 8c will come back I trust very soon. By him I propose to send home some thin Cloaths, as I did before which He tells me he delivered, tho you dont mention it. Pray send by him my mittens 8c woollen Gloves, none are to be bo’t here 8c also my flannel under Waistcoat, tho a poor thing, I shall want them to ride home in. I hope to come by the End of November, but cannot determine. Whenever Providence permits, the Time will be most welcome. May God in mercy preserve Us both, 8c give us to rejoyce in his great Goodness, 8c to see one another in peace 8c Safety. Remember me to the dear little ones, I fear I can bring them nothing, as I am in quite another place than Philaa. I forget not your kind 8c dear Mother 8c other Connections: nor Sally. Hope She will stay with You. My dear Love, I am tenderly 8c affectionately 8c intirely Yours, Wm Williams RC (NN). 1 Only the last two pages of this letter, which Williams resumed writing on October 25, have been found.


[Page 223]
October 26, 1777 187 2 Not found; but a copy of Maj. John Clark’s October 24 letter containing news from the Delaware River forts, in Williams’ hand and endorsed by him “reed. 25 & is Confirmed since,” is in the Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers, Ct. The two British men-of-war that were burned on October 23 were the Augusta, 64 guns, and the Merlin, 18 guns. Jackson, Pennsylvania Navy, pp. 195-99, 446. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend York Town Octr. 26. 1777 Mr. Colman goes off for Boston Tomorrow. I have seized a Moment, to congratulate you on the great and glorious Success of our Arms at the Northward, and in Delaware River. The Forts at Province Island and Red Bank have been de fended, with a Magnanimity, which will give our Country a Reputa tion in Europe. Coll. Green repulsed the Enemy from Red bank and took Count Donop and his Aid Prisoners. Coll. Smith repulsed a bold Attack upon Fort Mifflin, and our Gallies disabled two Men of War a 64 and 20 Gun ship in such a Manner, that the Enemy blew them up. This comes confirmed this Evening, in Letters from Gen. Washington in closing Original Letters from Officers in the Forts. 1 Congress will appoint a Thanksgiving, and one Cause of it ought to be that the Glory of turning the Tide of Arms, is not immediately.due to the Commander in Chief, nor to southern Troops. If it had been, Idolatry, and Adulation would have been unbounded, so exces sive as to endanger our Liberties for what I know. Now We can allow a certain Citizen to be wise, virtuous, and good, without thinking him a Deity or a saviour. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:360-61. i Washington had sent the October 23 letters of Maj. Samuel Ward and Com modore John Hazelwood reporting on the repulse of the British forces at Forts Mercer and Mifflin. They were read in Congress on October 27. See JCC, 9:841; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:422-24. Samuel Adams to Arthur Lee My Dear Sir Philadelphia, Oct. 26th, 1777. Your several letters, with their enclosures, came to my hand. And although I have not hitherto acknowledged to you the receipt of them, I assure you I have been and am still improving the intelligence you have given me to the best of my powers, for the advantage of this country. 1 From our former correspondence you have known my senti-


[Page 225]
October 26, 1777 189 Samuel Adams to James Warren My Dear Sir, York Town in Pennsylva., Oct. 26, 1777 We have just now receivd a satisfactory Account of the great Suc cess of our Arms on the 14th Inst, under General Gates. The Express is expected every Hour. I have Time only to congratulate you on this and also on a successful Engagement on the Delaware, an account of which is containd in a Letter, Copy of which I inclose. 1 I hope our Countrymen will render the just Tribute of Praise to the Supreme Ruler for these signal Instances of his Interposition in favor of a People struggling for their Liberties. Congress will, I sup pose recommend the setting apart one Day of publick Thanksgiving to be observd throughout the united States. 2 If Burgoin is allowd to reside in Boston, will he not by his Arts, confound if not seduce the Minds of inconsiderate Persons? Sat. Verbum Sapienti. Adieu my Friend. S. A. [P.S.] Howe it is said has published a Hand bill in Philadelphia set ting forth that Burgoyne has gaind a complete Victory having taken Gates and all his Army Prisoners, and that he is in full March with a victorious Army for Albany and New York. It needs no comment. RC (MHi). i At the bottom of the body of this letter Adams copied Col. Jonathan Mifflin’s October 24 letter to Gen. Thomas Mifflin reporting the repulse of the British forces at Forts Mifflin and Mercer, to which Adams appended the following explanation. “Colo. Green [Christopher Greene] is one of the Rhode Island Batallions. Genl. Washington upon his Arrival at Camp honord him with the Command of the Fort at Red Bank.” Warren-Adams Letters, 1:374-75. 2 Upon receiving Gen. Horatio Gates’ October 18 letter enclosing a copy of the convention with Gen. John Burgoyne, on October 31, 1777, Congress ap pointed a committee to set aside a day of thanksgiving. See JCC, 9:851, 854-55. Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Gerry Dear Brother York Town in Pennsylvania Octr 26. 1777 By a Letter from Colo Jonathan Mifflin D.Q.M.G. (dated Head Quarters J Morris’s Octo 24th 1777 5 oClock P.M.) to General Mifflin, who is indisposed at Redden, which the General has sent to Congress, We have the following Intelligence. “The Day before Yesterday at 4 o Clock P.M. Count Donop with 1200 Hessian Granadiers made their Appearance before the Garrison at Red Bank, 1 & by Flag demanded a Surrender; which being refused they made an immediate Attack, forced the Abbatis, crossed the Ditch 8c some few had mounted the pickets. They were so warmly received


[Page 226]
190 October 26, 1777 that they returned with great precipitation, leaving behind the Count, & his Brigade Major who are wounded & in the Fort. The killed & wounded agreable to the Letter are 500. “Leut. Colo 2 Green who commanded, played upon them a very good Deception. When the Flag came in he concealed all his Men but 50 saying ‘with these brave Fellows the Fort shall be my Tomb.’ He had 5 killed & 15 wounded. “Yesterday an attack was made upon Fort Mifflin® by 6 Ships which were warped thro the Cheaveux de Frizes at Billingsport in the Night. They began the Cannonade at Day Break, which continued very hot till 10 oClock, when the Gallies forced them to give Way. In retiring, a 64 Gun Ship (said to be the Augusta) & a Frigate (the Liverpool) 4 ran ashore & were soon set on Fire by their own People. Two Men were wounded.” The above News is confirmed so far as it relates to the Loss of the Ships, by a Letter from Major Clark A D C to General Green, who being wounded is employed to obtain Intelligence; he says the explo sion of the Ships exceeded all Description & that Red Bank had been attacked, so that We have no Doubt of the Fact. I am in Haste, yours &c, E Gerry P.S. We have not yet the particulars of General Gates Success. RC (MHi). 1 Gerry inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote in the margin: “one of our Fortifications on the Jersey side of the Delaware.” 2 Gerry inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote at the foot of Mifflin’s letter: “It should have been wrote ‘Colo Green’ [Christopher Greene] of one of the Rhode Island Batalions to whom General Washington gave the Command of the Fort.” 3 Gerry inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote in the margin: “Another of our Fortifications [on] an Island in Delaware.” 4 During this engagement the British lost the Augusta and the Merlin, not the Augusta and the Liverpool. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir York 26th October 1777 I had the honour of addressing your Excellency the 19th Inst, by Durst an Express. My Duty to the State calls upon me to employ the present bearer for conveying this dispatch relative to the Case of the Brigt Success which is represented by Mr. Attorney General of So. Carolina to be of great importance & which your Excellency has rec ommended to the attention of the Delegates. 1 About the 20th or 21st Inst. I informed my Colleague Mr. Heyward, that an application had been made by Capt Arthur for a hearing & determination of his


[Page 227]
October 26, 1777 191 Appeal, that I had therefore obtained leave to withdraw from the Bench of Appeals as well to avoid a suspicion of being an Interested judge as to act in support of the Decree, that a Court was to be held the next Morning, requested his advice & assistance & obtained a promise of both. Mr. Heyward then informed me he had received a Letter on the Subject from the Attorney General which he soon after put into my hand. The Court met at the time appointed, I attended & to my great Surprize the Advocate employed by me, Mr. Rush, ad mitted without hesitation the authenticity of the Records 8c Appeal as produced in Court under Notarial Seal. As Mr. Heyward did not attend & I much disliked the tameness of my Advocate I moved the Court to adjorn in order that I might further confer with Counsel before we Should enter upon pleadings. I considered the Attorney General’s Letter as deserving notice & had therefore put it into the hands of Mr. Rush who perused & re turned it. Saying, what appeared to me very extraordinary that he had been Speaking to Captain Arthur & his Proctor & they were exceed ingly anxious to put an end to the business & he requested I would not oppose it. Mr. Rush’s general good Character 8c good disposition forbid a remark which his conduct would have warranted tho’ I don’t mean even to insinuate that it would seem as if those Gentlemen had been Speaking to him. He asked if I would permit him to apply to Mr. Heyward—which I not only consented to but urged in hopes of obtaining the aid of my Colleague 8c also from an assurance he would be of my opinion that a determination ought to be postponed until we should receive the necessary papers promised by Mr. Moultrie. The Bench were again convened the Morning of the 25th 8c as Advocate Rush did not appear but Mr. Lewis his opponent attended. In the absence of Mr. Rush I moved the Court upon the ground of Mr. Moultries letter for a further day in order to obtain Evidence 8c was very warmly 8c earnestly opposed by Mr. Lewis. The Subject was plain 8c easy, I found my Self in no embarrassment for want of a proper reply until I was questioned upon the receipt of the Letter, nor was I then distressed on my own Account, truth dictated that Mr Heyward had received it Some time Since 8c that the president of the Court had been informed the day it came to my hands. Mr. Heyward was Sent for 8c asked when he had received the Letter. He answered about Six weeks ago, that he thought it of no consequence, that Mr. Moultrie had been very careless, that he had not spoke to Captain Arthur upon the occasion but that Mr. Rush had spoke to him 8c he had told Mr. Rush he had no objection to bringing on the Trial, he did not see why Captain Arthur should suffer for Mr. Moultries care lessness. This reply as it came without previous intimation 8c as there had ever been a good understanding between my Colleague 8c my Self 8c no deficiency of respect or attention on my part in the present Instance affected me 8c accounted for Mr. Rush’s absence who had


[Page 228]
192 October 26, 1777 been so extremely averse from my prayer for Time, It had likewise a visible effect upon the Bench. I however derived Some consolation from hearing my Colleague in one Short answer Censure the Attorney General for negligence & acknowledge he himself had been in possession of a Letter from Authority near Six Weeks without disclosing the Contents to those persons to whom he was particularly instructed to make them known. I will not be second to any Man in point of Candor but there ap peared to be no necessity for a display upon this occasion. I beg your Excellency will be assured I do not mean by any thing I have Said to Censure my Colleague, I am persuaded he Spoke the genuine Senti ments of his mind & whatever impressions these might have made I do not beleive he meant to lessen me in the Esteem of the Court, nevertheless I flatter my Self Your Excellency will agree that if he had communicated his opinion in private every good purpose would have been answered, & I am sure much trouble saved in which I am now unavoidably involved, by an abrupt declaration directly contrary to the tenor of my petition founded upon Instructions which he had put into my hands & in which I had intreated him to join. Your Excel lency will also from hence receive information why you are addressed upon public business by a Single Delegate, which is the chief end I have in view. Thus left to Struggle without a Friend I proceeded to expostulate with the Judges—the Cause before them was not mine— it was the Cause of the State of So. Carolina, was of a new impression & of the highest importance in its consequences to the 13 United States. Admitting the charge of remissness on the part of the Attorney General which I might have expected to hear without foundation from the Appellant the Interest of the State of South Carolina de served some consideration—the enforcing obedience to the Resolves of Congress, more, that I had no doubt in my own mind of Sufficient ground for Supporting the Decree, & that in such assurance were the Cause my own I would wish for no other Evidence than those already produced, but that I considered the Attorney General’s Letter as an Instruction on behalf of the State to the Delegates which barred me from acting until I should receive further power from the [Appelles?], upon the whole I prayed for forty days adding that Should the expected papers in the mean time arrive I would immediately give notice to Capt. Arthurs Proctor & hasten a final determination for I had no wish or desire to injure Captain Arthur. I was Strongly induced to pray for time from another motive, to gain the assistance of a Second Advocate. Mr. Rush was not only desirous of bringing on a hearing but had told me he feared we should lose the Cause which I could not beleive & therefore intimated to him my design to call in assistance. The refusal by the Judge & by the Register in obedience to the Judge’s order to grant Copies of the proceedings to the Appel lant underwent, from possibly the weaker Side of the Bench, severe &


[Page 234]
198 October 27, 1777 Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Dear Sir York Town 27th Octob. 1777 We are yet in possession of the River Delaware, Fort Mifflin 8c the Fort oposite to it at Red Bank. The Enemy have made repeated attacks upon the Forts in the course of the last week but were always repulsed with great loss particularly the general attack which they made on the 22 8c 23d Instant when they lost two Ships the Augusta of 64 Guns 8c the Liverpool of 28 both which they had warped through the lower row of Chevaux de frize but not being able to sus tain the heavy fire from our Forts were forced to abandon them 8c blow them up. A Copy of a letter giving an account of this affair I inclose you. Mr. Howe with his Army are in Philada. in great want of provision. Genl. Washington’s main Army is at Germantown increasing in Number every day 8c we hourly expect to hear of another engage ment. We have lately received Accounts from the northward of the Surrender of General Burgoyne 8c all his Army to our victorious General Gates the particulars of which have not yet come to hand. Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Articles of Confederation as far as agreed to by Congress. The 9th Article is “that the proportion of the public expence incurred by the United States for their Common defense 8c general welfare to be paid by each State into the Treasury be ascertained by the value of all land within each State granted to, or Surveyed for, any person as such land 8c the buildings and Improve ments thereon shall be estimated according to such mode as Congress shall from time to time direct.” This Article was opposed by all the New England Delegates 8c we are yet in hopes of having it recon sidered. 1 I have also inclosed you a letter from Major Ward giving an Ac count of an attack on Fort Red Bank 8c the defeat of the Enemy there. I am with respect, Your most obedient 8c very Hble servant, Nathl. Folsom RC (Nh-Ar). i No substantial changes were made in this article, which ultimately became number eight of the articles finally approved on November 15 for submission to the states. The issue had been decided on October 14, five states in favor, four opposed, two divided, Delaware and Georgia not represented. See JCC, 9:801, 913-14. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais 27th October [1777] I had taken time by the forelock 8c intended this to have been a long 8c Sober Serious Letter but it must tho’ Serious be Short 8c joyful.


[Page 237]
October 27, 1777 201 RC (MeHi). i Not found. 2 Morris had written the following letter to John Langdon on October 6 from his country seat at Manheim. “You will have heard before this reaches you of the unhappy fate of poor Philadelphia; it is a subject I can hardly bear to think of and I must avoid writing on it. I find my friend John Bradford Esq will be under a considerable advance of money for me and as I cannot do the business I wished in your port must now request you will send to Mr Bradford the Loan Office certificates for 4000 dollars which I sent you in March last. He will convert them into cash for his reimbursement and will credit me for the in terest due thereon. I have some thoughts of sending waggons for the sugars &c.; shall send you some bar iron and flour by them. I shall also want shipping this winter and beg you will keep me advised. My family are here but I shall be mostly at York 20 miles distant attending Congress. My compliments to Col Whipple. I will write to him by and by and more at large to you when I have more time.” Alfred L. Elwyn Papers, DLC. The same collection also contains the following letter to Langdon, which bears the place and dateline “Manheim in Pennsylvania, October 27th 1777.” “I have your favor of the 22d Sept with the copy of Messrs Hunter’s draft and the receipt of those you paid the money to; the amount is at your credit. “I want to see Mr Nesbitt before I despatch waggons for the sugars &c. He is now at Trenton waiting to return into Philadelphia and the news I have this moment rec’d from thence gives me the strongest hopes that he will not have to wait long, for our defences on the Delaware turn out beyond all expectation. The enemy have been repeatedly repulsed and have now lost some of their capital ships. In short I have hopes to send you from thence a fast sailing schooner instead of waggons respecting which, I will write you again very soon and in the mean time you must hold the sugars subject to my future orders.” 2 As Morris explained in a brief letter to “Mr. William Patterson, Mercht. in St. Eustatia,” which he wrote from his home at Manheim on October 31: “I am in hopes of soon returning to Philadelphia & renewing with Fresh Vigour all Mercantile operations.” Patterson Papers, MdHi. Robert Morris to John Rowe Sir, Manheim Octobr. 27th. 1777 It is now a Week since I received your favour of the 29th Septr. 1 continued to the first Inst on the road from York Town to this place where my Family now reside. I then desired Mr. Coleman to continue his Journey to York & gave him back the Letters request ing he would deliver them to Mr. Hancock with my Compts. & that I desired he would read them to Congress in order that they might be prepared against my return when I should bring this Matter before them in form as a piece of business, Accordingly I returned to York last Week but found Congress so closely pursuing business of Im portance that I did not think it right to interrupt it & as Mr. Coleman seems impatient at the Delay I have concluded to dispatch him with my own Sentiments relative to the Portugueeze Snow & trust to some other conveyance to hand you any determinations of Congress relative to that affair. I can not help thinking that Captn. Cunninghame’s conduct in seizing this Snow if she is really & truly Portugueeze property is extemely reprehensible for I do not believe that Mr.


[Page 239]
October 27, 1777 203 have their property restored in a Way that will amply recompence any disappointments they have experienced by the seizure of it & if the Court of Portugal procure Passports from Britain they will do this with perfect security. This idea I have communicated to some of my Colleagues in Congress & it meets the Approbation of all I have mentioned it to, under [this] Idea then I give you my opinion that the Vessell & Cargo shou’d be tryed by the Admiralty Court if she is there condemned I have nothing further to say (only to judge for myself here after whether she is a prize that I can with a safe conscience benefit from or not) but if she is Acquitted & ordered to be restored to the former Owners, that you shoud then cause her to be taken good care of, either by authority of the State, of the Court, or of your own authority as Agent for the Owners which ever may be judged most proper &: no Plunder or Embezzlement take place but inform me instantly by Express or otherways of the Acquittal I will instantly bring the Matter to a determination & transmit you back their resolutions with full Orders for what is then to be done. I have no opportunity of consulting Mr. Braxton or any other Owners of the Phcenix respecting this business therefore I do not presume to give any Directions for your proceedings in case of Condemnation my whole care is to guard them from any Ill Consequences that might arise to them from Injustice or Ill Management in case of Acquittal & to preserve to the former Owners their property with a Secure Mode of recovering it in all which I presume I shall have the Approbation of all good Men. I am expecting from you a Translation of the Papers found onboard the Snow 8c remain, Sir, Your Obedt. hble Servt. Robt Morris Tr (DNA: PCC, item 44). 1 Rowe’s September 29 letter to Morris is in PCC, item 44, fols. 23-26. 2 The illegal seizure of the Portuguese snow Our Lady of Mount Carmel and St. Anthony by the schooner Phoenix, Capt. Joseph Cunningham, precipitated a celebrated maritime case that had important international implications and involved Congress intermittently for nearly three years. Acting in behalf of the owners of the Phoenix, Morris (who had a 1/24 investment in the vessel) formally laid the case before Congress the following March when he presented a memorial arguing that the nation’s honor was at stake and attempting to have the authority of Congress interposed between the Phoenix’s owners and those of the Portuguese snow. Morris’ perception of the issues latent in the case and the difficulties that were likely to arise from Cunningham’s seizure is clearly reflected in this letter. Rowe, as agent for the Phoenix, had solicited Morris’ advice on the case that he was preparing for the prize court in Massachusetts where the seized vessel had been condemned. For a discussion of the case of the Phoenix in the context of Congress’ experi ence with prize appeals, see Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revolution, 1775-1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society 122 (1977), pp. 96-97. The basic documents pertaining to the case are in PCC, item 44, fols. 1-185. For con gressional comment when Morris’ memorial came before Congress the following March, see Henry Laurens to Samuel Adams, March 7, 1778.


[Page 242]
206 October 28, 1777 on some happy events of the South which ’tho small when compared with those from the other Quarters will serve to increase the Reputa tion of the Arms of the United States. I am in Hopes that You will receive the plan of Confederacy before the first of December, as Congress are very industrious in com- pleating it. A Report is now before Congress for a large continental Tax, confiscating & making Sale of tory Estates 8c appropriating the same to support the War, but for the Benefit of the respective States, Sc for sinking all the Currency of the several States. 1 Nothing new from abroad. Congress have lately made a Major General of the Baron de Kalb, who is said to be an exceeding good officer. I hope that the Assembly will vigorously carry into Execution the Plan lately recom mended for recruiting the Army Sc apprehending Deserters; Sc that the Shoes, Hose Sc Blankets required will be sent with the utmost Expedi tion to General Washington’s army, which is in great Want thereof. Not a Line from General Gates relative to the Captivity of General Burgoyne Sc his Army, wch gives Reason to conclude that the Express is intercepted. I remain sir in great Haste Yours Sincerely, E Gerry P.S. Pray order a sufficient Number of Charged Bombs, Sc battering Cannon to be in Readiness for attacking New York; as I presume this cannot be omitted, Sc these Articles may be wanted. Octr 29th. I have just reed your Favour of Octr 5th, 2 the Letter wch. You wrote relative to the Wants of the Navy came to Hand but a few Days since, altho dated the 8th Sepr.; but I hope that You will soon have fresh Supplies of Cloathing See for the United States, 8c be able to obtain what is wanted for the Navy. The Army nevertheless must be first supplyed. The paragraph relative to the “remarkable Success” which I mentioned in the Beginning of the Letter, was grounded on Information reed from Governor Clinton that General Burgoyne 8c his whole army had surrendered to General Gates. He reed it from the Chairman or President of the N York Convention 8c sent to Congress a Copy of a Letter from the Chairman of the Committee of Albany to the president aforesaid; wch put the Matter so far beyond Doubt, that it was universally beleived to be true, but it is now 10 Days since the Advices first came, 8c no Confirmation of it from General Gates, which induces us to beleive, that it was a Deception in order to pre vent Genl Clinton from attempting to Joyn G. Burgoyne, in Conse quence of this Intelligence, the proposition was made for providing Bombs Cannonade, which had it been true might have been wanted soon. The Loss of the Enemy at German Town has not been yet ascer tained. General Agnew was killed 8c a Number of other officers of Distinction 8c all the Hospitals in the City taken up for the Wounded. This We have from a Lady who left the City after the Battle who is


[Page 243]
October 28, 1777 207 to be depended on, & by the best information to be had the Number of their killed & wounded is abt 1500. We daily expect to hear impor tant advices from the northern & eastern Departmts., & hope they will be favourable. RC (ICarbS; Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1971). 1 Gerry is referring to the report of the committee appointed to consider the proceedings of the August 1777 New England convention, which was read in Congress on October 27. Congress did not begin acting on the report until November 22. See JCC, 8:650, 731, 9:841, 899, 953-58, 968-71. See also Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke, August 18, note 2; and Gerry to Robert Treat Paine, October 29, 1777. 2 Warren’s October 5 letter to Gerry is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Corres pondence, pp. 83-85. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, York in Pennsylva. Octr. 28. 1777 The anxiety at Williamsburg cannot be greater than it is here to have a particular account of our late glorious success in the North. For nine days past, we have hourly expected the arrival of a Messenger with Gates’s Magnificent Inventory, and in order to a quick trans mission of it, we have detained, and still keep Colo. Masons Express. We now learn that Colo. Wilkinson D. Adjutant Gen. is on his way with this long wisht for Capitulation by which Gen. Burgoyne and his Army have surrendered themselves prisoners of war. Until I can furnish you the authentic detail, I will entertain you with the relation of our late success on the Delaware below Philadelphia. It must be obvious to you how important to the enemy it is, that they shd. get their fleet up to the City, for this purpose they have made many efforts which have been repulsed with considerable injury to their Ships, and loss of Men. The last attempt was the most powerful and was as follows—With 1200 Hessian Grenadiers led by Colo. Count Donop they attack’d Red Bank, a post held by a party of Troops under Colo. Green of Rhode Island, nearly opposite to Fort Island on the Jersey Shore. The attack was made by Storm, and they had passed the Abbatis, gained the Ditch, and some of them, with Donop & his Aid Major at their head, had passed the Pickets, when they met so warm a reception as to be driven back and forced to retire with great precipitation, leaving the Count and his Aid with 70 wounded in our hands, and upwards of 70 dead on the spot. 300 muskets with swords &c. &c. are taken, one Lieut. Colo. & some inferior Officers of the enemy are among the slain. The routed party returned to Phila delphia, crossing Delaware opposite the City. An attack was likewise made on Fort Mifflin by several Ships of War and by the Batteries on Province Island, which was continued long and with great violence. At length the Ships retired and two of them getting a ground (a 64 &


[Page 247]
October 29, 1777 211 Elbridge Gerry to Robert Treat Paine My dear sir York Town in Pennsylvania Octr 29. 1777 Soon after the Receipt of your agreable Favour of April 12th, 1 I was under the Necessity of suspending a Correspondence with all my Friends, which I think would not have been the Case, had my Situa tion been on the Banks of a River, blessed with the finest of Air, & abounding with the most delicate Species of the finny Creation. 2 This Part of my Epistle I think you will be able to decypher without an Alphabet. I am informed that You was a warm advocate for the regulating Act, & had I been honored with a Seat in your House, You would certainly have had an Addition of one to your Sect. True it is, that an Excess of Money whether in Specie or Bills of Credit, will lessen the comparative Value, & that this will appear by enhanced prices, but is equally true, that while the Spirit of Commerce exists in a State, it will be found expedient if not indispensibly necessary, to limit the prices of those Articles of Trade which are considered as (Necessaries of Life, when a great & lasting Scarcity takes Place; notwithstanding the quantity of Money should not exceed, or be even equal to, the Sum required in the State, for a circulating Medium. Therefore the Reduction of the Quantity, & restraining Acts must go hand in Hand, or the purpose in my humble Opinion, of supporting the Credit of the Currency, will never be answered. I have the Misfortune to be on the Committee upon the proceedings of your late Convention, & a Report is now before Congress for sinking the Currency of each State, taxing the Continent largely, Sc confiscating the Estates of fugitives, 8c others who have forfeited the Protection of the several States, for the Benefit of such States, but providing by Recommendation that such Estates should be sold 8c invested in Loan office Certificates of the Continent. The Committee will I hope in the next place propose a plan of general Regulation of prices from the Want of wch. your Act was before defeated. 3 I have long expected to have seen a Duty layed by your State for the Benefit thereof on prize Goods of at least 5 per Cent; It would give me pleasure to hear of it tomorrow; it is justifyed 8c encouraged by the Confederacy as adopted by Congress. The Late Resolve for paying Interest, will, I think, bring in large Sums to the Loan offices; the Encouragement is great 8c the Lender will be benefited in proportion to the Appreciation or Depreciation of the Currency. As the president will deliver this, it is unnecessary to give a Detail of Congress Matters, wch You will receive from him by Whole sale. I congratulate You on the late Successes of our Troops in the North, 8c the Delaware 8c remain with much Esteem Sr. yours sincerely, E Gerry


[Page 249]
October 30, 1777 213 Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir. York town Octr. the 30th. 1777 Yesterday I inclosed and diracted to your President all the news I Could Pick up In this Quarter, Which you will have the Redeing off as soone as it Comes to hand. 1 I inclose you a Coppey of a letter from the Revt. Mr. Ducha to General Washington that you may see what a Judas wase a Chaplin to Congress. 2 Wood not have you make it Publick unless it be by advice of Councile, as Congress have not thought fit to Publish it here—tho it is Publick anough in every- bodeys mouth In the Streets. My Duty is Very hard, and if you have any Comepashon left for me hope you will Joyne Congress Soone, as the buisness is too much for me to live [with]. Our President leves Congress this morning and I beleve Coll. Larance of South Carolinah will be appinted in his Place. I am Sr with grate Respect your most obedent., Humle. Sert. Nathel. Folsom P.S. My Complements to the Honle. Board. RC (NhD). 1 Apparently a reference to Folsom’s October 27 letter to Meshech Weare. 2 The enclosed copy of Rev. Jacob Duchy’s October 8, 1777, letter to General Washington is in the Josiah Bartlett Papers, NhD (microfilm). Joseph Jones to Thomas Burke Dr. Sr. York 30th Oct. 1777. Attacks were made the 22d inst. on Forts Mifflin and Redbank in both of which the Enemy were repulsed. A Batterie on Province Island and two upon the Bank opposite to Fort Mifflin thrown up to reclaim the great marsh below Province Island opened upon the Fort, and were supported by six Ships warped through the Cheveaux defriez at Billingsport. Our Gallies and armed Vessells in the River assisted the Fort, and in conjunction they kept up so effectual a Cannonade upon the Ships as to disable a 64 Gun Ship and Sloop of War, or Small Frigate, & the Enemy set them on fire before they quitted. One of the four that retired was the Roebuck greatly dam aged. Baron Dunop with 1200 men Attacked Red Bank and after a short Cannonade marched up with fixed Bayonets in two Columns. They passed the cavelte, entered the ditch & some passed the picket, but were so warmly received, they fell back & fled, leaving Baron Donop, his Brigade Maj., a Capt. Lieut. & upwards 70 men wounded & prisoners—1 Lieut. Colonel, 3 Capts., 4 Lieut. & neer 70 killed, neer 300 musketts and a considerable number cartridge Boxes &c


[Page 257]
November 2, 1777 221 Board of War to Elias Boudinot Dr Sir War Office Novr 2d 1777 I am to inform you that Congress have desired Govr Clinton of N York to procure Workmen to work the Lead Mines in that State for Continental Use &: if Workmen cannot otherwise be procured you are to furnish him on request with such Numbers of Prisoners of War as he shall require. 1 The Tory Prisoners would be suitably em ployed in this Business if there would not be too great Risque of their Escape. But the Sort of Prisoners are left to your Discretion un less Govr Clinton should particularize them. 2 I am your very obed Servt. Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). i See JCC, 9:847. 2 Peters wrote again to Boudinot on November 7, requesting him to send the board an account of "all Tradesmen particularly Shoemakers among the Prisoners of War & where & with whom they are employed” as well as an ac count of “all American Prisoners in the Enemy’s Hands,” and ordering him to York to meet with the board as soon as possible. Elias Boudinot Papers, DLC. Board of War to Horatio Gates Dr Sir War Office Nov 2d 1777 I am directed to inform you that an Idea has been suggested to the Board of raising a Battailion of the Canadian Prisoners lately fallen into our Hands many of those Persons having been represented as Friends to the United States altho’ they have by Compulsion borne Arms against us. As this Battailion will in all Probability be officered by French Officers you will be pleased to give your Opinion on the Measure & mention such Officers as you think worthy Ap pointments in Such a Corps should it be determined by Congress to raise it. 1 I have the Honour to be, with great Regard, your very obed Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (NHi). i Raising a regiment composed of Canadian prisoners was proposed in a committee report submitted to Congress on December 2, but no such unit was established. See JCC, 9:986-87, 1037, 1049. On November 7 Peters wrote another note to Gates, requesting that he make exact returns of “all Arms, Amunition & Military Stores taken from the Enemy during your having the Command of the Northern Army & where the same are or have been deposited.” Gates Papers, NHi.


[Page 258]
222 November 2, 1777 Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dr Sir York Pensylvania Novr. 2. 1777 Inclosed is a Letter for Mrs. Harnett & Mr. Hooper, 1 to the Latter I have sent the Convention signed by Genl. Burgoyne where by he delivered himself up with his whole army on the 16 Ultimo, this great event will I trust in the end prove fatal to Our Enemys. Genl Howe is still in Philadelphia but we have every hope he will not long continue there. Our Little Fort &: Fleet have still the Com mand of the river & it is hoped after the Loss of the Princess Augusta of 64 and the Liverpool of 28 Guns in their Attack of the 23 Ultimo they will fail in their next attempt of taking Fort Mifflin. The Success of Genl. Gates will enable him to reinforce Genl. Washingtons Army near Germantown & Mr. Howes Scituation will be a little precarious. I can send you no papers, we have no press as yet here. I am fatigued to death attending Congress Night & day & can hardly find time to write to any of my friends. Make my best respects to Mr Quince, I expect you to Communicate every intelli gence I send you, to him & all my friends. Dr Sir, Your friend & ob Sert, Cornl. Harnett RC (NN). i Not found. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Mifflin My dear General. York, Novr. 2. 1777 I thank you for your obliging favor of the 28th past, and for the inclosures accompanying it. I assure you Sir that having received such original impressions of your firm attachment to the cause of America, I have ever placed you among her first and most valuable friends. (You may judge then how unhappy I am made by your resignation.) Trusting therefore to your patriotism, and my hopes of your return ing health, I had ventured to mention your name for one of the three Commissioners of the new board of war—A most important department, on which our righteous warfare eminently depends. 1 Some Gentlemen supposed yr. health would hinder, others observed that the Continental policy forbid the union of two offices in the same person, supposing that you might be prevailed on to retain your commission of M. General could your health permitted action. The spirit of the Continental policy does forbid double Salaries, but the Generalship might be continued with the Board of war Salary. In deed the nature of the latter business renders rank and knowledge in War necessary. I love America and venerate its faithful friends, which


[Page 259]
November 2, 1777 223 must render it painful to be deprived, from whatever cause, of the assistance of its surest Supports in this crisis of its fate. I still hope however that returning health will enable you yet to continue your Aid for establishing the glory of North America on the most lasting foundations. I am yours dear Sir with sincere affection. R.H. Lee FC (ViU). 1 Mifflin’s resignation as quartermaster general for health reasons was ac cepted on November 7, but he was appointed immediately to the new Board of War. See JCC, 9:874; and Henry Laurens to Mifflin, November 8, 1777 (1st letter), note. Mifflin’s November 12 reply, in which he indicated that he would accept the board position, is in Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . ., 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H.C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:174. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir York Town Novr. 2nd. 1777 By an express who was going to Williamsburg last week we in formed you of the report that General Burgoyne and his whole army had surrendered themselves prisoners of War to General Gates. 1 Yes terday Colo. Wilkinson arrived here, which enables us to inclose you a copy of the Articles of Convention, which circumstance we hope will be followed by others of equal Importance soon. General Clinton with 4 or 5000 from the City of York had got possession of Fort Montgomery and had passed so far up the No. River as to burn the little Town of Kingston. They were within a few days of Albany. General Burgoyne had twelve days Provision, and in Strong Ground well fortified, in such a situation the above was a most fortunate event for us. General Gates is exerting himself against the rest of the British Soldiers in that Quarter. Our Troops are in High spirits having been successful in every engagement since the evacuation of Ticonderoga. We have received no accounts from Gen’l. Washington since our last letter to you, which we expect will be delivered to you before This, as we wrote to George Wythe Esq in Williamsburg requesting that he would Immediately send off our letter by an express &: that your Excellency would take care to have the expence paid. 2 Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress appointing the eighteenth day of December for a General Thanksgiving throughout the United States. In our last we sent a copy of all the money that has been paid for the use of North Carolina, also several other resolves relating to the recruiting business. We shall take care to give you the earliest account of what ever change may happen in our affairs. We have no newspapers to inclose


[Page 263]
November 4, 1777 227 most dangerous tendency, and to remedy it has long been the object of my thoughts and endeavours. Indeed I saw very little prospect of success until very lately, but just before I left Congress I had the pleasure to find that every Gentleman was equally sensible of the necessity of applying a proper remedy. The great difficulty will be to get over particular Connections, and personal regards, but it must be effectually remedied or all our Efforts are in vain. The miscarriages in Pennsylvania have made it necessary it seems, to order the Troops which defended the passes of the High Lands on the Hudson’s River to be withdrawn to reinforce General Wash ington. General Clinton taking advantage of this has attacked and carried fort Montgomery, burned our Frigates in that River, and opened the communication between New York and Albany, except only some little ineffectual bits that remain. The Army under Genl Gates, as well as that under Genl Washington were situated so near the Enemy that little seemed to be done but to attack them. A Battle of considerable importance was every day expected to be fought by each army, and our force was so much Superior to that of the Enemy that we have every reason to hope for signal success. Nothing indeed can prevent it, but some of those unfortunate blunders which have lately been so frequent in our Army. Upon the whole Sir, I am in daily expectation of an account of signal victories gained over both armies of our Enemies, but I dare not promise it, having been of late so cruelly disappointed of my most sanguine and well founded expectations. Very little of any consequence has been lately determined in Congress. The Confederation was the subject of daily consideration when I came away, but as I consider the plan now in embryo, as what can never be suited to the States, I think nothing decided on it, is of consequence. I fear I differ very widely on this subject with a majority in Congress. I deem a time of peace and tranquility, the proper time for agitating so important a concern, but some, and not a few, are of opinion that advantage should be taken of the present circumstances of the States which are supposed favorable for press ing them, to a very close Connexion, but more Sir of this when we meet. 2 My long absence from home has very much deranged my rustic affairs, and they require much of my own particular attention to restore them. This makes it exceedingly inconvenient to me to go to Newbern immediately. I will therefore beg to be excused for a week or two, but if my presence be required there I will set off im mediately on your signifying your Commands, an opportunity for which will immediately offer by the messenger who will bring up a writ for an Election of a Commoner for this County to fill an oc casional vacancy which has happened. I saw Capt Caswell at Brandywine on the field of Battle. I saw him next day at Chester, and since I have enquired for him, and heard he was well.


[Page 264]
228 November 4, 1777 I have the honor to be Dr Sir, yr mo obt servt, Thos. Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). i This is clearly a transcribing error because Burke wrote a letter to Gen. John Sullivan from York on October 12 and according to the journals he voted in Congress on October 14. JCC, 9:801, 804. Another text of this letter, in N.C. State Records, 22:973-75, states that Burke “left York town ... on the 13th ulto.,” but this too cannot be reconciled with his vote in Congress on the 14th. Furthermore, this text contains other misreadings of Burke's letter as well. 2 See also Burke’s Remarks on the Articles of Confederation, December 16, and Notes on the Articles of Confederation, December 18, 1777. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir York Town Novr 4th 1777 Your favour of the 20th Ultmo. came safe to hand by an Express sent by Govr Trumbull. Am very glad to hear my family & friends are well. I wrote you and Sundry other letters to my family by Brown a few days Agoe now on his way with Mr Hancock, since which Nothing New has turned up this way. I think our Army here seem rather Inactive since the Battle at German Town. Real true Spirit & Bravery this way seems much Confined to our two forts at Red Bank 8c fort Mifflin down the river and to our Gallies and Water Craft. They have Nobly defended that pass hitherto but unless Genii Washington should Act Vigorously Against How the Other way they must soon fall a Sacrifice to perservering Supr. force. We never had full and Official Accounts of the Interesting Event at the North ward till the Arrival of Coll Wilkinson on Fryday last. We had al most began to despair, but at length our joy was full on recieving a Confirmation of the whole. I hope the most sincere Gratitude may arise to Heaven from every Quarter on this most Signal Interposi tion of Providence in our favour. I find our Assembly are alarmed at the Neglect in the Commissy Department. The plan you know I reprobate as do more than half of Congress 8c many more now see their Error. They have mended 8c mended in several Instances, but it cannot wholly relieve. 1 As I before wrote you such alterations were made, as were the principal Objections pointed out by Mr Colt to Congress, of which they advised him long agoe 8c supposed he was in full action 8c exertion in the business, but now fear the Express has fallen into the hands of the Enemy. We have had a rumour that was the case with one, we Imagine it was Yours, the Stores you sent for your Order 8c by whom I wrote you 8c sent my Summer Gown 8c some other Useless thing. Especially after Browns arrival having heard Nothing of him before he came away I wish you would let me know in your Next Wheither he is returned. Congress Cannot concieve how


[Page 265]
November 4, 1777 229 you & Mr Gray should be of Opinion that you had no Authority to Deliver or he or his Assistants to recieve the Provisions & Stores in your hands when it is expressly provided in the 6th Article for you or your Deputies to Deliver over to the Commissy Genii, or his Deputies or Assists all & every kind of Provision &c in the Commissy department &c. Gray is much blamed for not recieving them as he has Authority Independt of the Commissy Genii & has a right to appoint what Subs or Assistants he pleases. But that there be no further delay Govr Trumbull & his Council of Safety are Impowerd to appoint Commisys of purchases or Issues as they find Necessary. 2 It will be a Jumble when all is done but we must make the best of it. We are about appointing a board over the Commissy & QuartrMaster Department to super Intend & regulate from time Sec. You are in Nomination for one of the three. 3 I suppose they will have good Salaries perhaps 2000 dolls per Annum. My regards to Coll Wyllys. Tell him I will let him hear from me the Moment Congress arrive at my favorite Wyoming but at present we think we are tolerably safe while we are beyond that Capital River. Respects to all friends. Affectionate regards to family & dear Amelia and am as Usual Yours, Elipht Dyer [P.S.] Congress calls, cannot review my letter, you must take it as it comes, have heard Nothing from Coll Thos for some time. E D RC (CtHi). i For the October 4 resolves concerning the commissary department, see JCC, 9:766-68. 2 See Henry Laurens to Israel Putnam, this date, note. 3 Although Trumbull was not one of the three members named to the new Board of War on November 7, he was appointed on the 27th. See JCC, 9:818- 20, 874, 959-60, 971. Henry Laurens to the Carlisle Committee Gentlemen, York 4th November 1777 Your Letter of the 22d Ulto. was duly received & taken under Consideration by Congress. The delay of a reply is imputable to the bad State of health of the late president The Honorable John Han cock Esqr. who having Suffered under the Gout Several days before he retired from this place could not have discharged every branch in his department with his wonted facility &: precision. You will receive under this Cover a Certified minute of Congress of the 25 October injoining the president to request you will take proper measures for making the Gaol in Carlisle as comfortable as circumstances will admit of for the accomodation of the prisoners. 1 I likewise inclose a minute Shewing the Authority under which I


[Page 269]
November 5, 1777 233 William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir York Town. 4 Nov. 1777 I have not time to say any thing of Politics or News, if We had any. Congress seem’d surprized that you shod be at a Loss about delivering over Stores, as it is most explicitly mentioned in the new (confounding) Comissa Plan, that all Stores shall be delivered over to the Comis. of Issues, his Deputy, or Assistants 8cc 8c there seems no doubt by any thing you or any Body writes, but that there is such Officer in the eastern Department. 8c a Gent, whisper’d me in Congress (not knowing I suppose of my Connections) that He wishd some body wod write Mr Trumbull, that it was the opinion of all unprejudiced Persons, that He was so angry 8c chaafed, at being out of the Office, tho voluntary, that He was contriving by every way 8c mean in his power to thawrt 8c hinder the Success 8c progress of the Business 8c disconcert their Affairs 8cc. x It will make you mad, as it did me while I utterly disbelieve it, 8c think you incapable of such baseness. Congress some time since made some alteration in the plan, to ease Colts objections 8cc. which will be sent by the Presidt. They have also impowered the Gov 8c Council to appoint a D. Corny. Genl of Issues, lest there shod not be any to receive &c. We last night heard a Rumuor that our Forces had Succeeded on Rhode Island, 8c taken 1500 Prisoners. God grant it might prove true. Great 8c marvelous has been our Success at the northward, by the infinite Mercy of the God of Armys 8c to his Name be all the Glory. Our little Strength all the Delaware has prospered beyond all Expectation. I cant add but that I am, yr Affece sincere Friend 8c Bror, W Williams RC (CtHi). 1 For Jeremiah Wadsworth’s November 26, 1777, letter to Williams, vigorously countering these allegations against Trumbull, see Burnett, Letters, 2:543n. For Eliphalet Dyer’s comments on Williams’ letter, see Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, December 15, 1777. Eliphalet Dyer to Horatio Gates Sir York-Town Novembr 5th 1777 I most sincerely Congratulate you on the glorious Success with which the Almighty has Crowned your most faithfull Indeavours in the cause of your Country, Against a late triumphant Enemy; and that He hath made you the happy Instrument in bringing down the lofty pride and haughty Insolence of a Vain glorious Burgoyne, who had spread terror and Consternation through our Northern Country, Untill Providence over ruled (against a Violent opposition) to replace


[Page 270]
234 November 5, 1777 you in the cheif Command over our Northern Department, and thereby to give New life & Vigor to our desponding Citizens, to rouse them with Chearfullness & Alacrity to Step forth in the Sinking cause of their Country & to place themselves under the Command of a General whose Skill, prudence, & Bravery they had before experi enced, And in whom, Under Heaven they could place their greatest Confidence. It is this, with the love of their Country, which has Animated your Troops to endure every hardship with patience, to Encounter every danger to which they were called with Bravery, Untill Victory Crownd their labour & Conquest satisfied their Wishes and desire. Have no doubt but all the true & Virtuous Friends of their Country are Impressed with a grateful sense of the goodness & favour of Almighty God, for this singular and most Interesting Event, at the same time your friends sincerely rejoice that you have more than Answered their Sanguine expectations, yet you will not be surprised if it should raise the Envie of your Enemies &: those who had with Violence opposed your Command in that Quarter. But the success which has attended your Conduct, and followed your plan of operation, now forces some acknowledgement even from those, of the Prudence of the measure in restoring you to your proper Command. I have the pleasure to Inform you that Congress are not only happy in the Event, but entirely satisfied in your Closing the Convention, at the time, & in the time, & in the manner you did and dare say the Impartial World will not only Justifye but Applaud you therein. The Chance of Warr was too {great to hazzard) dubious to admit of a Delay, the Advantages proposed by Your Enemy, in their terms of surrendry too great, to leave to Chance. The preserving your Army Undiminished, & in spirit & Vigor for future operations, was wise & prudent. The preventing a further Effusion of the blood & especially of your own Troops was Humane and discreet. They were both objects justly weighed and Considered by you, &: will ever in the Opinion of wise & good men fully Justifye your Wisdome, and com mend your Prudence, in foregoing some formalities, and restrictions which have at times been Obtained of our Enemy. Capitulating when circumstances & appearances were very different from what they were when you was so happy as to Close the Convention. Congress have Ordered their Thanks to you & the Army And a gold Medal to be presented you in their Name & in the Name of the United States they represent in Testimony of the high Sense they Entertain of your Merits &: Services the memory of which I trust will ever be gratefully retained by them, & Especially the New England States. 1 Am with the greatest Esteem and Regard, Your Obedt. Hie Servt, Elipht Dyer RC (NHi). 1 See JCC, 9:861-62.


[Page 271]
November 5, 1777 235 Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, York Town 5th November 1777. I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 1st Inst, by the hand of Jacob Upp who in his way to South Carolina is to leave a Packet directed to you at Hallifax. Congress having taken under their consideration the Merits of many brave Officers in the Armies of the United States were pleased to distinguish the Name of the late Brigadier General Nash who fell by a Mortal Wound received in the battle of German Town & to Vote the Sum of five hundred Dollars for erecting a Monument to his Memory. I am directed to transmit the inclosed Certified Resolve of the 4th Inst. 1 & to request Your Excellency to give the necessary Orders for accomplishing in the most effectual manner the views of Congress upon this occasion. I have the honour to be, sir, Your Excellencys, Most Obedient servant, Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong. RC (Nc-Ar). i See JCC, 9:861. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir. York Town Pennsylvania 5th Novem. 1777 On the 1st Inst. Colonel Wilkinson delivered your several des patches to Congress & at their request briefly added a recital of cir cumstances attending the Convention of Saratoga, he has since laid before the House all the Papers relative to that Contract & the returns of both Armies. These have afforded satisfaction not only to the Representative body, but universally to the good people here, the glorious Intelligence is now extending from City to City diffusing Joy in the heart of every Loyal American to the remotest State in the Union. I feel my self particularly happy in the honour of transmitting the inclosed Vote of Thanks by Congress in their own Name & on behalf of their Constituents to Your-Self, to Major General Lincoln, Major General Arnold & the rest of the Officers & Troops under your Com mand, with an additional Vote for perpetuating the remembrance of this great event by a Medal. 1 Your Name Sir will be written in the breasts of the grateful Amer icans of the present Age & sent down to Posterity in Characters which will remain indelible when the Gold shall have changed its appear ance. Permit me Sir to add that I participate not only in the general rejoicing but in that also which is visible among your very best freinds.


[Page 272]
236 November 5, 1777 Congress have this day confirmed several Resolutions for the dis position of the Troops in the Eastern & Northern departments, for the recovery & secure possession of Hudson’s River, for reinforcing the Main Army near Philadelphia & for other purposes, which ex tended & Certified you will find under Cover with this. I likewise inclose a Certified Minute shewing the Authority under which I have the honour of addressing you and to these Papers severally I beg leave to refer. I am with the most perfect Esteem Sc Regard, Sir, Your Most Obedient & humble servant, Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong. RC (NHi). i See JCC, 9:861-62. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. York Town 5th Novem. Yin I had the honour of addressing you yesterday in a Letter which from unavoidable delay will accompany this. I now forward two Extracts from the Minutes of Congress both dated the 4th Inst.—One containing an Order founded upon a Re port from the Marine Committee relative to the Continental Frigates & other Navigation at & near Borden Town submitted to your Excel lency for approbation & in that event requiring necessary assistance for the construction & management of Batteries to be erected. The other minute testifying the attention of Congress to the Merits of such of the Officers & Troops of the United States as are specially recited in the Resolves in order that the several Votes upon this occasion may be made Public in the Army under Your Excellency’s Command. I beg the liberty of passing under Your Excellency’s protection Letters to Commodore Hazelwood, Colonel Green & Lieutt. Colo. Smith containing severally the Vote of Congress respecting each of those brave Officers. 1 Permit me also Sir, to trouble you with a Packet for the Honorable Mr. Speaker of Assembly in Delaware & to request you will order it to be forwarded by the first conveyance. I have the honour to be, with great Respect & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servant, Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong. P.S. P.M. The 5th. November. Since writing as above Congress have confirmed several Resolutions for the disposition of the Troops in the Eastern & Northern depart ments, for the Recovery & protection of North River, the reinforcing the Main Army near Philadelphia & other matters, which extended


[Page 277]
November 7, 1777 241 Elbridge Gerry to Timothy Pickering My dear sir, York in Pennsylvania Novr 7. 1777 I should have communicated to Congress the Contents of your Favour of the 2d, 1 had any Mention been made by the Members of the Delay which the Circumstances of the Army necessarily oc casioned in making the returns of your office. It is of great Impor tance that a particular Attention should be paid by each officer of the Army to this Business, as a Neglect hereof has been attended with manifest Inconveniences; but I am too well acquainted with your Industry & Care to suppose that any Delay has happened in your De- partmt. that could be avoided. You will receive by this Conveyance an Evidence of the Confidence of Congress in your Integrity & Abil ities, by their appointing You to the Office of a Member of the Board of War. 2 General Mifflin & Colo Harrison (the General’s Secretary) are Commissioners with You. Expecting soon to see You here I re main sir with much Esteem yours sincerely, E Gerry RC (MHi). 1 Adjutant General Pickering’s November 2 letter to Gerry explaining why he had been delayed in sending the returns of the army to Congress is in the Records of the Supreme Executive Council, PHarH. 2 Pickering readily accepted his appointment to the Board of War and recom mended Alexander Hamilton as his replacement as adjutant general. Pickering to Gerry, November 25, 1777, ibid. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 7th Novem. 1777 I had the honour of writing to you the 4th 8c 5th by the conveyance of the Express Wm. Jones since which Your Excellency’s dispatch under the 1st 8c 3d Current with several inclosed Papers reached me, were immediately Reported to Congress 8c Committed to the Board of War. 1 My present duty is to forward the following recited Minutes 8c Resolves. Of the 1st Inst, for observing the 18th December next as a day of general Thanksgiving to Almighty God. 6th Inst, directing Your Excellency to settle the Ranks of Officers of Cavalry 8c to issue their Commissions. Of the 24th 8c 31st July—25 November—12th 8c 27th December 1776—1st 8c 14 January 1777 relative to the Horse. 2 To these I beg leave to refer 8c remain, with great regard 8c Esteem, sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient Servant. Henry Laurens, Presidt. in Cong.


[Page 280]
244 November 8, 1777 2 This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to John Eustace, transmitting a commission as brevet major that Congress had awarded him on November 7 in recognition of his service “as aide-de-camp to General Lee and General Sullivan.” Ibid.; and ]CC, 9:875. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town Pennsylvania 8th Novm. 1777 Your Letter of the 20th Ulto. directed to the late President reached me the 6th Inst, was immediately Reported to Congress & committed. Congress have confirmed several Resolutions relative to the Con vention of Saratoga, one of which under this date, directing you to take the Name, Rank & Parol of every Commissioned Officer Sc the most ample Cognizance of the persons of every Non Commissioned Officer, private Soldier &: other person in Massachusetts, compre hended in that agreement I have the honour of conveying to you under this Cover, to which I beg leave to refer. 1 I am with great regard, Sir, Your most obedient humble servant, Henry Laurens, President in Cong. RC (MHi). i Congress passed this resolve in response to Gen. William Heath’s October 25 letter, which described the difficulties he anticipated in handling the British prisoners who, according to the convention between Generals Burgoyne and Gates, were supposed to be marched to Boston and shipped back to England. See PCC, item 157, fols. 77-79; and ]CC, 9:871, 881-82. Laurens erred in writing the date of Heath’s letter as "the 20th Ulto.” Henry Laurens to Thomas Mifflin Sir, York Town 8th November 1777 You will find under cover of this, a Minute of Congress of yester day, containing Resolves on your application to resign the Com missions of Major General and Quarter Master General in the Army & upon the appointment of a Board of War, in which you are in cluded, ’tis the request of Congress that you be pleased to Signify your acceptance of a Commission in that Department, and enter upon the execution as Speedily as you conveniently can. 1 I have the honour to be with very great regard, Sir, your most Obt. Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Citing reasons of health, Mifflin had submitted his resignation as quarter master general and major general in an October 8 letter that Congress read on October 10. Congress decided on November 7 to accept Mifflin’s resignation of


[Page 283]
November 9, 1777 247 himself or the British nation, since he was surrounded by an Army of 16000 men. He adds, that rather than have submitted to the Terms General Gates first imposed he & his whole army were deter- mind to have perished. I am sorry to add that at a time when, with the Blessing of Heaven, one Vigorous and well conducted Enterprize woud compel General Howe to follow the Example of General Burgoine, and this State alone has competent Resources to augment, strengthen and supply our Army to the utmost of our wishes; a fatal Langour prevails in all her Councils, and her military Exertions are so feeble, the Body of her Inhabitants so dissatisfied, or so intent upon Gain, that she in effect contributes next to nothing to the Common Cause. Permit me now, Sir, to claim a moment’s attention to the Request I have repeatedly made to be permitted to return to my native State. I have too high a sense of Duty to take this Liberty without the Con sent of those who have honoured me with their Esteem and confi dence. But the Reasons with which I have formerly troubled your Excellency, the advanced Season of the year, and my long and faith ful Services, entitle me I hope to this Indulgence, independent of the assurances that were made me in Convention that I shoud be relievd in three or four months. Mr Duer is equally solicitous to attend his private Affairs as well as his publick Accounts which suffer much by his long Absence. And we both wait impatiently for a Representation from our State. Every thing which might be expected from the little advantages of my Experience has been obtaind, the Confederation which was the last Object being finished except in a few points, and these not very material, & capable of being dispatched in a few days. Wishing anxiously for the favour of a Line from your Excellency in answer to this 8c three former Dispatches which have not been noticed, I have the Honour to be, Sir, your Excellency’s most obed ient 8c most humble servt, Jas. Duane P.S. I beg your Excellency to excuse my Incorrectness. Believe me I have no time to transcribe my Letters being obligd to attend the Treasury board every morning 8c Congress twice every day, often till 9 oCl in the Evening. RC (CSmH). 1 See the November 5 resolves on this subject in JCC, 9:865-67. 2 See JCC, 9:865. 3 A text of Burgoyne’s October 20 letter to Howe is in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 63-65.


[Page 284]
248 November 9, 1777 William Duer to George Clinton Sir, York Town Pensa. Novr. 9th. 1777 Notwithstanding I have had for some time Leave of Absence to return to New York, I have forbore availing myself of it, till such time as I was relived by one of the other Delegates not chusing at a very important Crisis to leave the State unrepresented. By my long Absence in Convention, and in Congress my private Affairs have got into the utmost Anarchy and Confusion, and my Health, though somewhat mended from what it was a month since, much Impaird. I therefore flatter myself that you will be kind enough to inform the Council of Safety, that I shall not be able, consistent with the Duty I owe to myself to stay at this Place longer than the 25th Inst, and to urge them to send proper Persons to represent the State. Before that Time I am certain that the Articles of Confedera tion will be completed in Congress, as at this Day, there is only one or two clauses remaining for Decision. I trust that you, Sir, and the honorable Council will do me the Justice to think that nothing but the most urgent Necessity could induce me to leave the State unrepresented in Congress. I trust how ever that Mr. Gouvr. Morris will be here before I quit this Place. I am, Sir, with very great Respect, Your Excellency’s and the Council’s most Obedt. Hble. Servt. Wm Duer RC (PHi). James Duane to George Clinton Sir, York Toun Pensyl. 10th Nov. 1777 I wrote to your Excellency yesterday & have nothing to add but that a Report prevails here that the Enemy made another attack on the Forts in the Delaware last Wednesday and were again repulsed with Loss. I hope to be able soon to send you the particulars of what you be assurd, if true, is a truly favourable & critical Event, & be yond my Expectation. I am with very great Respect Sir your Excellency’s most Obedient & very hum’e Servant. Jas. Duane P.S. Be pleased to forward the enclos’d to General Schuyler by a safe opportunity. MS not found; reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 2:511-12.


[Page 287]
November 12, 1777 251 Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 12 th 1777 We have received Mr Warrens favour of the 4th &: 7th ultimo informing us of the loss of the Brigantine Hampden, and we have no doubt but care has been taken to save as much of that Vessels ma terials as possible. Should you think what has been saved of those materials worthy of another Hull we would have you purchase One, provided it can be done on reasonable Terms, and that you get one every way well calculated for a Cruizer; particularly in point of sailing as that is a most material object with us. Mr. Bradford the agent at Boston hath lately advised us of the arrival of a Prize Brigantine called the Industrious Bee which he thinks would be suitable for a Cruizer. You will please to order a Court of enquiry on Captain Burroughs and his Pilot and if the Captain is acquitted and you purchase the Hull as above advised we would have the command given to him and when ready for Sea you will dispatch him on a Cruize the most likely for Success. 1 Enclosed are some Resolves of Congress which you will please to have published in all the Eastern Papers. Mr Cushing informs the 36 Gun Ship will soon be launched, but that he knows of no provision of Guns for her. That matter is under your direction and you will use every possible means to Obtain them, and inform us as soon as may be what probability you have of succeeding therein and upon what terms; and you will see that all materials are provided for intire equippment for Sea and that all possible dispatch be given. The Expence of the Navy is very great, but every delay adds to the charge and deprives the States of that advantage over our enemies, and of those supplies which are the great ends of their destination. We sent you by Docter Lynn warrants upon the Loan Offices of Massachusets and Rhode Island to the amount of 100,000 Dollars which we hope considering the present applications for Monies from every quarter will for a time answer the demands on your Department. We are extreamly sorry to find such heavy com plaints against Captain McNeill and we hope that Gentleman will be able to justify his conduct but as a Court Martial must be here after appointed for that purpose as well as for doing justice to the publick, we cannot consent in the mean time that the public Service should suffer, in addition therefore to what we have already in our formed Letter said to you on that subject we must add, that if you apprehend the services will be injured by Captain McNeills remaining in the command of the Boston, you will suspend him till his conduct respecting his last Cruize is properly enquired into. 2 Should this be done, you will put a person in command of her, the best qualified and most deserving you can procure being already in Commission perhaps you’ll find none more deserving than Captain Olney; 8 and


[Page 289]
November 13, 1777 253 Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir York in Pennsylvania, Novr. 13. 1777 I am favoured with yours of Octr 23d, 1 8c find that in the Enjoy ment of the News of General Burgoyne’s Surrender, You somewhat regretted General Gates’s “suffering himself to be drawn into a Con vention.” I must confess that when the News first reached this Place, I had similar Feelings, but was somewhat reconciled upon hearing the particulars as delivered by his D. Adjutant General to Congress. It seems that General Clinton with his intended Reinforcement to Burgoyne, at the Time of the Treaty, was within a Day’s Sail of Albany, where were the Magazines, Hospitals, & Laboratory of the northern army. This Gates knew, 8c not being able to detach Troops in Time to defend them, hazarded the Loss of the Whole. His D. A. General further says, that he had but 3 Days Provisions at Saratoga 8c had Albany been taken, must have retreated without Delay or have starved his Army. But what made the Matter still more critical. Sir Harry Clinton had conveyed Intelligence to Burgoyne, which the latter reed the Day before the Ratification of the Convention, inform ing him of Clinton’s Expectations of relieving him in a few Days, 8c thereupon General Burgoyne made some cavils 8c finally informed Colo Wilkinson (the Adjutant mentioned) that Hostilities must again commence; but the latter informing as he left him that General Gates could not be responsible for the Consequences, as his Men considering their General deceived (the Treaty had been several Days upon the Tapis) were highly enraged 8c zealous for Action, was recalled by G. Burgoyne 8c desired to favour him with a little further Time to consider of the Matter, which being granted soon ended in his agreeing to the Convention. However was I to judge of the Matter under Circumstances as they respect Gates alone, without recurring to the primary Cause of our Successes, It appears to me that such a powerful Army as he had were intitled to the Terms first demanded “a Surrender of the other Army Prisoners of War.” But we have ever had the greatest Reason to acquiesce in the Determinations of providence relative to our publick as well as private Concerns, 8c therefore I find myself very happy on the Occasion. We have this Evening finished the Confederacy, 8c it will be shortly sent to the several States for their Consideration. 2 My Expectations from Rhode Island were never great for Reasons too obvious to mention; but I am concerned that the Honor of so many brave Men as composed the eastern Army, should suffer from a Circumstance which they could not foresee or avoid. A thorough Enquiry must be made into this Matter; if We mean to correct such Misconduct, 8c prevent the like in future. 3 Our Friends the Mr. Adams left this two Days since, 4 8c inclosed are two Letters for Mr. J. Adams, which I must request You to


[Page 290]
254 November 13, 1777 deliver him. Agreeable to his Desire, that I would open such Letters as should be directed to him here, I opened these, & finding the largest written by what appears to me a female Hand; if so, I presume it is from his Lady, & must ask her pardon for the Error into which her Friend betrayed me. The Absence of these Gentlemen occasions a Chasm in Congress, who employed the microscopic Eye of the One to penetrate the obscure Designs of intrigueing Adversaries & the deep Erudition of the other to raise Barriers against them. My com pliments to them & other Friends & beleive me to be, yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. The Enemy appear to be making great preparations to attack Fort Mifflin. I hope the brave Fellows there will not fall a sacrifice to superior Numbers. Quere, ought not Attention to be diverted by occasional Visits from our Army? RC (Justin G. Turner, Los Angeles, Calif., 1971). 1 Warren’s October 23 letter to Gerry is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Cor respondence, pp. 91-92. 2 This day Congress appointed a committee “to revise and arrange the articles of confederation agreed to, and to prepare a circular letter to the respective states to accompany the said articles.” JCC, 9:900. 3 See Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, Decem ber 15, 1777. 4 John and Samuel Adams had been granted leave of absence on November 7. Their return trip to Massachusetts can be traced in the former’s diary entries. See JCC, 9:880; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:267-69. Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke Dear Sir York Pennsylvania Novr. 13. 1777 The Child Congress has been big with these two Years past, is at last brought forth (Confederation). I fear it will by several Legisla tures be thought a little deformed, you will think it a Monster. I wish however some kind of Confederation might take place, many Carry their Ideas of this Matter so far as to believe Our Affairs must be ruined without it; Be this as it may it will in a few days be sent to the Legislatures of the Several States. Nothing more has been done worth your notice. Our time has been chiefly employed in Army matters and God knows we have had perplexity enough. Genl. Washingtons head Quarters are at White Marsh a few miles from German Town & the Picketts of each army are very near to gether. We are informed of a large Reinforcement detached from G. Gates Army on their way to join the main Army, &: every body hopes a Good account will still be given of Sir William. You left us dissatisfied but when you hear that we still have the Command of the River—Burgoyns whole Army Surrendered—the Noble defence made


[Page 291]
November 13, 1777 255 at Red-bank, Fort Mifflin, 8cc you will I hope entertain an opinion that Our Armies must conquer wherever they appear notwithstanding the few Checks (perhaps necessary ones) they have lately met with. We have an Account of 30 Transports sailing from New York supposed to bring a reinforcement of troops to Genl. Howe. They are not as yet arrived in the Delaware. I think as soon as Our main Army receives the reinforcements ex pected, I should expect to hear of a Vigorous Attack on the Enemy, but I am no General. At the Battle of German Town I am informed Coll Martin has again been so unfortunate as to meet with Censure. He has been tryed by a Court Martial Sc Acquitted as I hear; 1 Since the death of our worthy & brave Nash, I have received a Letter from Coll Sumner shewing the Necessity of having a Brigadier appointed. What can your Delegates do in this Case? For Gods sake endeavour to get our Assembly to nominate the Gentlm they would Choose. I am told by several Officers that should Coll Martin be appointed, many resigna tions would take place as several of the Collonels 8cc are much dis- satisfield with his Conduct. Coll Sumner is I believe next in Rank, a worthy Man. Our Brigade will as soon as Coll Shephard arrives at Camp be a very Respectable One Consisting of 2000 Rank & file. I wish to see Some one or more of my Countrymen at the head of them & hope they may be esteemed in Camp, 8c out of it, as our worthy Deceased friend was. The sooner one or more Genl. Officers is appointed the better. Indeed we have a right to the Appointment of a Major Genl for our State should it be thought necessary. 2 Pray let me have your opinion freely 8c dispassionately on the Articles of Confederation. The Mode of Settling the Quota of each State towards defraying the Genl. Expence has taken up much time. Some States were for the Valuation of all the property in each State; Others for fixing it by the Number of inhabitants; Others, on the Value of lands. This Last seemed to come as near the mark as any except a Valuation of all property, however the Value of Lands has taken place, much against the desire of the delegates from the Eastern States. 3 As I expect you will be directed to return immediately after the rising of Our Assembly, I hope you will take Care to be properly instructed in every Measure they may wish to Accomplish. You ought to be here, no State should have a less number of Delegates than three present in Congress 8c I hope Our State will Attend Constantly to that rule. I have a great inclination to return home 8c wish to be in future excused from this kind of Service. Between you and I we shall be ruined in it, 8c I wish to make way for some Gentm who values his honor in this way, at a much higher rate than I do. I have not time to say one word more than to desire you’ll make my Compliments to All my friends in Assembly. I wrote Mr. Hooper 8c Maclain a few days


[Page 296]
260 November 13, 1777 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). There are no RC’s of Laurens’ presidential letters to Washington in the Washington Papers, DLC, between the dates November 7, 1777, and January 27, 1778. i These letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:173-76, 181-82, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:22-23, 33-36. 2 Laurens had been president of several provincial committees and councils in South Carolina since 1775. 3 In his November 10 letter Washington had pointed out that this "opinion” was no longer valid. 4 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:187-90, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 10:36-39. 3 This day Congress approved the report of the committee on “the com missioned and non-commissioned officers who accompanied Monsr. du Coudray from France.” JCC, 9:903-5. 3 Laurens also transmitted copies of the last two resolves to Gens. Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler with brief letters that he wrote to them on November 14. PCC, item 13, fols. 28-29; and JCC, 9:901. 7 James Duane. See Duane to Philip Schuyler, November 19, 1777. 3 Congress ordered the preparation of such an “Address” on November 15. JCC, 9:906-7. 3 Congress apparently approved the Board of War report referred to here on November 26. JCC, 9:967. io Congress took the actions described in this paragraph on November 15. JCC, 9:930-31. Marine Committee to John Deshon Sir November 13 th. 1777 We have received yours of the 26th of October and altho we have very unfavourable Accounts of the expedition upon Rhode Island yet we are glad to find the Continental Ships in Providence River are so nearly fit for Sea and hope their getting out will not depend on the Success of that expedition. The getting those Ships out is an object of very great importance 1 and we learn there were but two Ships in the Bays when Captain Palmes left Providence. We are in hopes that one of the Ships at least has already sailed we had sent forward before Captain Palmes Arrived Loan Office Certificates for 100,000 dollars by Doctor Lynn which we hope will answer for the present necessitys. The calls for Money are pressing on every side. However we shall endeavour as much as possible to support the important department entrusted to the direction of the Navy Board. 2 We shall write more at large to the Navy Board and in the mean time remain, Sir, Your hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: “John Deshon Esqr. at Providence.” 1 The British blockade of the lower Narragansett Bay kept the frigates Provi dence and Warren sealed in throughout 1777. 2 Deshon was a member of the Eastern Navy Board.


[Page 298]
262 November 13, 1777 Pennsylvania Delegates to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Novr. 13th. 1777 Congress have refered the enclosed Petition to the Council of this State, together with which we were desired to furnish a more par ticular account of the Petitioner, Parson Batwell’s state of health &c, accordingly we have just visited him, and found him a Prisoner in a private house much emaciated, and afflicted with Rhumatic pains in his Knees, which incapacitates him for walking, but con fessed he was much better than while he was in prison. 1 He offers his parole as well as Bail if he is allowed to go to his former place of aboad in this County, twenty one miles distant from hence, or permitted to take the fresh Air, and exercise here, for the recovery of his health, which we are of opinion may effect it. He requests a speedy result of your Honble Board that he may sell or remove his Effects and three Children now at the above place, a Glebe belong ing to the Church, as he cannot afford to keep two families. The Papers belonging to Mr. Batwell taken with his person were de posited in the hands of Mr. McClane in this Town, 2 who applied to one of us to know how they should be disposed of, which was moved to Congress, but they would give no orders concerning them, there fore they wait your Commands, and are as yet undisclosed, except two letters of no great importance communicated to one of us. We have the happiness to inform the State that Confederation has this Evening passed Congress, but have it not in our power as yet to communicate it, as the several articles tho agreed to are not arranged in the order they are to appear, which we hope will be effected tomorrow, as they are committed for that purpose, and to have it in our power very soon to lay them before the State, there fore we ardently wish a full representation of the State may be con vened to receive them, and that a Determination upon them may be speedy, as the ratification in our opinion is of infinite importance to the Independance of America. We are respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt & very humi Servts. Wm Clingan Daniel Roberdeau RC (PHi). 1 Rev. Daniel Batwell’s November 7 petition to Congress is in Pa. Archives, 2d ser. 3:141. For other documents pertaining to the imprisonment and parole of Batwell, a former missionary of the Society for the Propagation of the Gospel assigned to Cumberland and York Counties, Pa., whose case had been before Congress since early October, see ibid., pp. 126-30, 133-34; and JCC, 8:759. See also Daniel Roberdeau to George Bryan, December 29, 1777, note 1. 2 Archibald McClean, whose activities against the “disaffected” residents of York County can be traced in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:514-20, 536-38, 575-77, 661-63, 682-83, 704-5.


[Page 301]
November 14, 1777 265 November 17, when he dispatched a duplicate copy of this letter to Heath with the following message appended. "I beg leave to refer you to the above Copy of what I had the honour of writing to you the 14th & of confirming now, by Order of Congress, to avoid the evils which might attend in case of miscarriage or delay of the Original. The distress of the Army in this State through a want of Clothing, Blankets & Shoes is every day increasing to a most dangerous pitch & calls aloud for all the relief that can possibly be afforded & the most speedy. Congress flatter themselves with great hopes from your exertions in the present Instance.” Heath Papers, MHi. Henry Laurens to Thomas McKean Sir York 14th November 1777 I had the honour of addressing you under the Inst. 1 My present duty is to transmit a Resolve of Congress leading to an en quiry into the State of Delaware 2 & requiring the Delegates from the State to attend Congress. The Resolve being Sufficiently explicit it remains only for me to refer to it &: request you will give the needful answer at your convenience. I am with great regard, Sir, your most obedt. Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “The Honorable Thos. McKean Esquire, Speaker of Assembly, Delaware.” r See Laurens to the States, November 1, 1777. 2 The enclosed resolve of this date specifically asked Speaker McKean “to prevent the disaffected inhabitants of [Delaware] from furnishing the enemy’s fleet or army with provisions or supplies of any kind.’’ JCC, 9:905-6. Henry Laurens to William Palfrey Sir York 14th November 1777 Your favor of the 11th reached me this Morning & was immediately laid before Congress. The Treasury board are exerting themselves in the provision of money for both Armies, their Chairman has assured me you Shall Speedily be Supplied with such part of your requisition as will keep you employed until the remainder Shall be transmitted. Also that 150000 Dollars are Sent to Mr. Bedlow at Fish Kill Sc that a further Sum Shall Soon follow. I have written on this head to the General to whom I beg leave to refer. 1 I am with great regard, Sir, Your most Obedt. Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “William Palfrey Esquire, Pay Master General, Head Quarters White Marsh.” iSee JCC, 9:901; and the next entry.


[Page 303]
November 14, 1777 267 James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir 14 Novr. [1777] Yk Town Tho I must refer you as well as Mr. Hancock to what I have writ ten to Mr. S. Adams relative to the Business in Congress, 1 and also omit at present general chit chat of Men, Women & Things, Yet one little Piece of History wch. is peculiarly adapted to yr. improving Fancy I must put down. Mr. Hancock’s Waggoner who went with Mr. Hancock to Boston, after his Return to Germantown his Home fancied to visit his parents in Philadelphia where he was pointed out by one Corey a Breeches maker and put under guard but by the Intercession of one of the Allen’s who had been schoolmate with him, and who mentioned that the mans circumstances obliged him to work for Mr. Hancock as well as any other who might incline to employ him. Mr. Laurens asked the Waggoner if he was in Philada. when the Defeat of Count Dunop was reported there first; he answered yes, and, that the Hessians were exceedingly cast down. He turned his Eye to a Table & asked the President whether the large book upon it was a Bible; on being answered yes, he turned to the 2d Part of the 44th Psalm and read the Poetry which he declared the Hessians sang on meeting their surviving Chief. The President bid him remember that it was a Bible in his Hand; and also asked him if he would take his Oath. The man replied that he would not swear he heard them sing, but he would swear that one or two Offi cers read those verses in the Guard Room as the verses which the Hessians had been solemnly singing. They must be deeply touched indeed to make a religious ceremony and openly therein avow their disgrace. It is said they are mighty Bible men each being Possessor of one. My head snaps with writing and the two Fouquets are chattering French at my Elbow in the Board of War Room. Therefore I con clude yr. affectionate, obliged, James Lovell P.S. I should not have kept my regards for your Lady to be presented in a postscript, if I was not bent upon following them with Some thing adequate to a downright Execration of the Enemies of my Country and the Liberties of Mankind. May no one such even feel a fiftieth part of your delicate domestic Enjoyments. JL RC (MHi). i Not found.


[Page 304]
268 November 14, YTT1 Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, York Town Pensylva. Novr. 14th. 1777 Mr. Ellery informed me a long Time since that he expected to set out in a few Days, but as yet I hear nothing of Him. I hope Sir, if any Accident detains him, The General Assembly will appoint an other Delegate immediately, as I must very soon be upon my Return, and I earnestly wish the State may not be unrepresented. You are sensible Sir, that I expressly declared I could not consent to be absent more than six Months at a Time, and proper Provision was intended to be made to keep up a Representation. I observed to you before that under this full Expectation, I neither prepaired myself for stay ing the Winter here, nor my Family and private affairs for so long an absence. I shall however stay till I can bring forward the Confedera tion, an Object of great Moment which is now brought to a very near Conclusion. We are very much disappointed in the Expedition agt. Rhode Island. The Cause of its Failure we are not yet made ac quainted with. 1 Reinforcements are advancing from our Northward Army to join General Washington, and it is said a considerable Fleet have sailed from New-York, with Reinforcements to join Genl. How. Nothing material has happened at Philadelphia 8c the Delaware since my last Intelligence to you, save that a floating Battery which the Enemy had constructed, sunk in a few Days after She was on Float—And that a 64 gun Ship got aground near the Jersey Shore, where Genl. Varnum got down two 12 Pounders upon the Shore & huled her many Times which caused her to give several Signals of Distress, but at the Tide rising two others came to her Releif & got her off. I have not Time to add, but that I am Honored Sir, most respect fully your very humble Servt. Hy. Marchant RC (R-Ar). i See Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners, Decem ber 15, 1777. Daniel Roberdeau to Timothy Matlack Dr Sir, York Town, Novr 14th, 1777. I thank you for your punctuality and care and acknowledge the receipt of the Books five in number, of which care shall be taken. 1 You mention nothing of any agreement with the express, or whether paid or not, he charges 2 days at six Dollars per day, it may be right, although very high, for these reasons I take the liberty to refer the matter to you and beg you will pay the Bearer, which shall be reimbursed on the first notice, for besides the above at this instant,


[Page 305]
November 15, 1777 269 business is so pressing and important I cant attend to it, which is also my apology for breaking off so abruptly. I am respectfully, Dr Sir, yr very obt friend & Servt, Dan’l Roberdeau. P.S. I have two Books in the hands of Mr. James Reed, one of which Ovid I have not the same occasion of as when I wrote for it, and as these books were spared as a favour perhaps it will suit Mr. Reed to keep Ovid, otherwise I beg to rely on your punctuality for sending it forward to me per first good private hand with the Virgil, if my negligent friend Col. Bayard has not done it, prey forward me the regulation of prices. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:772. 1 Probably the works of Grotius, Pufendorf, and Vattel that had been re quested by Elbridge Gerry and Roberdeau from Thomas Wharton a few days previously, plus the two books Roberdeau mentioned in his postscript. See Elbridge Gerry to Thomas Wharton, November 8, 1777. Henry Laurens to Benjamin Huger Dear Sir, 1 York 15th November 1777. If it had been in my power you could not have wished a person more ready to Serve you than I Should have been in the affair re ferred to in your favour of the 2d. September which was delivered to me as it happened two days too late for a particular interposition on behalf of the Appellee in the Case of the Schooner Rosanna & the Cause had been matured for judgement before I had been named to the Bench for hearing & deciding upon Appeals in prize Cases. Therefore I purposely refrained from Sitting when the final opinion was to be pronounced. 2 I had indeed perused Copies of the proceedings 8c from them had formed a judgement of my own without knowing particularly who was Interested. Immediately upon receipt of your Letter I deter mined if needful to employ an Advocate, but upon application to Colo. Harnet with offers of my assistance he informed me the Bench had by their Sentence reversed the Decree given in Admiralty & or dered restitution of property or value to be made to the Appellants. Hence I ought in modesty to think my own opinion erroneous, but although I am far from being an obstinate fellow & pay great def erence to Some of the Gentlemen of the Bench I cannot honestly Say I acquiesce 3 —the pursuit of that phantom is however at an end. All the great News of Burgoyne John Esqr. &ca. will have been familiar before this can reach you. Our Eyes are now fixed upon Delaware. Forts Mifflin 8c Mercer together with Some of our Armed Vessels have performed such Acts of Defence against the attempts


[Page 308]
272 November 15, 1777 ARTICLES O F Confederation AND Perpetual Union BETWEEN THE s s R : Si- Y. M,DCC,LXXVJI..■ftp- g Bl iF> ri I I w ri IO *BI ■M IB* #■81 |8y. ri ri (8l»sa$s: A* "Bi fex It! X ib 1 ri -'t cp SbI IF* i B »BI 18->• ri If IF 3 ri ri ri ri ist.W if b ri w 5-81 'a5#as*-8| rw-HAMrsiiiRF., Massachusetts-Bay, Rhode- Isiamd and Providence Plantations, Con necticut, New-York, New-Jersfy, Pennsyl vania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina and Geor- Articles of Confederation


[Page 310]
274 November 15, 1777 My health groes worse and will, I fear, compel me soon to return home. My compliments to Mr. J. Adams. Affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee RC (NN). i Congress approved the Articles of Confederation this day and ordered 300 copies to be printed. Two days later it also approved a circular letter of trans mittal to the states, but printed texts of the Articles were not available for submission to the states until almost the end of November. See JCC, 9:907-28, 932-35; and William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., November 28, 1777. Daniel Roberdeau to George Bryan Sir, York Town Novr. 15th. 1777 I acknowledge the honor of a Letter from Council with the enclos ures which shall be immediately laid before Congress, 1 and Council may be assured of my most vigorous exertions on the important Business recommended and without delay advise them; in the mean time with most respectful Salutation I remain their and your Most obt. huml. Servt. Daniel Roberdeau P.S. Confederation will be sent off for Lancaster to be printed. RC (MeHi). 1 Roberdeau laid Bryan’s November 14 letter and “sundry papers relative to Indian depredations on the western frontiers” before Congress this same after noon. JCC, 9:928. The documents are in PCC, item 69, 1:433—40; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser., 5:741-42, 6:3-4. John Penn to Timothy Matlack Dear Sir, York Town, Novr 16th, 1777. I have not a word on the subject of news worth communicating, unless, that we have gone through the confideration, it will be sent to Lancaster to be printed as soon as possible. Col. John Banister a friend of mine near Petersburg in Virga wrote to me to buy him three hundred pounds weight of clover seed (the red sort) & send to him. As I do not know who to apply to, I have taken the liberty to ask the favr of you to speak to a proper person to engage that quantity 8e give it a pass as soon as a waggon offers, I will pay the money when wanted, let me hear from you. I am your ob’t Servt, J. Penn. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:10. Addressed: “Col. Timothy Matlack, Lancaster.”


[Page 311]
November 17, 1777 275 Henry Laurens to James Mease Sir York 17th November 1777. Inclosed you will receive three Certified Copies of Resolves of Congress of the 15th Inst, directing you to appoint a Deputy in each State where you have not already appointed, 1 & relative to Clothing in the port of Bedford to which I beg leave to refer you. Two of these are to be Sent Severally to Mr. Bradford & to your Deputy at Rhode Island or to the Governor & Council if an appoint ment through their interposition Shall be necessary. Congress having received advice from Majr. General Heath of a large quantity of Cloth Sufficient for covering 10000 Soldiers 8c also a considerable Number of Shoes in the Towns of Newberry Port 8c Salem the preference of which he had Secured to the Public have given orders to the Agent for the Clothier General at Boston to purchase both articles. I have writ to the Assembly of Massachusetts every needful assistance on the occasion to Mr. Otis. General Heath will likewise if necessary interpose his good offices. You know whether you have Sufficient funds in Boston for paying the Amount of so large a purchase 8c will guard betimes. The Resolve which I now inclose does not extend to the intended purchases at Newberry 8c Salem al though I am sure it was so intended 8c you will give directions ac- ordingly. If Mr. Otis Succeeds I think we have a fair prospect of Clothing the Army in a Short time. Nothing but vigilance will be necessary in which your department will not be deficient. If you will depute Mr. John Raven Merchant in Charles Town to be your Aid for So. Carolina you will find him accurate, diligent, perfectly well acquainted with business. Sensible 8c of tried integrity, no Man there can Serve the public better nor make your business in that part more easy 8c reputable to you. I am LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Mease was clothier general of the Continental Army. Henry Laurens to Certain States. Sir. York Town 17th Novem 1777. The extreme want of Blankets 8c Clothing in General Washing ton’s Line, induced Congress on the 15th Inst, to confirm a Resolu tion for calling on those States to whom by a former Resolve it had been recommended to collect such essential articles 8c to request that without delay all that shall have been collected may be forwarded to Camp. 1


[Page 312]
November 17, 1777 276 A Copy of the first mentioned Resolve together with a subjoin’d extract from the General’s Letter dated the 11th Inst, will accompany this. 2 Your Excellency will be pleased to take the necessary measures on your part in order to insure the great end in view—enabling our distressed Soldiers to keep the Field, indeed to save many of them from perishing. I have the honour to be, with very great respect, sir, Your Excel lency’s Most obedt. humble servt. Henry Laurens, President Cong RC (Vi). Addressed: “His Excellency Governor Henry.” Laurens also wrote the same letter this day to the speaker of the Massachusetts Assembly (PCC, item 13), the governors of Connecticut (Ct), and New Jersey (MHi), and the presi dent of Pennsylvania (IHi). According to the journals, he was supposed to write a similar letter to Maryland, but no text has been found. JCC, 9:906. 1 In Laurens’ letter to Massachusetts, this paragraph is preceded by another paragraph that is not in any of the other letters listed above. "I confirm & beg leave to refer to the above Copy of what I had the honour of writing to you under the 14th Currt., duplicate of the Resolution & Letter there mentioned will be found with this.” See also Laurens to William Heath, November 14, 1777, note 2. 2 The enclosed November 15 resolve confirmed an October 16 resolve “relative to cloathing wanted for the army.” JCC, 9:809, 906-7. Washington’s November 11 letter on this subject is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:36-39. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear Sir, York the 17th Novr. 1777 I had heared of my loss before yours of the 15th came to hand, and I regret it the more as Cards, and good ones especially, are not easy to be got. Those that you speak of, I had interested myself with the Workman at Wilmington to have of the best kind. I was in hopes that by a strict enquiry after them, they might yet be found, and spoke to your brother about having such enquiry made. At all events, Cards are so much wanted in my family, that I must beg the favor of you to procure for me a good pair of Cotton and one of Wool against I pass thro Baltimore in my way to Virginia, which will be in about 8 or 10 days; as my ill state of health will not admit of my staying long here. You will oblige me Sir by sending my Cask, that was left with you for me in June last, to Potomack river by the first good opportunity, and direct it to be landed at the house of George Turberville esquire, about 20 miles from the mouth of Potomac on the South side, and about 3 miles above the mouth of Yeocomico. I would prefer Mr. Crump to any other person for carry ing the Cask, but I would not loose a good opportunity that might offer sooner. The affair of the Spanish fleet that you mention, we had


[Page 313]
November 17, 1777 277 heared of some time ago, and at the same time, that since the death of the King of Portugal, all differences were made up between the two Courts, and orders sent to South America to restore all things there to quiet. We hear nothing from Philadelphia, except that the Inhabitants are in great distress for provisions. Both Armies are still, and both have lately received reenforcements. A considerable part of Gen. Gate’s army will shortly join Gen. Washington. I am dear Sir your most obedient and very humble servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (ViU). Marine Committee to Daniel Tillinghast Sir November 17 th 1777 Since our last 1 inclosing an Order in your favour on the Honble Stephen Hopkins Esqr. we have discovered that the charge of 20,000 dollars against that Gentleman as moneys received by him the 10th of Feby. 1776 as being received towards the building the Fri gates at Providence is a mistake, of which we have particularly ad vised Mr. Hopkins. 2 That order drawn on him in your favour you will return to us to be destroyed. We have now enclosed you a Warrant upon the Loan office of Rhode Island for 20,950 Dollars to enable you to discharge the Balance of 5023 1/9 Dollars due to the Gentlemen employed by Mr. Hopkins to build the Continental Fri gates at Providence (their Commissions &c hereafter to be consid ered) and to supply you the sum for which our Order in your favour on Mr. Hopkins was drawn being 15.926 8/9ths Dollars and for which you are to be accountable. You will please to take Duplicate receipts of those Gentlemen to whom you pay the above mentioned balance of 5023 1 /9 Dollars and transmit one of them to us. How the above mistake arose you will see by our Letter to Mr. Hopkins. We are sorry it should lead us to trouble him and to delay you and the Gentlemen employed in building said Frigates. We have endeav oured to rectify it as soon as possible. There still however appears to be a balance in Mr. Hopkins hands on Account of those Ships of 950 Dollars which he also Suggests is a mistake. If he should not be able to point it out to us we have desired him to pay that sum to you, we desire you to receive it to be accountable therefor. We have not lessened the Warrant on the Loan office on that Account. A further sum of 119 36/90ths Dollars appears also to be due from Mr. Hopkins to the Naval Committee of which he was Chairman and which sum we have also requested him to pay you, and we desire you to receive it and place it to our Account. We are Sir Your most hble servants


[Page 319]
November 19, 1777 283 and every Accommodation for the Troops destroyed; and that only two Cannon remaind servicable. The Battery alone was in a Condi tion to annoy the Enemy. The brave Garrison still retaind their Spirits. 1 In other Respects the Condition of the two Armies is the same as mentiond in my last: except that General Howe has found means in a high wind & strong Tide to get a Supply of Provisions to his Army in three Vessels which passed the Fort thro’ a heavy Can nonade in the Channel between that & Province Island. I thought it advisable to obtain the enclosd Resolution to enable you If you shoud think fit to repair your misfortunes at Saraghtoga, and to prevent a Long & disagreeable Attendance at Head Quarters where you cou’d not live but in manner the most uncomfortable and expensive. 2 With usual Compliments, I remain, Dear Sir, most re spectfully, Your most obedt & hume servt, Jas. Duane P.S. I have at length after most Anxious & disagreeable service of 8 months obtaind my Leave of absence from the State & shall set out soon to visit my Family. What became of my Barn, Barracks or Crops? I have not heard; & I feel with pleasure the spirit of a Farmer. 3 RC (NN). 1 For a detailed discussion of the British reduction of Fort Mifflin on Novem ber 10-15, see Jackson, Pennsylvania Navy, pp. 225-67. 2 The enclosed November 14 resolve stated that "General Schuyler be at liberty to attend to his private affairs” until the conclusion of the inquiry into the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence. See JCC, 9:901; and John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Schuyler, November 22, 1777. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania Novr. 19. 1777 I yesterday received your favour of the 18th Ultimo. You accuse me of not writing to you, I can only Say that I wrote while Congress remained in Philadelphia to my friends (almost) by every Post ex clusive of Other Oppertunities by private hands. I have answered your several Queres by informing you that no Distiller is either to be hired, or purchased on such terms as you, or the Concerned would think reasonable but really extravagant. I have told you in five or Six of mine that Jackey was well and at School at Burlington &c. If you choose me to send for him here, I will endeavour to accom plish it, as there is a good School here where he might remain until my return, & I would then bring him with me if it should be your desire. Genl. Washingtons Army still remains near Philadelphia, & a Large reinforcement is hourly expected from Genl. Gates. A report


[Page 320]
284 November 19, 1777 Prevails that the Enemy have at last taken possession of Fort Mifflin (Mud Island) this is not yet Confirmed but is thought probable. Whether Genl. Howe will be able to hold his ground in Philadelphia this Winter is still matter of doubt. Our Little fleet & forts on the Delaware have behaved nobly. Mr. Gillon the bearer of this I beg leave to Introduce to your particular Notice—8c that you will introduce him to my Other friends in Wilmington. See that his horses are taken Care of &c. He is a very deserving man. Send the Inclosed to Mrs. Harnett. I refer you to Mr. Gillon for every Other Intelligence you may wish to hear. He is this moment setting off. I am Dr Sir, Your sincr friend 8cc, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] We have neither Post, or Press here therefore can send you no Printed Account, I am obliged to Catch at an Opportunity to with [i.e. write] to my friends. Remember me to Mr. Quince 8cc 8cc. RC (NcU). Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir York 19th November 1777 Since I had the honour of writing to you the 13th to 15th Inst. I have received no other Commands from Congress your Excellency except the two Inclosed Resolves. The 15th Inst, relative to Clothing 8c Blankets for the Army. The 17 Inst, for appointments to Rank in the Army the Chevalier Duportail, Messrs. Du Lemoy, dela Radierre & Govion. Commissions in obedience to the Resolve are granted & the Several dates Noted on the Resolve. A person from Philadelphia well known by the Name of John Brown was Reported to Congress yesterday by Mr. Morris as having come to him with a Message from General Sir Wm. Howe through the medium of Mr. Willing to Congress, importing generally that Sir William & Lord Howe were desirous of treating for terms of Peace with Congress that every thing that ever had been expected by America (Independency as he understood excepted) would be granted & Congress Money ratified. This Man pretends to have come through General Potters Camp 8c to have dined with the General. He had been Some eight or ten days from Philadelphia at Manheim, Lancaster 8c other places. At Lancaster the Executive Council of this State had ordered him into Custody. He was released from confinement upon Mr. Morris’s ap plication and promise to bring him before Congress. The House Refused to see him 8c Resolved to remand him under Guard to the power of the State Council. 1


[Page 321]
November 19, 1777 285 I have the honour to be, Sir, your Excellencys most Obt. humi Servt. P.S. Congress in this Morning Session Resolved to make a Strict enquiry into the treatment of American Soldiers 8c other Inhabitants of America now or late prisoners in Philadelphia, a copy of the Resolution will be added to those above mentioned. I have been instructed by Congress to add a request to your Excellency to demand access by a proper Officer to Such prisoners as remain alive in order an effectual enquiry may be made 8c a Satisfactory answer as to facts returned. 2 Congress are of opinion that the demand may be justly founded on the precedent of Agents from the Enemy ap pointed on their part 8c permitted by Congress to visit Hessian pris oners on this Side. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i For further information about John Brown’s abortive attempt to convey peace terms from Gen. William Howe to Congress, see JCC, 9:937—38; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:25, 36-38; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:98-99; and Robert Morris to Thomas Wharton, November 30, 1777. Brown, a former servant of Robert Morris, claimed, in a statement made to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety on November 21, that Morris and William Duer had done their best to facilitate his efforts to bring General Howe’s message to Congress. On the same day the council of safety had Brown imprisoned ‘‘for aiding & assisting the Enemies of the Commonwealth, and forming Combinations with them for betraying the United States into their hands.” Pa. Council Minutes, 11:345^6. 2 Washington reported in his November 23 letter to Congress that he had already proposed to General Howe that a proper person be permitted to in vestigate conditions in the Philadelphia prisons and he enclosed his corres pondence with Howe on the subject. The Board of War’s consideration of this correspondence resulted in several proposed resolutions which were considered on December 6 and 8 and postponed. But after conferring with Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot, who was not permitted to visit American prisoners in Philadelphia, the board on January 21, 1778, submitted an extensive report on British mismanagement in caring for American prisoners in Philadelphia and New York. Congress responded by adopting a series of resolutions directed toward improving the treatment of American prisoners. See JCC, 9:1006-9, 10:74-82; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:99. For a comprehensive analysis of British treatment of American prisoners of war, see Larry G. Bowman, Captive Americans: Prisoners during the American Revolution (Athens: Ohio University Press, 1976). John Penn to William Woodford Dear Sir York Novr. 19th. 1777 Inclosed I send you a letter from Colo. Pendleton. I have waited a few days in hopes to be able to mention something to you about your Rank. Mr. Jones has been unwell for some days, he has deter mined as soon as he can, either to make or second a motion that Justice should be done.


[Page 322]
286 November 19, 1777 The Congress have settled the precident in recalling all the Com missions from the Continental officers of Pennsylva. in order to grant new ones, that the proper rank of each officer may be preserved, several extraordinary promotions having taken place to the prejudice of some officers. 1 I am under no doubt but we shall do what is right with regard to you and Genl. Scott tho’ I can’t help being vexed that it has been delayed so long. I have had some {warm) words with (You can guess). 2 He will be agt. you (I suspect) tho’ not your State, we have rubbed very hard and in publick—more than once. I suspect the affair will be done this week, as soon as it is I will write you. You know my opinion of your ability and Integrity, also of General Scot, I shall therefore use every Thing in my power to have Justice done & as soon as possible not from Friendship but duty. 3 Pray converse with Major John Taylor on the Subject of his dis pute with Genl. Sullivan. Your Character as a Soldier and a Gentle man will be sufficient to Justifie him, in any part he may act, upon that occasion. 4 Pray remembr. me to Genl. Scot & am with great re gard, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. J. Penn RC (RPJCB). Addressed: “General Woodford, Near Head Quarters, Pennsylva.’’ i Congress took this action on November 12. JCC, 9:896. a Penn is probably referring to Francis Lightfoot Lee, who was unsympathetic to Woodford’s claim to precedence over another Virginia officer, Gen. George Weedon. See Lee to Weedon, March 31, 1778. 3 Not until March 19, 1778, did Congress resolve the dispute about rank among Virginia Generals Woodford, Weedon, Charles Scott, and Peter Muhlen berg. JCC, 10:269. Mrs. Catesby Willis Stewart, The Life of General William Woodford of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (Richmond: Whittel & Shepperson, 1973), chaps. 26-31, prints what appears to be virtually every surviving primary source relating to this controversy. See also Committee at Camp Statement, March 2, 1778. 4 Maj. John Taylor of Maryland, a subordinate of Gen. John Sullivan, had written a letter on August 24 to Col. Moses Hazen criticizing Sullivan’s handling of a recent raid on Staten Island. For Taylor’s critical letter, which he had asked Hazen to show to Penn, and other documents bearing on this episode, see Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 1:460, 482-83, 485-90, 528—30, 537. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir York Town Novr. 19th 1777 I am honoured with your several favours of the 15th, 16th Sc 17th Instant 1 to which I will reply at length if time and the extream coldness of the weather will permit, but I no sooner express my desire than I find myself limited to a few minutes. The regulation of the prices of necessaries for the army and the Quota’s for each State un til better ascertained I expect will be both reported this day by Committee’s. 2 I acknowledge Shelly’s affidavit come to hand which I


[Page 327]
November 20, 1777 291 For Gods sake get the Assembly to recommend Genl. Officers for Our Brigade. As soon as Coll Sheppard joins them, they will Con sist of at least 2000 rank & file. They are exceedingly uneasy. They are at present Commanded by the brave McDugal, yet they imagine they appear Contemptible in the eyes of the Army, not having One Genl. Officer from Our State. They insist they have according to the Pro portion of men, a right to a Major General & two Brigadiers. I am Dr Sir, Your Affectionate & Ob Servt, Cornl. Harnett [P.S.]For Gods sake endeavour to get some Gent, appointed in my stead. I cannot stay here any longer with any pleasure. RC (NcU). 1 That is, Robert H. Harrison. a The November 17 circular letter that Congress sent to the states with the Articles of Confederation is in JCC, 9:932-34. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania 20 Novemr. 1777 I this day received your Scolding Letter of the 30th ulto. which is the 5th I have reed since I left Cape Fear; I can say with truth that I have written to you more than twice in a Month since I left home. I sent you, Mrs. Harnett, Mr. Hooper & Mr. Maclain particular Accounts of the Battles of Brandywine & German Town, together with every transaction Since at Saratoga, North River 8cc. If you do not receive them I can not help it. I am convinced Letters are Opened in Our Post Office 8c not Suffered to pass to the Place in tended. Since Congress have been in this Town it has been impossible to write by Post, as it passes through at no certain day only Comes in late at night 8c Setts of[f] very early in the Morning. All the Members Complain of this 8c we shall in a few days have an Office in the Town, I assure you I have been obliged to Catch at transient Oppertunities and many times wrote in such hurry that I could only write a few lines to let My friends 8c family know I was well, Mr. Pen has more Leisure than I have, I never in my life went through so much fatigue, being Obliged to Sit all day in Congress 8c often very Often in the Treasury board till 11 at night. I have told you in several of my Letters that Nothing can be pur chased here but at a most exhorbitant Price, no Distiller either White or Black to be got at any rate or indeed Victuals to eat, in this once plentiful Country. I tell you again the 9th or 10th time that Jackey was very well about a Month ago. Mr. Gillon has been de tained much Longer than he expected which gives me an Oppertunity of answering your Letter. We have indeed been very unlucky in the


[Page 328]
292 November 20, 1777 fighting way in this Quarter but the Success of Genl Gates has made some amends for our Misfortunes here. Fort Mifflin is Certainly taken by the Enemy & it is supposed they will at last get their Ships up the river, some immagine by this means Genl Howe will be enabled to keep possession of Philadelphia this winter. A large rein forcement from Genl Gates’ Army will in a day or two Join Genl Washington. Perhaps we shall soon see a reverse of fortune, Genl Howe also expects from N York a Strong reinforcement. The Public have been much Abused in regard to the Numbers of Genl Washing tons army. It never exceeded 16,000 Including Militia which did him little service in either Battle. We have Supposed Howe could not consist of more than 10,000, but it is immagined by the best Judges to exceed that number now, after the great Losses they met with in the two last Actions. We are generally too apt to lessen the Number of Our Enemys Army, & Exaggerate that of our own, which is bad Policy. We have no Press here, I can therefore send you no papers. I wrote Mr Hooper & Mr Maclain 1 by way of New Bern a few days ago & beg you’ll forward the inclosed immediately. The Indians have been of late very Troublesom about the Neighbourhood of Fort Pitt, have murdered several of the inhabitants, burnt their houses & de stroyed their Grain 8cc. We hope a Speedy Stop will be put to their Devastations & that they will be reduced to the necessity of defending their own Towns, as the war will no doubt be carried Speedily into their own country. Congress have finished the Confederation. It will be sent by express to the Assemblies of the several States for their Considera tion. I heartily desire to be at home, & whenever I get there I shall with pleasure give up this very disagreeable & troublesom Office. I have wrote my friends to beg they would send some person to relieve me. Tell Mr. Purviance I sent his Letter to his brother Jno. I hear he is in New Jersey. Make my Compliments to Mr. Quince 8c all my friends. Mr. Hills father died a few weeks ago in Boston. Coll Buncomb we are told is a Prisoner in Philadelphia taken at German Town, we hear nothing of Lieut Coll Erwin, it is supposed he was killed in the field. They have been making rum to the Eastward out of the juice of Corn Stalks. 2 I shall soon send you the whole Process 8c am, Dr Sir, Your most Obed Servt. Cornl Harnett [P.S.] I hope this letter is long enough. RC (NcU). i Not found. 2 Congress had appointed a committee on November 15 "to collect and digest the late useful discoveries for making molasses and spirits from the juice of corn stalks, and report a plan for communicating the said discoveries to the inhabitants of the several states,” but no report by it appears in the journals. JCC, 9:929.


[Page 335]
November 21, 1777 299 Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Dear Sir York Town Nov’mber 211. 1777 Inclosed I send you a Copy of the Confederation the Eighth Article of which Respects Taxation and has given me great uneasi ness as I cannot see any Justice in the Rule therein laid down, for proportioning the Several States with the Charges of the Present War. In the first place it appears to me that one third part of the welth of the Southern States which consists in negroes, is entirely left out and no Notice taken of them, in determining their ability to pay taxes, notwithstanding it is by them that they procure their wealth. 1 Neither are we to have any advantage of them in proportion ing the Number of men to be drawn from the Several States to Carry on the war, that being fixed on the Number of white Inhabitants in each state, so that by their negroes being left at home, they Can till their lands and git Bread & Riches, while some other States may be greatly distressed. In the next place the wealth that is in Some States more than there is in others by no means fixes a Proportionable Value on the Lands in Such States, which if this be true Seems to Prove that the plan laid down by Congress is not just. These are my own thoughts on this head, but refer you to your own better Judg ment on them. It seems to be the Sence of Congress, that if any of the articles of Confederation Should be thought hard of, or unequal to any of the States, that they will make a Representation of the Same to Congress, with the reasons of their disapprobation to Such articles, in order if Possible to give satisfaction and ease to each and every of the States. The time fixed on for the Several legislatures, to deter mine on these great Points is by some members thought too short but I make no doubt but they will take as much time to deliberate there on as may be thought just and necessary. General Washingtons head Quarters is at the Sixteen mile Stone from Philadelphia, where it has been for a month Past. Several strong detachments are further advanced some at Germantown & a Strong Picquit at the Rising Sun abought 4 miles from Philadelphia. A Considerable reinforcement from the northern army are on their march and in a few days it is expected they will join general Wash ington. Whether any thing will be attempted or no is very uncertain. Yesterday we had an account that Fort Mifflin was evacuated. To day it is Contradicted. Be it as it will our People have maintaind that Post with much gallantry, and have harrased the Enemy greatly. November 22d. The news to Day is that the enemy have marcht fif teen hunderd men in order to attack our People at Read banck and that general Washingtons whole army are in motion and that general


[Page 336]
300 November 21, 1777 Greens division had marcht to Reinforce that Post but this Wants Confirmation. I am Sir with much Respect, your very humble Servent. Nathel. Folsom P.S. I hope I shall not be left alone here this winter. 2 RC (Nh-Ar). i The New Hampshire Council and House of Representatives met on February 24, 1778, in a joint committee of the whole to discuss the Articles of Confederation. For the proceedings pertaining to their consideration of the articles, which involved a brief dispute over the merits of the eighth article, see N.H. State Papers, 8:774. a On December 25, 1777, Josiah Bartlett and William Whipple were re appointed delegates to Congress by the New Hampshire Assembly. Ibid., pp. 746, 756. Henry Laurens to William Nichols Sir, 21st November 1777. Immediately upon hearing of your Captivity, I wrote to Colonel John Laurens requesting him to make to you a tender of my Services in Money or by other means as far as duty to my Country would permit. 1 I then beleived you have been in General Washington’s Camp & that my Letter would have found you there. Your favour of the 18th which came to hand this Evening Shews me you are at Reading. I beg you will now accept of such offers as are intimated above & inform me in what respect I can make your confinement tolerable. I speak to you as to a Gentleman & know you are too much a Man of honour to ask any thing which my own honour would oblige me to refuse. I perceive your first application is that I may Interest my Self with General Washington in order to procure your Release by Ex change, of this I Shall think maturely 8c take the opinions of my friends 8c if proper will apply to Congress upon the occasion. In the mean time I apprehend a Letter from your Self directed to Lord Howe or the Commanding Officer of the British fleet Sent open under cover to His Excellency General Washington, requesting of Lord Howe to propose an equivalent for your dismission would be a proper first Step 8c I am very sure General Washington’s humanity will do every act in the Case which he can think himself authorized to do. You cannot be unacquainted with a demur to the Exchange of prisoners which took place some Months since 8c which we think is chargeable upon General Sir William Howe, that unlucky circum stance has hitherto been attended with more evils to the unfortunate


[Page 337]
November 21, 1777 301 Americans, than to the other party, these, such of them I mean as by the fortune of War have been made prisoners, have experienced not only humanity but very great Indulgence, while our people, Officers & Men, who have been made Captives, have in general been treated with such Cruelty as you are not answerable for 8c therefore I will not insult you with a detail or complaint of particulars. The ground on which I have given you this Slight intimation I may inform you of at a future opportunity. The Stoppage of the Cartel which was formerly in motion did not Seem to have extended to Sea Officers 8c Men, an Officer of a Carolina private Vessel of War & one of his Servants who had been exchanged between New York 8c Boston long Since the Subsisting dispute which I have alluded to, lately passed through this Town on their way home. This may afford Some ground for your address to Lord Howe 8c possibly the Name of Capt Manly in return for your Self may be very acceptable to us. But this is merely my own opinion 8: the effects of my good wishes to you, that you may upon adequate considerations obtain enlargement 8c be restored to your family. I know you are as little of an Enemy to the public in America as your honour 8c function will allow you to be. If you want money or other aid please to inform me 8c depend upon me for every thing that I can with propriety grant 8cca. LB (ScHi). Addressed: "Captain William Nichols, Reading.” i “This evening,” John Laurens had reported to his father on November 9, “Capt Nichols of the Eagle packet with the Capt of an armed sloop, were brought to Head Quarters—they were made prisoners by a detachment from Capt Lee’s troops, and as Nichols mentioned his being acquainted with some gentlemen of Carolina, Capt Lee gave him a recommendatory letter to me. The honest seaman . . . seems to be affected by his misfortune and expresses as hearty rejoicing at the welfare of President Laurens as if he were a loyal subject to his master.” Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 73-74. See also Laurens to John Laurens, November 15, 1777. Henry Laurens to Thomas Wharton Sir York 21st November 1777 The Representations lately made to Congress by this State as well as by General Hand of Inroads, Ravages 8c barbarous Murders on the Western frontier by Indian Savages, were duly taken under Consideration, 8c Resolutions have been formed for appointing Com missioners to repair immediately to Fort Pitt for enquiring into the Causes of the present disaffection of the hostile Indians, for punish ing delinquent Officers, for Suppressing the threatened War 8c cutting off if possible the Source of these Evils. A Copy of these Resolutions extended 8c Certified I have the honour of transmitting under this


[Page 338]
302 November 21, 1777 Cover, you will be pleased to lay it before the Legislature of this State, to whom it is earnestly recommended to vest the Commis sioners with such powers as will enable them effectually to accom plish the Salutary purpposes intended by Congress. 1 I should ap prehend it will be necessary to extend the powers beyond the present appointment, to such Commissioners as may hereafter be authorized for carrying the Resolve into execution in order to guard against disappointment which would otherwise follow, in case of the death or refusal to Serve, of the three Gentlemen now elected. I have the honour to be with very great regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See ]CC, 9:941-45; and Daniel Roberdeau to Wharton, November 19, 1777. James Lovell to Joseph Whipple Dear Sir York Town Novr. 21st. 1777. I have to acknowledge yr. favour of Octr. 12th in which was in closed the list of Numbers of the Tickets lost by me the 19th of Sepr. I have sent it to Baltimore to be published; and, as Messrs. Adams were going to Boston I have given a copy to them to be published in the Boston Papers. If you can persuade yr. Printer to republish the Advertizemt. in his Paper pro bono publico, I wish it may be done. But as I have an almost absolute certainty that a Pick pocket is the possessor of the Articles lost I hardly think it worth while to go on to spend money about notifications at such a Distance from the Scene of Theft. The utmost I expect is to pre vent the Public being cheated by purchasing the Tickets. I have nothing agreeable to tell you from this Quarter of the Con tinent. The Spirit of Enterprize is a Stranger in the main Army. You may expect so long as the War continues that 3 times more men will be lost in the main army by marching and countermarching over hills and thro’ rivers than in battles. I should deceive you greatly if I lead you to look for any Thing favourable from the main army. Fort Mifflin is lost after the bravest defence. The naval part of our Forces behaves well. They tell us from the grand army that our Gallies still maintain their Places of Command over the Cheveaux de Frize. The naval Force has not been seconded by proper Exertions on Shore. I am vexed, not without Reason; you will be so too 20 Times during this coming winter from the Accounts which you will have from the neighbourhood of Philadelphia. Great Part of our northern army is coming this way to be kept idle; except so much action may be allowed as will serve to wear out Shoes and Stockings. I have reason to think the Battle of Germantown was the day of


[Page 345]
November 23, 1777 309 until the terms of the convention had been carried out. After considering the council’s request Congress resolved on November 22 to instruct Gates to in vestigate whether the required equipment and supplies had been surrendered but not to delay the embarkation of Burgoyne and his troops because of the inquiry. See JCC, 9:936-37, 939, 949-52; PCC, item 67, 2:87-91; and Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1075-76. See also Laurens to William Heath, December 27, 1777, and January 8, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 23 November 1777. Waiting for the Clerks of Secretary’s has detained an Express which would otherwise have been dispatched last Night. The blame ful delay afforded me however, a prospect of leisure for writing a little deliberately to you. This was soon closed by a General Fermoy who engrossed two hours of the Evening in order to present me with business which properly conducted could not have occupied those minutes—the remainder was stole from me I declare to you very honestly by a parcel of clever Scots in this House who would not allow me at so late an hour to go to the writing Table, & forced me to stay & hear their pretty songs—the Jades. This cost me an hour of Candle before day Light in order to dispatch a Messenger with a pointed enquiry whether the Convention of Saratoga has been kept perfectly whole on the part of Lt. General Burgoyne—an affair which I would not have talked of as from me although ’tis as common as any other topic. I hope there will be a pair of Boots prepared for you some day this Week & if I can get no other sort I’ll send you woolen Gloves—I intend a few Camp-Shirts for you from a peice of Linen which I brought from Carolina—I must write to that Country for a supply of many articles & send a Waggon to bring them. I have in sight your last Letter of the 18th, 1 you will one of these days give me as many anecdotes as well as the best general Account you can, of the whole River proceedings from to the evacuating Fort Mifflin. We are anxious to know the measures pursued by the Enemy after that event—with some difficulty to the Marquis’s freind Monsr St. Colomba is gratified with Commission to be Captain. 2 Baron Frey will return to Camp & probably offer himself as a Volunteer. 3 Congress refuses to employ him or any more of the adventurers from France. I should think Commissions as high as Captain to such as had seen service 8e good Company & whose English is tolerable might be granted—& work some reform in that Line. The Baron has emptied his Purse & plainly intimates a reliance on me to replenish it. These unfortunate folks have hitherto been only consumers of my time—there’s now an appearance of consumpt


[Page 346]
310 November 23, 1777 of Money to keep some of them from deep distress, what can one do? —&: yet how can one alone do all? Adieu. Henry Laurens RC (ScHi). i This letter is in Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 78-80. 2 On November 15 Congress had decided that the chevalier Morel de La Colombe, one of the French officers who had accompanied the marquis de Lafayette to America, "may be usefully employed in the quality of captain in the family of the Marquis during his service in the American service.” See JCC, 9:931; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:18, 161n.6. 3 Laurens had noted in his letter book on November 22: “Wrote to [Lafayette] yesterday by Express Johns & this day by Baron Fry with letters just received from France & a Letter for Colo. Fitzgerald.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. None of these letters has been found. Henry Laurens to Joseph Reed Sir, York Town 23d November 1777. Under Cover with this I have the honour of forwarding to you an Act of Congress of the 20th Inst, by which you are appointed a Commissioner for Indian affairs on the Western frontier of this State & the Paper will inform you particularly the ends which Con gress have in view, it is ardently wished that the appointment may meet your acceptance, of which you will be pleased to give me notice with convenient dispatch. 1 I am with great regard & Esteem, sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NHi). i After Reed declined this appointment in a letter written to Laurens on November 30, Congress excused him from service on December 4 and on the 11th named George Clymer to replace him. See JCC, 9:945, 1001, 1016, 1018; PCC, item 78, 19:169; and Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, November 19, 1777. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams My dear Sir, York the 23d Novr. 1777 I need not make an apology for my paper because you know our choice of things here is confined within narrow bounds, as little occasion is there to excuse the slovenly manner in which this letter may be written, since you well know how seldom it is that we can command time in this busy scene. I had the pleasure of writing you lately by Capt. Romane, a young gentleman of worth who passes thro Boston in his return to his own Country. 1 Since that letter was written we have lost fort Mifflin, which our brave garrison was


[Page 352]
316 November 24, 1777 I think it possible that one or more of the number elected may decline the service. I therefore submit to Your Excellency’s consider ation the propriety of recommending to the General Assembly to vest the intended Powers in these or any other Commissioners who may be appointed by Congress, in order to prevent the pernicious delay which may otherwise happen. H.L. RC (NjMoHP). Addressed: "His Excellency, Governor Henry, Virginia.” Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry My dear Sir, York the 24th Novr. 1777 I am just favored with yours of the 14th and thank you for it. 1 Every attempt to clothe the army is commendable, upon principles both of humanity and policy. As there is great Trade at Charles Town you have some chance for the woolens you want, altho this is the worst season for application on account of the many negroes they have to clothe in that Country. Either the Havannah or New Orleans are places where you may surely get Woolens and military Stores. Doctor Lee’s letters have repeatedly assured us that at these places would be lodged the above articles for N America in general, and Virginia in particular. Small swift sailing Vessels sent to the former of these places from Virginia or North Carolina freighted with fine flour or Tobacco would not fail to return loaded with necessaries, and by pushing into some of the inlets on the Sea Cost of North Carolina might avoid the British Cruisers that infest our Bay and the goods be safely brot overland. This appears to me the most expeditious and the most certain way. By this method, the blankets 8c cloaths might yet be in Season to help the Soldiers before the winter is over. With respect to the loan of money at the Ha vannah or N. Orleans, I am not able to form a judgement whether it can be effected or not, the latter most probably, because Dr. Lee was able to get but a small sum immediately from Spain for Congress, altho he expected a larger credit from Holland thro the mediation and security of Spain. Add to this the great probability of immediate war in Europe, from which Spain will not be detached. I remember Dr. Lee in many of his letters to me previous to his visit to Spain said he should endeavor to negotiate a loan from that Court for Virginia 8c (Maryland) South Carolina to support (as he said) the credit of our paper money. Since his return from Spain he only mentions Cloaths 8c military Stores that wd. be lodged at Havannah 8c Orleans for our use. For the purpose of securing the credit of our money on a great emergence it were to be wished a credit could be obtained as you propose, and therefore I think it will not be amiss


[Page 353]
November 24, 1777 317 to make the experiment. As for goods they may be had in the way of Barter. Indeed, I understood Dr. Lee, that the military Stores and Cloathing would be delivered without immediate pay of any kind. We formerly sent you the [extract] of a letter on this subject to Congress, which is all that [has] been received, unless it be a Spanish letter from the Governor of N. Orleans which Mr. Morris took away to get translated, and it has not yet been returned. 2 You shall have it when we get it. Monsr. Loyeaute declines the Director ship of the Academy. He is a young Gentleman of high family, of fortune, and ardent in pursuit of military glory. His father, who is a general in the Artillery of France has taken pains to instruct this his Son from his earliest youth, and he is, you may be assured, a Proficient. He is sober, temperate as a Soldier should be, and seems to have none of the fashionable vices. He says he came not here for Money, but to search for military honor, to assist America in estab lishing her freedom, but since he cannot be employed on that way, he shall return to his own Country, the business of an Academecian better suiting Age & infirmity with views of distant good, than youth, strength, and prospect of present action and immediate benefit to the public. I am concerned we [have] lost this Gentleman in many accounts. I am sure my Country will suffer for want of the knowl edge he possesses and the rejection of him happened at an unlucky Crisis. All the rest of his Corps had just set out on their return to France because Congress would not comply with the Contact Mr Deane had firmly made with them in France and which had dis gusted them greatly. This Gentleman remained at our request, and altho our engagement was not absolute, it was very strong, kept him from returning with his companions, and will I fear impress on all their minds bad ideas of the Americans and do us no service in France. This is well known here & the Delegates look rather small in the eyes of their brethren. I am sure we acted for the best, well knowing the utter deficiency of knowledge in this branch with us, its necessity, and having the best grounds for believing this Gentle man an Adept. It is certain we went rather too far, I am sorry for it, but we shall be less forward in future. Since I last wrote, the enemy have taken Fort Island, after a most gallant defence on the part of the Garrison, which retreated from the Island in the Night after all but two of their Guns were dismounted, and not [more than] a rod & an half of the works left. The enemy brought [up] their Cutdown Indiaman between Province Island & the [fort] from which they poured a most dreadful Cannonade from 24 & 32 pounders, and from their Tops the fire of Cohorns & Musketry drove the Men from their guns in the Fort. The better opinion yet is, that the Enemy cannot get ther Fleet up to the City until they first remove the Gallies, the Chevaux de Frize, and reduce Red Bank. To effect this latter pur pose, we hear that Cornwallis with [3000] Men has crossed into the


[Page 359]
November 25, 1777 323 trial, and has been acquitted with much honor. The latter being old, passionate and fractious, was so disturbed that he, without know ing the consequences, hastily resigned. His enemies were satisfied, since all that they wanted was to remove him from the army. It is true that he afterwards desired the rank of Major General, but this is rather a fashion of his country than vice in the man. Eager after military honors, nothing stops their pursuit. I am of opinion that there is no person who can now produce any fact against the reputa tion of this gentleman. And therefore I might well say that he was rather unfortunate. Wishing him to return to his own country as little hurt with our treatment as possible, and knowing that he was to pass thro Williamsburg, I gave him the letter which has fortu nately produced your civil notice of him. You do not mention Mon sieur Balford [Valfort], to whom I gave a letter also, as he thought of visiting you on his way to Charles Town. This gentleman is of singular worth, and far above the action of our little paltry American Wits, who think it so clever to insult foreigners with their silly at tempts at ridicule. It is certainly wise, dear sir, to be guarded against impositions from foreign Adventurers, but it is equally unwise to cast into one undistinguished group all of other countries, without dis tinguishing the good from the bad. This is a remnant of English un sociability and self sufficiency, which it becomes us now to get rid of as quickly as possible. In a former letter you desire to know my rea sons for contending against Maj. Butler that Ticonderoga was an important post, and you concluded it was for the sake of argument. 3 I am not fond of such practice, and consider it the product of vanity or idle amusement. The truth is that Ticonderoga in its modern sense, being the place where the French fortified on the West side of Lake Champlain, is not a place of consequence, altho Mount Independence, opposite it on the East side, is a very important Post. It was seen that the former might fall, as it was not a very good situation, and required a great number of men to hold it, while Independence was very tenable by a much inferior force, and really of more consequence. It was judged proper to guard the public mind against false conclusions in case of advancements, and therefore it was that I more than once in public contended for the same thing that I then did with Maj. Butler. Ticonderoga in the Indian language signifies the congregation of many waters, and comprehends the whole district, but the modern meaning of the word is the old French fort. I will not trouble you here with a minute recital of the foreign intelligence we have received. Suffice it to say that a war between France and G.B. seems inevitable immediate. Its certain that all home ward bound French West Indiamen are stopt Embargo to prevent their falling into the enemies hands. The French General has been ordered to put his hands into immediate state of defence, and is assured that 5000 additional troops shall directly be sent over.


[Page 360]
324 November 25, 1777 Portugal has acceded to the family compact. Prussia has opened his ports to the Americans. M[adras] it is reported has been taken from the English by the natives. No foreigners would meddle with the last Parliament loan, altho the inducements were greater than usual. These are all favorable circumstances, yet we stand on precarious ground without immediate and extensive taxation, great economy, and wise attention to our military defences. How does it happen, my dear Sir, that the Barges of the men of war,take our vessels at the mouths of our rivers, when we incur so great an expense in Gallies? These vessels, instead of being constantly at the mouths of the respec tive rivers, and the best of them in the Bay, looking the men of war in the face, are generally far distant in some snug creek or harbor, living at ease and diverting themselves on shore. This will not do. Our marines must be better managed, I am glad to hear we have got an able Engineer, and hope no time will be lost in strengthening and securing our harbors and rivers. Accessible as we are by water, this is of great consequence. Mons. Loyeaute declines the command of the Academy. He says that military honors and a desire to help secure the liberties of America by immediate action, not the desire of money, brot him to America. If he can’t be in the War, he will return to his own country. His father is a General of estimation in the Artillery of France, and has taken pains with the education of his son, who is sensible, well bred, and an able officer in the Artillery branch; but we have lost him, and I hope the person prefered to him in the com mand of our Regiment will be able to serve the public. I am sure we want such knowledge extremely, and unless skillful men are ap pointed to the principal commands in that Regiment, how shall the great expense it will create be compensated by real utility? Bad water, bad air, and bad every thing else, joined to excessive business, have injured my health and compels me to go home for the winter season. When I am at Chantilly I shall be glad to hear from you when you are most at leisure, or when any important news shall reach you. I am, dear Sir, most affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee MS not found; reprinted from Magazine of American History 2 (October 1878); 614-16. i Although the recipient of this letter was not identified, Lee was writing in response to questions raised in Page’s September 11 and November 14 letters to Lee, which are in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. a In his November 14 letter Page had asked Lee to give him information about General de Borr^’s character and his conduct at Brandywine. See also John Hancock to Washington, September 13, 1777, note 1. 3 In his September 11 letter Page had asked Lee to explain the statement that Ticonderoga was “a Place of little consequence,” which Lee had made during a “Conversation with Majr. Butler of Chas. Town in the coffee House Porch at Williamsburg.”


[Page 364]
328 November 27, 1777 I I I —IN. Thomas Conway’s December 29, 1777, Letter to George Washington


[Page 365]
November 27, 1777 329 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General York 27 Novr. 1777. I fear you will have condemned for wilful neglect of the last op portunity of writing to you by Express, but the accuracy of our new President, after the remissness which had been too often evident since my joining Congress, took me by surprise. This present Carryer will perhaps throw you into a dilemma. We want you in different places, but most of all in a third which you are not called to ballance about. We want you most near Germantown. 1 Good God! what a Situation are we in! how different from what might- have been justly expected! You will be astonished when you come to know accurately what numbers have at one time and another been collected near Philada. to wear out stockings, shoes and breeches. Depend upon it for every ten Soldiers placed under the Command of our Fabius 5 Recruits will be wanted annually during the war. The brave fellows at Fort Mifflin & Red Bank have des paired of Succour, and been obliged to quit. The naval departments have fallen into Circumstances of seeming disgrace. Come to the Board of War, if only for a short Season. 2 I hope the last Express did not cause any Uneasiness to you, as the drift of the Proceedings of Congress was by no means intended to throw any slur on your acceptance of the Convention; But to come at a true idea of Burgoyne’s Conduct. We hear his men have behaved so as to oblige the Guards to fire upon them. This information however is not well authenticated. Upon a motion made some time ago Genl. Schuyler is permitted to tarry & look after his private affairs, and St. Clair is permitted to do the same upon seing his name in a council of war at what is generally, by the inconsiderate, called the grand army. Since our Resolve was forwarded, I see Kalb, Knox and St. Clair are a council reporting for the Evacuation of Red Bank as incapable of bearing a Seige. Such kind of Counsel seems to be the relish of this Quarter. I expect you will judge me to be in a very sour humour. I am so. For if it was not for the defeat of Burgoyne and the strong Appear ances of an European war, our Affairs are fabiused into a very dis agreeable posture. Poor McDougal lays at the point of death. Conway has resigned and many spirited Officers are discouraged by an over balance of languid Counsellors. There has indeed appear’d a little stroke of Discipline in the Dismission of Stevens and a number of inferior Culprits from the Service of the States. I wish this may have a suitable Effect upon Cowards, Thieves & Drunkards, for such are the Crimes which have caused the Dismissions above mentioned. With affectionate Esteem, Yr. humble Servt, James Lovell


[Page 366]
330 November 27, 1777 RC (NHi). i Lovell was probably the most outspoken of the delegates who became openly critical of Washington and his military tactics during the fall of 1777. While General Gates and the northern army had forced the surrender of the army under Gen. John Burgoyne, Washington had generally remained on the de fensive and suffered two serious defeats. It was not surprising, therefore, that when Washington refused to mount an offensive to drive the British from Philadelphia after receiving large reinforcements from the northern army, Congress appointed a committee on November 28 “to repair to the army . . . to consider of the best and most practicable means for carrying on a winter’s campaign with vigour and success.’’ Despite mounting criticism of Washington in and out of Congress, the re organization of the Board of War with Gates as president, and the appointment of a committee to confer with Washington on a winter campaign, there does not appear to have been any serious effort to replace Washington as commander in chief. But it is also evident that men such as Lovell, Thomas Mifflin, Benjamin Rush, and Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant would have welcomed an opportunity to replace him with Gates. Still Washington’s critics were put off when the committee sent to camp endorsed, albeit reluctantly, Washington’s defensive posture. And much of their remaining fire was deflected by an emotional con troversy that almost simultaneously blazed up around Thomas Conway, a French colonel of Irish ancestry who had been diligently serving as a Continental brigadier general since May 13, 1777. While commanding the Third Pennsylvania Brigade, Conway had proven his professional abilities in the battles of Brandywine and Germantown and had even received commendations from Washington himself. Nevertheless, there was growing animosity between Washington and Conway because of Conway’s occasional refusal to obey orders and his contradictory behavior in declining to offer advice in councils of war while being openly critical if plans went awry. Conway had also been angered by the September promotion of Johann de Kalb to major general, because Conway had outranked Kalb in the French army and his contract with Silas Deane specified that he would not be junior in the American army to any man who had been his junior in France. Conway thus managed to embroil himself in the Deane recall movement while giving comfort to Washington’s critics and found himself at the center of a new episode early in November when Washington received information from Gen. William Alexander that Conway had openly disparaged the commander in chief in a letter to General Gates. Smarting from censure emanating from both the Congress and his officers, and sensitive to the recent contrasting success of Gates and himself, Washing ton attempted to strike at his critics through the highly vulnerable Conway. He wrote sharply to Conway, and later to Gates, voicing his strong displeasure and all but demanding apologies. But he received no satisfaction from Conway and Gates, and despite the open break between Washington and Conway, Congress on December 13 promoted Conway to major general and appointed him inspector general of the army, a decision that naturally convinced Wash ington and his supporters that a “faction” in Congress meant to embarrass him and force his resignation as commander in chief. Throughout December and January Washington continued to feel himself in an embattled position, but the spring of 1778 brought the optimism of a new campaign and the renewal of hope that French military and naval aid would be openly offered. Washington ultimately emerged a figure almost beyond re proach, and his critics became quietly subdued. Gates, as president of the Board of War, carefully avoided confrontation with Washington, and when Conway offered to resign in April 1778 he was surprised that the offer was quickly accepted.


[Page 367]
November 27, 1777 331 These issues have been analyzed critically and at length by Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 174-212; Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1976), pp. 156-85; and Bernhard Knollenberg, Washington and the Revolution, A Reappraisal (New York: Macmillan Co., 1940), pp. 37—92, 184—215. For the delegates’ and Wash ington’s principal correspondence on the subject see Henry Laurens’ letters to John Laurens, October 16, 1777, and January 8 and 28, 1778; James Lovell to Horatio Gates, November 5, to William Whipple, November 21, to Samuel Adams, December 20, 1777, and January 20, 1778, and to Richard Henry Lee, December 28, 1777; Elbridge Gerry to John Adams, December 3 and 8, 1777, and to Henry Knox, February 7, 1778; Joseph Jones to Washington, January 22; Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed, February 21; and Eliphalet Dyer to William Williams, March 10, 1778; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:29, 236-37, 249-50, 263-65, 337-38, 410-11, 437-41, 508-9, 528-29. Lovell’s criticism of Washington is discussed at length in Helen F. Jones, “James Lovell in the Continental Congress, 1777-1782” (Ph.D. diss., Columbia University, 1968), pp. 80-110. 2 For another letter highly critical of Washington and effusive in praise of Gates, which heretofore had been erroneously attributed to Lovell, see Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams, November 23, 1777, note 5. Marine Committee to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen November 27th 1777 This moment we have received yours of the 24th instant informing us of the destruction of our small fleet down the Delaware. As we cannot immediately determine what directions to give you respect ing the seamen belonging to the Vessels we think they may be em ployed for some time onboard the Galleys until some other way can be pointed out. We would have you by all means keep them together in good humour and in Action until you hear further from us on this subject. We are Gentlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry Sir. York in Pennsylva. Novr. 27th 1777. Conversing with Monsr Loyeaute, on the subject of what you are pleased to say the assembly have in contemplation for him, we find the plan quite the reverse of his wishes, and inconsistent with his ideas of being personally and quickly useful in the field. Of good family, and early trained to war by his father, who is a general in the Artillery of France, he wants to be in action, and hopes to acquire


[Page 372]
336 November 28, 1777 wise given me in charge to intimate that your attendance upon Congress in order to enter upon business at the Board of War as early as you can with convenience, is earnestly desired. 1 Permit me Sir, the honour of wishing you a good Journey & of repeating that I am with very great respect & Esteem, Your obedient & most humble servt. 2 Henry Laurens, Presidt. of Congress RC (NHi). i See JCC, 9:971-72. 2 Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to Gen. William Heath, “Com mander in Chief of American Troops in the Eastern District,’’ transmitting a resolve that requested him “to take effectual care that fresh provisions be issued to the prisoners in the eastern district, and that the salt provisions be reserved for the army of the United States for the next campaign.” Heath Papers, MHi; and JCC, 9:977. Henry Laurens to the States Sir Circular York 28th November 77. I had the honour of writing to you the 1st Inst, to which I beg leave to refer. In obedience to the order of Congress I now forward the under mentioned papers. Three Copies of Articles for Confederation 8c perpetual Union between the United States of America. 1 Copy of Address from Congress to the States respectively, rec ommending the immediate consideration of that important plan for Compact. 2 Copy of Minutes 8c Resolves, urging the necessity for Taxation in each State in order to raise five Million Dollars in the Year 1778 for the Service of the United States 8c as one means for establishing pub lic Credit, recommending also confiscation 8c Sale of the Estates of persons who have forfeited the right of protection—8c for other pur poses. 3 These papers so expressive of the meaning 8c good veiws of Con gress require no attempt to a more minute detail of their Several contents. I have therefore only to repeat the request of Congress that you will take the earliest opportunity of laying them before the Legislature in your State. 4 I have the honour to be with very great regard, Sir, your Excel lency’s most obedient Servant B LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 For bibliographical information about this printing of the Articles, see JCC, 9:1087. 2 This address, dated November 17, is in JCC, 9:932-34.


[Page 374]
338 November 28, 1777 Language to weigh any thing, when you surmount others of a differ ent nature. Doctor Franklin’s Age alarms us. We want one man of inflexible Integrity on that Embassy. We have made Carmichael Secretary who is master of the Language and well acquainted with the politics of several Courts. Mercantile matters will be quite in regular channels and so not a burthen to the Commissioners. Aider man Lee, Morris and Williams will have got our commerce into good order by the time of your arrival. If you make the Language any Argument to deter you, consider that you may perfectly master the Grammer on your voyage and gain much of the Speech too by having a genteel French man for a fellow Passenger. You see I am ripe in hope about your acceptance, however your dear amiable Partner may be tempted to condemn my Persuasions of you to distance yourself from her farther than Baltimore or York Town. Great as Brother Geary’s hurry is he threatens to take his pen in hand because I am not enough urgent with you; he feels all the Callosity of a Bachelor. I am but too ready to pardon his hard heartedness on this occasion where the eminent Interest of my Country is pleaded in excuse for him. Tyconderoga & Independence evacuated give room for a revenge ful exertion against our Enemies in this Quarter with fresh force from the northward. But this and every other favourable circum stances encreases our necessity of having a strict politician in France, as the probability of Treaties grows with our good Luck and lessens with our bad. I will add no more than my Love and Respects to you 8c yours sincerely, 4 James Lovell RC (MHi). i This date was supplied because of Lovell’s explanation in the letter that Adams was "this day” elected commissioner to France, an action Congress took on November 28, 1777. JCC, 9:975. a Not found. 3 In the margin opposite this and a portion of the preceding sentence Lovell wrote “for yourself, and your discretion.” For further information on the activities of this congressional committee at General Washington’s headquarters, see Committee at Headquarters to Henry Laurens, December 6, and to Washington, December 10, 1777. i Lovell may have enclosed in this letter Congress’ November 27 resolve recommending the confiscation of loyalist estates to the states. A copy of this resolve, in Lovell’s hand and to which he added the following queries, is in the Adams Papers, MHi. "Query. How the Persons thus forfeiting shall be described? "2. In what manner the Confiscation shall be Conducted? “3. And whether any Law can be framed to oblige a Person who is Sus pected to be indebted to any of those Estates and no obligation to be found, or even known to be indebted yet Cannot ascertain the particular sum &c. ?”


[Page 375]
November 28, 1777 339 James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir 28th Novr. [1777] I have reed, your favour of the 6th but not what you mention to have written the 2d from Providence, nor a Line from Spencer about his secret Expedition. The business you mention about Purchasers and Issuers has been patched up sometime ago. There is now full conviction of what some of us, here, together with you, prophesied months ago; and agreable to a report of a committee appointed to consider of the Propriety of constituting a commissarial Board, Con gress have determined to add a Gentleman to the new Board of War who might have a particular Superintendance of the Commissariate. Genl. Gates is chosen President, Mifflin, Pickering, yourself 8c Peters make up the Board. 1 The manner in which you have been chosen, both as to the assigned Grounds and the unanimity, is so honorary as not to leave you the chance of refusal, to say nothing of the deter mined and general Preference which has been openly given in Con gress to you, by omitting one of the first named candidates; 2 who was also mentioned now again upon the proposed addition of two to the original number of 3, which had been intended to be a Board. I assure you that the Safety of our army is thought in a very great measure to depend upon your immediate acceptance. You will con sider it as the first Board upon the continent; and, the Honor out of the Question, as a Place in which you can serve essentially your suffering Country, and I think serve it with less plague 8c anxiety than in yr. former condition. If you should happen to be in Boston when this reaches you Mr. S.A. will communicate all I write to him. Our affairs are Fabiused into a confused situation, but yet by no means into a ruined one. Genl. Stevens is dismissed with several inferior Officers by sen tence of Court martial approved by Genl. Washington, which looks a little like firmness and rising Discipline. Cowardice, Theft 8c Drunkeness must take warning. I will only repeat that I expect very speedily to see you, even if you do not tarry, which I pray earnestly you may, if only 6 Months, or as long as Gates does. I shall not have time to copy the resolves about this matter. The Salary voted is 2000 Dolls, a yr. Yr. Friend 8c humb svt. James Lovell RC (CtHi). 1 For further information on the appointment of Trumbull to the Board of War, see the letters of Elbridge Gerry and of Henry Laurens to Joseph Trum bull, November 27, 1777. 2 In the margin at this point, Lovell added in a miniscule hand "Jos. Read.”


[Page 376]
340 November 28, 1777 Daniel Roberdeau to John Adams My dear Friend York Town Novr. 28th. 1777 I would not take pen in hand until I could reasonably suppose you safe arrived to your long wished for home, on which I now presume to congratulate you and sincerely hope you have met with Mrs. Adams and your Children well and every domestick concern to your entire satisfaction for all which I feel myself much interested from the sincere regard contracted for you in our short intimacy, which I shall be ever ready to cultivate whenever Opportunity offers. I congratulate you or rather my Country in the choice of you this day as a Commissioner to France for the united States, in lieu of Mr. Dean who is recalled. Your domestick views of happiness was not consulted on this occasion, but the necessity of your Country for your Talents, which being devoted to her service, I expect a chearful acquiescence with a call so honorable, which I doubt not will prove a lasting honor to you and your Connections as well as a blessing to these States. I should be sorry for the least hisitation. I will not admit the thought of your refusal of the Office which would occasion a publick chagrine. I wish you had improved the oppy. when here of studying the French language, which our friend Mr. Gerry is now doing. I would advise your taking French books with you 8c a French Com panion; and if an Oppy. does not immediately present from Boston a trip to the West Indies and a passage in a French vessel to Paris would be of considerable advantage. Our deligent friend Mr. Lovel makes every thing unnecessary in the way of news, besides I am on an appointment to Lancaster which forbids lengthening out this Epistle further than to present my respects to Mrs. Adams and to assure you that I am with sincere regard, Dr. Sir, Yr. very obt. friend 8c Servt. Daniel Roberdeau P.S. My sisters 8c my Children desire to be remembered to you and yours. RC (MHi). William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond 8c dear Sir York 28 Nov 1777 I wrote you somtime since that the Plan of Confederation was finished, after revising, correcting 8cc it was sent to Lancaster to be printed 8c is just returnd. 8c after a long delay 8c Consideration a Report has been made by the Comte, to Consider the result of the N England States &c 8c a number of important resolutions relating to


[Page 377]
November 28, 1777 341 taxation 8cc 8cc are come into, 8c will be also transmitted, it is not my Fault, it was not done long ago, but it cant be helpd & tis difficult to explain, the reasons of delay in many Cases. But I hope it is not utterly too late. I mentioned in my last my apprehentions of the impossibility of maintaining the Forts 8cc on the river, which are most unhappily justifid, on the 15th Fort Miflin being torn all to peices 8c every Gun dismounted, & a most violent attack 8cc was abandoned, after as brave a defence as was ever made, the men &c saved. The Fall of Red Bank was then inevitable, Cornwallis pasd below with abt 2000 8c met abt 2 or 3000 more lately from N York 8c preparing to storm, & it being vain 8c impossible to support it, the Garison retired the 20th, saved what they cod, spiked the Cannon 8cc 8c all our Shipping, Fire Craft 8cc 8cc save the Gallys, were burnt by their officers orders, some gaily tis said as have run by the City. Maj Genl Baron De Kalb, sund[ry] other General Officers, beside Gen. Huntington with considerable Numbers, I guess not equal to the Enemy, were over 8c advancg to the relief of the Fort. There has been a very heavy Firing heard from that quarter since, probably an Engagement between them, the Event not known, probably of great import. God grant us good Tidings. Our Army are in great want of Cloathing 8cc. Congress have established a new board of War, consisting of 5 Members, not of Congress. It is deemd of vast importance for the Regulation 8c supply 8cc of the army, 8c highly honorable 8cc 8c by the Influence of his Friends Col Jos. Trumbull is chosen a member. The plan was to have one versed in every Department, the Members are Genl Gates Presid, Gen. Miflin, Adj. Genl Pickering, Col Jos Trumbull, 8c R Peters Esq late Secrety. It is deemd of very great importance, as You will readily perceive by the Members appointed. The Sallery is 2000 Dols per An. 8c a struggle to get higher. 8c I have no doubt it will yet be raised 8c such fresh sums allowed as to satisfie the Members, if this dont. Bro Jos. has shewn so much inflexibility 8:c that I am not certain he will accept, I hope he will not rashly conclude against it, if he does I think he will injure his Country, 8c his own Character irremediably with Congress. It will also certainly be a disadvantage to your Self, 8c a Reflection on his Friends here 8cc 8c I think will be acting agst his duty to the Call of Providence. It is a Circumstance worthy of Note, that he had every Vote, 8c that Col Read was also in Nomination 8c was highly esteamed, but for the Quarrel between Them, obtaind but one Vote, so much did They prefer Mr Trumbull, to one who otherwise wod certainly have been chosen. I have the sweet Satisfaction of knowing I have served my Country here with great Fidelity, 8c I hope to some good Purpose, 8c now the pleasing prospect of returning to my dear native Colony, who have employed better Servants.


[Page 378]
342 November 28, 1777 I hope to set out next Mond, with Mr Law. Have not time to write my dear Mrs. Wms. Please to remember me tenderly to her & other Friends. I am with great Affection, Esteem & Duty your unworthy Son & Servt, W Williams P.S. On Fryd. the 21 the Motion made last July was revivd for recalling Mr Deane, 1 was again taken up & carried without a dis senting voice. He died at last very easie, tho there had been at sund. Times before, the most violent & convulsive Throes & Exertions on the same Question. & this day Jno Adams Esq was elected in his room. He is not present & tis not certain he will accept but hope he will. A Motion is also made, that it be left to the remaing Comisrs to judge on the Spot, whethr Mr D. may not yet be employed at some other Court. The Motion dropd, & I trust will never be carried. RC (NNPM). 1 For a discussion of the earlier motion to recall Silas Deane, see James Lovell to William Whipple, July 29, 1777, note 3. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dr. Sir York Town 28 Nov. 1777 I have no agreable to tell you respectg our Army or public Affairs, save that by Accos from Mr Bingham Agent at Martinique, that They hourly expect to hear a Declaration of a French War tho I can hardly Expect it at this Season. Our Defenses on the Delaware are all gone. Fort Miflin after the most brave defence & beaten all to peices & every gun dismounted it was evacuated the 15th at night & Red Bank followed the Example on the 20th as Cornwallis approached it with 4 or 5 thousand Men, carrying off their Stores & spiking their Cannon, so that the Enemy have the full Command of the River &c & their is not the least danger of Howes runing away according to the fears of some of our minds in Connecticut. Our Army are much in want of Cloaths, Shoes & Hose but I trust & hope in God that He will support & maintain our Cause, & give Us again that City in due Time. Genl Gates, Gen Miflin, Adj. Genl. Pickering, Jos Trumbull & Rich. Peters Esqrs. are elected &c to constitute a newly created Board of War, from which great things are expected, as you will be in formed by the President. As you call your Self a plaguegy obstinate fellow I had some Fears least You shod injure your Self, your Father, your Friends & more especially your Country, by refusing her Call &: I trust that of Providence on this occasion. You may perceive how


[Page 381]
November 30, 1777 345 We have agreed that you shall purchase and lay in a sufficient quantity of Provisions for the use of your yards &: for that purpose and to enable you so to do, we now enclose you a draft of Congress on the Loan office of Virginia for Ten Thousand Dollars which pass to our Credit. We expect you will be able to procure further sums for your drafts upon us, and are, Gentlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). i Loyall and Maxwell were superintending the building of two Continental frigates at Gosport, Va. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1065. 2 See the resolves of November 25, which included a request that the governor provide a guard for the frigates. JCC, 9:964. William Duer to James Wilson Dear Wilson, Novr. 30th 1777 I wish it was in my Power to send you more agreable Intelligence concerning your Capital than I can at this Time. Fort Mifflin after a gallant Defence has been evacuated; and Red Bank has shard the same Fate. To what Causes the last is to be imputed I cannot at present Inform you, but I am afraid that Timely measures were not persued to send over a Detachment to oppose a Body of about Four thousand with which Cornwallis had crossed over into Jersey. Since this Event the Enemy have got up several of their Vessells to the City. This is the black side of the Picture. The Reverse I relate with more Satisfaction. We have received certain Advice that the Enemy have Evacuated Fort Independence and Ticonderoga after having destroyd all the buildings and thrown the Cannon into the Lake (except the Eighteen), and have retired to the Isle au Noix and St. Johns. They have also dismantled Fort Independance near Kingsbridge in the State of New York, and withdrawn all their out Posts to York Island. This shews their weakness in that Quarter; and their Deter mination to apply their Force to hold Philadelphia. However it will enable us to bend our Attention to one Object; and I still flatter myself that we shall be able during the Winter to strike a bold Stroke agt Mr. Howe, though he is certainly well fortified in his Front and has lately received from New York a Reinforcement of about 2500 Men. A Committee of Congress has gone down to Head Quarters the Members of which are Mr. Robt. Morris, Mr. Jones, and Mr. Gerry. The Motive of their Embassy you will be at no Loss I imagine to determine. 1 On Monday the Marquis de la Fayette with about four or five Hundred Men attack’d a Picquet of the Enemy in Jersey of about 300, drove them, killed Several, and took twenty or thirty Prisoners. It is said he behaved with great Intrepedity; and I beleive with some Experience will make a good officer.


[Page 387]
November 30, 1777 351 age to come. I won’t say measures have been taken to disband that Army, but if that event had been in veiw better measures than those we have pursued could scarcely have been devised. Confine not your attention to a small Circle; look round 8c through your Army—but I have not time to say more—when shall we meet? I send you a Copy of our Articles for confederation. I know you will Criticise as a Scholar 8c a Legislator 8c I shall be glad to receive your Ideas. The dispatch of 3 Copies of these accompanied by proper Addresses 8c Letters to each State has engaged me so very deeply for 2 or 3 days past, as spoken of above. Without these Extra jobbs my hands 8c my mind are for their strength generally sufficiently employed. I am now to thank you for your Intelligence under the 26th. The Marquis’s first fruits from Command will be encouraging to his confidence in our Men, I rejoice at his success 8c if he is returned to Camp I beg you will present my Congratulations. 2 I would if it were possible write by this opportunity, I trust his indulgence to Credit me to the next. Several Members of Congress who have called here this Morning to read General Washington’s Letter of the 26th have expressed their wishes that the Marquis may be appointed to the Command of a division. Therefore I have no doubt when the Letter is Read 8c the subject considered tomorrow in Congress I shall be charged with a Resolve equal to the Marquis’s wishes. 3 I cannot learn from all you have written nor from any Account the number of our little [fleet] that escaped—what Naval Strength if any we now keep in Delaware —8c how they are or are not exposed to the Enemy’s power. If you can tell me these things do—but I will endeavor to get information from the Navy Board at Bordentown. I send by this bearer a hunting Shirt 8c a Check’d Shirt for Berry 8c hope this Week to get a Warm Jacket 8c Breeches for the poor old fellow but these are articles beyond conception dear, however the price shall be no Bar to my intentions. Mrs. Hartley is just returned home. A new scene opens, my power 8c possessions will be reduced to former Limits rather scanty for a President however ample for Mr L. I was put in the Chair the day the Lady left home. I shall be a little puzzled either to get a better or to make this place as convenient as a place for my vocation ought to be. My Dear son, I pray God protect you. H L RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). i On November 27 Laurens had written a now badly damaged letter to John in which he discussed the defense of the Delaware, Washington’s prospective withdrawal to winter quarters, the Continental Army’s supply problems, and the Saratoga Convention. Simms Collection deposit, MHi. a Lafayette had distinguished himself during a skirmish with a party of Lord


[Page 388]
352 November 30, 1777 Cornwallis’ troops at Gloucester, N.J., on November 25. Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:156-58. s Washington advised Laurens in a November 26-27 letter that if Congress did not give Lafayette a separate command the marquis might return to France “in disgust.” Accordingly, Congress resolved on December 1 that Lafayette "be appointed to the command of a division in the continental army,” and on December 4 Washington made him commander of the division recently com manded by Gen. Adam Stephen of Virginia. See JCC, 9:982-83; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:109-10, 138. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 30th November 77 On the 26th Currt. by the Messenger Barry I paid my respects to your Excellency & conveyed Such Orders as I had then received from Congress. Pretty late last Night Jones brought in your Excellency’s favors of the 26th & 27th which Shall be presented to Morrow, in the mean time I dispatch Francis Seall with the undermentioned Re solves of Congress, a packet containing one hundred Commissions, two Copies of articles proposed to the States for Confederation & Taxation, Copy of a Letter by Major General Gates to Congress dated 16 th. of the 27th on the appointment of three additional Members to the Board of War 8c Major General Gates President. of the 28th appointing a Committee of three Members of Congress to confer with your Excellency for enquiries into the Causes of Losses & failures 8c for divers other matters. of the 29th Submitting to your Excellency the regulating Rank in the Causes of Majr General Arnold, Brigadiers Woodford & Scott referring to a Subjoined Resolve of the 12th. 29th Ordering Copy of Majr. Gates’s Letter to be transmitted. I take the liberty of Sending a packet directed for Govr. Livingston which I request your Excellency will order to be forwarded by the earliest opportunity. I remain with very great regard. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Robert Morris to Thomas Wharton Sir, Manheim, Nov’r 30th, 1777. Being desirous of rendering the public every service in my power, I have continued my attendance on Congress, 8c the Committees of Congress, at York, untill yesterday (notwithstanding my leave of absence), 8c on Friday I was appointed on a Committee with orders to repair immediately to General Washington on business of Im portance. I am thus far in my way, 8c shall depart in the morning for


[Page 389]
December 1, 1777 353 Camp, where I shall be glad to execute any of your commands. This expedition puts it out of my power to wait on the Council as I intended, in hopes of obtaining John Brown’s discharge from close Confinement, for as I firmly believe him innocent in his Intentions, I cannot feel myself easy whilst he is confined in Goal. I beg leave, therefore, again to solicit your Excellency & the Honorable Council, to suffer him to depart from Goal on parole, & I here pledge myself for his faithfull observance of any engagements he enters into, or of such injunctions as the Council may think proper to lay him under. 1 As a Prisoner, he is intitled to great lenity, because he has been bountifull & attentive to the sufferings of our prisoners, whilst he was in Philada; this I had from himself & others, & enclosed, I beg leave to hand you Genl Washington’s unsolicited testimony thereof, in an abstract of his letter to Congress, dated 23d Inst. 2 I call it unsolicited, because I declare to you Sir, that I never wrote a line to Genl Washington or any other person on this subject, nor do I know of any other person that did, but I judge the information has been given the Genl by some of the Prisoners that shared the benefits arising from a subscription which Mr. Brown & some few others procured and distributed in the New Goal. My connections in business with Mr. Brown are well known; he was many years a faithfull servant in my employ, & is justly entitled to my Friendship. I hope, therefore, to stand excused by your Excellency & the Council for thus troubling you with my applications on his behalf, & if you will suffer Mr. Brown to come out on his parole 8c assign this place (with the liberty of one or two miles for exercise) for his abode untill your further pleasure; it is a retired part of the country, he can live at little expence, 8c I am certain his conduct 8c conversation will be such as cannot produce any evil consequences to the public; you will oblige me by laying this 8c Genl Washington’s letter before the Council, & they by a complyance with my request, will lay a lasting obligation on their 8c your Excellency’s, obedt hble servt, Rob’t Morris MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:45. 1 See Henry Laurens to George Washington, November 19, 1777, note 1. a See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:98-99. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris (In Committee on Foreign Affairs) Gentlemen (Copy) York in Pensylvania Deer. 1st. 1777. As we wish the subject of this letter to be well attended to 8c under stood, we shall confine ourselves intirely to the business of such


[Page 392]
356 December 1, 1777 Mr John Adams, who is now at Boston, was appointed one of our Commissioners at Paris, & is immediately to proceed there. I am told he will wait on Congress for his Instructions before his departure, if this should be the Case, I shall immediately do this business for you. If not, the first time Mr Morris attends here, I shall communi cate the matter to him &c. By Letters from our Agents abroad, there is great reason to expect a French War in the [Spring], The Congress at present is very thin of Members, however I hope during this Winter they will make a spirited Exertion for the Salvation of the Continent. You may expect to hear some thing soon from Washington. Do write me every Opportunity. Respectful compliments to Mrs OBrien, & believe me, Your sincere Friend & very humble servant, Edward Langworthy RC (PHi). Addressed: "To William O’Brien Esqr. at Savannah, in Georgia.” 1 The recipient of this letter was probably William O’Bryen, who was treasurer of Georgia in 1778 and a nonattending delegate to Congress in 1789. Bio. Dir. Cong. 2 Langworthy and his colleague Joseph Wood first attended Congress on November 17. JCC, 9:931. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir, York Town 1st December 1777. I had the honour of writing to you the 20th & 29th Ulto. by the Messenger Adam Cookas, the former notified your appointment to be President of the Board of War by the unanimous Voice of Congress & requested your attendance as early as you could give it with convenience. This I repeat in order to guard against delay or miscarriage of the Letter refered to. Congress having learned that an application is intended by Gen Howe or Gen Burgoyne for leave to embark the Troops which were surrendred to you by the Convention of Saratoga, at Rhode Island or some part of the Sound have directed me to acquaint you, that the embarkation must be made at the port stipulated in the Convention & no other. 1 The Resolve of Congress to this effect will be found inclosed in this, I beg leave to refer to it, and having received no other Com mands, I conclude repeating that I am with very great Esteem, sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NHi). 1 In a November 26-27 letter to Laurens that Congress read this day, Wash ington revealed that General Howe wanted to change the embarkation point


[Page 393]
December 1, 1777 357 for General Burgoyne’s troops from Boston to Rhode Island or some place on Long Island Sound and warned that this would enable these men to reach England sooner and be replaced in America by other British units. Congress, sharing Washington’s apprehension, therefore decided that in accordance with the terms of the Saratoga Convention Burgoyne’s army could only embark from Boston. JCC, 9:982; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) , 10:110-11. Laurens also enclosed copies of Congress’ resolve on this issue with brief letters he wrote this day to Gen. William Heath, the American commander in Boston, and to the speaker of the Massachusetts House of Representatives. PCC, item 13, fols. 50-51; and Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, York 1st December 1777. I had the honour of addressing Your Excellency in an official Let ter under the 28th past which lies before me Sealed in a packet with Confederation &c. These are to be conveyed by Capt Gillon to which I shall add three packets each containing five Copies of Articles of Confederation directed Severally for the General As sembly & the two Councils of South Carolina. Twelve Copies more I have directed to Colo. Gervais to be distributed among Gentlemen whose names are written on each—particularly one to Mr. Wells. If your Excellency should be of opinion that these papers, before they are taken under consideration by the Legislative powers ought to be made as public as I wish, you will encourage him to print 2 or 3 hundred Copies & to add Copies of the Addresses on Confederation & Taxation. I will not presume to comment on the Model which is now Submitted to the Wisdom of thirteen United States & intended to pass a revision under the Same abilities collected. I beg leave however to remark to my late Colleagues, that Congress before printing judged it proper to make Several essential alterations particularly in Article 9th parag. 2d, that I have therefore no cause to blush at the appearance of my name among the few Nays on the Original Vote, I should be Still better pleased to see that article undergo a little further amendment. 1 That, for taking Yeas & Nay’s is another Item to which I am marked in the Journal with a disgraceful No! & almost without a Companion. 2 I have never heard that question demanded, with that Calmness of mind which ought ever to accompany the debates of Senators, it has always been the product of heat & menace. Besides, however proper it might be to incorporate in the Rules of a House, it does not Strike me as a necessary ingredient for Confederation. It appears to be totally Irrelative to the grand Subject. I do not mean to comment by exposing this baggatelle. There are Articles of deeper Impression. I have taken the Liberty to commit four packets directed for


[Page 396]
360 December 1, 1777 if Congress Shall judge it necessary to give us only one, Seniority will probably have preference. Mr. Deane by a Vote is recalled from the Court of France, Mr. John Adams elected to Succeed him. Gentlemen here in whom I place the most confidence encourage me to hope that we shall infallibly be in possession of New York or Philadelphia or both before the expiration of January. The former is preferred by some from a prospect of valuable acquisitions of Merchandize. When I consider these may be removed, that the place cannot be held while the Enemy is triumphant in a Navy, and that we have lately received the Strongest confirmation of the great Franklin’s opinion that Delaware may be rendered inaccessible & Philadelphia too, if admitting we have a Sufficient army, I am of other Sentiments, agreeing however with those who choose both. Had Some folks who love to hear themselves talk, acted the part of good Guardians the whole British Fleet would have been Set at defiance & General Howe must have Stolen a disgraceful March out of Philadelphia before this day or have shared the fate of the North ern Hero. ‘Tis probable both Lord & General has been taught to believe a passage might be obtained with less than an hundredth part of the difficulty &: Loss which they have already experienced, otherwise the General would have proceeded by Steps more cautious than those he was treading from July to September. General Gates informs Congress few Ships he beleived will be wanted for transporting the fragment of Genl. Burgoyne’s Army—on the March towards Boston a Majority of the Foreign Troops & many of the British had deserted. We have Since been told of a Mutiny by the British in which their Escort had been obliged to reduce them by Musketry but we have received no particulars. I send by this con veyance Some papers of Intelligence to Mr. Gervais which he will if your Excellency pleases communicate. Permit me Sir towards the Close of this long Letter to request most earnestly of your Excellency to apply for leave that I may return to Carolina in February or March or sooner if a Representation shall have arrived in Congress. I humbly think I have a right to demand a respite & therefore I canot feel the least disposition to Sue. My successors should be told that Candles are abt 5/ per pound, Shoes 50/ a pair & dollars still at 7/6, these are heavy but are very small considerations in comparison with my true motives for desir ing to return home. I am with very great respect &ca LB (ScHi). i The section of Article 9 referred to by Laurens dealt with Congress’ appellate jurisdiction “in all disputes and differences now subsisting, or that hereafter may arise between two or more states concerning boundary, jurisdiction or any other cause whatever.’’ JCC, 9:916-18. His October 25 vote against the success ful motion to amend this section of Article 14, which became Article 9, is recorded in JCC, 9:843.


[Page 397]
December 1, 1777 361 2 Francis Lightfoot Lee and Henry Marchant were the only delegates to join Laurens on October 30 in opposing the section of the Articles that required the recording of votes in the journals “when it is desired by any delegate.” JCC, s After this committee conferred with a committee of the Pennsylvania Assembly on December 2, the assembly passed several resolves on December 6 to enable Washington and the Pennsylvania Council “to procure great supplies of provisions and other necessaries.” JCC, 9:976-77, 1010; and Pa. Assembly Minutes (1778), pp. 14-17. On December 2 this committee submitted a report, which Congress read but postponed action on, calling for the construction of “a strong Citadel” on Lake Champlain and the creation of a Canadian regiment. JCC, 9:985-88. 5 Congress in fact allotted each member of the newly reconstituted board of war a salary of $2,000 a year. JCC, 9:820. 6 A reference to the exemption of rice from the nonexportation clause of the association signed by Congress on October 20, 1774. JCC, 1:77. t One of Laurens’ South Carolina plantations. s There is no indication in the journals that Congress considered this issue on December 1. Henry Laurens to Charles Stewart Sir, York 1st December 1777. Inclosed you will receive a Resolve of Congress enjoining you to preserve the Barrels when emptied of flour in the Army & to Send them by return Waggons to Mill to be refilled—to Save also the empty Beef & pork Barrels 8c as much as possible of the remains of Salt for public use 8c to employ a proper number of Coopers for these purposes. 1 You will be pleased to give me at proper times accounts of your proceedings in consequence of this order. I am with great re gard 8cca. P.S. In his absence Thos. Jones Esqr. Dep. Commissary General of Issues. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Charles Stewart Esquire, Commissary General, White Marsh.” i This resolve had been passed on November 28. JCC, 9:977-78. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir York 1st December 77. I had the honour of writing to your Excellency yesterday by Thos. Seale. This Morning I reported to Congress your Excellency’s Letter of the 26th, 27th November together with the Copy of General Sr. William Howe’s, which came inclosed in it. I am now charged to in form General Gates, the Council of Massachusetts Bay 8c General Heath, that it is the Resolution of Congress, the Troops of Lt. Gen-


[Page 398]
362 December 1, 1777 eral Burgoyne which were Surrendred in terms of the Convention of Saratoga Should be embarked at the port Stipulated by that agree ment & at no other. I am also ordered to Signify to your Excellency it is highly agree able to Congress that the Marquis de Lafayette be appointed to the Command of a division in the American Army. 1 Your Excellency will find a minute from the Journal of Congress on these points here inclosed. I hasten this forward in order to transmit at the Same time the following intelligence deliverd to me by the Board of War. This I am persuaded will afford your Excellency a particular degree of pleasure & the account may have some good influence in the ap proaching conference between your Excellency & the Committee deputed by Congress. Extract of a Letter from Wm. Finnie D.Q.M.G. at Williamsburg 22d November 1777. “I wrote you yesterday by Post inclosing a General return of the Continental Stores in this State. I also mentioned the Report of the arrival of the Congress Sloop with a valuable Cargo of Blankets, Cloth & other necessaries for the Army from France, which News was confirmed last Night. Such of these articles as are intended for Head Quarters I shall dispatch as soon as possible.” God forbid any disappointment beween the Cup Sc the Lip. I have the honour to be with the utmost respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See JCC, 9:982-83; and Laurens to John Laurens, November 30, 1777, note 8. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir Deer. 1st. [1777] As I was at the Secretaries yesterday I took off a few Resolutions from the Journals for your view, supposing as to the above, that you might have forgotten them, and as to the following, wishing to have your Sentiments. 1 I doubt not you will think it may or may not be proper to take from the minds of foreign Courts the Idea that we are absolutely determined about our conduct towards Gr. Br. in re gard to Treaties; therefore the Guard which you see in the Resolves about the time of communicating the different Resolves, which the Commissioners only ought to determine. Being one of the Committee with F L Lee & Duer to conduct the Resolve of Novr. 29th respecting Canada, 2 I wish yr. Sentiments, promising to you that I am altogether averse from strong sollicita tions to that People to become immediately active. They will fall to us of Course. I wish to have them acquainted wth. the nature of our union. But I would not wish to be bound to carry an Expedition into their Country till their Friendship was certain and quite


[Page 403]
December 2, 1777 367 fit us & distress the enemy. We are informed that 2 or 3 well manned Frigates dispatched early in February so as to arrive at the Island of Mauritius in June (being provided with letters of credence for such refreshments & aid of Stores 8cc. as may be necessary from the Minis ter to the French Governor of that Island) may go from thence to cruise on the coast of Coromandel 20 days sail from the Island of Mauritius, where they will be in the way to intercept the China ships, besides distressing the internal Trade of India. The prizes may be sold at Mauritius and Bills of Exchange remitted to you at Paris. We would observe that in passing to Mauritius our Ships had better call at Goree that at the Cape, to avoid allarming the vigilance & appre hensions of the British Cruisers. Another beneficial attempt may be conducted along the coast of Africa. The French and Dutch settlements 8c perhaps the Portugaize will purchase the prizes and give bills on Europe. We think your plan of getting one of the new constructed Ships of war equal to one of 64 Guns built for the use of these states in Europe is a very good one; and it may be employed to very beneficial purposes. The heavy iron Cannon which you propose to send will be very Wellcome for Fortifications & for Vessels, and they cost abundantly more, here, than you can furnish them for from Europe; besides there is a delay in getting them which frequently distresses us greatly. And surely your determination to supply us with materials wanted here for Ship-building is very wise, since it is by marine force that the most destructive wound may be given to our Enemies. We are directed to point out proper ports into which the stores mention’d in the Re solve of Congress of Novr. 10th may be imported. 2 We are obliged to own that the port of Charlestown in Sth. Carolina & those east ward of Rh. Island are the only safe ones. We wish the number of Manufacturers in Lead & Sulphur had been limited in that same resolve, but we place full confidence in your discretion. We shall be glad to receive from you by the first opportunity a plan of the militia of Switzerland. You will be pleased to attend to the several matters contained in our former letters, copies of which do not happen to be at hand. We are with much Esteem, Gentlemen, Your Friends 8c huml. Servts. Richd. Henry Lee James Lovell RC (PPAmP). In a clerical hand. Endorsed by John Adams: “Letter from the Comtee of foreign Affairs Deer. 2. 1777.” 1 For further information on the receipt of William Carmichael’s letter, see James Lovell to John Adams, November 22, 1777, note 2. 2 On November 10 Congress had directed the Committee for Foreign Affairs to have the commissioners in France and Spain purchase “five hundred tons of lead, four hundred tons of powder, one million gun-flints, tents for fifty thou sand men, and ten thousand yards of flannel for cartridges.” JCC, 9:883.


[Page 404]
368 December 2, 1777 James Duane to George Clinton Sir, York Toun, Pens. 2d Decem’r 1777. Since I had the Honour of writing to you last week: Fort Mercer at Redbank has shard the Fate of Fort Mifflin. The attempts to re lieve both were a day too late. Lord Cornwallis crossed the Dela ware at Copper’s Ferry at the Head of 2500 or 3000 men where he Joind a Detachment that had preceeded him and with a Train of artil lery pushed forward to besiege the Fort. General Green was ordered to relieve the Fort but coming too late, it was evacuated. And our own People set fire to several of our Vessells of war which were em- ployd in the Defence of the River. The way is now clear for the Introduction of the British Fleet, 8c our Gallies [are] in no small Danger. In the mean time, Green and Cornwallis are too near each other to part without Blows. Indeed a Report prevails that they have had an Engagement, that Cornwallis is taken Prisoner 8c his Di vision broken: but it wants confirmation. Congress have agreed to a Confederacy 8c recommended it in strong Terms to the respective Legislatures. It pleases here after the most mature Investigation, 8: I am well persuaded that it is the only Plan that can be reconciled to the Majority of the States. This with other Important Resolutions for supporting our publick will be announced to your Excellency thro’ the President. I am not yet reliev’d by Mr. Morris or Mr. Lewis. The weather is severe already. With every wish for your Happiness, I have the Hon our to be Sir Your Excellency’s most Obed’ hum’e Se’t, Jas. Duane. [P.S.] Be pleased to forward the enclosd to G. Arnold. 1 MS not found; reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 2:559-60. 1 Presumably Henry Laurens’ November 29 letter to Arnold. James Duane to John Jay Dear Sir York Town Pens. 2d Deer. 1777 I have had so much Publick Business on my hands that I have been unavoidably deprivd of paying that attention to my Friends which always gives me Pleasure. As one of the Number I have the Honour of considering yourself; 8c of you I have not been entirely unmindful. At the same time that I cannot boast of much Encouragement or any great merit. To the Governor and Council of Safety I have communicated every Occurence of moment 8c doubt not from your publick station that you have had an Opportunity of Information.


[Page 410]
December 3, 1777 374 determined on, will not be reserve in exercising them so far as shall appear necessary to accomplish something decisive. If calling in a powerful Reinforcement of the Militia, or remaining with the Army untill they shall by one vigorous Effort nobly endeavour to subdue the Enemy, will have a good Effect on the Minds of our Friends in the Army, I think the Committee will most heartily propose the Measures, but will promise nothing from their Inclinations, untill the Issue of a Consultation which is to be held with the General can be known. 2 You will be informed e’er this can reach You, of Your Appoint ment to represent the States at the Court of France; I hope to have the Concurrence of your Lady when I urge the Necessity of your ac cepting hereof; it is the earnest Wish of Congress & every Friend to America that You determine in the Affirmative, 8c of Consequence, Chagrin 8c Disapointment will result from a refusal. Genteel pro- vission will be made for the Support of these important Officers, but pecuniary Considerations I know will have no Weight in your valu able Mind, 8c only mention it as my opinion of the generous Disposi tion of Congress towards these important Officers. I remain Sir in great Haste yours most Sincerely, E Gerry [P-S.] My best respects to your Lady, General Warren, Mr Adams 8cc. RC (MHi). i Adams had written to Gerry on November 19 from Fishkill, N.Y., en route to Massachusetts. “The inclosed Letter,” Adams explained, "I this Moment rec’d and can think of no other way to answer the Expectations of Mr Smith, than to request you to take the Trouble of doing what, by the inclosed Letter, I am requested to do. “I am Sorry to take off your Attention from things of more Importance, or Amusements of greater Pleasure, But having often experienced your obliging Disposition, I presume upon it once more. “We have nothing New, excepting that a whole Pickett Guard came off to gether from Kingsbridge two-days ago—which they say is the second Instance of late. The new Levies are very discontented and earnestly wishing to escape & throw themselves upon Mercy. “G. Gates’s Army are passing fast to Head Qrs. I have had vast Pleasure in this Journey in remarking the Difference between the State of the Country and the Temper of Men’s Minds now, and last Winter. "Our Frd Lovell must remember the general Complaints of Danger from the Tories and of the Discredit of Cont. Money, as well as the great Anxiety upon the Minds of the People concerning the Issue of the Cause. All this is now done away. The Tories are universally discouraged and there Appears not in the Minds of the People the least Doubt of the final Success of our great and holy Cause. “Remember me with every Sentiment of Respect and Affection to the Gen. & Brothers Lovell & Dane, to the Ladies, and the Children of the Family.” Brevoort Collection, NBLiHi. 2 Gerry, Joseph Jones, and Robert Morris had been sent by Congress to head quarters to encourage Washington to conduct a winter offensive. See Com mittee at Headquarters to Henry Laurens, December 6, and to Washington, December 10, 1777.


[Page 411]
December 3, 1777 375 Henry Laurens to John Adams Sir, York Town 3d December 1777 The 28th Ulto. I had the honour of writing to you by the Messen ger Frederick Weare & of transmitting a Vote of Congress by which you are appointed a Commissioner at the Court of France. Inclosed under this Cover you will find a Commission executed agreeable to the Order of Congress. You have no doubt heard or will hear before this can reach you of the little affair which happened last Week in Jersey, the attack by the Marquis de Lafayette at the head of about 400 Militia & a detachment from Morgan’s Rifles on a Picket of 300 Hessians twice reinforced by British, in which our Troops were successful, killed about 20, wounded more, took 14 Prisoners & chased the Enemy about half a Mile. We learned that General Greene under whom the Marquis had acted had been recalled from Jersey but tis probable from an account received this Morning in a private Letter from Major Clarke something more must have been done before he re crossed Delaware. The Major writes that from different & corroborating accounts Lord Cornwallis was killed or wounded, that in an attack made at Gloster the Enemy was beat, left 30 dead on the field & crossed the Water after having set fire to that pretty little Town by which the whole was consumed—that the English Officers greatly enraged against the French Nation openly declare they would gladly forgive America for the exchange of drubbing the French—that General Howe had billeted his Soldiers on the Inhabitants of Philadelphia two in each House & taken many of their Blankets for the use of his light Horse which had occasioned universal discontent & murmuring among the Citizens—that A Ship & Brig, richly laden attempting to come up the River had been lost among Cheveaux de frize. I beg Sir you will do me the favour to present my respectful Com pliments to Mr. S. Adams & to accept the repeated good wishes of, Sir, Your most obedt. & Most humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). Henry Laurens to the States Sir, 3d December 1777. (Introduced by recital of my last date &c, as each Case required.) Congress ever watchful over the Interests of the United States of America & diligent to defeat the numerous & various practices of our grand Enemy equally Cruel & Subtle have taken under consider-


[Page 412]
376 December 3, 1777 ation, a device calculated for depreciating the value of the paper Money issued by authority of Congress & of the Several States, after the good people had found it necessary to assert their Rights & to take government into their own hands. The pernicious Stratagem now in view, although the discovery of it, is not quite new, appears more glaring from a late publication in Philadelphia Subscribed by a very great number of those misguided persons who chose to re main in the City & welcome the Enemy to rivet their fetters. 1 It is also notorious that many timid 8c Lukewarm friends in Sev eral of the States have, from motives probably more avaricious than directly Inimical, long given a great preference to what is called the old Money, which evidently tends to lessen the Estimation & Cur rency of the New & does in the Same Instance demonstrate, if not an inclination to overturn our Independency, apprehensions or hopes which ought to be banished from the mind of every Inhabitant in the Union. From an earnest desire therefore to counteract the wicked projects of our Enemies 8c to rectify such errors of our almost-friends, Con gress have confirmed a Resolution of this date recommending to the States respectively to enact Laws Sufficient for accomplishing these good ends. 2 I have the honour of forwarding a Copy of the Resolve under this Cover, which your Honour/Excellency will be pleased to lay before the Legislature of 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i The “publication” Laurens probably had in mind was a document signed by several hundred Philadelphians which appeared in the Pennsylvania Eve ning Post on November 6 asserting that because of the British occupation of Philadelphia the subscribers would use paper money issued by the old proprietary government and approved by the king instead of Continental currency. 2 The enclosed resolve asked the states to require persons holding bills of credit issued with the approval of the king “on or before the 19th of April 1775” to exchange them for Continental or state bills. See JCC, 9:990. 2 Laurens added the following December 4 postscript to the text of the letter that he sent to Massachusetts: “While this lay open Congress took before them a Representation of the necessity for preserving from wast Pine Timber fir for Masts and other purposes of Navigation and framed a Resolution thereupon which you will receive with the one above mentioned.” Revolutionary Letters, M-Ar; and JCC, 9:1004. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir York 3d December. 1777. In the Name of Congress I request your Excellency’s protection to three Letters for Boston which will be inclosed with this, to be Sent forward with all dispatch either by the present Messenger or by another as your Excellency shall judge best 8c also of one to


[Page 413]
December 4, 1777 377 General Gates at Albany. 1 Those Letters all direct the Embarkation of the Troops surrendered by Lt. General Burgoyne to be made at the port Stipulated in the Convention of Saratoga & no other. Con gress have received an intimation that attempts were to be made by General Howe or by Mr. Burgoyne under his Commander to obtain permission to march to & embark those Troops at Rhode Island or Some where in the Sound. I was going to add Several pieces of intelligence received this Morning from Major Clarke relative to the Enemy’s Army which had flattered us but a Letter from General Washington of the 1st Inst. 2 which I this Instant received being Silent in those articles I forbear— except that General Howe had billeted his Soldiers in Couples on the householders of Philadelphia which had occasioned universal discontents 8c murmurs among the Citizens, for this account the Major Seems to have authority 8c the tidings are not bad. I have the honour to be with every Sentiment of respect 8cca, Sir, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Laurens to Horatio Gates, December 1, 1777. 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:229-30, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 10:126-27. Robert Morris’ Committee Notes [ca. December 4, 1777] 1 Objections to a Winters Campaigne 1st. The Number of the Enemy, equal to the Continental Troops under Genl. Washington. The Redoubts, lines 8c abbetties impreg nable to any but a Superiour Number of Veteran Troops. Militia will not answer this purpose, therefore an Attack in the lines inelligible. 2d. An attack on the City over Schuylkill by Ice liable to all the above objections because the Enemy will Contract their North lines 8c run them round the City with redoubts as soon as they know such an attack is Meditated and it is not possible to keep it a Secret. 3d. The Season is so far spent that large Bodies of Militia cannot be Collected from the distant States in time (say all the month of January) 8c the adjacent States cannot furnish of themselves sufficient Numbers. 4th. If militia in tolerable numbers cou’d be Collected, the Commissaries and Quarter Masters cou’d not supply them with Pro visions 8c Forage. 5. The officers of the Continental Army badly Cloathed 8c generally discontented, mostly averse to a Winter Campaigne 8c the Soldiers not sufficiently Cloathed to keep the Field.


[Page 414]
378 December 4, 1777 The object of a Winters Campain, an attack on the City of Philada, or the Enemies Army. The first not practicable for the reasons given & the 2d of course not practicable unless they will come out & fight. The best thing to be done—to take such a position with the army as will most effectually awe the Enemy, Cover the Country, and enable the Genl, to take advantage of any favourable Circumstances that may turn up during the winter, by drawing the army into action suddenly if any. 2 1000 Bell Tents Camp Auditor Regulation of Rations Camp Press Genl Wilkinson for Secy of War Lieutt Generals Forage for Regimental Pay Masters Inspector Genl of Infantry Increase the price for Horses Committee of Board of War to Confer with a Committee of Genl officers for reforming the Army MS (NN). In the hand of Robert Morris. i On November 28 Robert Morris was appointed, with Elbridge Gerry and Joseph Jones, to a committee directed “to repair to the army’’ and consult privately with General Washington on “the best and most practicable means for carrying on a winter’s campaign.” Because the committee “conferred with the General on the Expediency of a Winter’s Campaign” on Thursday Decem ber 4, it seems likely that Morris wrote these notes soon after their meeting with Washington that day. They appear on the verso of a brief letter Cornelius Harnett had written to Morris on November 30. See JCC, 9:972; and Committee at Headquarters to Henry Laurens, December 6, 1777. 2 The remainder of Morris’ notes, which he crowded in perpendicularly on another surface of the folded sheet he was using, apparently pertain to various additional topics that arose in the course of the committee’s conference with Washington. Committee at Lancaster to George Clinton Dear General Lancaster Deer. 4th. 1777 Among other inconveniences brought on us by our Enemies, fetching of salt from the Massachusetts Bay to cure provisions in the middle Department for the next Campaign, is not the least. However Congress are more alarmed at the apprehension of being disappointed and not getting the salt in season, than from any inconvenience attending the removal, therefore have appointed a Committee to forward that and other business of the Commissarys department, 1 on information a few days ago from the Commissary General of purchases that among other disappointments he was at


[Page 415]
December 5, 1777 379 that late hour uncertain what steps, if any had been taken, to remove a quantity of salt from Boston to the North River as ordered by Congress, for he was not even assured that his Deputy, to whom he had applied, would accept his appointment. Congress foreseeing their interposi[ti]on necessary lately gave authority to the Governor and Council of Safety of Connecticut to appoint to office or to displace any incompitant person in the Commissary Department, to hire Waggons and with the utmost exertion to forward the salt to the North River to be kept in safety by some person he should appoint, until Waggons arrived from hence for it. But not having heard from that Honorable body, being probably too early, and the Committee anxious to know how, and when to direct the movements of the Waggons procured from the Legislature of this State, have directed me to address you by Express earnestly to request immediate infor mation, what train the business is in? or to what part of the North river the salt is sent? whether the whole or what quantity is arrived and to whose care? as not one step further can be taken with prudence until we have intelligence. 2 The Committee have such relyance on Governor Trumbull’s punctuallity, that I have no orders to repeat any request to him, but to guard against any unavoidable delay which may possibly arise from the miscarriage of a Letter I must beg the favor of you if on enquiry you do not find this Business in a proper train at the North River, that after dispatching this messenger you’ll be pleased in such case to send Governor Trumbul a Copy of this Letter by Express at the publick Expence. I am in behalf of the Committee, Dr. Sir, Yr. most obt. & very huml. Serv, Daniel Roberdeau [P.S.] Please to direct to York Town Pennsilvania. RC (NN). i For the committee appointed on November 28 "to repair forthwith to Lancaster’’ to confer with the Pennsylvania assembly on supplying the Con tinental Army in the middle department, see JCC, 9:976-78; and Daniel Roberdeau to Elbridge Gerry, December 6, 1777, note 3. 2 The draft of Clinton’s December 10 response to Roberdeau, in which he reported that “not one Gram of the Salt you mention has yet arrived at the North River,” is in the Emmet Collection, NN. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Webb Dear Sir, 1 York Town Dec. 5th. 1777. I have some Time ago delivered your Request to the Board of War, and I have strongly urged the Propriety of permitting you to go to N. York, and to England, if you choose it. 2 The Multiplicity of Business has prevented the Consideration of your Affair, but I am promised that it shall soon be taken up, and you will know the


[Page 420]
384 December 6, 1777 Interestedness & the gross partiality & inattention of those whose duty it was to superintend & to correct betimes, has already appeared in the loss of some lives, cruel Sickness, boundless desertion & what is to follow, God only knows. I presume the conference now on the Tapis or possibly just finished between His Excellency the General & the Committee from Congress will determine the question relative to Winter Quarters. We are morally certain of Sending you a pretty large Supply of Blankets & Cloths before Christmas. I hope these will reach the Army time enough to give new cause for thanksgiving on the 18th. The Committee for foreign Correspondence will dispatch to Boston, tomorrow or next day, Letters for France to go by the hands of the Honble John Adams Esquire appointed one of our Com missioners at the Court of Versailles. A Vessel will be purposely equipped for his accomodation & Safe passage. I am sure that Gentle man will be happy in being the bearer of your Commands or in disposing of them in the best manner, if he Should decline the duty to which he is elected by Congress. & I beleive you will find Safe & expeditious conveyances from Camp to Boston. In time of War with France there will be no tolerable assurance of reaching our friends on t’other Side the Water oftener than one out of Six Letters. I always practiced in former Warr Sending at least a Sixth Copy of every Letter of any importance & found great ad vantages result from my care, while my Neighbors, less attentive often suffered Losses. I cannot inform you Sir, any particulars concerning the intended embarkation of Lt. General Burgoyne’s conquered Troops. I have dispatched to Boston several Official Letters on that Subject to which I every day expect answers, in the mean time ’tis probable, necessity will oblige Sir William Howe to Support the remains of them where they are, during the present Winter. I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect & Esteem, &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 These letters are in Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:152-55, 160-61. The second letter was written on November 20 and received by Laurens on November 28. 2 Lafayette’s skirmish with a British foraging party at Gloucester, N.J., on November 25. Ibid., pp. 156-58. 3 Lafayette had asked Laurens’ assistance in behalf of Michel Capitaine du Chesnoy, a French engineer who had accompanied the marquis to America and was being delayed by illness in North Carolina. Ibid., pp. 152-53. 4 Congress eventually granted a lieutenant colonel’s commission to Martial-Jean Antoine Crozat de Crdnis—the “Monsr. Craignie” referred to by Laurens—on November 7, 1778. JCC, 12:1109. Having already accepted Col. Augustin Mottin de La Balme’s resignation as inspector general of cavalry and agreed to pay his expenses back to France, Congress finally informed him on February 13, 1778, that it had no further use for his service. La Balme had resigned rather than serve under Count Pulaski. See JCC, 9:797, 864, 878, 10:157; and PCC, item 41, 1:142-45.


[Page 421]
December 6, 1777 385 5 Thomas Conway’s "Scheme” was apparently a plan for an expedition against the British East Indies. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:185. 6 General Conway, who had recently threatened to resign because of his failure to obtain a promotion to major general, was promoted to this rank and ap pointed inspector general of the army by Congress on December 13. JCC, 9:1026; and DAB. 7 Congress agreed to grant an appointment as brevet lieutenant colonel to the chevalier de Mauduit du Plessis on January 19, 1778, but ordered his com mission backdated to November 26, 1777, the day Francois-Louis Teissfedre de Fleury was appointed lieutenant colonel. JCC, 9:967, 10:64. Daniel Roberdeau to Elbridge Gerry Dear Sir Lancaster Deer. 6th. 1777 Yesterday I dispatched a Continental Officer Lieut Keller with a Letter to Governor Clinton, 1 desiring him, if the salt was not arrived at the North River, to send a Copy of my Letter to Govr. Trumbull, and to forward the Express to him, immediately to Congress, as the movement of the Waggons from hence, for my Brethren of the Committee would not consent to any Waggons being sent before advice of the salt, depended on his answer. Therefore if you have reed, intelligence from the C G P 2 at headquarters to make an earlier stop necessary, you must send Waggons, from thence, which likewise would be a great relief, as the Council here express their apprehen sions of much difficulty in obtaining them in these parts, owing to the abuse of imploying numbers of Waggons in the army which were impressed for other and shorter Services. I expect an answer from Governor Clinton next Wednesday, therefore the presence of the C G P will be necessary here or a Deputy to forward the Waggons. Notwithstanding the Exercions of the Legislature of this State, the Vice President hinted his opinion that military aid would be necessary. I thirst I pant to hear of decisive measures, these only under the auspices of Heaven will succeed. I am about to mount to return to Congress and shall lay a Copy of the Resolves of this Assembly before them. 3 I am very anxious to hear of Gen. McDougal, who I am happy to hear is a little better, the Lord perfect begins mercy. I am, Dear Sir, Yr. most obt. friend & Servt, Daniel Roberdeau [P.S.] My love to Genl. McDougal. Please to enquire of Genl. Kalb whether the Letters committed to him were delivered? whether he has or there are at Head Quarters any Letters for me? which please to forward. RC (PHarH). Addressed: "The Honorable E. Garry Esqr. member of Congress at HeadQuarters. Favored by Mr. John Jones.” 1 See Committee at Lancaster to George Clinton, December 4, 1777. a Commissary General of Purchases, Col. William Buchanan. 3 A committee of Congress composed of Roberdeau, Eliphalet Dyer, and John


[Page 424]
388 December 8, 1777 American advance parties engaged in several skirmishes as Howe’s forces maneuvered in front of the American lines at Whitemarsh. Although a general action was anticipated, Howe unexpectedly returned to Philadelphia on De cember 8 and set up winter quarters. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:142-45. 4 Williams and Richard Law were granted leave by Congress on December 3 and probably left soon thereafter. JCC, 9:994. Laws’ accounts with the state of Connecticut, claiming compensation from June 14 to December 16, 1777, in cluding travel to and from Congress, are in the Revolutionary War Collection, Ct. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear sir Camp at Whitemarsh Monday Deer. 8. 1777 Since my last the Situation of the Camp has prevented the Com mittee of Congress from transacting the Business of their Appoint ment. The Enemy, the Evening after the Date of my letter, marched out with their whole Force, Which is said to consist of twelve thousand five hundred Effectives. We received information of their preparations a Day or two before, by persons who left the City; & the Camp was alarmed on Fryday Morning abt two oClock. At five the Enemy were about two Miles from the right Wing of our Army, in Sight of our quarters, where they continued untill Saturday Night, during which Time an Engagement was hourly expected. About four oClock on Sunday Morning, the General sent one of his Aids to inform Us that the Enemy had marched to the left, where were the Generals quarters, & had drawn up 2000 Men about two Miles from his place, advancing with another part of their Army, up the York Road. This Morning We are informed, that the Enemy are returning to the Right, from whence I think there is a probab[il]ity of their intending to puzzle our Officers by their Manoeuvres, & send their whole Force against some Point. I sincerely wish that our officers would prevent it by beginning the Attack, And untill such an enter prizing Spirit prevails, think that the Enemy will manoeuvre to Advantage. There have been several Skirmishes, & many Deserters & prisoners have passed thro the Camp; but these are Affairs of no great Consequence. The American Army are in a better Situation for an Engagement, in Point of Numbers, than they have been this Campaign; may God grant them Fortitude, & crown their Endeavours with Success. You will probably ’eer long, hear of some important Event; & in the Interim give me Leave to assure You, that I remain with much Esteem yours sincerely, E. Gerry [P.S.] The Bill on Mr. Mease is accepted 8c inclosed to Mr. Richard Taylor. 9th Deer. Last Evening the Enemy retired to Philadelphia. RC (MHi). i See Gerry to John Adams, December 3, 1777.


[Page 425]
December 8, 1777 389 Cornelius Harnett to Thomas Burke Dear Sir York Pensylvania 8 Deer 1777 I have not received one line from you since I had the pleasure of seeing you here, as much as I dislike Letter-writing, this is the fourth of mine, in One of which I inclosed One from Mrs. Trist. She is now at Lancaster & “begs (in her Letter to me of the 2d) to know what has become of our friend Burk.” She and Mrs. Ross were to have come to this Town on a Visit to Mrs. Swoops, 8c my Carriage was to have been sent for them, but the Capricious Vixens have put it off to a future day. Mrs. Trist desires when I write to you, that I will “Tender you her best Services.” Inclosed is a hand Bill Printed by order of Congress the Particulars of which you have perhaps seen. 1 As To Our Army it is still near Philadelphia & we hourly expect very interesting News, as Genl. Howe on the 6 Instant with his whole force was in sight of Our Lines 8c a General action hourly expected. The flower and force of the contending parties are now ready to engage. The Enemy have drawn a Strong reinforcement from N York, & Genl. Washington a much Stronger from Genl. Gates’s Victorious Northern Army. I fear how ever we shall suffer ourselves to be Attacked instead of attacking. This Conduct I believe has often proved disadvantageous. A Committee of Congress now at head Quarters Informs us, that Our Soldiers are exceeding Anxious to Come to a General Engagment, and are in high Spirits. 2 Who knows but this Battle may put a glorious end to the Land War in America. The Virginians in Assembly have set a glorious Example to the Southern States, & indeed to every State in the Union by not only Ordering a reinforcement of 5000 Militia to joyn Genl. Washington immediately, but also to fill up their Continental Battalions with great dispatch. The recruiting Service ought to be attended to in Our State in case of Accidents, as nothing is to be expected from Pensylvania. Should Our Army be defeated, Our utmost exertions will be requisite. The several resolutions of Congress sent to the Governors of the States will require particular Attention. That of Taxation is essential above all, the Credit of our Continental Currency depends upon it. The Opening the Courts of Law for the recovery of Debts surely ought to be attended to. The Calling in your paper Currency, especially that Issued under the Authority of the British Government, (as a distinction is made by the Tories 8c Sordid Whigs already, of at least 100 per Centum which in it’s Consequences must ruin Our public Credit) ought to command the Attention of our Legislature. Coll Martin has been tryed and Acquitted; 8c has since resigned. Mr. Penn 8c myself have desired the Governor to apply to the Genl. Assembly to recommend some one or more of Our Colonels as


[Page 431]
December 8, 1777 395 Mrs. Clymar’s Comments upon your Gazette’s is highly diverting. But I must say bon Soire. Your Friend and very humbl Servt. James Lovell [P.S.] This day I find by a Letter from our Friend General Whipple that 20 Tickets were lost from 14327 to 14,346 inclusive. The best Compliments of this Family are presented to you; I pray mine may be to Mrs. Adams. RC (NN). i Elbridge Gerry wrote the December 6 letter of the committee at head quarters to Henry Laurens, which was read in Congress this day. He also wrote a letter of the same date to Daniel Roberdeau—which Lovell explained in the following letter to Richard Henry Lee was written “at i/ 2 past one in the afternoon”—but it has not been found. 2 Almost certainly a reference to the publication of William Bingham’s October 13, 1777, letter which reported military preparations in the French West Indies. See Lovell to John Adams, November 22, note 1; and Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Adams, November 23, 1777. An extract of Bingham’s letter appeared in The Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser, December 2, 1777. 3 The vicomte de Mauroy’s sharply critical letter was read in Congress this day. Among the charges made by Mauroy was that “all the world will know that the marquis de Fayette whom no Body can reproach (unless with his being a Frenchman, and the sacrifices he has made to your interest) was retained in your service from political reasons only, and your liking to my Country has made you reject me in a manner not to be mistaken." See JCC, 9:1011; and PCC, item 78, 15:279-82. For further information on Mauroy’s difficulties, see Lovell to Vicomte de Mauroy, September 8, 1777. 4 That is, John and Samuel Adams, whose departure from Congress was con trasted with that of John Hancock’s about two weeks earlier. By coincidence, Samuel Adams was almost simultaneously writing a letter to Lovell containing comments on the pomp associated with Hancock’s return to Massachusetts. “I heartily thank you,” Adams wrote, “for your two favors of the 12th & 18th of Novemr, the former of which gave me a piece of Intelligence which I thought proper to give the Publick through the News paper. “Unluckily for me, on my Arrival here I found the General Assembly sitting; and consequently I am plungd in publick Business sooner than I could wish to have been. Among other things I have the Satisfaction of informing you of your Reelection as a Member of Congress. Your old Colleagues are all again chosen. I honestly told some of our Countrymen that I thought it incumbent on them thorowly to acquaint themselves with the Character and Conduct of those who represent them at the Distance of four hundred Miles; but I fear they are too unsuspecting. What do frequent Elections avail, without that Spirit of Jealousy & Strict Inquiry which alone can render such Elections any Security to the People? But surely the more implicit the Confidence of the Publick is, the more circumspect ought those to be, who are entrusted with publick Affairs. “Mr. [Hancock] came to this Town with great Pomp, and was receivd by the military and naval Gentlemen, as I am informd, with equal Ceremony. His Colleagues arrivd in the Dusk of the Evening and without Observation. He is the most happy who has the greatest Share of the Affections of his Fellow Citizens, without which, the Ears of a sincere Patriot are ever deaf to the Roaring of Cannon and the Charms of Musick. I have not seen or heard of any Dangers on the Road that should require Guards to protect one. It is pretty enough in the Eyes of some Men, to see the honest Country Folks gapeing & Staring at a Troop of Light Horse. But it is well if it is sometimes not


[Page 435]
December 10, 1777 399 Committee at Headquarters to George Washington Sir White Marsh Deer. 10th 1777 In Consequence of the conferences we have had with your Ex cellency, and knowing yours and your General officers opinions on the Subject of our Mission, we have come to the resolutions contained in the enclosed paper, finding them as far as we can judge most con sistent with the Public good. 1 Among the many reasons offered against a Winters Campaigne we were sorry to observe one of the most prevalent was a general dis content in the Army and especially among the Officers. These dis contents are ascribed to various causes and we doubt not many of them are well founded and deserve particular attention, and in the course of the present Winter, will be taken into consideration by Congress, and we hope effectually remedied. That a reform may take place in the army, and proper discipline be introduced, we wish to see the Military placed on such a foot ing as may make a Commission a desirable object to the Officer, and his Rank preserved from degradation & contempt; for these pur poses we intend to recommend to Congress That an half pay establishment be formed and adopted in the American Service. That a pensionary establishment take place in favour of Officers Widows. That a New regulation of Rank confining it as far as possible to the line of the Army be adopted. That an equitable mode of paying for back rations be ordered. Should these several regulations be approved and established by Congress (and we have reason to suppose they will) We trust the prevailing discontents will subside and a Spirit of emulation take place among the Gentlemen of the Army to promote the public service and introduce that order and discipline amongst the Troops so essential to the Military character. As a further inducement the Committee have it also in Contempla tion to propose in Congress that the Officers be permitted to dis pose of their Commissions under such regulations as may render the measure eligible. We are, Your Excellencys Most Obedt hble serv ants, Robt Morris Elbridge Gerry Jos. Jones


[Page 439]
December 12, 1777 403 Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir, York Town Deer. 11. 1777. I Arrived here last evening & find Congress had just sent to New Jersey requesting a Representation. 1 I am just now applied too to know in what light the Prisoners from Jersey Confined in Carlile are to be Considered, whether Prisoners of War, or Traitors to the State of New Jersey. I mean those taken in Arms with Ried. Stockton. 2 If they should be Considered by Jersey as offenders Agst. that State they should be sent for &: tried, a determina tion in this affair will be Acceptable to Congress. I may be permitted to say I wish those Prisoners may be treated as offenders Against the Treason Act, I mean such of them as Joined the Enemy after passing such Act. As I but just arrived here, I have no News to send your Excellency, Remaining Sir, Your Obedt. Humble Servt. Abra. Clark RC (MHi). i Congress had instructed President Laurens on December 9 to “write in pressing terms to the states of New Jersey and Delaware, who are unrepre sented, to send delegates immediately to Congress,” but Laurens did not send a copy of this resolve to Governor Livingston because of the arrival in Congress of Abraham Clark on December 11 and John Witherspoon on December 17. See JCC, 9:1013, 1017, 1032; and Henry Laurens to William Livingston, December 29, 1777. a Richard W. Stockton was a major in the loyalist New Jersey Volunteers who had been captured in February 1777 and imprisoned at Philadelphia and Carlisle. Edward A. Jones, “The Loyalists of New Jersey,” Collections of the New Jersey Historical Society 10 (1927): 211-12. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir Potsgrove Deer 12th 1777 I am favoured with yours of Novr 24th 1 on my Way from the Camp to Congress; & find that You have formed pleasing Expectations of Intelligence from this Quarter, which the Events that have hitherto taken Place will no Ways justifie. The brave officer Colo Smith who defended Fort Mifflin informs me, that Commodore Hazelwood who commanded the Gallies & was honored wth. a Sword; has since be haved like a Poltroon, & by not opposing his Gallies to the Indiaman that was warpt thro’ a Channel, wch being shoal was unguarded by the Chiveaux de Frize, the Fort was attack’d on every quarter, the Works beat down, Guns dismounted, & the Garrison after suffering greatly, were reduced to the Necessity of retiring. Had they been sup ported by the Army, who after several Days Deliberation determined to send a Body of Men to Province Island, to attack the Enemy in the


[Page 442]
406 December 12, 1777 Service, are unfit for Duty from the Want of Cloathing, & that Suffi cient Supply would enable them to take the Field immediately. The Articles therefore must be taken wherever found, 8c at reasonable prices, since the Neglect hereof may weaken our Army & infer the most ruinous Consequences. I wish to have your Sentiments on the Expediency of preventing all persons whatever (excepting publick officers) from purchasing the produce or Manufactures of these States or any Commodities therein imported, more than is necessary for the annual Consumption of themselves & Families, without Licence there for, 8c giving Bonds not to exceed the retail prices stipulated by the States. Few Retailers are sufficient for each County, 8c an unbounded Licence to Speculators has not a Tendancy to increase Trade, but promotes Extortion. This should not be continued longer than the War, or than is necessary to execute the regulating Acts, 8c if any per son wants to export (altho it answers few other purposes than to supply our Enemies) they may easily obtain a permit. My Compliments to Mr. Adams’s 8c all Friends, being sir with much Esteem yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. The politicks of France wear an extraordinary Appearance, but G Howe must have reed, alarming Intelligence relating thereto, as he has ordered the Heights of Staten Island near the Narrows to be forti fied, 8c the Inhabitants are obliged to work every third day. RC (ICarbS: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1974). i Warren’s letter is in Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Correspondence, pp. 96-98. 2 In his January 22, 1778, response to Gerry, Warren wrote at length in op position to price and trade regulations. Gardiner, Warren-Gerry Correspond ence, pp. 107-10. 3 Not found. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania Deer. 12. 1777 I wrote you a few days ago by Post since which I reed, your favour of the 11th ultimo. Genl. Howe Marched out of Philadelphia on Friday last with his whole force with intention as was immagined to attack Genl. Washington in his lines at White Marsh, the Two Armies remained in sight of each Other until Sunday the 7th, Our militia under the Command of Genl. Potter Schyrmished with them, 8c in the Evening Coll Morgan with his Rifle men had a severe Action with the Enemys right wing, or rather a part of it, the report is that they lost a great many men killed, upwards of an hundred. Our loss but trifling. We drove the Enemy 8c kept the ground. Genl. Howe filed off his Army in three Columns, 8c is returned to Philadelphia, 8c


[Page 444]
408 December 12, 1777 Henry Laurens to Congress Gentlemen York Town 12 December 1777 In the Character of a Delegate in Congress give me leave to address you. Your President has been confined to his Chamber & his Bed for three days & Nights past during which time he has not had three hours Sleep. The Malady under which he labours has made such progress as to convince him by reflecting upon former attacks that he will not be able to move out of the House nor to attend his duty in Congress for some Weeks to come. When he accepted the Honour which you were pleased to confer on him it was with a single Eye to your service in the most comprehensive meaning. Now he finds him self incapable of performing his duty he is anxious to Resign that Honor, which he accepted only on obedience to your Vote. These, you may depend upon it Gentlemen, are the genuine senti ments of his mind. There already lies upon his Table much business which with pain he thinks of, because it is not in his power to give proper dispatch to it. Every day unless you are pleased to prevent it, will accumulate the heap, public business will be impeded and some branches run into Confusion. I therefore humbly move you Gentlemen to proceed to the choice of a President as an act of propriety & necessity. Be assured I should have continued to serve you with diligence & fidelity if my health had permitted, I trust I shall not only be seconded in this Motion but that there will not be a dissenting voice in Congress. 1 I am, Gentle men, Your faithful Coadjutor & humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). i The journals do not record Congress’ response to Laurens, but as he explained to John Lewis Gervais, Congress was "not disposed to grant my request but would in preference to appointing a new President, address the Chair & Secretary during my unavoidable absence.” Pleased by this "Compli ment,’’ Laurens agreed to remain in office. See JCC, 9:1022; and Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, December 30, 1777. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 12th December 1777. I had the honour of writing to you the 8th Inst, by Messenger Barry. Your Excellency will find under this cover an important act of Congress calculated for availing your Excellency’s Troops & for de priving those of the Enemy, of the benefit of provisions adjacent to Philadelphia. 1


[Page 445]
December 12, 1777 409 I beg leave to refer your Excellency to the paper and that you will be pleased to excuse brevity as I am confined in Bed by the Gout. I am, Sir, yours &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See the resolves Congress adopted on December 10 pursuant to the report of the committee appointed on December 8 to study "the most effectual and vigorous measures for subsisting the army under General Washington, and dis tressing that of the enemy.” JCC, 9:1010-11, 1013-15. Marine Committee to the Middle Department Navy Board Gentlemen Decemr. 12 th 1777 Lieutenant Barney of the Frigate Virginia will hand you this—he came from Baltimore with a representation from Captain Nicholson that he was deficient in his Complement of men—we have therefore thought proper to despatch him down to your Board in order that you may procure for him 50 or 60 of the seamen belonging to the service now unemployed at Bordenton which we request you will do. The Virginia is under sailing orders and waits for those men to proceed. As we are very anxious to get her to sea we hope you will give all possible dispatch to this business. There will be occasion for Two or three Waggons to carry down the baggage &c and perhaps you may think best to send provisions along. Those Waggons will be furnished by the Quarter Masters Deputy nearest to you and we will just suggest that the men can go from the head of Elk by Water—you will give Lieutenant Barney suitable instructions which he will obey. There are now at Baltimore lying loaded with Tobacco on the public account a ship and a Snow which the Commercial Committee intend sailing to France, and would wish them to proceed down the Bay under Convoy of the Virginia. But as they are in want of Masters and Crews to navigate them (which it is impossible to procure where they are) we wish you to engage some proper persons for Masters and Mates and send down with Lieutenant Barney ten Seamen for each of the said Vessels. It is probable some of the Officers belonging to the Vessels that were destroyed will be willing to make this voyage. We shall write you again very soon and are, Gentn, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).


[Page 449]
December 15, 1777 413 wrote him or directed Mr Buchanan to Inform him of the dificulties which lie in his department, where he is and what is become of him we know not, we have heard that he had set out for the Eastern world sometime agoe but to prevent every dificulty for the future they have Impowered Govr Trumbull 8cc to supply every defect in both the purchasing and Issuing Department in that part of the world. Orders have been long Given to Mr Buchanan for 2 hund thousand dollars on the loan office in Boston for the Eastern Depart ment to be paid in preference to any other (as by the returns made from the Office they were good for more than that sum) & to be Immediately sent to Mr Colt, & to save & Indemnifye you the Treasury Board have rendered Valid, and to pass to your Account all the Stores Any Genii Officer shall either take or that you may deliver to their Order. I hope before this you are in a great measure relieved of your dificulties. You Inform me that you were about to set out for Boston & Salem to purchase Cloathing for the Colony & had it not been for Coll Williams’ letter 1 Informing you of the jealousies & Suspicions Congress had entertained of your Integrity 8cc you was about to undertake to supply with provisions from Connecticut but on his Information you declined having any thing to do with it & was so advised by the Govr & his Council. I should have thot that both the Govr & you had been long enough acquainted with Coll Williams, I mean the suddenness of his Temper, the warmth of his Imagination, the strong Impression sometimes a little matter makes on his mind (tho of an honest good heart), to lay so great a Stress upon his painting. I found he had wrote & feard as for some other of his letters they were unguarded & would have no good effect but the Contrary. He Informed me the ground of his letter was when some affairs touching the Commissy department were Agitated in Congress a Certain Member he would not tell me who not knowing as he supposes of his Connection with you Whispered him that he feard you was so put out and Chagrined at the New Regulations that you had in some measure embarrassed and discouraged Others in undertaking. I have no doubt but some body might throw out such a hint to him, and possibly some might have such fears or suspicion; but is that enough to lay so great a stress upon, when you have been repeatedly Assured that Congress in general & believe may say now Universally entertain a high opinion of your Abilities 8c Integrity in your whole Conduct in that Department. They have given you the Strongest Evidence of it by a Unanimous unsollicited Vote even of every Individual in Appointing you one of a Board the most honourable As well as Interesting to your Country. We had formerly 2 or 3 heady mischief making Gentn. in Congress, they are gone 8c believe will be here no more, the party is broke up, all is harmony 8c Union. Schuyler is no more. I was rather sorry to hear your long defence & Exculpation in your letter to Congress against Charges


[Page 450]
414 December 15, 1777 they had never heard nor believe Suspected and was equally sorry to hear the Governors letter 2 Complaining of the Treatment his sons had received especially at this time, when I can assure him & you that both you & your brother the Paymaster Stand in a fairer point of light with Congress than any two Gentn. ever employ’d by them, yet I am Sensible that at a time, to serve some friend or particular purpose your brother was superseded, & you have had now & then a Squib thrown at you but without making an impression prejudicial to your Carracter. Your brother John was ill treated I believe but all would have been put right had he been a little more soft in his letter. Old Doctr Witherspoon of high Scotch feeling was Netled 8c without any prejudice against the family principally opposed its being recti fied. You say it is a little wonderd at my & Coll Williams Recommen dation of a Certain Gentn. I did it from political Motives, which can explain to you when I may have the pleasure of seeing you again, which hope will be soon. Congress have great hopes 8c expec tations from this New Constituted Board of Warr. The Army in every Department wants a total reform & regulation both Internal & External, we are determined by the blessing of Heaven to have it Effected, our appointment meets with Universal Applause, great Expectations are from it. We have also Appointed Inspectors Genii of the Army in every department, who will be Executors 8c Assistants to the board of Warr, will Inspect, make their returns 8c reports to you. They are Gentn. of great knowledge, Abilities 8c Integrity and believe will be Intent to reform abuses, regulate disorders, Establish discipline in the Army. 3 Since the above receivd yours from Boston of the 7th, what is past cannot be helpd, we must make the best of what is to come. It is unaccountable what is become of Mr Colts order for 2 hund thousand dollars, a duplicate is now sent 8c a large sum in Cash, the order on New York reversed 8c an order to Govr and Council of Safety on Connecticut Loan office in Lieu of it, which we find now to be good for a Considerable sum. Congress have had every department to attend to, hope it is in a good way at last. The Govr 8c Councill may Employe Coll Champion 8c whom they please, Assist Mr Colt Cooperate one with another as much as possible. I know they dont want the trouble, but the mistakes in past Will require greater Exertions in the future. Our Army have done so much fighting this Summer they seem much Inclined to goe into Winter quarters and prepare for spring. If so How will have free plunder 8c possibly disturb them in their proposed quiet. My affectionate regard to family 8c am sincerely, Your. E Dyer RC (Ct). i See William Williams to Joseph Trumbull, November 4, 1777. 2 President Laurens responded to this letter from Governor Trumbull on January 5, 1778.


[Page 451]
December 15, 1777 415 a Dyer probably added the rest of this letter a few days later, as the com mittee report recommending that the army go into winter quarters was read on the 16th and the treasury report ordering funds for the governor and council from the Connecticut loan office was approved on the 20th. See JCC, 9:1029-31, 1041. Henry Laurens to the Rhode Island Expedition Commissioners York 15th December 1777 For the satisfaction of the good people of these United States & for the honour of the American Arms, Congress have judged it necessary that a proper & full enquiry be made into the cause of the failure of the late intended expedition against Rhode Island under the Com mand of General Spencer & into the conduct of the General Officers employed upon that occasion. For effecting this necessary Examen, Congress have appointed five Commissioners &: marked particular directions for their proceeding & from a confidence in your continued Zeal in the public Service have included your name in the Commission. For your further information please to be referred to a Certified Copy of the Act of Congress dated the 12th [i.e. 11th] Inst, which in company with this, I have the honour of transmitting. 1 I am with great Regard, Sir, your Obedient & most humble Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “General Whipple, New Hampshire—per Mr. Storer. R. T. Paine Esqr. Massachusett, by the same. Egbert Benson Esqr. New York—by the same. Oliver Elsworth Esqr. Connecticut, by Browne. Henry Marchant Esqr. Rhode Island. By the same.” i Owing in part to repeated solicitations from Congress and some northern state conventions, the governments of Connecticut, Rhode Island, and Massa chusetts agreed in the fall of 1777 to launch a joint expedition against the British troops occupying Rhode Island. Joseph Spencer, a Continental major general from Connecticut, was placed in command of the expeditionary force, which began to gather in Rhode Island early in October. For various reasons, however, including manpower and supply shortages, tactical disagreements, and loss of the element of surprise, the attack was canceled in mid-October and the troops withdrawn. Congress, increasingly impatient with unsuccessful commanders in the field, therefore decided on December 11 to appoint five commissioners to go to Rhode Island to ascertain the causes of the expedition’s collapse. Those chosen were Egbert Benson, the attorney general of New York; Oliver Ellsworth, a member of the Connecticut Committee of the Pay Table and a nonattending delegate; Henry Marchant, a Rhode Island delegate on leave from Congress; Robert Treat Paine, the speaker pro tempore of the Massachusetts Assembly; and William Whipple, a New Hampshire delegate and militia officer. Al though Benson and Whipple were unable to serve, the other three commissioners met in Providence in February and March 1778, taking testimony and examining evidence already gathered by various state authorities, which they dispatched to Congress and which was referred to committee on April 8. This committee


[Page 455]
December 16, 1777 419 wish to see both parties well beaten.” This I judge to be the true and only Character of France. I am impatient at not hearing from our Commissioners. A Vessel is expected daily at Baltimore the Swallow, Capt. Martin, in whom Mr. McCreary sailed from B & reached F Sepr. 2d. Colo. F.L. Lee begs you would excuse his silence as he has large packets to answer to Virginia, by the Return of the post Tomorrow. He sends the kindest Regards to you. I beg you would accept those of your humb. Servt. J L RC (NN). i William Finnie’s December 5 letter to the Board of War was read in Con gress this day. See JCC, 9:1026. 2 Probably Benjamin Harrison’s December 5 letter to the Board of War, which was read in Congress this day. Ibid. 3 That is, William Lee. Thomas Burke’s Remarks on the Articles of Confederation [ante December 16, 1777] 1 I consider the Congress at present as a General Council of America, instituted for the purpose of opposing the usurpations of Britain, Conducting the war against her, and forming foreign alliances as necessary thereto. Incident to this must be the General direction of the Army and Navy, because they are the instruments of the war. Also for the providing necessary funds for the disbursements, because without them neither Army or Navy can subsist. Also the making Treaties with Foreign Powers, to be binding on all the states alike and equally to affect them, because this is the essence of foreign Alliance. This Idea of the Powers, use and authority of Congress, excludes all coersive Interpositions within the States respectively, except with respect to the Army and Navy, because the States are competent to every exertion of power within themselves. Also the appointment of ways and means for supplying the Contingents of Men, Money or other things otherwise than by recommendation which always im plies a power in the State to reject. Also the power of imprisoning or otherwise punishing any Citizen, because that is not necessary for the end of their Institution, and every individual is to be tried and punished only by those Laws to which he consents. The Congress for this reason can give no authority to any Man or set of Men to arrest or punish a Citizen, nor can it lawfully be done but by the Authority of the particular states. Also all pretence for continuance of a Congress after the war is concluded, or of assuming a power to any other purposes than what


[Page 456]
420 December 16, 1777 are above expressed. The Congress now determines by a majority which need not be more than five, and which seven is always con clusive. If the last mentioned exclusion be not right, the Congress might engage the states in Confederacies, injurious to all but the continued majority. Tis my Opinion that every State has a right to control the Cantonement of Soldiers within their Territories, but as all the Governments are not yet settled, it might be inconvenient to say any thing of it, and it is not necessary. Whenever a State finds occasion to exercise this right, I think none will be hardy enough to dispute it. But I believe it will be necessary for every established State to provide a mode whereby the Civil Authority can interpose to prevent Courts Martial from exceeding their Jurisdiction. ’Tis true a Soldier ex pressly consents to be bound by the articles of War, and to submit to the Martial Jurisdiction, but in all Trials, the first Question is the Iden[ti]ty which must in this case be the same as Soldier or Citizen? If the Court Martial can determine this question, it is in their power to call any Citizen a Soldier, and to subject him to military Law. This evidently points out the necessity of the check of the civil authority. The Confederation is a subject of the highest importance, but not having yet passed the House, except when in Committee, it seems it must not be laid before the assemblies. I shall deem it my duty to examine every Article of it with the most critical scrutiny, and submit my thoughts to the Assembly, and receive their Instructions. But I am told by the President that it will violate my obligation of secrecy, to do this before it has passed the House. If the Assembly agree with me in the foregoing Ideas, of the Power, use and Authority of Congress I beg leave to recommend that they instruct their Delegates not to depart from them, nor to consent to any act or resolve which shall tend to exempt the Courts Martial from the Control of the civil power in the States. I am not desirous of these Instructions in order to restrain the Delegates. I believe none of them even without Instructions would vote contrary to those Ideas, but as all questions are carried by a majority in Congress, the state may perhaps be bound tho’ her Delegates should dissent, especially where the Instructions are so general and Powers so indefinite as ours. I wish the State therefore to instruct, and by some public act to disclaim being bound by any resolves contrary to her Instructions. Without something of this kind, according to the present Constitution of Congress it may be impossible for the Delegates to preserve the Independence of the State, from Encroachments for by that Constitution they are not allowed to protest or enter their Dissent. These thoughts are humbly submitted to the Honorable the General Assembly of North Carolina by their most respectful humble Servant, Thos. Burke


[Page 457]
December 16, 1777 421 Tr (Nc—Ar). i Burke prepared these remarks for the North Carolina Assembly before he learned of the approval of the Articles of Confederation by Congress on Novem ber 15. As he took his seat in the lower house of the assembly on December 1 but did not learn of congressional approval of the Articles until December 16, it seems likely that he composed these remarks sometime during these two weeks. There is no evidence in the assembly journal of when Burke submitted them to the legislature; and the text of the document comes from Gov. Richard Caswell’s Executive Letter Book. James Duane to Horatio Gates Sir Manour Livingston 16th Decemr 1777 Congress have been pleased to appoint Brigr. General Stark to the Command of an Enterprize which they have much at Heart—It’s success under Providence depending entirely upon Secrecy. For fear of a miscarriage of the Dispatches, I am directed in a personal Conference at Albany to explain their Views and deliver to him his Commission and Instructions. Where that General is employd at present Congress is uninformed and have therefore directed me to trouble you with forwarding the enclosed Letter. 1 One from you might quicken his Journey to Albany, and as no Time should be lost I must request that Favour, as well as that you will be so obliging as to employ in this Business an Express on whose Diligence you can rely, and to order him to proceed to this place with General Stark’s Answer as soon as possible. If you can form any probable Conjecture when it may be expected your Opinion will regulate my Conduct. Be pleasd, Sir, to accept my sincere Congratulations on the glorious Success of the American Arms under your immediate Command. A Series of Victories so critical and decisive cannot fail of producing, with the Blessing of Heaven, The most important and permanent advantages to the United States; while they have rescued this devoted Government, already almost ruined, from total Destruction. I hope to have the Pleasure of an Interview with you before you proceed to Congress. From what I learn it would ease your mind on a Subject which, without any Reason, has given you Pain. You may be assurd that you hold a high Place in the Esteem and Confidence of Congress. We may hourly expect important news from the Army under General Washington. As I passed thro’ Reading I collected the following Circumstances, on the Truth of which you may rely. General Howe marched out of Philadelphia the Evning of the 4th Instant with all the troops he coud collect leaving only 1500 men to garrison Philadelphia. In his march he was harrassed by Morgan’s Light Infantry and the militia. He however on the 5th took possession of Chestnut Hill within two miles of our army which was strongly


[Page 461]
December 16, 1777 425 Suffered exceedingly from the fire of those Excellent Marksmen. Genl. Washington was informed by some deserters that their loss in killed & wounded was 500, but this acct, he thinks Exaggerated. I fear it was. Genl. Howes Intention in this Maneouvre was to have attacked Our Army Expecting to find them off their guard, in this he was dissap- pointed, & then by keeping up a Shew in frount with his light Troops, he marched off his Artillery & heavy armed Troops towards the City; soon after those in front filed off on the right and Left, & by a pre cipitate March Out general’d us, as usual, a Large body of Our light Infantry were ordered to pursue but could not come up with them until they had got within the Lines. Thus ended this affair. They have since sent a Large body over the Schuylkiln to forage. The Militia under Genl. Potter were Surprised, but maintained a Smart Action with them for a Short time, took several of them Prisoners, but lost an equal Number at least of his men taken by the Enemy; this Account comes not from Authority but is believed. We have as yet no News Paper Published in this Town otherwise I should send you some of them. Since the Confederation has been finished, several Reccommendations to the Legislatures of the States have been sent by Expresses. I need not mention them, they will Speak for them selves. I beg you will inform me of the Temper you find Our Assembly in. Are they inclined to pursue Spirited Measures? For Gods sake fill up your Batalions, Lay Taxes, put a Stop to the Sordid & avaritious Spirit which has Infected all ranks & Conditions of Men. Regulate the Prices of all Comodities, at least such as are immediately useful to Our Army; The united States will not much longer be able to procure them at the very exorbitant prices they are now sold at. We have already received an Account from Connecticut that their State is much dissatisfied with the mode in the Confederation of fix ing the Quota of Each State by the value of Lands. Numbers of Inhabitants including Slaves is their favourite Plan. A Valuation of all Property throughout the Continent was allowed to be the most equitable mode for fixing the Quotas, but this was said to be impracticable. All our foreign Intelligence indicates that Europe will soon be in a flame. Let us not depend upon this. If we have virtue, we certainly have power, to work out our own Salvation. I hope without fear or trembling. I wish I could inform you of a Victory Obtained over G1 Howe. I fancy we must wait until Stern Winter builds a Bridge over the Schuilkiln. Small parties of our Army have been Successful however in taking several of the Enemy Prisoners. 95 arrived in this Town the night before the last 8c three officers of Low rank. They go on to Virginia Tomorrow. As to the prospect you wish for, of accommodating Mrs. Burke here, I beg you will not think of it. Be assured it is Impossible, you will


[Page 462]
426 December 16, 1777 hardly be able to get a bed to Sleep in. I should be sorry to see my Country woman in distress which be assured must be the Case if you bring her here. No my friend, let her remain at your own peaceful Mansion in expectation of better times. Be assured that my expenses since I arrived in this Town, a very little more than two Months has been upwards of £200 Currency, and I never Lived in so wretched a manner in my life. I shall be under the Necessity of procuring an advance from the Treasury of at least 1000 Dollars over and above my Allowance from the State, which is very handsom. I shall be con tent if this will bring me home with a Single dollar in my pocket. Mention not this; If you do, I am sure you will not be believed, but it is as true as the Gospel. God only knows what this Country will Come to at last. Mrs. Trist is well at Lancaster. I have had great pleasure in Cor responding with her. 1 She is a sweet sensible Creature. I shall forward your Letter tomorrow. I wish you health, Happiness 8c a good Session. With unfeigned esteem I am, Dear Sir, Your affect 8c Obed Servt. Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] I am so harrassed by Attending Congress, The Treasury board, the Commercial Committee 8cc that I can hardly find time to write to my friends. Tell Messs. Hooper 8c Maclain I shall write them by next Post. It is now 11 o’Clock at night. Hence not time to Copy or Correct. RC (NcU). i Harnett’s letters to Mrs. Trist have not been found. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir York Pensylvania Deer. 16. 1777 I wrote you a few days ago in Answer to your favour of the 11th ulto. You are Constantly Plaguing me for News, 8c I can hardly ever meet with any thing Interesting to Communicate. The Campaign has been very inactive, ever since Genl. Howe took possession of Phil adelphia. However he made a Movement on the 6th Before day, with almost his whole force, leaving only a few men behind 8c appeared in Battle Array before Our Army at about a Miles Distance, Expecting to find them unprepared, in this he was mistaken. Some small Schyrmishing ensued in which the British Troops suffered more than Ours, Genl. Irwin Attacked their light Troops with some of Our Militia, we took some prisoners about 20 8c lost about 10 or 12 killed 8c wounded, the General was among the Latter 8c taken Prisoner by the Enemy. Coll Morgan had a very severe Conflict with another party, this Gentn commands the Virginia 8c Pensylvania Rifle men. He lost about 26 also killed 8c wounded. The Enemys loss must have


[Page 466]
430 December 17, 1777 any Information they had of our Motions; but was designed to secure the pass while they were foraging in the neighbouring Country. They were met in their advances by Genl. Potter with part of the Pennsylvania Militia who behaved with bravery and gave them every opposition ’till they were obliged to retreat from their superior num bers. He collected a good deal of forage and retired to the City the night we passed the River. No Discrimination marked his proceed ings. All property whether friends or foes that came in their way was seized and carried off. G. Washington it seems means to go into Winter Quarters at Wil mington, which I am afraid will be attended with pernicious Con sequences. Wm Ellery P.S. Deer. 19. Lt. Col. Barton who arrived this day from the Army tells me that our Army will hut this Winter at Valley forge near the Schuylkill & about 20 miles from Philadelphia. RC (R-Ar). A continuation of Ellery to Cooke, December 14, 1777. 1 Congress finally decided on August 7, 1778, that the expense of Gen. Joseph Spencer’s abortive Rhode Island expedition would “be borne by the continent.” JCC, 11:761. Gen. William Heath had raised this issue in a Novem ber 24 letter to the Board of Treasury that Congress had read on December 15 and referred to the committee “to enquire into the rise of the expedition against Rhode Island.” JCC, 9:1027; and PCC, item 157, fol. 29. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:155-60. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 17th December 1777. I had this Morning the honour of receiving Your Excellency’s dispatch dated 14th & 15th Currt. inclosing Copy of a Letter from Lt. General Burgoyne, which, without reading them through, I sent directly to Congress, from whence I am this moment charged with a Resolve, formed, I presume, as the present necessary direction for a reply to the British General’s application to your Excellency. 1 The business appearing to me to demand all decent respect & dispatch I shall put it immediately in motion. I have the honour to be with sincere Esteem & regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 After reading General Burgoyne’s request to Washington for “leave to embark his Troops at Rhode Island or at some place in the sound,” Con gress resolved that Washington inform Burgoyne “the Congress will not receive nor consider any proposition for indulgence or altering the terms of the con vention of Saratoga, unless immediately directed to their own body.” JCC, 9:1032; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:157-58.


[Page 468]
432 December 17, 1777 as from the Commercial Committee and have signed them. 3 If they are approved you & the other members had best sign ’em also and have them Copied in the Letter Book 8c dispatched by the first Con veyance. With respect to Mr. T.M. it was never my Wish or desire that he should be employed one Moment longer than he rendered Service, therefore I have wrote a Letter of Dismission to him also en closed herewith which I desire may be signed by the Committee if approved 8c forwarded immediately. It is needless to [say] how much my Feelings are wounded on this occasion. Let it suffice [that] I do my Duty to my Country by taking these measures the Moment I knew them to be necessary 8c the Letters that convince me of it are but this day arrived. Perhaps it may be necessary that this 8c the Let ters enclosed with it be laid before Congress 8c if you think so I can have no objection. Indeed I woud chuse Congress should be made acquainted with my readiness to dismiss Mr. T M. from their Serv ice the Moment I thought he merited such dismission. The Bills mentioned in the Letter to Mr. Lee Mr. Ceronio was authorized to draw 8c they must be paid as he sent Arms, Powder, Blankets 8cc. for the amot. last Winter. I am, Sir, Your Obedt. humble Servt. (Copy) Robt Morris Tr (MH-H). Addressed: “To The Honorable Wm Smith Esqr, for the Com mercial Committee, York.” In the hand of John Swanwick and signed and addressed by Morris. 1 After his service with the committee at headquarters during the week fol lowing December 3, 1777, Morris began a six-month leave of absence from Congress which he spent primarily at his home in Manheim, approximately 25 miles northeast of York. Although he had requested leave to put his personal affairs in order, and “to adjust some of the Publick accounts that cannot be done whilst my attention is engaged” in Congress, his private and public activities were so inextricably intertwined that congressional affairs were never far from his attention. He intermittently worked on the accounts of the old Secret Committee (as the Committee of Commerce had been known before its reorganization in July 1777), and a considerable quantity of correspondence pertaining to the Committee for Foreign Affairs and the Marine Committee continued to be delivered at his home almost the entire period of his leave. Furthermore, delegates and other officials visited him periodically, and on at least four occasions he made brief trips to York (in his personal correspondence he stated on March 10, 1778, that he was setting off for York and on January 5, March 29, and April 21 that he had just returned). Therefore, although Morris did not actually attend Congress from the beginning of December until about May 13, 1778, his correspondence from Manheim during this period holds considerable interest for the study of Congress. a See Morris to Silas Deane, June 29, 1777, notes 2 and 4. For his troubles with his brother, see also Morris’ letters to Deane, Thomas Morris, and James Ross of January 31, 1777. 3 See the letters of this date of the Committee of Commerce to Thomas Morris and to Pliarne, Penet & Co.


[Page 472]
436 December 18, 1777 and receive Embassadors, but not that this Power should be sole ahd exclusive. I should like an Amendment to this purpose “shall have the sole and exclusive Power of declaring War and Concluding Peace, and of Sending, and receiving ambasadors in the name of the united States of Entering into Treaties and alliances equally binding upon, and affecting the whole.” Here the Exceptions to those general rules should come by way of provision. The remaining powers in the first Section of this article are Incident to the power of declaring War. They are only an Execution of the Law of Nations quoad hoc. The second Section is [b]adly worded, “the united States shall be the last resort on appeal in all disputes between the states.” I have no Idea of an appeal, or last resort unless their be some prior Juris diction and prior resort, and I know of no such thing between the States. But my Objection to this Section is more Substantial. If the Congress are to Nominate the persons who Constitute the Judicatory I can easily foresee it will not always if ever be impartial. The Con gress cannot know any persons to appoint, but such as are Suggested by the parties and that State which has the prevailing Interest in Congress will thus Nominate all the Judges. Their being drawn from each State, and afterwards drawn by Lot is no Security, because three persons in each State are easily corrupted. If this article were amended by giving the Nomination by ballot to the States not Interested it would answer better to my Idea of an Impartial arbiter between the States, and the Congress should have this Power only as the Official Instrument for erecting the Occasional Tribunal, and for carrying its degrees into Execution. As it now stands they have it too much in their power to Influence the decisions which they themselves are to execute which in my Opinion is dangerous in any political Com munity. The third section might be easily fitted to the Amendment I pro pose. The four[th] Section includes many powers which I cannot per ceive either to be necessary or proper for Congress. Regulating the al loy of Coin struck by authority of any of the States, fixing the Standard of weights and measures, regulating the Trade and affairs with Indians, and all that appertains to the Naval force which ought never in my opinion to be under any restraint or authority of Con gress except in time of public war. The first of these is dangerous, because it gives to a Council which is Composed of but very few members from each State and which is without Control an unlimitted power over the property of Individuals. The power to increase the alloy is a power to pay off any Debt with less than the sum Con tracted for, and involves an extensive power over property. In the fifth Section the power to borrow money and emit Bills, is an unlimitted power over all property. It is a power to Tax at pleas ure, and ought never to be in Congress but when given by the


[Page 474]
438 December 18, 1777 James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir 18 Deer. [1777] A Packet arriving this Week directed to the Committee of Corres pondence, and containing only a Letter from Berlin for Congress, 1 I took the freedom of opening one directed to our worthy Friend S Adams in yr. Brother A’s handwriting, of which I send you a copy so far as was material to the Public. Paris July 31st “Journeys to the Courts of Spain & Berlin have satisfied me that the determined system of Europe is to let us struggle through this War as we can with the warmest Professions of Friendship, with the strongest declarations of their being interested in our success and therefore ardently wishing it. Nothing can move them from their quietism & caution which are carried to a perfectly ridiculous ex treme. Spain is totally occupied with its little Portuguize War; France is governed by Timidity in the excess; and the 3 great northern Powers are immersed in schemes of plundering the Turk 8c the Pole, and dividing the spoil. In this situation of Europe, notwithstanding the justice of our cause has rendered all men in our favour, it is not wonderful that you are left, like Hercules in his cradle, to strangle the Serpent that is the terrour of Europe. “In this Situation it is happy for us that the extravagance of the enterprise has already so exhausted the means of our Enemies that, it is certain, this is the last campaign of vigour they can make against us. “When our point is secured by the energy of our own exertions, we shall think it happy that the fears 8c occupations of the powers of Europe have prevented them from forming treaties with us, when our situation would have given them infinite advantages. “When our distresses are past 8c our fears subsided, we shall be enabled to see 8c to follow our interests in the alliances we form; which I do not think would be intirely the case at present.” Besides this public matter of your Brother’s letter he adds a Note. “A Mr. Carmichael obtained from me a letter to you under a pre tence of his going immediately to America. I have since found him to be a very unworthy person, whom I can by no means recommend to your patronage.” You will see more sentiments of this kind written to Coll. Francis. I wish these hints had come before our late Action of Mr. C . 2 One of Monticu’s Vessels has arrived at Portsmouth with the fol lowing articles for the Continental Account. 48 Brass 4 Pounders with Carriages compleat 19 9 Inch mortars


[Page 475]
December 18, 1777 439 2500 Bombs-9 Inch 2000 4 Pound shot A large Quantity of intrenching tools 3000 Fuses 1110 Do. for Dragoons about 18000 lbs Gun Powder 61051 lbs Brimstone Beaumarchais’s Secretary Francy 3 is arrived at Portsmouth & is expected here dayly; perhaps he will bring letters from the Gentle men at Paris to our Committee, but they cannot be later than Sept. Mr. Geary has one dated Nantes the 5th of that month, which speaks of the cowardly disposition of the French Court. I do not count this an absolute contradiction of Bingham’s letter of Octr. 13th because a Gentleman from America trading at Nantes Sepr 5th might be a Stranger to ministerial measures entered into time enough to reach Mr. B thro’ the General of Martinique by Octr. 13th. However, Sir, tho’ I attempt to reconcile these accounts so as to make the Story of war stand, yet I am very far from being sanguine in the belief of it. Your Brothers history of the Temper of the several Courts seems by far the most natural of any other which has come to hand. 4 I expect we shall have an enormous mercantile account from De Francy, I suppose it is the House of Hortales which your Brother Wm. hints his fears about. You see how necessary his presence was near Mr. D. 5 A letter from this same Gentleman to Mr. Morris came open to Mr. Hancock but the letter covering appeared to be private, so that the inclosed was sent on to Mr. M without Congress coming to the Knowledge of the Contents. 8 RC (PPAmP). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. i Arthur Lee’s June 11, 1777, letter to the Committee of Secret Corres pondence, endorsed ‘‘Reed. Deer. 16th. 1777,” is in PCC, item 83, fols. 71-74, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:335-36. 2 On November 28 William Carmichael had been elected secretary to the commissioners at Paris. JCC, 9:975. See also Lovell to John Adams, February 10, 1778, note 1. 3 Jean Baptiste Lazarus Thiveneau de Francy (d. 1783), who arrived in York in February 1778 to settle the accounts of Hortalez &: Co. and to act as Caron de Beaumarchais’ resident agent in the United States. See Committee of Commerce to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 2. 4 Lovell’s doubts about the intentions of France were confirmed later this month. See Lovell to Lee, December 28, 1777. 5 That is, Silas Deane. 3 Silas Deane’s September 23 and October 1, 1777, letters to Robert Morris, with several enclosures, are in NYHS Collections 20 (1887): 145-63.


[Page 476]
440 December 19, 1777 William Ellery to Ezra Stiles Dear Sir, York Town Pennsylvania Deer. 19th. 1777. I most sincerely wish it were in my power to advise you to such a Conduct as would most advance your happiness and the happiness of your family; but here I am at a Loss. If I could determin this point you should have my most hearty consent to embrace what should appear eligible. It would assist me much in forming a Judg ment if I should know what Salary your present parish would give you to settle with them, and how you like the place and people. If the place & people should be as agreeable as at New Haven; and the Salary is not considerably less I think I should advise to your settling in Portsmouth. An hundred Dollars, in my mind, would weigh more than the Honour of Presidentship, and the Trouble I imagin of the Presidt of a College much exceeds that of a Minister, not to say any thing about the superior Expence in Living of the former to the latter. I wish there were a Prospect of your Newport Flock ever re turning, but alass! they are scatter’d up and down the Land like Sheep without a Shepherd, and it is probable that many of them will never return again to Newport. If I could foresee that in the course of a few years there would be enough of them collected to give you a comfortable support I should not hesitate to desire you not to ac cept the Presidency of Yale College, and to refuse settling at Ports mouth, or any where else, for I don’t know any place where if you were family, could be comfortably subsisted, you would be so happy as at Newport; and I am perswaded that the Second Congregation in Newport will never find a Minister whom they will so universally love and respect as Dr. Stiles; but this is so improbable that in con sidering the subject of your Election it ought not to weigh much. 1 I dont remember that I ever receivd the Letter you wrote to me from Mr Marchants respecting this Matter. If I had ever received it I think I should have answered it. I wrote you a Letter sometime since 2 in which I said something humorously regarding your future return to Newport; but tho’ humorously said it had, as sometimes my funny speeches have, a very serious meaning. I think, may it please your reverence, that if you could take a rich Wife at Portsmouth and could make it in your Bargain that She should go with you to Newport, when Peace and Independency shall be established, it might settle this knotty business. Most ardently wishing you in this and in all your Ways infinitely better direction than the wisest of Mortals can give, or even your own uninspired Wisdom can suggest I continue to be with the sincerest Regard for you and your family, Dr Sir, yrs most affectionately, Wm Ellery [P.S.] The Enemy’s Army have been out twice from the City lately, the first time with a determination to attack our Army it was said;


[Page 478]
442 December 19, 1777 January 10, 1778, which apparently impressed a majority of delegates because on January 29 Congress rejected a motion not to employ him "till further orders of Congress.’’ See JCC, 9:1040, 1060-67, 10:44, 99. Jonathan Bayard Smith to George Bryan Dr. Sir York Town Deer. 19 1777 Congress yesterday reed. acot. of the arrival of a Ship from France in 75 days with 48 Cannon, 19 mortars 9 Inch, 61,000 wt. of Brim stone, near 4000 small arms, some powder &c. We have no papers by this Vessell. Genl. Gates has answered some queries proposed by Congress respeetg. Burgoynes conduct in the Convention. He says the military chest & standards were left in Canada. He accounts for the arms unfit for service in the return & the want of scabbards for bayonets 8c of Cartouch boxes &c. 8c concludes that things have been conducted tolerably well. I wish to have the result of Colo. Bayard 8c Mr. Youngs business at Camp. 1 I have not a copy of the resolution of the house on the quorum of their delegates. 2 The memorial of the house 8c Council was laid before Congress the Evng. I arrived here 8c read. It was again read yesterday 8c will probably be considered this day. 3 I be lieve Congress will not wish our army to be any considerable dis- stance from Pha. But havg. been very unwell yesterday I could only crawl to Congress, 8c have not been able to visit many of the members. I expect to write to you again in a day or two. Yrs. 8cc 8cc. J B Smith [P-Y] Yesterday reed, a exact return of Burgoynes army at the time of surrenderg. You’l see it in the next paper. RC (NN). iThe letters of James Young and Col. John Bayard to President Thomas Wharton pertaining to their efforts to appraise the condition of the clothing of Pennsylvania’s Continental troops are in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:61-62, 75-76. 2 The Pennsylvania Assembly’s resolution of December 13 appointing a new slate of delegates to Congress was silent on the point of a quorum requirement, but on several occasions since early October a single delegate had cast the state’s vote on recorded roll call votes. See JCC, 9:762, 765, 771, 780, 787, 807, 843, 849, 853, 1010, 1027-28. 3 Although officials had little more than rumors to go on, both the Penn sylvania Assembly and Council were concerned that General Washington’s selection of winter quarters would leave the eastern part of the state un necessarily exposed to British depredations and foraging parties. Therefore when it appeared to them that the main Continental Army would be cantoned west of the Schuykill, a joint session of the two bodies was held on December 15 to protest the anticipated move. Their “remonstrance” was presented to Congress on the 17th and debated the next two days, whereupon Congress resolved to transmit a copy of it to Washington with the query “whether he has come to a fixed resolution to canton the army; and if he has, what line of cantonment


[Page 479]
December 19, 1777 443 Jonathan Bayard Smith


[Page 480]
444 December 19, 1777 he has proposed.” See JCC, 9:1033-36; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:104-5; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:386. As Washington had already moved his headquarters to Valley Forge before President Laurens’ December 20 letter enclosing this resolve reached him, he merely responded with an explanation of the choices he believed had been open to him, although he could not in a subsequent letter resist contrasting the distress troops experienced sleeping “under frost and Snow without Cloaths or Blankets” with the condition of gentlemen drawing “remonstrances in a com fortable room by a good fire.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:186-88, 196. Jonathan Bayard Smith to George Bryan Dr Sir, York Town, Deer. 19th, 1777. This day the memorial from our State concerning the cantonment of the regular army was taken into consideration. Congress had some time ago, by a Committee, recommended to Genl. Washington, if he determined to take winter quarters, to dispose of his army in such manner as would most effectually cover the Country, 8cc. They have now ordered the memorial of our State to be transmitted to the Genl, & have desired him to inform Congress whether he is about to canton his troops, & where, & what provision he has made for securing the East side of Schuylkill 8c the State of N. Jersey. This you will be pleased to communicate to the Gentlemen of both houses for their present satisfaction. A copy of the resolution I have not time by this opportunity to forward, but suppose it will be sent more formally by our delegates by the next opportunity that may offer. We hear that the army are about putting in the Gulph valley. This is the wish of Congress as far as I can judge. I am, Dr Sir, Yr afft 8c v. h. st, J. B. Smith. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 6:109. Addressed: "To Honble George Bryan, Esq., Vice President of the State of Pennsylvania, Lancaster.” Abraham Clark to William Alexander My Lord, York Town Deer. 20. 1777. We have been much alarmed by a report that the Army was going into Winter quarters on and about Wilmington, thereby leaving New Jersey and a great part of Pennsa. entirely open to the Enemy. This Supposed measure produced several Resolutions of Congress, which, with a Remonstrance on that Subject from the Legislature of Pennsa. are forwarded to the Commander in Chief requesting his particular Attention to the Security of New Jersey 8cc. We had before Congress the Opinions of the General officers respecting proper places for Cantoning the Army, and with great pleasure find you in favour of the Valley near Schuylkill, which in the judgement of all


[Page 489]
December 21, 1777 453 William Ellery to William Whipple Dear Sir [December 21, 1777] 1 Your letter was so agreeable that when I read it I should have ceased to think that you ought to have answered mine sooner if you had not apologized for omitting it so long. When I read the Conven tion I was so disappointed that I was disposed to criticize every part of it and to ask many questions which at another time perhaps I should not have done. At that time I did not know so well the situa tion of affairs on the North River nor that of our army. I am better reconciled to it now than I was, and was I sure the enemy would preserve their public faith should be satisfied. 2 The reason I asked you why Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were not included in the Convention of Saratoga was because I thought those places were garrisoned by soldiers under the command of Burgoyne. The question on the word contest is wittily answered. The question on the word post was occasioned by a misprint in the newspaper I read. Instead of British post it was port. General Gates hath returned the number of the enemy at the time of the Convention, but not an ac count of their losses since the time they crossed the Lakes; nor our loss from time to time and the number of our troops Continental and Militia at the surrendry. I am sorry to find the Commissary’s and Quarter Master’s departments in such disorder. I expected Con fusion in the former from the plan; the latter would have been less confused if Genl Mifflin had not by an ill state of health, been obliged to resign the office of Quarter Master General. He is greatly recovered and is now appointed a Member of a new constituted Board of War, of which General Gates is appointed President; the other members are Cols Trumbull (the late Commissary General) Pickering and Mr Richard Peters. Genl Gates still retains his rank of Major General and may be ordered into the field when Congress shall think necessary. When this Board meets it is expected that they will rectify the errors & disorders in those departments, and put every thing in the Army within their sphere on a better foot than they at present stand. General Conway is appointed an Inspector General of the Army with the rank and pay of Major General. The duties of this office it would be impertinent to point out to General Whipple. I am in hopes that the measures adopted and adopting will enable our army to take the field early in the Spring under great advantages. Genl Howe with his whole force moved out of Philadel phia the fourth instant with an intent as he had given out, to at tack our army and drive it beyond the mountains; but after march ing, counter-marching & manoeuvering several days with a view of drawing General Washington from his strongholds they returned in again. On the eleventh our Army marched from their old encamp ment, and intended to pass the Schuylkill at Madison’s ford, about


[Page 490]
454 December 21, 1777 12, or 13 miles from Philadelphia where a bridge had been laid across the river. When the first & part of the 2d division had passed, they found a body of 4000 under the command of Lord Cornwallis possessed of the heights. Our troops were obliged to repass and were prevented getting over until the succeeding night. This manoeuvre on the part of the enemy was not in consequence of any informa tion they had of our motions, but was designed to secure the pass while they were foraging in the neighboring country. They were met in their advances by General Potter with part of the Pennsyl vania militia who behaved with bravery and gave them every pos sible opposition, until they were obliged to retreat from their superior numbers. Cornwallis collected a good deal of forage and returned to the City the night our army passed the river. No dis crimination marked his proceedings. All property whether friend’s or foes that came in their way was seized and carried off. Our Army by the last accounts was near the Gulph Mill, about as I am told, 12 or 13 miles West of Schuylkill on the Lancaster Road—where they intend to winter I know not. I wish there was the same spirit in the main army as displayed itself to the Northward and that the militia in this state were animated with that ardor which blazed forth in the Sons of Hampshire, Massachusetts and Connecticut on the banks of Hudson; then our harrassed troops might winter gloriously in Philadelphia; but alas! Our soldiers in the hands of the enemy at Philadelphia and New York, especially in the former, are treated in a most barbarous man ner and a number of them have perished with famine. Some of them have died in the State house yard with grass in their mouths as I have been informed different ways. How long shall we forbear to retaliate on those worse than savages! On application from General Washington, Sir Wm Howe consented that he should send in an officer to see how our soldiers were treated whereupon one was sent to the City, but Sir Wm denied him admission saying that he need not give himself any concern about the prisoners, that he would take care of them, I believe we shall take care how Sir Wm’s com missaries of prisoners are allowed to go about the States providing for and taking care of the prisoners in our hands. Congress have passed a resolve that all their supplies shall be paid for in gold and silver in solid coin. About 100 of the enemy from New York under the cover of a dark night not long since set fire to several houses in Philip’s Manor within about four miles of General Parson’s encampment, seized their inhabitants, stripped them naked both men & women and led them with halters round their necks in hellish triumph to New York. Genl Parsons remonstrated in a firm manly tone to Govr General Tryon on this occasion and was answered by him in an insolent haughty letter vindicating his barbarity and threatening destruction


[Page 497]
December 23, 1777 461 Jonathan Bayard Smith to Thomas Wharton Sir, Lancaster Deer. 22 1777 Inclosed you have a resolution of Congress on the subject of the memorial from your State with which I was charged. I am happy to inform you that the army has taken quarters in a position which I presume will be agreeable to the State. 1 Congress have now before them a number of resolutions concerning the army which will prob ably be transmitted in a day or two to the assembly. On the other leaf you have a copy of an act passed by the State of Virginia which your delegates thought it their duty to transmit to you. 2 I have the honor to be with great regard your Excellencys counsel and the humble army’s most humble servant, Jona B. Smith MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:595. Addressed: “His Excellency the President Honble the Counsel and Honble the Assembly.” i See Smith’s first letter to George Bryan of December 19, 1777, note 3. 2 For Virginia’s “act for speedily cloathing the troops raised by this common wealth now in Continental service,” see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:125-27. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, York 23d December 1777 The last I had the honour of writing to you was dated the 3d Inst. Hitherto I have received none of your Excellencys favours. Under Cover with this your Excellency will receive a Letter framed by, & Signed by order of Congress to which I have prefixed the present date, 1 together with a Resolution of the 20th particularly referred to in the Letter—also a Resolve of the 9th Inst, recommend ing the Several States, & among others to New York to contribute to a more ample Representation of Delegates than appear at present in Congress, by Sending forward an additional number of Members without delay. These your Excellency will be pleased to lay before the proper powers in your State as early as possible. I am with very great Respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Laurens to the States, this date.


[Page 500]
464 December 23, 1777 inclosed resolve of the 20th directing you to transmit an Authentic Account of the Maltreatment which John 8c William 2 Vantassel & their families Suffered from the Enemy. The Original Letter also from Govr. Tryon of the 23 November you are desired to forward. Your proceeding to retort the injuries received from the Enemy, by the destruction of Mr. Delancey’s House within five Miles of the City of New York although not recognized in Congress, affords as far as I can learn, general Satisfaction. I am with very great Regard LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Samuel H. Parsons Esquire, Brigadier General, at Maroneck Connecticut.” i General Parson’s December 2 letter to Laurens, which described a recent raid by Gen. William Tryon in the vicinity of Mamaroneck, N.Y., is in PCC, item 161, fols. 327-29. 2 Philip is the forename given in JCC, 9:1040. Henry Laurens to the States Sir York Town 23d December 1777. I am directed by Congress to transmit to your honorable body, the enclosed resolutions, which the pressing wants of the army, & the arts & avarice of engrossers & extortioners have rendered indispensibly necessary to the general welfare. 1 It is with deep concern that Congress after having for some time contemplated in painful silence the mischiefs which threaten this extended continent from the growing avarice of the times, feel them selves constrained to recommend measures, which the virtue of all classes of men rendered not long since, unnecessary, 8c which a scrupulous regard for the security of property to every citizen of these States has hitherto restrained them from adopting; but (un happy the case of America) Laws unworthy the character of infant republics are become necessary to supply the defect of public virtue, Sc to correct the vices of some of her sons; Sc she is called upon by the grand principle of self preservation to guard against the parricide of those, whom she has fostered in her own bosom. To minds, whose reflections are employed on the importance of the cause in which we are engaged, 8c which feel for every circumstance which may affect the honor and safety of these States, it must give the most painful sensations to consider, that at a time when the late signal successes we have been blest with, the reduced numbers of the enemy, the difficulties they meet with in procuring foreign levies, 8c the political complexion of affairs in Europe, have deprived Britain of many of those resources, on which she has so much depended; when the numbers 8c improving discipline of our army, the prodigious augmentation of our military stores, the quantity of


[Page 501]
December 23, 1777 465 provisions, with which this country abounds, & the large supplies of cloathing, which have of late been imported by private persons afford not only the opportunity but the means, under divine providence, of establishing our liberties by a few exertions, this bright prospect should be clouded over, & this great & glorious event endangered, by the languor of too many, & by the arts & avarice of designing individuals, who like the British Nabobs of the East, are corrupting the manners of a whole nation, 8c building vast fortunes on the destruction of the liberties of the Western World. It is to be hoped however, that the wise 8c spirited laws of the different States, aided by the influence 8c exertions of the real patriots, will apply effectual remedies to these alarming evils; that the old 8c hardened offenders will be punished, that those in whose bosoms the sparks of public virtue are not yet extinguished, will be re claimed; the languid roused from their present apathy; 8c that all classes of men will unite with their former spirit 8c virtue against an enemy, whose progress is marked with every vestige of barbarity, 8c whose determined object is to establish a tyranny of the most dangerous 8c debasing nature over the inhabitants of a vast continent. Congress flatter themselves that the resolutions herewith trans mitted will tend to accomplish some of these valuable purposes, 8c they therefore esteem it their duty to recommend them to the serious consideration of your honourable house, 2 8c hope they will be carried into execution, as expeditiously 8c secretly as possible. By order of Congress, Henry Laurens, President RC (R-Ar). In a clerical hand and signed by Laurens. This circular letter to the legislatures of the states was prepared by the committee appointed on December 12 to consider letters from Deputy Clothier General Samuel A. Otis. JCC, 9:1022, 1031, 1033, 1042, 1040-47. 1 For the December 20 resolves referred to here, see JCC, 9:1043-45. Laurens also transmitted copies of these resolves with brief letters that he wrote on this day to Gov. Nicholas Cooke of Rhode Island and President Meshech Weare of New Hampshire, on December 26 to Govs. Thomas Johnson of Mary land, Patrick Henry of Virginia, and Richard Caswell of North Carolina, and on December 29 to President John Rutledge of South Carolina and Gov. John Treutlan of Georgia. PCC, item 13, fols. 68-70, 85-87. 2 Laurens inadvertently offended Gov. Jonathan Trumbull by addressing an RC of this letter to the speaker of the Connecticut Assembly rather than to the governor himself. For the minor tempest stirred up by this oversight, see James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull, January 27; Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, February 8; and Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., February 9, 1778. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, York 23d December 1777 The last which I had the honour of writing to your Excellency was dated the 3d Inst, since which your Excellency’s favor of the 3d found


[Page 502]
466 December 23, 1777 me where I am still confined in Bed by a Severe attack of the Gout. This however has not exempted me from Duty. Congress were not pleased to appoint another member to act as President which I intreated them to do, as soon as I discovered that the visit was like to be formidable. I have therefore been drudging on not much regarding the little addition of pain occasioned by the exercise of body in such awkward positions as the Case requires. I regret that tis not in my power to reply so particularly as I would do if I were able to your Excellency’s favour above mentioned as well as to one or two dispatches which I sent immediately upon Receipt of them to Congress & have not seen them Since. Probably the needful answer to these may be contained in some of the papers which I am to forward under Cover with this Vizt. Resolve of the 9th Inst, intimating the necessity for a more ample Representation in Congress than the present & calling upon certain States, among others Connecticut to send forward an additional number of Members without delay. Resolve of the 17 th requesting & authorising your Excellency & the Council to lay up Salt provisions for the use of the Army & to Co operate with Mr. Colt. An Act of the 19th restricting the payment for all supplies to Brit ish Prisoners to be made by equivalents of provisions & other nec essaries or in Gold & Silver to which is subjoined a Resolve of the 22d directing that all Gold & Silver which shall be received in conse quence of this Regulation be paid into the Continental Treasury. A Warrant dated the 20th upon the Loan Office Connecticut for 200,000 Dollars for enabling the payment for provisions. In a packet under a flying Seal which will accompany this your Excellency will receive a Letter framed by, & Signed by order of, Congress addressed to the Speaker of the General Assembly together with an Act of Resolves particularly referred to in the Letter. 1 In the mode of Address I have followed the order I received, but your Excellency will be pleased to understand that it is intended for the Legislative powers of the State & will dispose of it accordingly. In another packet your Excellency will receive twenty four Blank Commissions for private Ships of War with an equal number of Bonds & Instructions. It is now much passed Midnight. I hope I have executed without error the several charges laid on me, if not I am sure your goodness Sir upon this extraordinary occasion will readily pardon me. I shall have the honour of addressing your Excellency again in a very few days. Mean time I remain with very great esteem & regard &ca LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Laurens to the States, this date, note 2.


[Page 503]
December 23, 1777 467 Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York 23d December 1777 I had the honour of writing to your Excellency the 20th by Messenger Macklosky Since which I have not received any of your Excellency’s favours nor any Commands from Congress to be trans mitted to you. General Conway is so polite as to afford me an opportunity of conveying a Packet to your Excellency which I received last Evening from Majr. General Gates. At the same time I send the correspond ence alluded to in my last between Brigadier Parsons & General Tryon, I believe I was premature in giving this Gentleman the title of Sir William—& I also add Copy of a Letter from the Brigadier to a Member of Congress which shews that he had retorted the injuries he complained of by an Act which he would not have the Enemy believe he meditated. If your Excellency shall not have seen other Copies these will give some information. For the first Instance, a British Crew of a vessel bound from Granada to New York with 70 Puncheons of Rum & Six Hogsheads Sugar for the use of the Enemy’s Troops, some time last Month dispossessed the Master of Command 8c carried the Vessel into Charles Town So. Carolina, where, accord ing to a Resolve of Congress the Value of Vessel 8c Cargo were adjudged prize to the Captors. 1 This Resolve was founded on the practice of the British Court for encouraging infidelity 8c treachery among our Seamen. I hope all their infamous examples 8c I have no doubt this particular one will be retaliated an hundred fold. I remain with very great regard 8c Esteem. 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 This resolve had been passed on October 14. JCC, 9:802. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir, Dec 23d 1777. I have rec’d your favor by Mr Storer and was exceedingly pleased with the invoice of a newly arrived cargo, but I would not have you think that the live stock mentioned in your letter created any part of my pleasure—quite the reverse, I assure you. You will have officers on furlough from the grand army to give an history of their own feats so that I need not dwell upon that topic. I will only say that it is determined to hut at and near Sweed’s Ford. You seem most to expect from me foreign news. It is strange that we have had no letters from the Commissioners since the 26th of May last. It is true we have a small epistle from A.L.—Dated Berlin June


[Page 504]
468 December 23, 1777 and some letters from him and his brother Wm 1 dated July 31st and Sept 3d, all discouraging as to the temper of the European Courts, they being full of professions of friendship and declarations of being interested in our success, and therefore ardently wishing it while nothing can move them from their qualms and caution which are carried to a very ridiculous length. Spain is said to be engaged only about her little Portuguese War. France is governed by timidity and the three great Northern powers are immersed in schemes of plundering the Turk and the Pole and dividing the spoils; while Europe is in this temper, though the justice of our cause has made all men unanimous in our favor, it is not wonderful (says our friend) that we are left like Hercules in his cradle to strangle the serpent that is the terror of Europe. “You Sir with Mr Lee will think it happy for us that the fears and occupations of the powers of Europe have prevented them from forming treaties with us when our situation would have given them infinite advantages. “When our distresses are past and our fears subsided, we shall be enabled to see and to follow our interests in the alliances we form, which I do not think would be entirely the case at present.” 2 I have written this to you in confidence for really Bingham’s letter of Octr 13th may have good ministerial intelligence which merchants at Nantes might not know on Sept 5th which is the date of a letter to Mr Geary from a young man who says the French Court “is still acting a cowardly part.” Please to present my love to your brother and lady acknowledging the receipt of his kind letter of the 3d. Present also my best compli ments to your Miss Whipple and believe me, your affectionate friend, J.L. Tr (DLC). i That is, Arthur and William Lee. 2 This quotation is from Arthur Lee’s July 81 letter to Samuel Adams, which is extracted in Lovell’s December 18, 1777, letter to Richard Henry Lee. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir Dec 23d 1777 After Sealing the enclosed I rec’d a letter from a friend at Nantes dated Oct 18th which goes near to destroy my argumentation about Bingham’s letter. 1 1 say near because the intelligence from Newfound land accords with the last part of my friend’s letter. The Randolph and Alfred arrived at L’Orient the 6th of Octr. having taken two Jamaicamen which they sold privately for 9700


[Page 510]
474 December 26, 1777 Edward Langworthy to Benjamin Rush Sir, York Town, Deer 26 th 1777. When what is proposed has for its object the Comfort and ad vantage of the sick & wounded in the American Hospitals, I can need no Apology for the Liberty I have taken in writing to you. By favour of Mr Duer I have sent you a Pound of Sago, 1 the produce of the State of Georgia, which I would recommend to your Examination; as you will perceive by the Pamphlet herewith transmitted, it has met with the Approbation of several eminent 8c learned Physicians in Europe. Mr Samuel Bowen the Patentee of this Sago has for some years past resided in Georgia, where he made his experiments 8c brought the Sago Powder to perfection, equal to that from the East Indies. In the Year 1773 he left Georgia, 8c took with him several kinds of Seeds, Plants 8cc in order to lay them before the royal Society; by a Letter received from him soon after his arrival in London, it appeared, that he had received a Gold Medal, as a premium for extracting Oil from Benniseed. Since this Time his family have received no Letters from him, occasioned by the unhappy disputes that have subsisted between Great Britain and America, 8c the Georgia Letters have been intercepted by the Governor of East Florida, at St. Augustine. Mrs Bowen, his wife has continued the manufacture of the Sago 8cc on his Plantation 8c makes about 150 Barrels per Annum, which She has sold to the French Vessels 8c others that have brought in their Cargoes to the Port of Savannah. Having been very intimate with the Family for several Years 8c being appointed one of the Delegates for the State of Georgia, I proposed to Mrs Bowen to make known her manufacture to the Continental Congress, that if it met with their Approbation, the American Army and Navy might be supplied therewith. I have however previous to any Application to Congress thought proper to communicate this to you 8c should be extremely happy to have your Opinion on this matter, whether you think it would not be proper to adopt the use of this powder into the American Hospitals; its Price is very reasonable, and as it is the produce of the Continent, it is certainly an Object worthy of encouragement 8c protection. I was in London in the Year 1768 8c to my certain knowledge at that time Bowen’s Sago Powder was used by many eminent Physicians 8c I have been informed from good Authority, that the East India Company had made proposals to Mr. Bowen, in order to prevent him from carrying on this manufacture. I should be glad to hear from you thro’ Mr Duer 8c am sir, with great respect, Your most obedient Servant, Edward Langworthy RC (PPL). 1A nutritious starch extracted from the sago palm.


[Page 512]
476 December 26, 1777 Body a dispute that I thought they ought not to be troubled with, yet as his letters insinuate many charges against me, I concluded to comply with his request and Vindicate myself against insinuations & reflections not founded in Justice or reality. 2 I find however by a letter received yesterday, that Copies of these letters from Mr. Deane to me have already been read in Congress, consequently that it is un necessary for me to bring the Original; & my design in giving you Sir, the trouble of Reading & Congress of hearing this letter, is not to recriminate on Mr. Deane, but to justify myself & this I propose to do by a plain Narrative of the Facts that have led me into the present embarrasments 8c I must beg a patient 8c candid hearing from you and them. Mr. Thos. Morris & myself are descended from a Father whose Virtue 8c whose Memory I have ever revered with the most Filial Piety. Our Mothers were not the same 8c this youth was born after our Father’s decease, without any sufficient provision made for his maintenance. The tender regard I bore to the Parent, I determined when very young to extend to his Offspring, 8c no sooner had I fixed myself in the World than I took charge of this Brother. I gave him the best Education that cou’d be obtained in Philadelphia, 8c took as much care of his Morals as my time 8c capacity enabled. When he was arrived at a proper Age I took him into my Counting House to instruct him in the profession from which he was to draw his future support. In this situation he remained about three years, during which time he discovered on all occasions a good Understanding, sound judgment 8c clear Head, with remarkable facility in dispatching business. His behaviour was then Modest 8c Innocent, his Heart pure, 8c he possessed a Mind strongly Actuated by principals of Honor, at least these were the opinions I had formed, 8c such was the Character he bore amongst his own acquaintance, from hence I formed the most pleasing expectation, 8c saw but one source from whence any reverse cou’d spring. This was a fondness he early discovered of being the head of his Company, a disposition more dangerous to youth than any other 8c which in fact has been his ruin. This it was that first led him to seek improper Company, who readily granting him the pre eminence he delighted in, soon carried him into the practice of their Follies 8c Vices. When I discovered this to be the case 8c found that advice had not its proper weight, and thinking frequent exercise of Authority might be dangerous, I fell on the expedient of sending him to Spain (in order to break off his connection with Worthless Com panions) 8c there placed him in an eminent Counting House where he gained much knowledge 8c experience 8c where he acquired the French 8c Spanish Languages so as to write 8c Speak both with great fluency. At a proper season I recalled him to America 8c took him a Partner in our House, promising myself assistance 8c relief from his abilities 8c expected assiduity; 8c for some time had great satisfaction


[Page 513]
December 26, 1777 477 in him, but unfortunately his former associates found him out & again led him astray. At this period the Commercial business of America was interrupted by certain resolutions of Congress, & fearing that Idle time & these associates wou’d bring him to ruin, I determined on sending him to Europe well recommended with Money in his Pocket, in hopes to open his mind, extend his Ideas & give him a habit of keeping 8c seeking good Company. He travelled through Spain, Italy 8c into France with reputation kept by means of introductions. I procured for him the best Company at every place he went to, 8c I had the pleasure to receive many letters from my Friends as well as from himself in the most satisfactory Stile. These letters, his assurances, 8c those from some Friends on his behalf, regained my confidence 8c I judged he had now arrived at the period of proper reflection, for such usually happens to young People who have been too Volatile in the first Stages of Manhood. At this Period it happened that a Commercial Agent became necessary to have a general superintendancy of the Public business in Europe. My Brother was then in France (as I thought) possessed of my good opinion, 8c reflecting that he was qualified for that Agency by his Education in two Counting Houses where he had seen 8c executed much business, by his perfect knowledge of the Languages, 8c by his being connected with some of the best Mercantile Houses in Europe 8c known to many more, I was prompted to offer his services to the Committee, firmly believing he wou’d be extreamly usefull 8c do honor to himself 8c me. Here I must observe that no part of his conduct had ever given me the least cause to suspect any want of integrity or breach of Honor, therefore, the only doubts I did or cou’d entertain, was wether he wou’d bestow that attention that he ought to this business; 8c for this I depended on the assurances he had given in his letters of a faithfull execution of any commands I might lay on him. The Committee, of which Doctr. Franklin was then a Member, was pleased to accept the offer, 8c on the Doctrs. going to France, he promised me to become a Friend 8c adviser to my Brother if he found it necessary. Mr. Deane had promised this before his departure 8c to make me acquainted with his conduct. I reposed myself in confidence that he cou’d not do any harm (as I shou’d soon hear how he managed 8c cou’d Act accordingly) 8c he might do much good. At the same time that I recommended him to the Agency I intrusted him to collect the debts due to our House in Europe 8c pay the ballances we might owe there, 8c since then have continued to employ him in the management of our own business. This must convince every person that I had full confidence in him, as I wou’d not have intrusted my own property & affairs in what I cou’d think doubtfull hands. I have given this long detail to shew the Foundation on which I recommended my Brother to his employment 8c I think any other


[Page 514]
478 December 26, 1777 person in my situation wou’d have done the same thing, however if I am any ways culpable in having done so, it is the event & not the intention that makes me so, for cou’d I have had the least Idea of what has happened, I wou’d sooner have perished than he shou’d have been trusted. The next thing I am blamed for is granting greater faith to my Brothers representations than to the Commissioners letters. This was only the case in part, for I had other evidence than his letters, however I must also account for my conduct in this respect by a detail of circumstances. It happened very unfortunately that about the time Thos. Morris was appointed in America to this Agency, he had gone from France to London where totally unable to withstand the tempting scenes of pleasure that sink of Iniquity affords, he gave in to the pursuit with an eagerness (as I am now informed) that debauched his mind & laid the foundation for all that has since happened. He was in London at the time his letters of appointment arrived at Paris. Mr. Deane sent for him. He came & promised a faithful attention to business, he repaired to Nantes & finding Mr. Penet had been intrusted with a Contract for Public business, part of which had been executed, he readily fell into the proposals made by that House & became a party in it (but on what terms I do not know). Consequently he put the Public business into their hands (which was not inconsistant with the instructions under which he Acted). Whilst things were in this train in France, I reed, a letter from the Gentn. in Cadiz with whom my Brother had lived, a worthy Man who had great regard for him & wished to promote his welfare. He gave me reason to suppose his conduct in London had been out of Character & this gave the first alarm to my fears. In consequence of which I wrote letters on the 31st Jany last to Mr. Deane, to Mr. Ross & to T. Morris, informing them of this intelli gence & pressing their immediate care of & attention to the Public business shou’d he neglect it; I requested my Friend Ross to visit France on purpose to watch & inform me truely what was his conduct & insisted to my Brother that if he had been guilty of any neglect of duty or misconduct in discharge of his Public Trust, that he shou’d resign it into the hands of Mr. Deane or Mr. Ross, empower ing them regularly to Act for him untill new arrangements were made. This done, I waited impatiently for the event. In the mean time, some disputes & mutual Complaints had arisen between Mr. Deane and my Brother, & on the arrival of the above letters the latter went to Paris, where they so far settled matters that he returned to Nantes with Mr. Deanes sanction (Mr. Ross being at Hamburg did not arrive untill long after). Some Ships arrived from Philada. at Nantes about this time with Cargoes on Public Account Consigned to the order of Thos. Morris, particularly the Success, Capt. Anderson, and Elizabeth & Mary, Capt. Young. By the return of one or both of these (I think) came letters from the Commissioners, saying to the


[Page 515]
December 26, 1777 479 best of my remembrance “that Mr. Thos. Morris must be immediately displaced from his Agency” 8c another quoting the Paragraph of Doctr. Lee’s letter from Bordeaux. Having no private letter then from Mr. Deane on this Subject, I was astonished at the Stile of these to Congress, for supposing my Brother guilty of some inattention, which was the most I did suppose, I could not think it right to blast entirely a young Mans reputation that was just setting out in the World, meerly because he was fond of pleasure; & as the letters he had written respecting the business under his care were full & clear they were produced to Congress in his justification & to prevent any hasty measures. I then related to Congress the substance of what I have now written but not so fully, & many Members as well as myself were surprized at the affair as it then stood. In consequence of what the Commissioners had wrote, I referred myself to Mr. Thos. Morris’s private letters more particularly, & found there was no good under standing between Mr. Deane & him (but of Doctor Franklin he wrote respectfully) Sc he intimated that Mr. Deane was privately his Enemy. Not trusting however to his letters, I applyed to several persons that came from Nantes, who assured me there was nothing amiss in his conduct that they knew or heard of, but more particularly one person who had transacted business with him. This Gentn. assured me over & over that he lived two Months in the House with my Brother, that he saw him assiduous, attentive, 8c industrious, that if it had not been for him, the business of those Ships wou’d not have been done in any reasonable time 8c that I might depend my Brother wou’d give entire satisfaction, at least he was fully perswaded of this. He said he knew well there was persons in France that envied his appointment 8c wou’d leave nothing undone to have him displaced 8c particularly mentioned Mr. Williams who he heard was Nephew to one 8c concerned in Trade with another of the Commissioners as the person intended to supply his place. The relator of this Account is now in America, a man of Character, sensible, 8c Capable for his sphere of Life, 8c when Mr. Deane arrives he shall have the satisfaction of seeing 8c examining him; ‘till then I think it best to keep his Name for my own sake. This relation 8c others less full, my Brother’s 8c other letters 8c Mr. Deane’s silence, led me to give some Credit to the Story, 8c altho’ I was ever willing to displace my Brother on the least just cause appearing, yet I confess I did not like that he shou’d be sacrificed to make room for another person, 8c when Mr. Deane’s first letters on the subject of my Brother did arrive, they did not remove the impressions I had received. Still I had not full confidence that some cause for what was written had not been given on his part, 8c I supposed his neglect or misconduct to have been magnifyed in the Account given thereof to the Commissioners, who cou’d not have been Eye Witnesses. In this situation, I wrote the letter of the 29th June that has so irritated them, telling very fully what I heard 8c censuring freely


[Page 521]
December 27, 1777 485 It is the express desire 8c injunction of Congress that you do not communicate the contents of these Letters to any person until it shall become absolutely necessary, that is to say, until you shall have received the intended Acts & Resolves or until you shall have at tempted 8c if possible completed, certain essential Acts, admitting the Vessels for transporting Lt. General Burgoyne 8c his Troops to be arrived at the port of Boston. By essential Acts, Congress mean, that the Tonnage of the Trans port Vessels 8c also that the Stores of provisions 8c Fuel should be particularly enquired into 8c ascertained to be in your judgement Sufficient for transportation 8c sustenance of the number of persons intended to be embarked for a Voyage from Boston to Great Britain 8c more particularly that all accounts be liquidated & the Amount due by Lieutt. General Burgoyne or as great a part of it as you can obtain actually paid in Gold or Silver according to the rate specified in the Resolve of Congress of the 19th Inst. 2 transmitted in my last Letter in order to reduce within the Smallest compass articles which may hereafter be made subjects for cavil 8c disputation by the Court of Great Britain, on whose honour 8c justice these States cannot at present with any degree of safety rely. These Acts which Congress judge indispensibly necessary to be performed before an embarkation can take place, will employ some days 8c gain so much time without subjecting the honour of the House or of its Constituents to any unfavorable imputation from the World. You will also from what has been said perceive good grounds for renewing your demand of the Names 8c particular de scription of the Non-Commissioned Officers, privates 8cca but it may be prudent not to press this unless by appeal to expected directions from Congress 8c to the conduct of Sir Guy Carleton in the Instance adduced by Mr. Burgoyne 8c permit him if he pleases to decoy him self. 3 If When you shall have Sufficiently attempted or completed these necessary Acts you shall not have received the intended Resolves of Congress it will then be necessary for you to disclose the Contents of the Inclosed Letter to General Burgoyne 8c peremptorily to prohibit his embarkation until you shall have received further directions on that point. You will understand the motive for dating that Letter January 1778 8c leaving a Blank for the day to be properly 8c carefully filled by yourself. 4 I have in conclusion to assure you Sir that Congress repose the highest confidence in your address 8: abilities for conducting with propriety this very important business, in which on one side the faith 8c honour of these Infant States are to be preserved 8c on the other the magnanimity 8c Resolution of Congress to be examplified in guarding against frauds 8c deceptions of an Enemy who has hitherto


[Page 522]
486 December 27, 1777 practiced without remorse every Act of violence, injustice & Cruelty in the prosecution of the present War. I have the honour to be, &c &c, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). i Congress’ elation over General Gates’ victory at Saratoga had been tempered from the beginning by misgivings about the surrender agreement he concluded with General Burgoyne. Fearing the approach of British reinforcements, Gates had agreed to accept extremely generous terms to secure Burgoyne’s surrender before help arrived. Under the terms of a “convention” signed by both com manders on October 17, Gates agreed, among other things, to permit Burgoyne’s troops to lay down their arms by command of their own officers, to march out of camp with the honors of war, and to proceed under guard to Boston so that from thence they could be shipped back to England “upon Condition of not serving again in North America during the present Contest.” Although Gates believed that under the circumstances he could not demand stricter terms, there was no denying the fact that prompt compliance with the Saratoga Con vention would have enabled Burgoyne’s army to return to England to free other troops for service in America for the 1778 campaign, nullifying much of the impact of the victory at Saratoga. Unwilling to repudiate the convention lest this give offense to Gates and impugn the honor of the new nation. Congress from the outset was nevertheless determined at the very least to delay the embarkation of Burgoyne and his men. Accordingly, on November 8, little more than a week after first learning the terms of the convention, Congress ordered General Heath, the American commander at Boston, to take a census of Burgoyne’s officers and men, thereby prolonging their stay in Boston. Then on November 22 Congress ordered Gates to investigate allegations that Burgoyne’s army had failed to surrender all the arms, accoutrements, and colors required by the convention. Still, although these actions might detain the captured troops in Boston longer than had been originally expected, they were not enough in themselves to prevent their eventual return to England. Congress was able to move from simply obstructing to effectively nullifying the Saratoga Convention as a result of an indiscretion by Burgoyne himself. Writing to Gates on November 14, Burgoyne complained that Massachusetts authorities had violated this agreement by failing to provide suitable housing for himself and his officers and charged, in a phrase he was soon to have reason to regret, that because of this “the public faith is broke and we are the im mediate sufferers.” This letter was read in Congress on December 18 and im mediately referred to a committee of five. Eight days later the committee submitted a report to Congress, which then decided on December 27, in a committee of the whole, that it would be necessary to suspend the embarkation of Burgoyne and his men until the British court had ratified the convention. In justification of this decision an accompanying report cited several minor infractions of the convention but laid greatest stress on the argument that Burgoyne’s charge that the public faith had been broken indicated a settled design on his part to renounce the convention once he and his men had left Boston. After further debate on the issue in committee of the whole on January 2 and 3, Congress officially resolved on January 8, 1778, that “the em barkation of Lieutenant General Burgoyne, and the troops under his command, be suspended till a distinct and explicit ratification of the convention of Saratoga shall be properly notified by the court of Great Britain to Congress,” and approved a lengthy prefatory report justifying this action. Congress’ January 8 resolution was cunningly contrived. British ratification


[Page 523]
December 27, 1777 487 of the convention in the manner Congress demanded would have constituted an acknowledgment of the legitimacy of Congress itself, which the British still refused to concede. Consequently, the agreement was never ratified to Congress’ satisfaction and the so-called Convention Army remained in captivity until the end of the war. See JCC, 9:880-82, 948-50, 1034, 1054-55, 1058-64, 10:13-14, 16-17, 29-35; Laurens to Heath, November 8, 1777, January 8, 1778, and to Horatio Gates, November 23, 1777; Janet Beroth, “The Convention of Saratoga,” New York State Historical Association Bulletin 8 (July 1927): 257-80; Alexander Wall, “The Story of the Convention Army, 1777-1783,” New-York Historical Society Library Bulletin 11 (April 1927): 67-97; and William M. Dabney, After Saratoga: The Story of the Convention Army (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1954), pp. 7-26. 2 See JCC, 9:1036-37. 3See JCC, 9:1060-61. 4 This letter is printed below, under the date January 8, 1778. James Lovell to John Adams [December 27? 1777] 1 Deer. 2d. 2 Resolved that a Commission be made out for Mr. J Adams similar to that heretofore granted to the Commissioners at the Court of France. The date of the Commissions upon the 27th was an error of the Secretary. But He as well as the president & others think it of no consequence. In Congress Deer. 17th. 1777 3 Resolved that Genl. Washington be directed to inform Genl. Bur goyne the Congress will not receive nor consider any Proposition, for Indulgence or altering the terms of the convention of Saratoga, un less immediately directed to their own Body. I cannot find the letter of the 14th of Novr. from Genl. W which contained the Copy of Genl. B ’s to him requesting per mission for himself if not his troops also to embark at R. Island. You must be so kind as to acknowledge from Paris to Mr. Dumas the Receipt of the following. 4 Copies of a Dispatch of the 14th of June J Do 24th of June K Do 7th of July L Do 2d of Augst. N And you must mention to your Colleagues the impossibility of our making the interest of America coincide with Mr. De la Rocatelles 5 just pretensions to rank compared with those of some foreigners now in our service with whose conduct we are satisfied. It is not possible to get the absolute order mentioned by Dr. Frank lin while so much stress is laid by some upon a genteel Figure polite


[Page 527]
December 28, 1777 491 James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir 28th Deer. 1777 I shall leave you to get news at large respecting our army, and the transactions of Congress, from your worthy brother, only saying as to the first, that the extremity of those injuries which were proph esied some months ago are now realized in the Commissariate; and that we also now find most of our high expectations from the expensive establishment of the Quarter-master had not a thorough foundation; Genl. W n has made this evident, and shown it fairly to be the clue to unravel our many seemingly misterious past miscarriages in the Field. As to the second I will remark that few in number we have vaste business, and tho’ we have had particular reason to regret your ab sence &: that of other antient members, we must & will go thro with what times and circumstances demand to be immediately done. From me, you will chiefly look for foreign affairs. What I have before written did not fully destroy Bingham’s narrative; what I now communicate goes near to do it; but it leaves our Intelligence from St. Pierre’s Miquilon in good force. Private persons at Nantes Sepr. 5th might easily be ignorant of what Bingham might know thro a public chanel at Martinique Octr. 13th. But, Mr. Williams gives me the following in a private correspondence of Octr. 18th. 1 “The poli tics of this country seem still to be as from the beginning of the war. They rejoyce at every event in favor of America, because they wish to see their old enemy crushed, but that enemy is still so formidable to them that they do not seem inclined to lend an helping hand to us openly; and every peice of bad news from America, as it raises the tone of the English ambassador, increases their fears, and the effect is felt throughout all the seaports of the kingdom. We have lately had two Jamaicamen seized by the Admiralty, and I suppose they will be returned to the English. It is true prizes are still brought in &: pri vately sold; but the purchasers, on account of the risque of having them given up, do not allow above 1/3 of the value. Thus, do the French merchants make great sums of money; and the policy of the nation goes hand in hand with the interest of individuals. It is indeed pretended that matters will take a turn soon. The rea son, they say, that war is not more thought of at present, is, 2 that their Fishermen & Baltic ships are still out: by the first they expect an additional No. of Seamen & by the last a full supply of naval stores which would be intercepted should a rupture take place now, but, that when these shall be safely arrived, they will hold a very different Language to the English. Two or three months will con vince us whether these professions are sincere or not; but, I appre hend some singular success on the part of America would do more in our favor than any other Circumstance.”


[Page 530]
494 December 29, 1777 Winter with Numberless other Matters that I am not at Liberty to disclose even to you, requires the Wisdom of the first Characters amongst us to give them weight and Efficacy. Then why cant some of those who so fully come under this Description be prevail’d upon to give their attendance in Congress if it was only for a few Months? I am sure you know me two well to Impute this Earnestness to Un worthy Motives. It arises from the purest Intentions for the Interests of my Country. It would be Stupid Vanity in me not to be Sensible of my own lack of Abilitys to Constitute a Member of this August Assembly with Reputation to myself and Service to the publick, and other States in part of their Delegation equally Experience this Mis fortune. Your Supply of Cloathing came very Opportunely to Cover the Shivering Limbs of our poor Naked Soldiers. Thousands of them are now in the Hospitals for the want of even Wrags to keep them from the Cold. We hear Two Hundred thousand pounds worth of Goods (at Exorbitant prices) has been purchased in the Masachusets. We hope they will be soon forwarded to the Army. There is no late Interesting Intelligence from either of our Army’s. General Washingtons is now in Forge Valley about twenty three Miles from Philadelphia where they will probably remain Inactive the greatest part of the Winter. The Waste of the Enemy wherever they move is a Scene of Cruelty and distress. This dreadful Calamity is only Alleviated to the Whig by seeing the Torys property made one Common Ruin with his own, for all their late Ravages is Indiscriminate. It would take a much wiser man than me to Unravel the Mis- terious Conduct of the French Court. They have not yet given us any publick Avowal of their patronage. Our Commissioners are never Admitted to publick or private Audiences with their Ministers. What little Business they transact with them is by the Aid of a third person and their Scanty Supplies to us seem to be Conducted with Timidity Caution and Secrecy. Some Weeks past we daily expected to hear that they had taken a dicisive part for us, but our last Let ters Advise us Not to be two Sanguine in our Expectations of Foreign Assistance but to place our Security in our own Resources with this only exception that a Capital Advantage over our Enemys in the Feild may give a different Turn to the refin’d politics in Europe and Operate powerfully in our favour. This we have Ob tain’d in the Surrender of Burgoyne of which the French Court are now or must Shortly be Acquainted. It is only to you that I Com municate any thing of this Nature that can have the least Tendency to Damp the Ardour or Expectations of our Countrymen. I have wrote to a gentleman of my Acquaintance in Lancaster to en deavour to find out and procure the Workmen you desire if to be had in that Town, there being none such that will engage in this.


[Page 531]
December 29, 1777 495 I have not received his Answer but have but little expectations from his Enquirys, as a Tradesmans prospects here is not a Moderate Compensation for his Labour. Nothing less than a small Fortune made without Merrit or trouble will Content him. I am told there is amongst the British prisoners in Maryland or Virginia some expert Workmen of the Trades you want. I have written to the Commissary of prisoners to Acquaint me with their Names and the Places of their confinement. 2 My design after Obtaining proper Information is to Get a permission from the Board of War for you to Employ such of them as you think proper, which I shall in due time Inclose you. This I think will be the Cheapest and probably the most Con venient way for you to Carry on your Buildings but of this you are the only proper Judge. Drums for our Militia has been an Object of my Enquirys since I first came here. They are not to be had on any Terms whatever. Our State is at present unrepresented, Mr. Jones haveing left us a few days ago. 3 Our Assembly was kind to him. I wish they would Confer the same favour on another of their Servants. Indeed my Situation is disagreable here besides you knowing my very Narrow Fortune may Immagine that sometimes the Cares of a Husband and parent tell me there is a duty oweing to them as well as to my Country. I beseech you not to Consider this Sentiment as ariseing from a littleness of Soul or a Sordid Spirit, but I could not be just to the Woman who from much higher Expectations devoted herself to me if I now altogether Neglected the Interests of her and the little pledges she has presented me with. The Complication of this Letter will Convince you of the respect I must have for the man to whom I open my whole Soul without Ceremony, Punctilio or Reserve. Jno. Harvie RC (DLC). 1 Washington’s letters of December 22 and 23, expressing the army’s dire need for immediate provisioning, were read in Congress on the 26th and Harvie was one of a committee appointed to consider the matter. However, this com mittee was discharged on the 29th and another, composed of the Board of War and three additional members, was given authority to respond to Wash ington’s plea. See JCC, 9:1054, 1065; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:183-88, 192-98. See also Committee on Emergency Provisions to Thomas Wharton, December 30, 1777. 2 The letters Harvie wrote in an effort to secure workmen for Monticello have not been found. 3 Joseph Jones had learned upon his return from Washington’s headquarters that his request to resign his seat because of poor health had been accepted by the Virginia Assembly. He attended the Board of War meeting on December 20 but did not participate in the congressional roll call on December 27, and he apparently left Congress sometime during the interim. Harvie’s comment that Virginia was unrepresented suggests that he wrote this letter before re ceiving the Virginia Assembly’s temporary authorization for a quorum of two, which the Virginia delegates Harvie and Francis Lightfoot Lee laid before Congress later this day. JCC, 9:1047, 1056, 1064; and Joseph Jones to George Washington, January 22, 1778.


[Page 532]
496 December 29, 1777 The Virginia Assembly had selected Thomas Adams to replace Jones on December 9, but he did not attend Congress until April 16, 1778. Journal of the House of Delegates of Virginia (Williamsburg: Alexander Purdie, 1778), p. 55; and JCC, 10:358. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir York 29th December 1777 The last Letter which I had the honour of addressing to Your Excellency was dated 3d Inst. 8c Sent to Camp for further Speedy conveyance, I am sorry to repeat that no Report has yet been made on your Excellency’s Letter of the 11th November. 1 In expectation of receiving proper Commands on the business which that Letter treats of, I had deferred a few days transmitting the inclosed Resolve of Congress of the 9th which was soon rendered unnecessary by the arrival of Doctor Witherspoon 8c Mr. Clarke, 2 in the mean time Your Excellency’s favour of the 10th Currt. 3 came to hand 8: was com mitted to the Board of War, probably in order to quicken that Board to make a Report on the business which had so long been dormant. From the intimation which your Excellency has given in your last mentioned Letter I shall inclose with this Six Blank Commissions with the same number of Bonds 8c Instructions for private Vessels of War. 4 Your Excellency will be pleased to acknowledge the Receipt of these 8c transmit the Bonds when Executed to Congress. If more than these are wanted an additional number shall be sent immediately upon your Excellency’s requisition. Your Excellency will also find under the present Cover an Address from Congress dated 23 Inst, to the General Assembly of New Jersey together with an Act of Resolves of the 20th referred to in the Ad dress which your Excellency is requested to lay before the Honorable House as early as possible. I have the honour to be with very great Esteem 8c Respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In this letter Governor Livingston stated that he was unable to carry out Congress’ July 31 resolves on “raising Recruits and apprehending Deserters” be cause of doubts "respecting the Securities to be given, as well as the money to be drawn for.” The Board of War sought to solve these problems through a series of proposals in a report that Congress read on November 25 but did not act upon. Livingston again requested guidance from Congress on these matters in letters he wrote to Laurens on November 29 and December 11, and at length Laurens informed him on January 1, 1778, that on the previous day the board’s November 25 report had been “recommitted with a charge to the Board to transmit the necessary explanation.” See PCC, item 68, fols. 293-94, 297-98, 301; JCC, 8:593-95, 9:964-65; and Laurens to Livingston, January 1, 1778. 2 This resolve had requested New Jersey, which was then unrepresented, "to send delegates immediately to Congress.” JCC, 9:1013. 3 In reality this letter is dated December 16. PCC, item 68, fol. 301.


[Page 534]
498 December 29, 1777 in debate, with much concern that decisive measures had not long since been taken with all Enemies to the Independence of America. A Committee are appointed to take into consideration the deplorable conditions of our army and to report tomorrow. 2 I make no doubt that the most vigorous measures will be recommended to be immedi ately taken, as without the army must disperse as mentioned in my last. My situation is extreamly delicate on this occasion, the ruin of our Army, or the interference with the police of the State I appre hend will be the alternative set before me, under these circumstances I should be glad of advice or assistance. The House of Burgesses in Virginia have unanimously consented to the Confideration as handed to them with orders to their Delegates to confirm it on the 10th March. I could wish the State could favr. their Delegates with Dunlaps paper constantly. I should be glad you would furnish me with the two or three last papers. Our State I understand have published a bill which I have not seen, respecting the measures recommended to the northward, and I am told have recited the recommendation of Congress which exposes the views of Congress, this was never in tended and may frustrate their designs. 3 I am respectfully, Sir, Yr. most obt. humble Servt, Daniel Roberdeau RC (PHarH). 1 For the case of Rev. Daniel Batwell, see Pennsylvania Delegates to Thomas Wharton, November 13, 1777. For his December 26 petition to Congress, which is in PCC, item 42, 1:153-57, and the action taken upon it the 27th, see JCC, 9:1055-57. His January 5, 1778, letter thanking Congress for his release and asking issuance of papers authorizing his passage within the British lines at Philadelphia, was referred to the Board of War. See PCC, item 78, 2:329; and JCC, 10:18. 2 See Committee on Emergency Provisions to Thomas Wharton, December 30, 1777. 3 No such publication has been found, and a recent search of Dunlap’s Penn sylvania Packet failed to uncover any “bill” fitting Roberdeau’s description in that paper. Burnett speculated that Roberdeau may have had in mind the Pennsylvania Assembly’s resolutions of December 6 pertaining to the work of the committee of Congress appointed to confer with the general assembly, which are in PCC, item 69, fols. 457-59, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:66-67, but because issues of the Packet for this period were not “accessible’’ to him he could not confirm this conjecture. See Burnett, Letters, 2:601n.4. As the assembly’s Decem ber 6 resolves contain no intelligence “which exposes the views of Congress,” it seems probable that some other document was at issue or that Roberdeau’s “un derstanding” was based on misinformation.


[Page 536]
500 December 30, 1777 Francis Lightfoot Lee


[Page 537]
December 30, 1777 501 Although the source of many complaints since its creation in 1775, the com missary system had functioned reasonably well until Commissary General Joseph Trumbull had resigned and returned home in August 1777. His successor, William Buchanan, deprived of many of Trumbull’s most capable and experi enced assistants, who had resigned over Congress’ refusal to base their com pensation on a commission basis, struggled on with the system he had inherited, but it was clear by early autumn that sweeping changes were needed. The inherent difficulties in provisioning large numbers of troops were compounded by General Howe’s capture of Philadelphia, Congress’ flight to York, and the British army’s competition for provisions from the region. Commissary reform and the general reorganization of army administration were delayed by Congress’ slowness in installing new members of the reorganized Board of War. Expectations that the new board would play a large role in the solution of supply problems— visible in Congress’ appointment of both former Quartermaster General Thomas Mifflin and Commissary General Trumbull to the new board in November— were ultimately disappointed because Trumbull’s health prevented him from filling his post and Mifflin refused to respond to a call to join the congressional committee sent to Valley Forge in January to study the most pressing issues threatening army morale. Therefore, it was the old Board of War, which had been authorized on November 22 to continue the work of the War Office until the new commissioners arrived, that continued the struggle against the army’s problems, acting either in its traditional capacity or as the nucleus of ad hoc committees like the Committee on Emergency Provisions. Although Gates and the new commissioners finally assumed leadership of the new board in late January 1778, clashes between Continental officials and Pennsylvania authorities further delayed new measures for effective provisioning of the army. See JCC, 9:953, 963, 10:47; Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, February 17, note 2; and William Duer to Francis Lightfoot Lee, February 19, 1778. For the general breakdown of the commissary and quartermaster systems and background material on Congress’ struggles to bring relief to Washington’s beleaguered troops during their difficult winter at Valley Forge, see Victor L. Johnson, The Administration of the American Commissariat during the Revolutionary War (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania, 1941), pp. 85-109; and Erna Risch, Quartermaster Support of the Army: A History of the Corps, 1335-1939 (Wash ington: Government Printing Office, 1962), pp. 29-37. 2 In a letter to New York Governor George Clinton written at about this time, Lee, on behalf of the committee, requested that "all the cattle which can pos sibly be collected within your State forthwith [be] . . . sent forward under proper conductors to General Washington’s Army without Delay, paying to the persons from whom the cattle are so taken as yourself and the Council of Safety shall deem reasonable, and drawing upon Congress for the necessary sums or giving them certificates expressing the quality, age and weight so taken as nearly as possible, which certificates will be hereafter paid at such prices as shall be fixed on by the Convention of the Committees of the States to be held agreeably to the Recommendation of Congress of the 22" Nov' last. "The Committee have likewise to request that you will give your utmost assist ance to Mr. J. Cuyler, Commissary of Northern Department in laying up plentiful magazines of Flour and Pork in such parts of the State as shall be thought best adapted for that purpose, and that you will likewise be pleased to co-operate for the same purposes with the Govenor and Council of Connecticut who are de sired to superintend the Commissary Department on the East side of Hudson’s River. “The Middle Department is exhausted of Cattle fit for the use of the Army, & the obstruction which have been met with in removing a timely and sufficient supply of Salt from the Eastern States have baffled all Prospects of laying in any large Quantities of Pork in the States of Pennsylvania & Maryland. Without


[Page 538]
502 December 30, 1777 therefore the most Speedy Exertions are made use of immediately to throw in a supply of cattle to General Washington’s Army and to lay up Magazines im mediately the most fatal consequences cannot but ensue. “The vigorous Exertions made by the State of New York at a period when the affairs of America wore the most alarming aspect, afford us the most pleasing assurances that at this Crisis their Exertions in the Great Cause will not be exceeded by any State in the Union which has been wrote to on this occasion by the Committee.’’ Calendar of Historical Manuscripts relating to the War of the Revolution, in the Office of the Secretary of State, Albany, N.Y., 2 vols. (Albany: Weed, Parsons, and Co., 1868), 2:308-9. See also the committee’s Decem ber 31 letter to Thomas Johnson. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais My Dear Friend, 30th December 1777. I am now sitting both feet & Legs bound up in a Basket in the room where Congress meets—between the adjournment at 1/2 p. one oClock & meeting hour at 3—& where a scrap of somewhat will be sent for my repast to serve till tomorrow’s breakfast. Perhaps two, it may be three, hours after dark I may be permitted to hobble on my Crutches over Ice & frozen Snow or to be carried to such a homely home as I have, where I must set in Bed one or two or three hours longer at the writing Table, pass the remainder of a tedious night in pain & some anxiety. I hear you reply—why faith if I was you I would resign the presidentship. Believe me my dear Sir that was my solid determination on the 2d or 3d day after my present troublesome companion had taken possession of me, when by reflective com parison with former attacks & making a proper allowance for the rigor of this Climate I foresaw a continuance of pain & Crippleism for many Weeks. I then dictated a Letter to be written to Congress expressing my apprehensions & earnestly intreating an acceptance of my resignation, an answer was returned by a Member, that Congress were not disposed to grant my request but would in preference to ap pointing a new President, address the Chair & Secretary during my unavoidable absence, this seemed & indeed was very kind & a little flattering—a Compliment which laid claim to my gratitude. I sum moned patience & fortitude to my Aid, I adopted every measure I could think of in order to restore me to strength & abstained from every thing, except hard work, that could have the smallest tendency to impede my recovery—writing in Bed, & especially one particular Nights discipline when I kept the Pen in hand till one in the Morn ing & resumed it again before five, shook me. However on Christmas day I found myself so far releived from severe paine as to encourage hopes that three or four days indulgence would produce a little Strength in my Ankles, but late that Evening & again very early next Morning I received visits from a Zealous Member of Congress


[Page 539]
December 30, 1777 503 pressing me if possible by any means to attend the House the 26th adding the request was made by desire of many Members not so im mediately to the President as to a Member who solely represented a State, intimating that the business which I had set or encouraged to set in motion of the highest importance was to be agitated that it ought to be treated with the greatest solemnity in a full Representa tion. This address to a State, made an impression which would not have been felt, if it had been directed to the president. I knew the business, it had been the subject of my meditation & contemplation through Several painful & sleepless nights & Days. 1 Beleive me my dear friend I have been obliged to pause here a minute to wipe away a falling tear which in my present low 8c weak state of bodily health, rose irresistibly with my reflections upon the great affair which I al lude to, 8c to which my duty has already required me to affix my signature, a signature which will probably be brought before the Tribunal of the whole Civilized World. Possibly I may find my self at liberty to be more explicit to His Excellency the President—but to return—the Summons animated my Soul, which is more vigorous in my present condition than the Body. “South Carolina shall not be quite unrepresented, I will be carried into Congress.” I was carried, two whole days trenching deep upon each Night were passed in a Committee of the whole, late last Saturday Night the business was so far matured as to enable me to dispatch a special Messenger immedi ately to Major General Heath at Boston. 2 These exertions have thrown me back I cannot tell how far, but I am in a condition which would meet more compassion were you present from you than it seems to do from myself. I attend Congress from the motive promised 8c while I can bear to be carried 8c to sit here, my State shall not be totally Absent. The great business is not yet completed on our part, God only knows what will be the final end of it. I have laboured hard very hard to advance it to its present State, conscious that I am doing eminent service to my Country. If my Country Men shall be of opinion with a few in this House, who ap pear to me to be timorous dunces, I shall be very unhappy, but I shall ever enjoy that satisfaction which attends good designs, whether it shall be determined by the World to be good or bad, the Act is great 8c great good or Evil will follow as its consequences. There are other matters of very momentous concern on the tapis which duty requires me to attend to, without regarding my own Ease 8c being here since ’tis the desire of Congress, I may as well sit presi dent as any other Character. A good Seat near a warm fire must com pensate for additional labour!—But there is my morsel—however before I lay down the Pen or suffer the dirty Towel to be Spread let me again recommend to you as an Assembly Man one moments reflection upon the Subject of Representation. O Carolina! O My Country, shame to you!—that in this great, this momentous Cause,


[Page 543]
December 31, 1777 507 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Governor Livingston’s December 22 and 25 letters to Laurens, the latter o£ which described in great detail “Abuses” in military hospitals, are in PCC, item 68, fols. 305-16. Congress approved a plan for “better regulating the hospitals of the United States’’ on February 6, 1778. JCC, 10:128-31. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir 30th Deer. [1777] Mr. Geary otherways engaged has given me the pleasure of for warding this Intelligence from your friend Jefferson respecting the ready concurrence of the Dominion with the Articles sent lately to the States in a hope of cementing them together in a firm League. 1 I am particularly rejoyced at this dispatch at this critical time when things appear almost despoiled in this neighbourhood. As a secret I tell you that there is the greatest risque that the army will be disbanded in a short season, for the Commissary’s & Qr Master’s departments are ruined. I hope Robt. Morris will take up the first himself immediately or as a Director; Buchannan is as incapable as a child and knows not how he can feed the army 3 Weeks from any parts, or how to feed them from day to day with what he has on hand. Mutiny is at present suppressed. The Clothier is little better & the Director Genl, of Hospitals is at his wits end. Trumbull would be deified if he was on the spot, send him from Boston if there. The Board of War with military drivers are Quarter masters owing to the Imbecility of the Govt, of this State which must be changed after the present glaring conviction of its Impotence. If at any day it musters courage to legislate it finds itself without any executive. Yr. frozen fingered Servt, J L RC (MHi). i Lovell was forwarding Thomas Jefferson’s December 17, 1777, letter to John Adams notifying him of Virginia’s approval of the Articles of Confederation. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:120-21. Committee on Emergency Provisions to Thomas Johnson Sir, War Office Deer. 31st 1777 Congress have received the most alarming Accounts from General Washington of the Distress of the Army for Want of Provisions. He expresses the strongest Apprehensions that unless an immediate


[Page 544]
508 December 31, 1777 Supply is sent the Troops must either “starve, dissolve or disperse." This Disaster is likely to befall us by much Distraction having pre vailed in the Commissary’s Department to the Eastward which has prevented a Supply of Salt expected from thence from getting for ward in Time. The laying up Provisions has been hereby prevented & few or no Supplies of Cattle have been drawn from that Quarter. The Avarice of the People too has had no small Share in reducing us to our present Distress. A Comittee is appointed by Congress to take effectual Means for preventing so fatal a Blow as the Dispersion or Dissolution of our Army would be to our Liberties. They have been obliged from the Necessity of the Case to give Orders for siezing all the Provisions in the Vicinity of the Camp in this State which will afford a small but temporary Supply. They have written to the adjacent States 8c earnestly besought their immediate Assistance. Much Dependance is placed on your Exertions at this important Crisis 8c the Comittee need but state the Facts to induce you immedi ately to take Measures for the remedying the Evil. I beg Leave to suggest to you whether an immediate Seisure of all Cattle, Hogs, Pork 8c Salt in the State of Maryland is not indispensibly necessary 8c Certificates given payable by Congress to the Possessors. 1 You are the best Judge of proper Measures to be taken within your State 8c therefore the Comittee will not trouble you with their Ideas of the Plan to be executed for procuring the Articles wanted. They are confident you will be as speedy as the Nature of the Case will admitt convinced that immediate Supplies can only be had from the nearest States 8c the Comittee have taken Steps for obtaining Relief in future from those more remote. The issuing Commissary at Camp will receive any Cattle 8cc you may please to forward 8c the Commissary General of Purchases will take into his Charge on being informed thereof, all Magazines of Pork 8c Salt you may think proper to have laid up. All Drafts or Certificates (Duplicates whereof you will no Doubt be of Opinion should be lodged with you as Vouchers) given or drawn by your order will be duly honoured by the Treasury Board. I would beg Leave to suggest to you the great Difficulty 8c Danger in the Transportation of Provisions up the Bay in the common Mode 8c entreat the Use of the State armed Vessells for the Purpose as a similar Request is made to the Governor of Virginia. 2 It is impracti cable to procure Provisions from the Southward without the Use of these Vessells. The Comittee rely strongly on the Exertions of Mary land 8c Virginia in laying up Magazines for future Supply as well as obtaining present Relief. They have the most flattering Ideas of receiving that Assistance from these of which they have been un happily dissappointed from other States, 8c must depend on them for their principal Supply. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, your very obedt Servt, Francis Lightfoot Lee, for the Committee


[Page 545]
December 31, 1777 509 RC (MdAA). In the hand of Richard Peters and signed by Francis Lightfoot Lee. i On January 7 the Maryland Council appointed cattle purchasers in Somer set and Worcester Counties and authorized them to seize cattle easily accessible to the enemy and to forward them to the commissary of purchases. Md. Archives, 16:456-57. See also the committee’s January 17, 1778, letter to Johnson. 2 The committee’s letter to Gov. Patrick Henry has not been found, but Henry’s January 20, 1778, response, reporting the purchase of 10,000 pounds of beef and pork and the seizure of 2,000 bushels of salt for the army, is in PCC, item 71, fols. 131-34. Furthermore, Henry stressed the abundance of pro visions in northern Virginia, criticized the delinquency and inefficiency of the commissariat, and urged immediate reformation in that department. James Lovell to George Washington Sir, Deer. 31st. 1777. A Course of Disappointments has attended the Printing of the Journals of Congress. Good Progress was indeed making in Sepr. last when Mr. Aitkin had nearly finished a second Volume with December 1776. This Work has been sent out of the city of Philadelphia, and buried. By all the Scrutiny I can make, I gain no other Knowledge about the Spot where the Books are deposited than a high Probability that Frederic Bicking a Paper-maker has the Care of them. 1 Having tarried myself in Philada. after the other Delegates left it, I procured of Col. Hamilton a Security of some Waggons from Im pressment for the use of Mr. Aitkin which he did not appear to me afterwards to have been spirited to make use of; and in Fact he remained in the City. Bicking is an honest timorous Man and lives in the Neighbourhood of John Roberts a Miller 10 Miles from Philada. which Roberts is a Tory, 2 and yet tis probable his Team brought the Journals out for Mr. Aitkin. I beg your Excellency to communicate these Circumstances to some active Pennsylvanian Officer, who, being acquainted with the Spot of Ground mentioned, will take a proper speedy Method of gaining the Journals & forwarding them to Lancaster or York. I imagine the Types are also buried at the same Place with the Journals. They would be a valuable Acquisition at this Time, tho’ they are not absolutely necessary to carry on the Journals. I am not insensible to the great Affairs which press your Excellency on every side; but, I really thought this Business of recovering the Journals was important enough to warrant the Freedom I now take of applying to you for Orders respecting the Pursuit of it. I had intended to do it in Person, but the Absence of three of my Colleagues and other Gentlemen has thrown such additional Committee-Business


[Page 546]
510 December- 31, 1777 upon me as to make it impossible to assure you, otherways than by a Letter, that I am, Your Excellency’s Obliged Friend & Humble Servant, James Lovell RC (DLC). i On January 9 Washington reported to Lovell that the journals had been recovered and were being sent to York. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:288. 2 Roberts was later convicted of high treason for attempting to enlist men for the British and was executed on November 4, 1778. See Gail S. Rowe, Thomas McKean, the Shaping of an American Republicanism (Boulder: Colorado Asso ciated University Press, 1978), pp. 117-19. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear General, York 1st Jany. 1778. This Morning the Baron Holzendorff brought me the honour of a Letter from you dated 20th November probably intended to have been 20th December accompanied by a packet directed to Monsr. Le Compte De Broglie at Paris. 1 In my present circumstance pained & fatigued by the Gout & very fully exercised by the Duties of my Office in Congress I am persuaded Dear General you will excuse the brevity of my present respects. If the Packet, which is no doubt of great importance, had not made a part of your charge, ’tis possible I might have taken the liberty to delay writing to you until I should find my self at a little more ease. The Packet I shall recommend to the Special care of Mr. John Adams at Boston who is going in the Character of Commissioner from Congress to the Court of France. Should his departure be intended to take place at any distant period, he will send it by some early safe conveyance. That part of your Letter relative to Baron Holzendorff I have Communicated to Congress, which, with a memorial from the Baron, is committed to the Consideration of the Board of War. The Board will probably make a Report in three or four days to Congress, the result of which I will do my self the honour of communicating in due time. 2 I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In PCC, item 41, 4:30, there is an extract made by Charles Thomson of Kalb’s December 20 letter to Laurens recommending Louis-Casimir, baron de Holtzendorf, to Congress’ favor. Kalb wrote a lengthy report about the state of the American army to the comte de Broglie between December 12 and 25, which is in Friedrich Kapp, The Life of John Kalb, Major-General in the Revolutuonary Army (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1884), pp. 132-43. 2 In his December 30 memorial to Congress, Holtzendorf, who had been serving as lieutenant colonel in the Continental Army, complained that his merits were


[Page 547]
January 1, 1778 511 unappreciated and asked permission to return to France on condition that the delegates pay his traveling expenses, grant him a colonel’s commission with full pay and perquisites, and indemnify him for the loss of his baggage during the retreat from Philadelphia. Instead of granting the baron’s exorbitant requests, Congress granted him leave on January 30 to resign his commission and return to France and agreed on February 21 to recompense him only for his recent debts and his traveling expenses to France. JCC, 10:7, 105, 188, 235; and PCC, item 41, 4:27-29. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir York 1st Jany 1778. I had the honour of writing to your Excellency the 30th December. Yesterday a Report, which had been formed at the board of War some day in November on your Excellency’s Letter of the 11th of that Month was made to Congress & recommitted with a charge to the Board to transmit the necessary explanation. 1 Your Excellency’s Letter of the 25th Ulto. & the State of the public Hospitals are under Consideration of a Committee of five, Congress seem determined to make every practicable improvement in that momentous concern. Inclosed please Sir to receive an Act of Congress of the 31st December for promoting a speedy reformation in the Army in disci pline & oeconomy. 2 Congress have Resolved a Months extra pay to Officers & soldiers now in Camp 8c also a new Regulation in the article of Rations, which it is thought will be very acceptable to the Army at Valley forge. 3 I have the honour to be Sec. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Laurens to Livingston, December 29, 1777, note 1. 2 This resolve urged the states, in view of the need for military reform and the disproportion between officers and privates in the army, to “suspend filling up any vacancies in their respective regiments, until they shall hear further from Congress on the subject.” JCC, 9:1073. Laurens also sent word of this resolve in brief letters that he wrote to Govs. Thomas Johnson of Maryland, Patrick Henry of Virginia, and Richard Caswell of North Carolina on January 1; to Govs. George Clinton of New York, John Rutledge of South Carolina, John Treutlan of Georgia, and President Meshech Weare of New Hampshire on January 2; and to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut on January 5. PCC, item 13, fols. 92-93, 98, 100-101, 110. The letter to Governor Henry also gave notice of the January 1 appointment of John Walker to replace Samuel Wash ington as one of three commissioners to Fort Pitt. JCC, 9:945-46, 10:9. 3 See JCC, 9:1067-68.


[Page 552]
516 January 1, 1778 2 On the dismissal of Thomas Morris, see Committee of Commerce to Thomas Morris, December 17, 1777. 3 Lovell was referring to the return to Massachusetts of John Adams, Samuel Adams, and John Hancock, for which see Lovell to Samuel Adams, December 8, 1777, note 4. * The Independent Chronicle (Boston). 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, January 3, 1778. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Jany 1, 1778 I am astonished Mr Brown 1 could have so far mistaken me as to inform you that the letters from Mr Dean to you were read in Congress. As the president was absent, the comee on foreign affairs delivered me a letter in the Evening directed to Mr Hancock which I opened & found under the cover a letter to him & one to you un sealed. Next Morning I carried it to Congress & consulted Mr Lovel & he concurring in opinion with me that the letter was of a private nature I sealed that for you without shewing it to any person & sent it down to Mr Brown, who I was told was forwarding dispatches to you. I think on the same day in the evening before Congress rose other dispatches were brought and among them a duplicate of that I had sent you; upon opening the packet I informed congress it contained a private letter to Mr Hancock & one to you. Some of the members however required that the letter to Mr H should be read which was done. The circumstance of yr letter being open was not attended & an objection was made to opening that for you, upon which I put it in my pocket & upon calling at Mr B lodging’s after Congress rose I found your servant was in town upon which I sealed the letter in the cover & desired Mr Brown to inform you, As I had not time to write, that the letter directed to Mr H only was read but that to you was not Opened nor read. 2 But as some intimations were thrown out of T.M.’s ill conduct, I desired Mr Brown to mention to you it was my opinion you should come to town. I believe the C. are perfectly satisfied with yr. conduct, but I could have wished you had known these circumstances before you wrote, that if there are any circumstances in letters you reed, as from your letter to C. I think there must be which wd. give you pain to expose to public view, you might, if consistent with honor, have kept them back. I am, Sr, Yr humble servt. FC (DLC). 1 John Brown, the Marine Committee’s secretary, not the John Brown who in November had conveyed the Howes’ peace feeler from Philadelphia to York as Burnett suggested. See Henry Laurens to George Washington, November 19, 1777, note 1; and Burnett, Letters, 3:1. 2 For Morris’ response once he learned of his misunderstanding on this point, see his January 5 letter to Henry Laurens.


[Page 553]
January 2, 1778 517 Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir York Town Jeneuery 2d. 1778 Yesterday I Reed, your Feavour of Decmber the 12th. As to the Resolution of Congress you first mentioned, so far as it Relates to Newhampshier or general Stark, it wase Strenously apposed by your Delegates in Congress, and Six Days did not Pass before they were Convinced of the good Effect of the orders of your Court given to general Stark and every mouth wase Stopt, which gave your Delegates no Small triumph, to be told we ware true Prophets, and ever Since the State of Newhampshier has been in grate Repute, on account of the Spirited Exertions of the officers &: Soldiers in the northern Department. 1 As to the Promotion of Coll. Willkinson, who at the Request of general Gates Reed, a Brevet as a Brigadier general which you Say has given you Pain I most Sincerly Simpothise with you, and Can Say it has given me Senceble Pain ever Since it was Done. I was glad he asked no more at that time, for assured I am that if he had it would have been granted. Whilst they ware Rejoicing for the goodness of God in Delivering our enemies into our hands: a Plan is laid by Sundrey members of Congress which I belive will be Carried to Remove him out of the way by appointing him Secretary to the Board of War or by Sending him to Gorgia. 2 You ask me how I Could be Induced to Disgrace all the field officers in the northern army to which I answer if when you Say you if you mean Congress I will not answer for them, haveing Constantly opposed the makeing allmost all the general officers that have been made since I have been here, it appearing to me they were made more upon the Principle of Intrest or frindship, then Justice & ecquity, and the Consequencies that have followed has Confirmed me in that opinion. Grate uneasiness in the army has been the Sure and sertaine Consequence of the appointment of allmost Every general officer Since I have been here. If you meen me Personally Considerd, and think you Could Do better hope you will in twenty four hours after Reciveing this mount your horse & Come and Relieve me. And if you think you Cant Do so well would not have that Stop you as I have worne allmost all the flesh off my Bones being Exercised in my mind night & Day, and no time to Relax. My Predecessors in Congress made some alterations in the Commissary generals Department in the midle of a campaign which has given us an infinite Deal of trouble and the most fatel Consequences were not only to be feared but in Some measure have taken Place. The army Severel times were with out Bread for thirty Six hours at a time. This together with the Quarter master general being Sick and his Department thrown into Confusion, and the inhabitents of this State in general being unfriendly to the Cause in which the United States are Ingaged, has given us more trouble and


[Page 555]
January 2, 1778 519 proper notice of the dismission to the Several Commanders of State Ships of War in your department. I am with great regard &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Henry Laurens to Esek Hopkins Sir, York 2d Jany 1778 I am directed by Congress to forward to you the inclosed Act of the present date, by which it is Resolved that you be dismissed from the service of these States. 1 The task is painful but duty obliges me to intimate that [it] is expected you will pay proper obedience to the Resolution. I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i For the circumstances leading up to the dismissal of Commodore Hopkins, who had been under suspension as commander-in-chief of the Continental Navy since March 26, 1777, see Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Conduct, August 12, 1776; and Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis, March 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de La Rouerie Sir, York 2d Jany 1778 Had your business depended Solely on me for an answer or dis patch you should not have had occasion to call on me a second time, I move only as I am ordered & Congress from a multiplicity of employment cannot move quite so rapidly as many individuals seem to wish, however Sir your Letter which I received this Morning together with your late proposition were brought on the tapis & committed to the Board of War, 1 when a Report ascends from thence & any Resolution shall be matured, you shall be further informed by, Sir, Yours &ca. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In his December 27 letter to Congress, Charles Armand-Tuffin, marquis de La Rouerie, proposed the creation of an independent corps made up of Frenchmen as well as enemy deserters and prisoners of war with himself in command. PCC, item 164, fols. 366-70. Congress eventually authorized him to raise such a corps on June 25, 1778. See ]CC, 11:642-45. a This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Jean-Louis-Ambroise de Genton, chevalier de Villefranche, enclosing a January 1 resolve which ap pointed him “an Engineer with the Rank of Major in the Army.” PCC, item 13, fol. 98; and JCC, 10:7.


[Page 558]
522 January 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to James Mease Sir, 3d Jany 1778 Inclosed you will receive a Warrant on the Loan Office Massachu- sett Bay of 31st December for two hundred Thousand Dollars for the use of Samuel Allen Otis Esqr. which should have been Sent to you in my late Letter of 1st Inst, but it had not then been returned to me from the Treasury Board. I shall direct the Messenger to call on you with this & to wait a reasonable time for your dispatches. From Mr. Otis’s representation the Loan Office Massachusett is not always a certain fund, therefore in order to enable him to make purchases upon the best terms, I am directed to give him permission to draw on you on public Account when he cannot raise Cash by other means. You are desired to direct him to transmit regular advices & to specify the value received for each draught or the immediate prospect of purchase which shall have induced him to draw. I am with great respect feca. 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Clothier General Mease on January 7, transmitting a January 7 resolve “directing Supplies of necessary Clothing to the Sick & recovering Soldiers in the Hospitals.” PCC, item 13, fols. 114—15; and JCC, 10:23. Henry Laurens to Samuel A. Otis Sir, 3d Jany 1778 Your Several Letters of the 26th & 29th November & 8th Ulto. have been duly reported to Congress & as far as I can judge, the House is well satisfied with your endeavors to serve the public. 1 The permission which you will receive to draw for sums when necessary, will shew the confidence which is reposed as well in your integrity as in your diligence. Inclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the 31st Ulto. directing you to pay & upon what terms for such Clothing as you have actually received, earnestly recommending to the Legislature of Massachusett to seize the residue which you had agreed for but could not get possession of without complying with such demands as appear to Congress exhorbitant 8c intollerable—for Issuing a Warrant on the Loan Office in your State for 200,000 Dollars to be deposited in your hands 8c lastly directing the Clothier General to authorize you to draw Bills on him in failure of proper supplies from the Loan Office. The two first branches of this Act you are enjoined to keep secret until the expected operations of the Council or Assembly of Massa-


[Page 559]
January 3, 1778 523 chuset shall be carried into effect which it is hoped will immediately follow the receipt of the Copy which will be transmitted with this. I have forwarded the Warrant for 200,000 Dollars to Mr. Mease & ordered this Messenger to wait a reasonable time at Lancaster for his dispatches to you. Should any delay happen from his absence or other cause you may nevertheless proceed upon the ground of this authority to purchase 8c to draw Bills for raising Cash when Money cannot be procured from the Loan Office which you will always make your first resort. You will also always give advice of your draughts 8c specify the Value or consideration received or expected for each. I am with great regard. P.S. You will with the paper above mentioned receive inclosed a Letter from Mr. Cumberland Dugan to the Commercial Committee to which you are referred. You will endeavor to get the Six Bales of Linens 8c Woolens therein mentioned into your Custody for public use, agree for such price as you can, or leave that to the Committee after you shall have transmitted a clear account of the quantities 8c qualities of each sort. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i These letters from Otis, Clothier General James Mease’s deputy in Massa chusetts, are in PCC, item 78, 17:33-36, 270-75. See also JCC, 9:1022, 1031, 1033, 1042—47. Henry Laurens to Robert Treat Paine Sir, 3d Jany 1778. The last Letter which I had the honour of writing to you was dated the 23d Ulto. 8c sent by Messenger Storer. Inclosed with this you will receive an Address from Congress of the 31st Ulto. to the Legislature of Massachuset 8c also an Act of the same date particularly referred to in the Address. I likewise inclose a Letter directed to Samuel A. Otis treating principally of the subjects con tained in the above mentioned Address 8c therefore I judge it proper to pass the Letter through your hands. I have further in charge to transmit to you, to be as early as possible laid before the proper branch of Government, another Act of Congress of the 31st December for promoting a speedy reformation in the Army, which with the papers before recited you will receive in the present Cover. I have the honour 8cc. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).


[Page 560]
524 January 3, 1778 Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Sir 3d Jany 1778. I was last Night honour’d with your favor of the 15 December & this Morning the Contents were taken under consideration in Con gress by reference to the Board of Treasury, the result is, to return again the duplicate Warrant of the 16th Octobr. which you will find here inclosed & are desired to hold it in your custody until there shall be Cash in the Massachuset Loan Office for supplying the Amount which the Treasury are assured will by partial payments be computed at no very distant period. In the mean time a like Sum of two hundred Thousand Dollars will be conveyed to you under direction of the Board of War in the most expeditious manner. Upon this foundation you will probably be enabled to raise Money for Current demands & to avert those Evils which had justly alarm’d you. 1 I recommended some Steps in Philadelphia for securing a return of our Emissions of paper into the Treasury by quicker progress than we have experienced, time & circumstances have confirmed my senti ments yet, tis the judgement of a Majority to proceed in the old way & even to prefer new Emissions, in private I lament this determina tion as a pernicious error, but I ought modestly to suppose my Self in error. We are approaching to a Crisis, in this moment it becomes every freind of the great cause in which we are engaged to improve to the best purpose such measures as are adopted & giving up his private systems with the most absolute disinterestedness to exert himself for supporting the public Credit. I am with great Regard &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In his December 15 letter to Laurens, Trumbull, the deputy paymaster gen eral in the northern department, explained that the Massachusetts loan office had been unable to honor a warrant from Congress for $200,000. See PCC, item 78, 2:542; and JCC, 9:809, 10:14-16. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Janry. 3d [1778] Hopkins has never made any application for tryal since he was furnished with the charges causing his suspension; and as we have no service for him, CEconomy called for his dismission which was the work of yesterday. 1 How comes it that we have not to this day any account of the R Island sham Expedition? Seven Delegates are chosen in our State; which intelligence


[Page 563]
January 5, 1778 527 of every department of the Army is revolved upon them, but the most Important & perplexing of all is the measures & conduct we ought to take with respect to Genii. Burgoyne and his Army; 2 on the one hand there is every thing to fear if he is suffered to embark that he will join the Enemy in America instead of going to Great Britain, on the other hand it concerns us inviolably to keep our faith, & maintain our honor, pledged for the punctual fullfillment on our part of all treaties, Contracts or Conventions made even with our Enemies; as we would not offend Heaven by our perfidy, nor forfeit our honor & reputation in the eyes of this, or the European World, who are & will be most attentively watchfull, over every part of our publick Conduct, and will fix their opinion & form their Estimation of these American States on no part more than that which concerns our publick faith, & honor. In the beginning of this infant Empire the greater care is to be taken to establish a fair 8c reputable Carracter, which if once lost is hardly to be regained. We have entertained a Jealousy of Genii Burgoynes Intentions to violate the Convention of Saratoga ever since his entire Surrendry, we think he very early made some Infractions in it, in the abuse of the Arms, carrying of many of the Cartouch boxes 8cc tho of so Small Consideration that we had no thought of taking any advantage of it; but by a late letter of his to Genii Gates, wherein he declares, that we on our part have broke our publick faith, in not providing for him 8c some of his Officers, such convenient accommodations as they ought to have had, has given us a particular Alarm, and as we Conceive are Strong Indica tions on his part of his Intentions, and gives us just reason to fear that he will take the Advantage to break over that Convention if he is suffered to Embark, 8c has it in his power. This by all the great writers on the law of Nature 8c nations will Vindicate us in a Suspension on our part till he can and does remove those just grounds of Suspicions 8c fear. Thus far the way has been clear to me 8c my mind has been free from labouring doubt or per plexing Suspense; but the line of our Conduct Consistent with prudence 8c sound policy has given me greater solicitude 8c more anxious fears, and concern, than any other matter which has come under Consideration of Congress since I had the honor of a seat there, tho they might be as important or more so, yet the way has been much clearer which side to act, or what part to take in the conclusion; in this, to suffer Genii Burgoyne to Embark with his Troops, at once puts it in his power to joine the Enemy and to be more dangerous to us than if we never had accepted of his Surrendry, 8c which we are Inclined to think he will do not only by the declaration he has made that we on our part had broken our faith, but by his denial of giving us the name 8c description of the soldiery with him, by which they might be known if again found in Arms against us, and by Genii Hows sending the Transports to Rhodisland 8c the Sollicitation


[Page 564]
528 January 5, 1778 made for Liberty of Burgoynes embarking there. On the other hand, in making up our Judgment, we are deeply Interested, how to Judge in our own Cause, our Jealousies & Suspicions may goe too far, & warp our Judgements; and Indifferent Powers, not seeing through the same medium, may view the Conduct of Burgoyne in a different point of light, especially after his specious pretences and plausable explana tions, and of the Court to which he belongs, and may Judge that we are a people of no Faith, & in whom no Confidence is to be placed, in the most solemn treaties or Conventions, & who will not be holden by the ties & obligations which bind the Civilized Nations at peace or in War. It may also disaffect the remaining friends or rather those of the opposition to the present Ministry 8c measures against the American States, whereby Irritated to the last degree by this supposed Violation 8c Infraction of a Solemn Convention, may kindle anew the Expiring flame, call forth fresh Vigor 8c Exertions among themselves 8c to arouse some friendly powers in Europe, to furnish them with greater Aid and Supplies to Crush if possible this new, 8c as they will say perfidious rising Empire, in whom there is no trust, nor faith, and may rouse and Animate the present hostile bands in America to more desperate Exertions, as they will not ever think, again in any Cir cumstances to enter into any Capitulation or Convention with any of our Generals. To avoid such conclusions 8c Consequences and to guard as far as possible against every unfavourable Construction of our Conduct, in this important transaction, there were a Number in Congress of the opinion, first to Order a detainer of Gil Burgoin and his Troops, Until he should explicitly revoke the declaration he had made in his letter to Genii Gates, 8c solemnly renew 8c Confirm the Convention of Saratoga on his part, 8c Declare that on his Embarka tion he would Immediately 8c directly proceed with them to Great Britain according to the true Interest and meaning of the Convention, which if he should readily do, then to permit him to Embark 8c Trust Providence with the Event, but if he refused (which we rather supposed he would) then to detain him with his Troops at all adventures, and should have no doubt of being fully justified therein by the Impartial world, and Every danger of any ill Consequences arising therefrom would be avoided. This was the Question we Insisted on being first put, but on a previous resolution being carried that no further Confidence or security were to be had or relied on from Genii Burgoyne, rendered it absurd to put him on any further declaration or Confirmation of the former Convention, which brot. it to the Conclusive resolve which was passd. viz. that Genii Burgoyne and his Troops should be detained until the Court of Great Britain should ratifye 8c Confirm the Convention 8c proper notice thereof be Given. 3 In this the Yeas 8c Nays were called for 8c there were some members with myself who did not Choose to act or give our voice in the matter, as we chose first to have taken the other Method


[Page 566]
530 January 5, 1778 that another of the Enemies Vessels had run ashore on the Jersey side & was taken by the Jersey People Contents unknown, a most season able relief to our Army who were much in want of those necessary Articles; which a kind Providence has thrown into our hands. Mr Davenport, Mr Colts Clerk has been waiting here some days for directions in his department. As Congress had Committed the affairs of that Department into your hands they neither had time nor Inclination to attend to them. Mr Buchanon will write him what he thinks proper on the subject & he must apply to you for any further direction he wants. 5 Am with the greatest respect your honor’s most Obedt Humble Servt Elipht Dyer [PA.] I had forgot to mention, that previous to the above, some time agoe Congress passed a Resolve that Genii Burgoyne was not to Embark till he paid off in Silver or Gold all the Expenses for his support & his Troops since the Convention. 6 The want of Provisions especially the meat kind for our Army, will we fear, not only prevent calling in such reinforcements as are neces sary to drive How out of Philad (which was fully proposed & there on [are] men Enough ready to step forth on such an occasion from the Jerseys & Elsewhere) but fear will oblige the army we have to scatter or disband, we are really alarmed that that will be the Case. Every exertion is necessary from Every quarter to prevent it. 7 Tr (CtHi). 1 No December 1777 letter from Dyer to Governor Trumbull has been found. 2 For the background of Congress’ suspension of the Saratoga Convention, see Henry Laurens to William Heath, December 27, 1777, note 1. 3 See JCC, 10:13-14, 16-17. 4 In his December 30, 1777, letter to Washington, Gen. William Smallwood had described the capture of the British armed brig Symetry, whose cargo in cluded clothing for four regiments and over 1,000 stand of arms. Washington had enclosed Smallwood’s letter with his January 1 letter that was read in Congress on the fifth. Washington Papers, DLC; Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 10:243-46; and JCC, 10:18. 5 See Henry Laurens to Peter Colt, January 14, 1778. 6 See the resolve of December 19, 1777. JCC, 9:1036-37. t For the continuation of this letter, see Dyer to Trumbull, January 14, 1778. Henry Laurens to John Adams Dear sir, York Town 5th January 1778. I had the honour of Addressing you on the 28th November & 3d Ulto. in Official Letters from Congress. My present business is to entreat your protection to the enclosed Packet from Baron Kalb which he intimates to me is intended to be of particular service to


[Page 567]
January 5, 1778 531 these States. 1 You will be pleased either to take it under your immediate care if you intend within a few Weeks to embark for France or, if you do not, to commit it to the charge of some person in whom you can confide, with direction in case of Capture to use his utmost endeavour to conceal & save it & attempt a conveyance from England if he should be carried into that Kingdom. The Baron will be much obliged to you for information how you intend to dispose of this Letter. 2 We have advice from General Smallwood stationed at Wilmington, of a Capture made by him of Brigantine which had got aground about 5 Miles above that place—a British Captain & 67 Soldiers—the Master & Mate 8c 12 or 15 Seamen 8c 40 Women some of them Officers Wives made Prisoners—The Brigantine was armed 6, 4 pounders 8c some Swivels. The British Captain was sulky 8c refused to disclose the particular Contents of the Cargo. The Master of the Vessel said she was laden with Bales 8c Boxes the Contents not known to him but he understood there were Clothing for four Regiments with Camp Equipage, 1000 or 1500 stand of Arms, some ammunition, 5 Hogs heads Rum, Butter 8c other Provisions, some Sugar, Tea 8cc. proper the Clothing 8c Arms were intended for new Levies expected to be raised. General Smalwood intimates that he had 300 Men at work unloading the Vessel 8c hoped soon to give a more special Account. A Sloop laden with flour 8c Pork is also taken, the Cargo would be secured 8c the Vessel burned. ’Tis reported also that the Jersey Militia had taken a Scots Vessel aground supposed to be fully Loaden with Merchandize 8c the Master’s name, Speers, is mentioned—but this wants confirmation. I beg you will do me the favor to present my Compliments to Mr. S. Adams 8c believe me to be with great Respect 8c Esteem, Sir, Your Obedient 8c most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MHi). 1 See Laurens to Baron de Kalb, January 1, 1778. 2 The LB of this letter in the Laurens Papers, ScHi, ends here and is dated January 3. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 5 Jany 1778 I flatter myself with hopes that the very important Letter which I had the honour of writing to you the 27th Ulto. by Messenger Mackloskey together with one enclosed in it calculated for Barring the departure of General Burgoyne will be put into your hand this day. It may appear to Gentlemen who are not informed of the Circum-


[Page 568]
532 January 5, 1778 stances of Congress, the intervening time has been sufficient for maturing their intended Declaration & Resolves upon that subject, but you Sir, will not wonder at the delay, when I tell you that from unaccountable deficiencies in the several departments, Congress have found it absolutely necessary for saving the Army from general dispersion to interfere personally in the businesses of Quarter Master general, Clothier General, Commissary general, Director general of the Hospitals 8cc 8cc. These extraordinary & unreasonable burthens have fallen extremely heavy upon a few Members who faithfully devote their time to Public service. However the other great work although not completed has not been neglected. Congress have proceeded so far as the inclosed Copy of two Resolves intimate—these I transmit in confirmation of what I had the honour of writing as above mentioned 8c under the same injunctions of prudent & necessary secrecy. 1 Tis highly probable that in the Course of the present Week I shall be authorized to transmit the Act complete 8c Certified. I remain with very great Regard, Sir, Your Most humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress P.S. To guard against accidents I have ordered duplicates of my Letter of the 27th Ulto. & the other to be made out 8c will Inclose them under the present Cover. RC (MHi). Addressed: “The Honorable Major General Heath, Commander in Chief of the Troops of the United States of America in the Eastern depart ment &c &c, Boston.” i These resolves, which were passed on January 2 and 3, charged that General Burgoyne was planning to repudiate the Saratoga Convention and declared that in consequence he and his men could not return to England until the British government had ratified this agreement. JCC, 10:13, 16-17. Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler Sir, 5th Jany 1778 The preceeding which I had the honour of writing to you the 20th past would have on this day been much nearer to you, if I had not confided in a French Officer who was desirous of the charge & who assured me he intended to travel much quicker than our common Messengers. Upon sending to enquire for him I learn he is Sick 8c his journey to Albany deferred. This affords me however an oppor tunity to inform you Sir, that Congress have appointed three ad ditional Members on the Committee within mentioned. 1 I shall urge these Gentlemen to proceed without delay 8c I hope in a few days to be authorized, to inform you the result of their deliberations. I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).


[Page 571]
January 5, 1778 535 April 1777 resignation of his son John as deputy adjutant general in the northern department—a February 22, 1777, letter from John Trumbull to John Hancock; March 3 and 31, 1777, letters from John Trumbull to James Lovell; and March 16 and 22, 1777, letters from Lovell to John Trumbull. Lovell’s letters are printed in volume six of this series, and John’s resignation is dis cussed in an editorial note to that of March 16. 2 This day Congress read Washington’s January 1 letter to Laurens and the enclosed December 30 letter from General Smallwood to Washington. See JCC, 10:18; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:243-46; and Washington Papers, DLC. s John Laurens had reported the capture of this sloop in a January 1 letter to his father. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, p. 100. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 5 Jany 1778. Last Night I was honoured with your Excellency’s Letter of the 1st Inst. I presented it this Morning to Congress but have received no other Commands except to acquaint Your Excellency that Colonel Scammel by an Unanimous ballot is elected Adjutant General in the Army which will further appear by the inclosed Certified Act of the present date. 1 I shall likewise inclose a Resolve of Congress of the 3d authoriz ing your Excellency to appoint such number of Aids de Camp as you may judge necessary &ca. Eight or nine days being elapsed since by possitive Order from Congress I directed Major General Heath, to detain Lt. General Burgoyne &: his Troops, enjoining him at the same time to Secrecy until it shall become absolutely necessary to disclose the Order, I intimated to Congress this Morning the propriety of acquainting your Excellency for obvious reasons with a measure of such impor tance &: received directions to forward the two Resolves which will accompany the papers above mentioned. 2 Congress mean to intro duce these Resolutions by a Suitable declaratory preface. The work has indeed been a long time on the Anvil. I hope the whole will soon be perfected for the view of the World. The burthen of business in Congress lies extremely heavy upon a few Members who now faith fully attend & these meet with greater difficulties from being driven out of their regular Sphere & necessitated in many Instances to Act in person Commissary general, Quarter Master general, Clothier general, Director general of Hospitals &c &c in order to save the Army from dispersion. I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Laurens informed Col. Alexander Scammell of his appointment in a brief letter he wrote to him this day. PCC, item 13, fol. 111. Scammell took the place of Timothy Pickering, who had become a member of the reorganized Board of War. 2 See JCC, 10:13, 16-17.


[Page 572]
536 January 5, 1778 Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir, 1 Yorktown, 5th Jany. 1778. I had the honour to write you lately by the messenger who was sent from hence with money for the expenditures of our State. In that letter 2 I advised you that with the advice and concurrence of my col league, Mr. Duer, I had purchased woollens for the use of your troops, amounting to £2,223 5s. which remains in Mr. Duer’s quarters, waiting for your orders. By a letter from His Excellency Governor Clinton read this day in Congress, I learn that he had convened the Assembly to meet on the same day. I hope they will advert to the appointment of one or more Delegates to represent them in Congress. Mr. G. Morris does not appear, and Mr. Duer is gone for a few days into the country, his ill state of health requiring a recess from business; so that our State is without representation in Congress, which at this critical time is to be much regretted, as there is not a sufficient number of members to expedite the business now before the House, and that business hourly accumulating. The Legislature of the State of Virginia has ratified the Articles of Confederation: Congress hopes the other States will speedily follow the example. With profound respect, I am, sir, Your most obedt. hum. servt. Fra. Lewis. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:1116-17. i Lewis addressed this letter to Pierre Van Cortlandt, the president of the New York Convention. 2 Not found. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Sir, 1 Yorktown, 5th Jany. 1778. The express going off gives me but just time to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 17th ulto. with the enclosed papers, which I shall immediately lay before Congress, and urge the expediency of those measures therein proposed being carried into execution, and shall advise you with the result. 2 Congress has been of late sensible of many abuses crept into the commissary’s and quarter-master’s departments, and which will be soon taken under consideration of Congress. 3 I wrote the Honble. President Van Cortlandt this day, to which beg to refer you. And am, sir, Your obedient humble servant Fra. Lewis. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1117. i Lewis addressed this letter to Evert Bancker, the president pro tempore of the New York Convention.


[Page 574]
538 January 5, 1778 Fulsom. The articles of arms & provisions will probably be a weight. Can meat be procured? We are informed this day that eno’ for 6 weeks for the army cannot be had of flour 8cc. I can have no doubt. Indeed I this day assured congress that all the difficulties arose from the mismanagement of the Commissaries only. It is probable a copy of the letter will be sent forward immediately to the General. Pos sibly the army may not now be in a situation to support the measure, as upon a late formal discussion on the subject, when a Committee from congress was at camp on the purpose, it was deemed imprac ticable; 8c many officers are away, 8c perhaps as great a proportion of the men. I think you may rely on Congress having it much at heart. [I will] be glad to know particularly from time to time what [re sponse the?] inclinations of the people make. I shall feel myself [happy in?] having an opportunity of gaining to this state a reputa tion [with Congress?] on this head; 8c shall not fail of availing myself of informations you may give. The Papers respecting waggons 8cc are now with a Committee. Congress appear averse to raising the pay. We have a letter from Genl. Smallwood informing of his having taken a Brig of 6 Guns bound from N York to Philada. one Capt. 8c 70 Privates on board, a master 8c 12 mariners, 8c 40 women, officers wives 8cc. The Sulkiness of the Capt 8c the ignorance of the Master who says the loading was concealed from him prevented the Genl, from giving an account of what was on board. 1500 stand of arms, some ammunition, cloathing for 4000 men, or for 4 regiments which uncertain, some cash, rum, wine 8cc. he heard of. My best Compliments to the President 8c Gentlemen of the Council particularly to Mr. Bryan. With Compliments of the Season I am Dr. Sir with much respect Yr fd. 8c v. h. st. J B Smith [P.S.] Mr Sami Lyon will take your bags tomorrow morning. When I shall have the pleasure of seeing you I will tell you how much yo[u] obliged, J B S Compts to our good frd. Mr. Marshal. RC (PHarH). Addressed: “Timothy Matlack Esqr. Secy to Honble. Council of Pennsylvania at Lancaster.” i See JCC, 10:18. President Thomas Wharton’s and Speaker James McLene’s January 2 letter to President Laurens, which enclosed a petition urging an attack on Philadelphia while the Schuykill and Delaware Rivers were frozen, is in PCC, item 69, fols. 449-50, item 33, fols. 83-86, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:153-54. The committee to which the letter was referred, consisting of Smith, Nathaniel Folsom, and John Witherspoon, delivered a report to Congress on January 9 but it was not brought to a vote until the 16th. At that time Congress ap plauded “the rising spirit of the inhabitants of Pensylvania to regain the capital of their State” and directed the committee appointed to go to camp to confer with Washington and the Pennsylvania Council on the proposal’s feasibility. See JCC, 10:36-37, 58. That Congress urged Washington to take the


[Page 581]
January 8, 1778 545 8c other persons & to suspend their intended embarkation until you shall be further Instructed. I have the honour to be, With great Esteem & Respect, Sir Your most obedient & Most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). i Laurens wrote this letter on December 27, 1777, but dated it “January 1778” in anticipation of Congress’ action in suspending the Saratoga Convention. It is printed here because on this date Congress officially suspended the convention. For further information on the provenance of this letter as well as the controversy over the convention, see Laurens to Heath, December 27, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, 8th Jany 1778 The day before yesterday I sent you a few hasty lines 1 by Mes senger Gray—last Night pretty late in Congress your very affecting Letter of the 3d was brought to me 2 —it accompanied a packet from Your General dispatched the 2d. 3 The Contents of this, as duty re quired, I reported immediately, but your writing, as discretion bids, I have concealed in my own breast. You speak in the warmth 8c affec tion of a Man under strong attachments, therefore I do not wonder at certain expressions which you would not have dropped to any but a friend in whose attachment you confide. If my memory does not de ceive me, I hinted some time ago my discovery of party in our Councils. The events which I dreaded 8c in many instances predicted, are now coming to maturity. Some of our friends in Charles Town to whom I had communicated my sentiments freely when they learn our present circumstances will look back to my Letters of August & September. I lament the particular unhappiness which you write of, but I do not confine my view to so narrow a Circle, our whole frame is shattered. We are tottering, & without the immediate exertions of wisdom & fortitude we must fall flat down. Among the Causes of this melancholy state are to be found some Men in whom your friend 4 reposed an implicit confidence. I do not mean in the Army—did not I intimate to you some distress I was under in answering a Letter soon after I was called to the Presidency, because I could not flatter? 5 The Man I alluded to, against whom I can have no prejudice, for we always in our short acquaintance sat 8c drank together in great cordiality has contributed largely to the promotion of party. His fawning mild address 8c obsequiousness procured him toleration from great Men on both sides, a sort of favoritism from some. His Idleness, duplicity 8c criminal partialities in a certain Circle laid the foundation of our present deplorable state. If your friend knew these


[Page 588]
552 January 8, 1778 John Witherspoon


[Page 589]
January 8, 1778 553 nature, that I suppose them to have arisen from the indiscretion of individuals, quite unknown to the commander in chief, or even to the officers in general. We ought also to consider that it was so unexpected, and piust have been so humiliating a thing, for a whole British army to surrender their arms, and deliver themselves up prisoners to those of whom they had been accustomed to speak with such contempt and disdain —that it is not to be wondered at, if the common soldiers did some things out of spite and ill humour, not to be justified. To all these considerations, I will only add, that though the want of the colours deprives us of some ensigns of triumph which it would have been very grateful to the different states to have distributed among them, and to have preserved as monuments of our victory, the other things are so trifling and unessential, that it would probably be considered as taking an undue advantage, if we should retain the whole army here on that account. I would therefore, Sir, have it clearly asserted, that though we are not insensible of those irregularities, and they may contribute to make us attentive to what shall hereafter pass before the embarkation, we do not consider them as such breaches of the convention, as will authorize us in justice to declare it void. On the other hand, Sir, it is our indispensable duty to use the greatest vigilance, and to act with the greatest firmness, in seeing that justice be done to the American States. Not only caution, but what I may call jealousy and suspicion, is neither unreasonable nor indecent in such a case. This will be justified by the knowledge of mankind. History affords us many examples of evasive and artful conduct in some of the greatest men and most respectable nations, when hard pressed by their necessities, or when a great advantage was in view. The behaviour of the Romans when their army was taken at the Caudine Forks may be produced as one. The conduct of the Samnites was not overwise; but that of the Romans was dishonourable to the last degree, though there are civilians who defend it. Their consul, after his army had passed through the yoke, a symbol at that time of the utmost infamy, made a peace with the Samnites. The senate re fused to ratify it; but kept up a shew of regard to the faith plighted, by delivering up the consul to the Samnites, to be used as they thought proper. That people answered, as was easily suggested by plain common sense, that it was no reparation at all to them to torment or put one man to death; but that if they disavowed the treaty, they ought to send back the army to the same spot of ground in which they had been surrounded. No such thing, however, was done. But the Romans, notwithstanding, immediately broke the league; and with the same army which had been let go, or a great part of it, brought the unhappy Samnites to destruction. Such instances may be brought from modern as well as ancient times. It is even the opinion of many persons of the best judgment, that the convention


[Page 590]
554 January 8, 1778 entered into by the late duke of Cumberland, was by no means strictly observed by the court of London. 4 When I consider this, Sir, I confess I look upon the expression in General Burgoyne’s letter to General Gates, of November 14, as of the most alarming nature. For no other or better reason, even so much as pretended, than his quarters were not so commodious as he expected, he declares the public faith is broke, and we are the im mediate sufferers. In this he expressly declares and subscribes his opi nion, that the convention is broken on our part; and in the last ex pression, we are the immediate sufferers, every person must perceive a menacing intimation of who shall be the sufferers when he shall have it in his power. Being sufficiently settled as to the principle on which I shall found my opinion, it is unnecessary for me to give an account of the law of nature and nations, or to heap up citations from the numerous writers on that subject. But that what I shall say may have the greater force, I beg it may be observed, that the law of nature and nations is nothing else but the law of general reason, or those obli gations of duty from reason and conscience, on one individual to an other, antecedent to any particular law derived from the social com pact, or even actual consent. On this account, it is called the law of nature; and because there are very rarely to be found any parties in such a free state with regard to each other, except independent na tions, therefore it is also called the law of nations. One nation to another is just as man to man in a state of nature. Keeping this in view, a person of integrity will pass as sound a judgment on subjects of this kind, by consulting his own heart, as by turning over books and systems. The chief use of books and systems is, to apply the principle to particular cases and suppositions differently classed, and to point out the practice of nations in several minute and special par ticulars, which unless ascertained by practice, would be very uncer tain and ambiguous. But, Sir, I must beg your attention, and that of the house, to the nature of the case before us—at least as I think it ought to be stated. I am afraid that some members may be misled, by considering this declaration of General Burgoyne as an irregularity of the same species, if I may speak so, with the other indiscretions or even frauds, if you please to call them so, of withholding the cartouch boxes, or hiding or stealing the bayonets. The question is not, whether this or the other thing done by the army is a breach of the convention. I have for my part given up all these particulars, and declared my willingness to ratify the convention, after I have heard them and believe them to be true. But we have here the declared opinion of one of the parties, that the public faith is broken by the other. Now, the simplest man in the world knows, that a mutual onerous con tract is always conditional; and that if the condition fails on one


[Page 591]
January 8, 1778 555 side, whether from necessity or fraud, the other is free. Therefore we have reason to conclude, that if Mr Burgoyne is of opinion that the convention is broken on our part, he will not hold to it on his. He would act the part of a fool if he did. It is of no consequence to say his opinion is ill-founded or unjust, as it manifestly is in the present case; for whether it is just or unjust, if it is really his opinion (and we should wrong his sincerity to doubt it) the consequences are the same with respect to us. Men do often, perhaps generally, adhere with greater obstinacy to opinions that are ill, than those that are well founded, and avenge imaginary or trifling injuries with greater violence than those that are real and great. Nay, we may draw an argument for our danger from the very injustice of his complaint. If he has conceived the convention to be broken on so frivolous a pre tense as that his lodging is not quite commodious, after the just caution inserted by General Gates in the preliminary articles, what have we to expect from him as soon as he shall recover his liberty, and the power of doing mischief? It shews a disposition to find fault, and an impatience under his present confinement, the future effects of which we have the greatest reason to dread. The more I consider this matter, Sir, the more it strikes me with its force. General Gates says upon the subject of accommodation, granted as far as circumstances will admit. Was not this proper and necessary? It was very natural to suppose that General Burgoyne, ac customed to the splendor of the British court, and possessed with ideas of his own importance, would be but ill pleased with the best accommodations that could be obtained for him, and his numerous followers, in one of the frugal states of New England. It was also in the neighbourhood of a place not in the least expecting the honour of such guests, which had been long the seat of war which had been exhausted by our army, and plundered by their’s. One would have thought that the recollection of the ruin of Charlestown, the burn ing of which, if I mistake not, in a letter of his from Boston to England, he calls a glorious light, might have prevented his com plaints, even though he had less elbow room than he wished for. But as circumstances stand, by what conduct shall we be able to satisfy him? When will pretences ever be wanting to one seeking to prove the convention broken, when it is his inclination or his interest to do so? It has been said, Sir, that we ought not to take this declaration of his in so serious a manner: that it was written rashly, and in the heat of passion; and that he did not mean that we should dread such con sequences from it. All this I believe to be strictly true. It probably fell from him in passion—and very unadvisedly. But is he the first person that has rashly betrayed his own mischievous designs? Or is this a reason for our not availing ourselves of the happy discovery? His folly in this instance is our good fortune. He is a man, Sir, whom


[Page 596]
560 January 11, 1778 but the Consideration rests at present wholly with the Board of War. Your applications therefore directed to the Gentlemen of that Com mission will be most likely to forward your wishes in promoting a measure which I think promises real benefit to these States. I am 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Colonel dela Balme, York.’’ i In his undated letter to Laurens, Colonel de La Balme, the former inspector general of Continental cavalry, offered to present to Congress a plan for exciting a "Revolution” in Canada. PCC, item 78, 7:149-50. On January 13 his letter was referred to the Board of War, which shortly recommended “an irruption . . . into Canada” that Congress approved on January 22. JCC, 10:43- 44, 84-85. Committee Examination of John Folger 12 Jan. 1778. The examination of Capt. John Folgier 1 of Nantucket taken before Mr. Lee, Mr. Harvey, Mr. Duer, Mr. Dana, Mr. Lovel. The examinant left Nantucket, Septr. 4. 1775—went from thence to England, as mate of a vessel, of which Cpt. Shubal Worth was commander—arrived in London, in about five weeks. The vessel was sold in London to Mr. Dennis DeBert from whence she sailed December 6 following with the same captain, & the examinant still mate, on a whaling voyage to the Brazils, but was taken at the Cape De Verd Islands by the Portuguese; & this examinant remained at the Cape De Verd Isles, the vessel being sent to Lisbon, where she was acquitted. From the said isles, this examinant sailed, in the ship Nancy, captain Js. Scott, belonging to Francis Roach, on a voyage to Falkland Islands; was upon monthly wages on board said vessel— left Falkland islands Feby. 1777; arrived in England the beginning of May. From England he went to Holland, 1st June 1777, arrived there 3 days after. His intention in going to Holland was, to go to France; whither he did not choose to go directly; he went immediately to Havre de Grace from Holland. His view in going to France was, to get into American employ—called on Mr. Deane at Paris—had no letter to him. Dr. Franklin a distant relation of his. Dr. Franklin asked him, whether he inclined to take a privateer. He told the Doctor, he had never been concerned in the working of cannon, 8c therefore could not take the command of a privateer. Saw a Mr. Lee, but not Dr. Lee, at Paris. Dr. Lee was gone to Prussia. They desired he would be still, until they could determine what part of the French coast he should go to—was in Paris 18 days, leaving it July 15. It was concluded that he should go to Havre to view the Pacifique, which the Commissioners intended to buy; he reported her very deficient, 8c she was not purchased. About the 20 of July, Capt. Hinson came


[Page 597]
January 12, 1778 561 to Havre, & he was jointly to view the Pacifique—remained at Havre for two months, in the employ of the Commissioners. After the vessel was given up, he sent word by Mr. Silas Deane’s Brother to the commissioners, that he should tarry for further instructions. About the 9 of October, he received a letter from Mr. Deane, desiring him to take the command of a swift sailing vessel, intended to go with dispatches to Congress. He received with the letter a packet for Congress. He found at Havre a sloop, in which he arrived in America. He did not know the person who brought the letter from Mr. Deane with the packet. He lodged at Madame Moreaw’s, in which one Haley her son in law also lodged. The house was near the water upon the pier. He eat with Haley & his family. Captain Hinson lodged in the same house. The person, who brought him the packet, told him where the vessel lay. Hinson, Haley 8c Examinant always eat together in a common room, but had each a chamber to themselves to sleep in. The chambers were not locked. On the arrival of the person from Paris, examinant was abroad, so the person was told to call in an hour. The person when he came again, desired the examinant to write his name which he did; on which the person gave him the letter 8c packet, & gave Capt Hinson another, about the size of the letter directed for him. The messenger could talk little English. The examinant read his letter to Hinson, who after reading his own letter, asked the examinant what he determined upon. The examinant told him he intended to come, upon which no more passed upon the subject. After receiving the packet, he directly locked it up in his trunk, in the chamber where he lay, 8c believes his trunk was not opened by any person but himself. He gave a receipt to the Messenger for five packets—one was marked “dispatches,” wrapped in brown paper—sealed in two or three places—tied with a string—no wax over the string—no impression on the seals. A packet sealed with no directions, was also delivered: He thought it further instructions to him, broke it open; found it contained two letters, one for Mr. Hancock, 8c the other for Richard Henry Lee Esqr. Another packet directed to Barnabas Deane of Connecticut—another to the same which was only a plan of Paris—gave a receipt mentioning only the number without describing the packetts. The 5th packet was news paper, covered in the same manner with the rest, but had no direc tion: he broke it open before he knew what it was. The papers in the cover marked A, were enclosed between the newspapers directed to Richard H. Lee. He opened the packets on the road from Wilmington to New Bern about 28 miles. The Wrapper contained two packetts, both of which he delivered to col. F. Lee last night. This packett got wet by a bottle of spirits in his saddle bags. No packet directed to R. Morris Esqr.—moved his trunk 8c the papers in it from his lodgings at Havre, on board the vessel. Capt. Errico was the commander of the sloop in which he sailed from Havre. She was cleared out for St.


[Page 598]
562 January 12, 1778 Domingo, & manned with Frenchmen. Two Passengers; a Frenchman, Boileau; a German, Pittnier. The examinant lay in a separate cabbin & took great care of the chest, in which the papers were. He informed the captain & mate, that he had dispatches for Congress; the pas sengers knew it. He never mentioned at Havre his having these papers to any one but Hinson. He took a boat at a town three leagues below Wilmington (North Carolina) & brought his trunk to Wilmington on the 21 of December. He landed at the first town on the 20 of Deer.—was ashore three or four hours—had his keys in his pocket—left his trunk in the vessel. The whole of the papers were put in a canvas bag, & tied up at Havre de Grace; where he put weights in it, in order to sink it—the bag was not disturbed from the time of his leaving Havre, until his arrival at the town below Wilmington, except once, on the passage, when he opened it, & took out the plan of Paris, which was under cover, directed for B. Deane. He lodged at Wilmington at one capt. Hinson’s who kept a tavern, where he remained four days. Had a room to himself where the trunk & his chest lay—no key to the room. He sold all the things he could not bring in his saddle bags at public auction, having no more than 5 crowns which he brought from France. The next day after his arrival at Wilmington, he took out the iron weights. He left Wilmington the 24 Dec. last. He did not examine his bags, until he got 28 miles from Wilmington. He there examined them, & found Mr. Lee’s packet wet as above. The main packet not in the same end of the saddle bags. He broke open none, but that one only which was wet. Within eight miles of Newbern, he met with govr. Casswell on the 26 Deer., & two other gentlemen, one a col. Alcott. They interrogated him so closely, that after some time, he told them he came from France in a French vessel, the captain of which was a stage behind, on his way to see His Excellency, upon which, one of the gentlemen told him, that was his Excellency, pointing to govr. Casswell, whom he did not at first know. They all lodged at the same house that night. He shewed govr. Casswell the letter he had from Mr. Deane, which he shewed to the President. He desired the Governor’s passport which he procured—marked B & C. He asked his Excellency, not knowing whether he might not suspect him, as Mr. Dean’s letter was unsigned, whether he had a mind to see his papers —took out the main packet directed Dispatches & did not think of his breaking it open—were in a private room together. The Govr. broke it open—the examinant informed him it never had been broken open before. After he had broken open the 3 seals, with which the wrapper was sealed, he run over the superscriptions of the letters, & saw to whom they were directed. He resealed the packet marked dispatches, putting into it, the same letters. When the governor saw the blank paper he said, he was surprized & did not know the service of sending clean paper so far. The examinant answered he was surprized & did not know he had clean paper


[Page 599]
January 12, 1778 563 under his care. They both assisted in repacking the letters, & the next morning the governor gave him the passes. The passengers he left at Wilmington selling some goods they had brought. Boileau talked of coming into Virginia. On the road he found the covering of the large packet wet by rain, & then he wrapped it up in a piece of brown paper unsealed, having torn off the original wrapper, but put on no direction at all—arrived in York Town, about 3 O’clock yesterday afternoon—put up at Steak’s—shifted himself, & then went to deliver his letters. He mentioned to some persons at Steak’s that he had letters for Congress, but did not stay to sit down before his going out to deliver them. Had no verbal or other message, to whom to deliver the packet marked “dispatches”—never saw Mr. Deane after he left Paris, or ever received any letter or message from him, but the letter sent with the packets, delivered to the President of Congress. He came passenger in the sloop from Havre. On his arrival at Wilmington in capt. Hinson’s house, where there were several in company, he enquired for a continental agent, for he had goods for Congress; he was told, if You have goods for Congress, that is your man: the person, who told him, pointing to a gentleman then in the room. He informed the person he wanted his assistance. He shewed him the letter from Mr. Deane, & as it was not signed & interlined in one place, he would not give him any money or assistance, upon which the examinant told him, he should inform Congress, unless he would supply him. Shewed him also the joint letter from Mr. Deane & Dr. Franklin. Question. How did You know, to whom You were to deliver the letters or packetts given You at Havre, without directions. Answer. I was governed only by my own judgment, which was that they were to be delivered to Congress. He opened no paper in France; of this he is sure. Did You open the paper marked A? I did not. Had the seal any impression, when delivered to You? It had not. The wax run by holding it to the fire to dry. Had You any particular orders respecting the cargo of the vessel? I had not. How came You to apply to the continental agent at Wilmington, & inform him You had goods for Congress? I wanted assistance to get on my journey. Did You receive any money in France, from the Commissioners? Ans. I did, by their order, 42 Louis, 8c 12 Livres. For what purpose was this advanced You? To bear my expenses in France. I received it at Havre. Did You receive any money or credit from the Commissioners to bear your expences on the passage, or from the port of arrival to Congress. A. Neither. The paper marked A I knew to belong to Mr. Lee, because it was in the packet with the newspapers directed to him which I had opened. Are you sure there was not a packet or parcel of papers nearly the Size of that directed dispatches, delivered to You, directed to Robert Morris? There was not. Was the wrapper which You put upon the main packet in place of its original wrapper, which You threw away because it was wet, directed in any manner whatever,


[Page 603]
January 12, 1778 567 on Lake Champlain by Gen. John Stark. See Duane to Stark, December 16, 1777. 6 Duane described his dealings with the Indian commissioners and General Stark at greater length in a March 13, 1778, letter to George Clinton which will appear in the next volume of these Letters. Henry Laurens to Richard Bache Sir, 1 12th Jany 1778 I received the Inclosed by a Messenger last Night from France. I judge from the Seals that both are from Doctor Franklin, if yours should contain intelligence Interesting to the public, communicating such to Congress will be very acceptable. We have not a line from our Commissioners, the Messenger delivered me a large packet which when opened disclosed a quantity of blank paper whence we conclude some artful tool of the British Ministry has tricked him of the genuine dispatch & palmed this Counterfeit. I am with great respect &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Richard Bache was Benjamin Franklin’s son-in-law and successor as post master general, 1776-82. DAB. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, 12th Jany 1778 I had the honour of your Excellency’s Letter of the 27th December last Evening, brought to me by Mr. John Folger, who delivered me a packet which he said contained dispatches from the Commissioners of these States at Paris—& in the Same instant, inti mated that the packet had been opened by your Excellency & found to cover nothing more than a number of pieces of blank paper. To my great grief & mortification I presently discovered the latter part of his information to be true, & accordingly Reported to Congress this Morning. The House was exceedingly chagrined by the dis appointment & suspicions were so Strong against the Man, as to occasion an immediate examination into particulars which ended in an order to confine his person until some further enquiry shall be made into this mysterious circumstance. Congress request your Excellency will be pleased to transmit as early as possible all the information you can collect from the Master & passengers of the Vessel in which Mr. Folger came from France, concerning dispatches which they may have Seen, or heard from him were, in his possession, & also such as Your Excellency can give from your own knowledge. 1


[Page 604]
568 January 12, 1778 Upon this Examination he declared—“Within eight Miles of Newbern I met Govr. Caswell on the 26th December & two other Gentlemen one a Colo. Alcot, they questioned me so closely that after some time I told them I came from France in a French Vessel, the Captain of which was a Stage behind on his way to see His Excellency—one of the Gentlemen told me that was His Excellency pointing to Govr. Caswell. We all lodged at the same House that Night. I shewed Govr. Caswell the Letter I had from Mr. Deane, I desired the Governors passport which he gave me. I asked His Excellency not knowing whether he might not suspect me as Mr. Deanes Letter was unsigned whether he had a mind to see my papers & took out the Main packet directed ‘dispatches’ &: did not think of his breaking it open. We were in a private Room together. The Governor broke it open. I informed him it never had been broke open before, after he had broke open the three Seals with which the wrapper was sealed he run over the directions on the Letters—he resealed the Packet marked ‘Dispatches’ (A) putting into it the same Letters—when the Governor saw the Blank paper he said he was surprized & did not know the service of sending clean paper so far, I answered I was surprized & did not know I had clean paper under my care, we both assisted in repacking the Letters & the next Morning the Governor gave me the passes.” The line marked (A) & the next following contains information which implies that Letters were put into the packet of clean paper, but when that packet came to my hand it certainly contained nothing but 35 peices of blank French paper—there was another packet about the size of, or a little larger than, the first which contained foreign news papers & Letters as Congress have been informed, but that was directed to Robt. Morris Esqr. & I sent it to his Clerk with eight other Letters & packets which Folger had laid on my Table. By the Main Packet he means this, & that, & intimates that Your Excellency opened both—but the Mans behaviour is such as induces most of the Members of Congress to believe him an Arch Knave affecting the Fool. My private opinion is that he is a very confused stupid Creature altogether unfit for the charge which Mr. Deane committed to him & that some Emissary of the British Court played him a trick before he left France by robbing him of the original Packet & palming this Counterfeit on him. If he is a Knave, he has pressed & prevailed on Your Excellency to look into the packets in order to gloss his Roguery. I will trouble you no further sir with conjectures—but conclude by subscribing with great Respect Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i See Caswell’s January 31, 1778, letter to Laurens in N.C. State Records, 13:22-24.


[Page 606]
570 January 12, 1778 2 Writing to the Board of War from Fort Pitt on December 24 and 28, Gen. Edward Hand had given an alarming description of relations with the Indians on the western frontier. PCC, item 159, fols. 423-27. Henry Laurens to Thomas Johnson Sir York Town 12th Jany. 1778 I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 1st Inst, by Post. I remain without any of Your Excellency’s favours. Inclosed is an Act of Congress of this date calculated for securing a quantity of Salt lately arrived at Baltimore for Public use, as that article is 8c from all appearance will be most extremely wanted for the Army service, Congress are anxiously desirous of securing every Cargo that is or shall be imported. The term, “secure” in the Resolve, Your Excellency may be assured comprehends the Idea of purchasing if this shall be judged to be a mean preferable to an Act of power. 1 I have the honour to be, With great regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s, Most obedt. servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MdAA). i This cargo of salt arrived in Baltimore from Curasao aboard a sloop owned by Gerardus Beekman, “a citizen of the State of New York, but now with the enemy in the city of Philadelphia.” JCC, 10:42-43. Johnson wrote to Laurens on January 19 informing him that he had arranged for Congress to purchase the salt “at the common selling Price, which is now 15£ a Bushel.” Md. Archives, 16:469-70. The governor’s action annoyed at least one delegate, who wished that the salt had been seized and sold at a lower price. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, January 22, 1778. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 12 Jany 1778 I am grieved by reflecting upon the length of time I have been indebted for the several Letters which you have lately honoured me with under the 14th 8c 18th of the past, 2d 8c 5th of the present Month, 1 8c more because it is not in my power even now to return such answers as these demand 8c as I wish to give. That condescension however which is apparent in your kind 8c indulgent expressions on this head, afford me encouragement 8c forbid a laboured apology either for past or present unavoidable remissness. I say present, because I confess I am urged to this address by the inclosed Letter which I received from France last Night 8c which I am anxious to forward without delay, perhaps if this circumstance had not happened I might from a desire of answering all your favours have deferred some days longer—now I shall confine my self to that of the 5th. 2 I say I shall, in obedience to an hundred other calls which say I must.


[Page 607]
January 12, 1778 571 Very early after my arrival at the State House Philadelphia I discovered the spirit of party triumphant. I lamented the prospect exhibited to my view & predicted certain evil consequences which have naturally followed. I was a Stranger, a by Stander, I was careful to take no decided part except that of Speaking 8c voting according to the dictates of conscience. I will not boast of having been instrumental in promoting beneficial measures which from all appearance would otherwise have failed, nor of defeating attempts which if they had succeeded would greatly have injured our Cause—you would smile Sir to hear me say that America is a little indebted to me for her successes against the threatning flood of the invincible Burgoyne. If I were to attempt to prove this, it would be with no other view but this of shewing my steady opposition to party—you will conclude therefore that upon questions I have not been found always on one side. I mean only to say, Yes Sir, I have long known there were divisions among those whose duty required from them as honest Men, Strict Union. I have observed such to be so carefully supplied as never to fail of keeping up a Spark of discord—hence I have often been induced to beleive there were Agents from our Enemies if not within Doors, yet too closely connected with some who sat there. You will however be pleased to observe Sir, or I should rather say, you very well know Sir, there is no subject more abstruse than this of party, it is said to be the sinews of Liberty, I have neither Leisure nor abilities for going deeply into the enquiry, nor is it necessary. I will only say that party animosity between the Eastern States & the Inhabitants of New York is almost coexistent with the Inhabitants. These are the grand divisions—each has its atmosphere, they are Sometimes very troublesome in their disputes which are carried to such extremes as seem to threaten a dissolution of all friendship, nevertheless, danger from a common Enemy will reduce them to good order 8c as it were by a Charm, instantly establish a coalition. I have said so much on this Subject in order to remove in Some degree the Strong apprehensions which you seem to be under from reports of prevailing parties in Congress—they make the Road rough but not impassable—so much upon party in general. Concerning the par ticular influences which you Speak of, I must acknowledge your conjectures are not ill founded. But I think the friends of our brave 8c virtuous General, may rest assured that he is out of the reach of his Enemies, if he has an Enemy, a fact which I am in doubt of. I beleive I hear most that is said 8c know the outlines of almost all that has been attempted, but the whole amounts to little more than tittle tattle, which would be too much honoured by repeating it. All Men acknowledge General Washington’s virtue, his personal Bravery, nor do I ever hear his Military abilities questioned but comparatively, with the fortunate event which you allude to, why


[Page 608]
572 January 12, 1778 cannot General Washington grasp General Howe abounding with every advantage of situation & every necessary article for defence or attack—as General Gates conquered General Burgoyne, under every disadvantage of situation & reduced to the last extremity? Answers are easily given to such silly remarks, when one is disposed to reply. In a word Sir, be not alarmed, I think it is not in the power of any junto to lessen our friend without his own consent, I trust his good sense & his knowledge of the World, will guard against so fatal an error. If you desire it Sir, Mr. John Laurens will communicate what I have written in confidence to him, I say in confidence, not because I am afraid of having my sentiments known. I speak them honestly & unreservedly upon every proper occasion but I very much dislike correspondencies which may be misunderstood & charged with design to foment dissentions—it is my constant endeavor to reconcile Sc make peace. I am not insensible that General Washington has been in several Instances extremely Ill used by the neglect of those who ought to be his grand support & to prevent every cause of complaint on his part, but if I were with him half an hour & could persuade myself he wanted information, it would be very easy to convince him there has not any thing been designedly done or omitted to affront him. I speak of so large a majority as 9 in 10. The General very well knows what we are, & will continue to make suitable allowances for all defects seeming or real—we are in a State of infancy, yet thank God, we are not quite so foolish nor so wicked as our Parent. Men whisper 8c very harmless things too of General Washington—loud bellowing Scandal appears in every Newspaper upon the name of his Antagonist Sir William. But I will dwell no longer upon these matters. A large Committee appointed by Congress of four of its own Members 8c three from the New Board of War will shortly be in Camp in order to concert measures with the Commander in Chief for the reformation of the Army. God grant every good purpose may be answered by their consultations—to these Gentlemen Sir you are particularly referred for an answer to your last favor without date relative to Monsr. du Pin de Montauban, 8c also for the desired promotion of Monsr. Gemaut. 3 The powers of this deputation are very ample, I will not say unlimmitted. The Clothing which you had been informed of, Colo. Lee assures me is little more than a collection of old wearing apparel of all shapes 8c sizes 8c that the whole is appropriated. You will learn by the dispatches now sent to General Washington, that Mr. Burgoyne is destined to pass the present Winter in Massa chusetts Bay 8c the reasons which urged Congress to a determination which must undergo the Criticism of all the politicians in the Civilized World. I shall be happy to have the approbation of those in our own Country. If I had not honestly thought the measure justi-


[Page 617]
January 13, 1778 581 an amendment of manners, as to draw reproof to myself from old veterans, as Clark calls one of my Friends, and from any others who have not forgotten that this was in its beginning a patriotic war. Are we not in a young country where a living is easily gotten by labour and where it is not a disgrace to work? so that Officers after the War may with ease and without shame maintain themselves upon land which is to be given to them as well as to soldiers. Are not our soldiers, many of them, married Men as well as their Commanders? In Europe they are single, or if married, they have wives like themselves without any home. Let this equallity in Amer ica be considered, and say whether the soldier’s Widow shall not have a Pension, and the soldier surviving the War be put on Half pay. Are not Militia Officers almost as much in the Field as our Conti nental Gentlemen? Must we not enlarge the half pay Scheme or dis gust the Militia? a Case of the Kind not happening in Europe. There, this mode of introducing into Society a set of haughty, idle, imper ious Scandalizers of Industrious Citizens &: Farmers may be practiced. I have no reason to look for a Half pay majority in Congress; As there is really no argument for it but a fear of all our best officers leaving the army. Here my spirit catches fire; but, the consequence shall not be the filling of a whole sheet of paper with Remarks & Anathemas. I will not foreclose my expectations from you. I must go back to my first Subject as an apology for not writing the history of York Town at large. Folsom, Dana, Reed, Harvey go to Camp. Pen to the Hospitals. Therefore the 13 States have their Business managed by a snug set indeed. N. Hampshire 1 Massachusetts 2 no vote Rh. Island 1 Connecticutt 1 N York 2 N Jersey 2 Pensylvania 4 Delaware Maryland Virginia 1 no vote North Carolina 1 Sth Carolina 1 Georgia 2 18 Delegates—9 States In writing to your Namesake, I write to you and vice versa. Mr. Hancock will also probably communicate to you some part of my letter to him, 4 I mean what respects Folgier.


[Page 618]
582 January 13, 1778 With frozen fingers but much warmth of friendly attachment to you at heart I am, Dear Sir, your Servant, J L RC (NN). i Lovell noted in the margin: “Gates, Mifflin, Pickering.” 2 That is, John and Samuel Adams. a A reference to Francis Dana’s differences with Elbridge Gerry and Lovell. 4 Not found. Marine Committee to Thomas Read gj r i January 13th 1778. The present situation of the Frigate Washington of which you are Commander rendering it very uncertain at what time she may be brought into service, and the desire you have to be active in the service of your Country having induced you to take the Command of the Continental Brig Baltimore we now direct that you repair immediately to Baltimore where the said Brigt. lies and as we intend that she shall be fitted out as a packet and under your direction you will without loss of time proceed upon the business and we trust your good judgment will direct the most frugal & beneficial way of manning that vessel. We have wrote to Mr. Jonathan Hudson to assist you in the execution of this business, 2 and as the Agents at Baltimore were formerly directed to supply him with any articles in their possession belonging to the public which might be suitable for fitting this Vessel, you will apply to him to know what has been done and what may be had from the Public Stores. We now author ize you to purchase any materials, Canon or Stores which may be wanted for fitting this Vessel and to engage on the best terms in your power a proper complement of men for manning her, but we recom mend to you to observe the greatest frugality in all cases. Mr. Hudson will assist you, and we would have you advise with him in every matter—he will pay off Accounts which may arise in the course of the business. We would have you get your officers from those already engaged in the service but at this time unemployed. When the Brig is ready. to take on board a Cargo you will advise the Commercial Committee who will order her a lading and direct your voyage which you are to obey. The Public dispatches which it is intended you shall carry will also be sent down in due Time, and before you sail you must furnish this Committee with a Compleat inventory of every thing on board your vessel signed by yourself and officers together with a re turn of the men on board and the terms on which they are engaged. We are Sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).


[Page 623]
January 14, 1778 587 Henry Laurens to Archibald Campbell Sir, 14th Jany 1778 Two days ago I had the honour of receiving your Letter of the 18th Ulto. which I presented immediately to Congress where it was committed to the Board of War. I have called upon the Board twice for a Report & it gives me concern to find they are not prepared— nevertheless I will not let the present opportunity pass without in forming you of the receipt of your application, even this I can con ceive will afford some satisfaction to a Gentleman in your unhappy circumstances & you may depend upon me for the earliest notice when Congress shall have come to a determination upon your Case. 1 At present I beleive we wait to see proper returns made for many British Officers who have been permitted to go into New York & Philadelphia 8c particularly for Major General Prescot who is gone into the former City as a tender in Exchange for Major General Lee. I have the honour to be with every Sentiment of respt. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Lieutt. Colo. Campbell of the 71st Regimt British, Boston.” i In his letter Lieutenant Colonel Campbell, a prisoner of war being held in Massachusetts, asked Congress’ permission to go on parole to New York to arrange his exchange for Ethan Allen. PCC, item 78, 5:128. After Campbell’s letter had first been referred to the Board of War and then to the committee at camp, Congress approved his proposal on March 30, 1778. See JCC, 10:43-44, 58, 295; and Committee of Camp Minutes of Proceedings, February 2-7, 1778, note 4. a Laurens also wrote a brief letter this day to Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot to inform him of a January 14 resolve “ordaining your order to be a sufficient Voucher for the delivery of provisions for the use of prisoners of War.” PCC, item 13, fol. 126; and JCC, 10:48. Henry Laurens to George Clinton Sir, York Town 14 Jany 1778 The last I troubled you with was under the 2d Inst, by Messenger Weir, since which I have been honoured by the receipt of Your Ex cellency’s favour of the 20th Ulto. 1 This I immediately Reported to Congress but have received no commands which authorize me to make a particular reply. Business for some time past has not been dis patched in Congress with that degree of Celerity, nor, possibly in some Instances, accuracy, which the peculiar exigency of these Infant States demands, not owing to negligence 8c inattention of the few Members who now faithfully devote their time 8c drudge in the serv ice of their Country but to a deficiency of numbers necessary for the discharge of the very important matters which every new day brings forth. There are at present no more than 21 Members on the floor. Of


[Page 626]
590 January 14, 1778 Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir, 14th Jany 1778. Inclosed under the present cover you will receive an Act of Con gress of the 12th Inst, appointing you one of a Committee from the Board of War to join a Committee of three Members of Congress & proceed to Camp. The Members from Congress are Mr. Dana, Mr. Folsom & Mr. Harvie, these Gentlemen intend to call on you at Read ing & I hope will enter upon their journey today. 1 With the last dispatches which I had the honour of receiving from you came a packet directed to Brig. Wilkinson who being now called upon to attend as Secretary to the Board of War will probably see you before he arrives at York. I judge it best therefore to pass the Packet through your hands & it will accordingly accompany this, as will another from General Washington directed to your Self. I have the honour to be with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Gates, Reading.” 1 Laurens also wrote similar letters this day to two other members of the Board of War, Maj. Gen. Thomas Mifflin at Reading and Col. Timothy Pickering at Valley Forge, informing them of their appointment to this com mittee. PCC, item 13, fols. 122-23. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 14 January 1778. My last to you was dated the 5th Inst. & sent by Messenger Weir— since which I have been honoured by yours of the 17th 8c 25th De cember—both of which having been committed to the Board of War 8c Board of Treasury are by one or other so far mislaid as to deprive me by the present opportunity of means for giving any reply except such as may be found in the Act of Congress of this date directing the Issuing of Salted provision 8c restricting you in making advances of Money to the Officers in the Commissary, Quarter Master 8c Clothier generals departments, to Cases of absolute necessity only— which Act you will find under this Cover—as you will an Act of the 6th directing that One Thousand good Bell Tents be sent to the Army under General Washington’s Command. 1 You will likewise receive two Copies of an Act of Congress dated the 8th Inst, for suspending the embarkation of Lieutt. General Burgoyne 8c his Troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be ex plicitly ratified by the Court of Great Britain 8c notified to Congress. One Copy of which you are directed by another Act dated the 12th which will accompany the abovementioned to deliver to Lieutt. General Burgoyne; by the same Act you are enjoined to order such


[Page 627]
January 14, 1778 591 Transports if arrived, or when they shall arrive, to quit the Port of Boston immediately. Congress have directed General Washington to renew his demand on General Sir Wm. Howe for Passports for Vessels to transport Pro vision 8c Fuel for General Burgoyne’s Army, 2 but as good Policy dictates that we should keep the Court of Great Britain from a knowledge founded upon authentic accounts of the Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, as long as we can fairly do so, that demand will not be made until Congress shall be informed that you have delivered a Copy of the Act to General Burgoyne. The transporting Provision under such expected Passports, admitting such will be granted, may therefore be long delayed; from these considerations you will judge Sir, of the expediency or necessity for applying to General Burgoyne to order Provision for the use of his Troops from on board the British Transport Vessels which probably from motives of ceconomy he will interpose, for it is not intended he shall ever depart until he shall have paid up all his Accounts in terms of a Resolve of Congress lately transmitted you. I have the honour to be, With very great regard, Sir, Your obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress P.S. Under your Cover I take the liberty of putting two Packets directed to the Baron Stuben & one to Lieutt. Colo. Campbell rec ommended to your protection. The Baron has not applied to Con gress for any assistance to bring him forward on his Journey—pos sibly he might have expected the offer on our part as a thing of course, therefore I request you Sir to make him a tender of Money 8c to afford him such aids as shall be suitable to his Rank 8c occasions. This I think consistent with the honour of Congress 8c have no doubt of their approbation but ’tis now past Midnight, the Messenger will take his dispatches by the dawn of tomorrow, therefore I shall not have time to apply for a formal Resolution for the purpose, but I will be answerable for such disbursements as you shall judge nec essary 8c proper 8c repay them with thanks in such manner as you shall direct. RC (MHi). i General Heath’s letters are in PCC, item 157, fols. 57-64. 2 See JCC, 10:45. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son York Town 14th Jany. 1778 This will be delivered to you by Monsr. Ie Chevalier Lanuville a Gentleman who at a very great expence is come to offer his service


[Page 631]
January 14, 1778 595 Henry Laurens to Baron von Steuben Sir, York Town 14th January 1778 I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to an Official Letter which I had the honour of addressing to you under the present date. Permit me to add Sir, that you may command my best services upon every occasion. I have written to Major General Heath to make Your Excellency a tender of Money for travelling charges & requested him to afford you every assistance for your journey to General Washington’s Camp. No doubt, you have discerned before this time that such Gold & Silver as you may have remaining, will be better kept in the Purse than disposed of in Current expences, for which our Paper Money is a proper substitute. Believe me to be with very great Regard & Esteem, Sir, Your Ex cellency’s Most obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MnHi). Addressed: “His Excellency Lieutt. General Baron Stuben, Boston.” Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, 14th Jany 1778. My last was under the 5th Inst, by the hand of Messenger Weire. I shall inclose with this a very solemn & important Act of Congress of the 8th Inst for suspending the embarkation of Lt. General Bur goyne & his Troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be dis tinctly 8c explicitly ratified by the Court of Great Britain 8c properly notified to Congress, a measure which Congress judged to be equally justifiable 8c necessary, and are therefore confident their Resolutions will be confirmed by the approbation of all their Constituents in these United States 8c that the justice 8c good Policy of the Act will be acknowledged by every disinterested Court in Europe. Your Excellency will likewise find inclosed an Act of Congress of yesterdays date for keeping up the Army for the defence of the State of Rhode Island 8c Providence Plantations 8c for divers other purposes. 1 I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Laurens also wrote brief letters this day to Governor Trumbull’s son Jonathan, the deputy paymaster general in the northern department, and to William Palfrey, the paymaster general, notifying them of some January 13 resolves pertaining to their department. PCC, item 13, fol. 123; and JCC, 10:45-46.


[Page 637]
January 15, 1778 601 some plan for procuring a suitable employment for him, but I found that by the Interest of other friends he had been introduced into the Secretary’s Office. You may depend upon it Sir, if it shall hereafter be in my power I will not fail to join those friends in order to give him a lift in proportion to his merit. For my own part long experience has convinced me that inaccuracy & confusion attend supernumerary Clerks in any Office. The Duties of mine demand the Eye & hand of the principal & afford sufficient, oftentimes heavy, employment for every moment between adjournments &: meetings of Congress, bor rowing deeply of the Night & stirring very early every Morning but there is not half work enough for a Clerk who would have the whole day for the easy business of Copying which is all he ought to be entrusted with, I have a Young Man who serves me tolerably well in that branch & at intervals he finds other necessary work to do. You will learn Sir, that by the present conveyance I have dis patched an Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, to Your Council & two Copies to General Heath, for suspending the embarkation of Gen eral Burgoyne, it would have given me great pleasure if a copy could have been obtained for you in time for the present conveyance but to this hour I have not been able to procure one for any State southward of this. This is one of the benefits arising from super abundant assistance, I could have Copied the whole with my own hand in twice 24 hours. I feel myself exceedingly anxious lest Great Britain should get the start of us in publishing in her own terms & Glossings an account of this great event at the several Courts in Europe. I believe the Com mittee of foreign Correspondence have yet only one Copy which I delivered no sooner than yesterday to Mr. Lovel & if I understood him he did not intend to transmit that by the present conveyance, I beg leave therefore to submit to your consideration the propriety of procuring immediately accurate Copies from the originals above mentioned & dispatch one by every Vessel that shall Sail for any part of France within a Month or Six Weeks from Boston directed to our Commissioners at Paris. I would wish in order to guard against ac cidents to send at least six repeated Copies, the expence of Copying compared with the benefits which may arise from such early intelli gence is not equal to a drop compared with the Ocean. Certified Copies under your hand will enable the Commissioners to represent our conduct in a true light at all the foreign Courts &: to defeat wicked attempts to calumniate Congress which will be made by British Agents. I think our Act stands upon a firm bottom. It will appear when truly Reported to be as justifiable as it was necessary. Let us if possible for once take the lead of those who trust in lies & misrepresentation for success. Mr. Lovel will no doubt inform you of the trick played upon us by palming a bundle of blank Papers for a Packet of Letters & dis-


[Page 638]
602 January 15, 1778 patches from our said Commissioners 8c according to the account which the bearer of the above mentioned Counterfeit gives, this is the third instance within a few Months past of Interception on the other side of the Water; in the present Case there is too much the appearance of unpardonable remissness in those friends of ours, who ought to be incessantly watchful. It appears to me, our circumstances there are deplorable 8c require immediate aid to keep us in any tolerable Credit with out self Inter ested friends 8c from being despised 8c hissed by our Enemies. Concerning the Captivity of Mr. Howe I wish for it as anxiously as you do, but I will not Insure it this Winter, Providence has favoured us in the discovery of his designs with the Troops of the Northern Hero 8c I trust enabled us to frustrate them, otherwise strings of Captivity might have appeared even about York Town. I flatter my self with hopes of your determination to accept the Commission which I lately transmitted you 8c of your proceeding very soon to attend the duties of it. I pray God to give you a speedy 8c pleasant passage 8c to protect you against the hands of our Enemies. My Compliments to Mr. S. Adams whom I long to see in Congress again 8c believe me to be with great Esteem 8c regard, Dear sir, Your most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (MHi). Endorsed by Adams: “President Lawrence Jany 15th 1778. Reed & answered Feby. 4, 1778.” Henry Marchant to Henry Laurens South Kingstown State of Rhode Island 8cc Honored Sir, January 15th. 1778 I have had the honor of Yours of the 15th of December inclosing the Resolution of Congress of the 12th of the same Month appoint ing me one of the Commissioners for inquiring into the Causes of the Failure of the late intended Expedition against Rhode Island under the Command of General Spencer and into the conduct of the General Officers employed upon that Occasion. The Commands of Congress must be honorable—And the Politeness with which You so happily communicate them must be powerful Inducements to a ready Complyance with Them. Nothing but those Considerations, and the great Propriety I conceive of the Measure could have per suaded me to a Task, I felt myself very incompetent to, and which will be rather invidious, as the ground has already been travelled over by a Committee of the States more immediately concerned in the Expedition. I am much releived however under my Difficulties when I consider the Light I shall receive from the other Gentlemen under Appointment. The Zeal I have for the Honor of the American


[Page 640]
604 January 16, 1778 Cornelius Harnett to Jethro Sumner Dear Sir York Jany 16. 1778 I take the Liberty of writing to you by my worthy friend Mr. Harvey, he tells me he is acquainted with you. I could wish Our No. Carolina Officers would shew him, Mr. Dana from Massachusetts, & Genl Fulsom from New Hampshire, every mark of respect in their Power; Mr. Harvey will Introduce these two last Gentl. to you, Coll Clark & the Other Officers. I understand you have lately got plenty of Tea & Lo Sugar, for gods sake send me a Little, if you can conveni ently procure it for me I will send the money as soon as I hear from you. I wait with Impatience to hear from Our State. Since Coll Mar tin has resigned I am sorry an Application was made to the State, as the Line of Preferment was easily marked out had not that Gent, stood in the way. I shall be glad to hear from you & am with regard, Dr Sir, Your most Obed Servt, Cornl Harnett RC (NN). Addressed: “Coll Jethro Sumner, Camp Valley Forge." Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen January 16th 1778 We have before us your Letters of the 18th November and the 16th and 19th of December last. We Should have sent an answer to the first before this Time, but have waited for the resolutions of Congress on the report of this Committee respecting the principal parts of that letter. We now inclose you the resolutions of Congress on all points about which you requested information, excepting that of Pay and Rations for officers not in actual service, which is postponed for fur ther consideration. 1 When Congress shall have determined thereon we will transmit to you their Resolution. We inclose you likewise a Resolution of Con gress of the 9th of Decemr. and the opinion of the Marine Committee of the 25th of March from their Books which hath long since been transmitted to the Continental Agents; and also twelve blank Com missions and fifty Warrants. You will inquire for such Continental officers as are out of employ and commissionate them, and not others, unless such cannot be found. A Bill drawn by the Honorable Thomas Cushing Esqr. superin tendant of the building of the 74 Gun Ship and frigate in Massachu- sets Bay hath been presented to Congress and paid, and is charged by the Marine Committee to your Board, for which he must be accountable to you. The amount is 13359 Dollars. You will please


[Page 641]
January 16, 1778 605 to inform him that applications for Money and any thing respecting these Ships ought regularly to be made to you. In answer to yours of the 16 December we observe what you have said respecting the equipment of a Number of Brigts to employ our officers not in actual service and to Cruize on the Trade of the enemy is a measure that cannot be gone into at this time. 2 The Dispatch must pursue her in tended Voyage—The Necessity of fulfilling our Contracts requires it. A voyage is planned for the Mellish and we shall have employment for the Schooner and every other Vessel we can procure. We have wrote to the Navy Board in this District and to Maryland about the purchasing flour and Iron for the use of the Navy in your depart ment 3 and so soon as we shall have got things in a proper train shall give you notice of it. We are at a loss to determine precisely what you mean by the dis tribution of Prize Money among supernumerary officers as to each Vessel a Certain Number of Officers is assigned among whom and the seamen the prizes are to be distributed, all above that number are useless and cannot be entitled to a share of Prizes otherwise than Privates. We are sorry to find that you were under the necessity of aug menting the wages of the Carpenters in Connecticut. As Committees are met at New Haven to regulate the Prices of Provisions and other Articles we hope you will be able soon to reduce the wages to sums proportionate to such regulations. In answer to your last of the 19th of December, The account of the arrival of Captain Chews valuable prize gave us great pleasure. We hope the Boston will be soon at sea; and don’t doubt but you will take proper Steps for the preservation of the Warren, Providence and Columbus. How many of the Continental Agents could have paid Commodore Hopkins the one twentieth part of all prizes taken be fore his suspension and since his arrival from the Bahamas we can not conceive when the inclosed determination of the Marine Com mittee of the 25th of March was immediately transmitted to them for their Government. 4 As to a Supply of Cash we presume before this Time you have re ceived the Warrants granted the 3d of December for 100,000 Dollars which we think you could not have received when you wrote the 19th December. We send you a Copy of the New Signals for the Navy of which you will order your Clerk to make out Copies and see that they are delivered to the Commanding officers of the Ships in your district as soon as may be. We are Gentlemen, yr hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). i For the resolves of January 8, which were intended to encourage naval recruitment in general and the manning of the frigate Providence in particular, see JCC, 10:28-29. On January 19-21 Congress considered the issue of pay and


[Page 647]
January 17, 1778 611 the summer of 1777. DAB. For a general discussion of this investigation, see John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 2 This letter from Poor and John Paterson, which explained their reasons for having favored the evacuation of Ticonderoga, was read in Congress on De cember 27 and referred to committee. PCC, item 163, fols. 514—15; and JCC, 9:1055. 3 Francis Dana, John Witherspoon, and William Ellery had been added to this committee on December 26. See JCC, 9:1053. 4 Congress made this appointment shortly after reading a December 22 letter from Poor recommending Rev. Israel Evans for the office. PCC, item 78, 18:159; and JCC, 9:1055, 10:18. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Sir, 17th Jany 1778. The last which I had the honour of writing to your Excellency is dated the 2d Inst. & still lies on the Table. This delay has been owing to several Causes, a continued expectation of receiving dispatches from your Excellency by Messenger Zimmerman, who does not yet appear—waiting for the papers which will go under the present Cover—& lately for a proper Man to Send as a Messenger, such an one is not at this Instant to be found. I have, from the Multiplicity of business which has occured for a Month past exhausted the Stock of regular Messengers & have been obliged upon several occasions to employ Light Horse Man. Under this Cover Your Excellency will receive for the State of South Carolina, a very solemn & important Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, for suspending the embarkation of Lieutt. General Burgoyne & his Troops until the Convention of Saratoga shall be explicitly Ratified by the Court of Great Britain & properly notified to Congress —A measure, which after the most circumspect deliberation, Congress were compelled to adopt as their indispensable Duty, equally justifi able & necessary. The House therefore rest satisfied that their Resolves will be confirmed by the approbation of all their Constituents throughout these United States who are most nearly concerned; & are as Strongly persuaded that the Justice & good policy of the Act will be acknowledged by every disinterested Court in Europe. Your Excellency will also find inclosed an Act of the 29 [30th] December for bringing to punishment when practicable, such of the Inhabitants of these States as have joined or shall join the Enemy. I am &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).


[Page 648]
612 January 17, 1778 Henry Laurens to William Shippen, Jr. Dear Sir, 17th Jany 1778 This afternoon Your favour of the 18th wrong dated came to hand, I will offer it to Congress on Monday Morning. 1 In the mean time permit me to refer you to my Letters of the 7th & 12th Inst, which will be delivered you with this. Those Letters were down at the Ferry three days ago & returned under a Report that the River was im passable. I have not the least doubt Sir but that you will acquit your Self before Congress to the Satisfaction of the House & to your own Honour. Be assured I am with great respect. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In this letter—which is endorsed “Received 17 Jany 1778. Misdated 18th. Read 19th”—Dr. Shippen promised that he would soon provide Congress with documentary evidence refuting the allegations of mismanagement in the medical department made by Dr. Benjamin Rush and Gov. William Livingston. PCC, item 78, 20:171-74; and JCC, 10:60. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Jany. 17th. 1778 Your favor of Octr has come to my hand this week.. 1 I am well persuaded that all your blottings woud not only do you the credit hinted at by the Poet whom you quote, but be quite sufficient to embellish the performances of some who take to themselves vast merit for their Writings. And I sincerely lament that you did not arrive early enough at Paris to blot & correct the first MS works referrd to in my criticisms of July last. They were vile Catch-pennies. I have wrote to you by this opportunity officially in Committee concerning the robbery of the Dispatches sent by John Folgier; 2 but I must here take up that subject again as I am Individually of opinion that the man is honest tho’ I can by no means celebrate his discretion. I beleive the theft was committed by some one intimately connected with your affairs, who knew the nature of all the Papers intended to be sent. Had only the main Dispatches been stolen, I shoud not be so sanguine as I am in my belief of a bosom traitor being concerned. But some valuable paper was taken from the midst of a parcel of Gazettes wch. were under seal to R.H. Lee & directed probably by the same person who superscribed the other parcel of Gazettes for him, but did not I believe seal them, as the impression is not the same made use of upon a Letter which came safe for him. Now why was not the large handsome Packet for Robt. Morris unseald, why was


[Page 649]
January 19, 1778 613 not that for President Hancock wch. containd the several Copies of Anecdotes respecting T. Morris. Why was not the one for B. Deane which had on its outside a pressing recommendation to forward it by Express at the first convenient stage after landing? Why was not yours to me who am a Delegate as well as R.H. Lee, mine containing many pieces of Baron Steuben’s writing. All those Seals were sound & original, as well as all Mr. Izards. The reason is evident. The theif knew the only two Enclosures of public concern, For I take R.H. Lee’s to have been such as well as the main packet. This you can know by enquiring of his worthy Brothers. The hand writing & Seals of the Covers of the two parcels robbd might have afforded some clue but you see by the minutes of examination that both those Covers were thrown away. 3 Tr (MH-H). In the hand of Arthur Lee and endorsed by him: "Copy [of] a Letter Signed James Lovell.’’ i Undoubtedly Franklin’s October 7, 1777, letter to Lovell, which discussed the preparation of contracts with French officers and enclosed papers from Baron von Steuben. Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 7:65-67. 2 A reference to the Committee for Foreign Affairs’ letter to the American Commissioners at Paris of January 12, 1778. 3 Lee’s Tr ends abruptly at mid-page. Henry Laurens to Thomas Conway Sir, 19th Jany 1778 Your favor of the 5 th Currt. reached me in due course & I immediately reported it to Congress, but no order was made respect ing the Contents. Probably the powers which the Committee of Members from Congress & from the new board of War who are now proceeding to Camp, are vested with may have rendred a special order unnecessary. I return you my hearty thanks Sir for your kind wishes respecting my self, I would even chearfully undergo another Months Gout, to remove the misunderstandings & heal those divisions in Camp which you allude to. 1 I trust however that other & more effectual means will be found for accomplishing an end so desirable & important at least for repressing the Rage of party. Monsr. Le Chevalier Lanuville has much dependance upon your knowledge & recommendation of him to the Committee, with whom I believe it will rest to gratify his wishes for Military promotion—a Subject which for various & obvious reasons I cannot descant upon. Nevertheless I think he has Strong pretensions to the Consideration of Congress & I make no doubt but that the House will do every thing for him that he can reasonably desire. I have the honour to be &ca.


[Page 650]
614 January 19, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Congress received striking evidence this day of these "misunderstandings” and “divisions” in the form of two memorials from ten general officers vehemently protesting Conway’s promotion to major general. JCC, 10:63; and PCC, item 155, 1:51-53, item 162, fols. 276-79. Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 19 January 1778 I have within a few days past been honoured by the Receipt of several Letters from you, which have been duly presented to Congress & I had entertained hopes of transmitting the necessary answers by Mr Brown but Congress have not yet enabled me nor can I even recite the dates. Your Letters are in the hands of Committees & not at this time of day accessible. I will endeavour to urge the business forward & particularly the article of Money Sc hope to address you again within two or three days. I am with great Respect, sir, Your obedient & very humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 19th Jany 1778. Your Excellency will receive by the present conveyance a Letter which I had the honour of writing the 14th & was returned to me with a Report that Susquehana was impassable. Congress having upon further consideration judged it impolitic & unnecessary to inform the Court of Great Britain authentickly of the suspension of General Burgoyne’s embarkation until such infor mation shall proceed from him, have directed me to desire your Excellency will delay the intended requisition for passports to General Howe for further determination. 1 I have the honour to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Secretary Thomson did not record in the journals Congress’ decision to defer asking Gen. William Howe for passports for vessels to bring supplies to Burgoyne’s army in Massachusetts. See also JCC, 10:45.


[Page 654]
618 January 20, 1778 this subject when you have conversed with them, if not before; that is if any services of mine are necessary; not otherwise. RC (MHi). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. i Adams’ December 24, 1777, letter to Lovell indicating that he would accept appointment as commissioner to France is in Adams, Works (Adams), 9:471. 2 See Lovell to Benjamin Franklin, January 17, 1778, note 1. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir 20th Janry. [1778] Yesterday I received yr. favour of Deer. 28th 1 and was pleased to find that, after your tedious length of journey from hence to Boston, you had courage to go to Plymouth to celebrate the anniversary of the 22d of Deer. 1620. An Epicure would have said something about the clams but you turn me to the prophesies of Isaiah. Child Man is no word in use among us or perhaps I should tell you it would suit as well as the one chosen by Father West, suit, I mean, now the Veterans are absent, I would not have you think, however, that the Gentry you hint at are allowed to look after their private affairs to hide them from the public; a Committee is ordered to examine what papers are now at hand; but it was expected that Mr. J. Adams & Coll. R.H. Lee would collect some materials, tho’ absent. You cannot have been more surprized than some here have been chagrined at the notice taken of St. C . 2 You could not expect more smartness in a Resolve which was meant to rap a Demi G over the Knuckles, than what you found in the one hinted at. What a fatality attends some men in the choice of their favorites! It seems as if honest men are not to be found in the 13 United States sufficient to make aids de Camp, Secretaries and privy Councellors to one great Man, whom no Citizen shall dare even to talk about say the Gentlemen of the Blade. 3 Genl. Gates is arrived here; I suspect he will not consent to go to camp on the Committee mentioned. 4 In short I begin to think our Army will not be properly reformed, thro’ the winter, which is half gone already. Mr. Dana is gone on with Genl. Fulsom. I ought to have told you that both my Colleagues have altered their minds about Establish ment of Half-pay. They see the aspiring temper of a set of men who are always talking about wounded feelings, spirit of a Soldier, honor dearer than life, &c &c when degrees of rank are in question, tho on other occasions those feelings, that Spirit and that honor have been quite problematical. I send a packet for J.A. to your care. If he should have left America,


[Page 660]
624 January 21, 1778 That notwithstanding this, cartouch boxes were carried away. That at the capitulation of St. Johns on 2d Nov. 1775, whereby the officers & men were to retain their baggage & effects, & to deliver up their arms, the cartouch boxes & other military accoutrements were delivered up. That these things being known, Congress issued an order to take descriptive lists of the non commissioned officers 8c privates compre hended in the convention of Saratoga, as a security, that what yet remained of the convention to be fulfilled by them might be com plied with. That on the 20th Novr. gen. Burgoyne refused those lists, 8c on the 23d of the same month justified his refusal 8c asserts that Sir Guy Carlton 8c himself released from Canada many hundred prisoners troops upon their bare parole of not serving against the King ’till exchanged; 8c that they have since had no other dependance than that of public faith that those men have not been indiscrimi nately employed in arms. That notwithstanding this assertion, it appears from the original list of the prisoners released from Canada, now lodged with Congress, that the provinces, counties, 8c towns to which the prisoners released belonged, were annexed to their respective names; which for the greater security of the conquering party, were in the hand writing of the respective prisoners. That the fifth preliminary article of lieut. gen. Burgoyne viz “upon the march the officers are not to be separated from their men, 8c in quarters the officers are to be lodged according to rank & are not to be hindered from roll calling 8c other necessary purposes of regularity was “agreed to” by major gen. Gates “as far as circumstances will admit.” That in his letter of the 14th Novr. to Major gen. Gates, lieut. gen. Burgoyne complains that “the officers are crouded into barracks, six 8c seven in a room of about ten feet square 8c without distinction of rank” 8c that “he 8c gen. Philips after being amused with promises of quarters for 8 days together, are still in a dirty miserable tavern ’ 8cc. 8c concludes with this paragraph 8c charge “while I state to You Sir this very unexpected treatment, I intirely acquit M. Gen. Heath, 8c every gentleman of the military department, of any inattention to the public faith engaged in the convention. They do what they can; but while the supreme powers of the State are unable or unwilling to enforce their authority, 8c the inhabitants want the hospitality or indeed the common civilisation to assist Us without it, the public faith is broke, 8c we are the immediate sufferers.” That application has been made by lieut. gen. Burgoyne to gen. Washington for leave to embark with the troops at Rhode-Island, or some port in the Sound. That gen. Howe has sent transports to Rhode-Island to take them in there.


[Page 661]
January 21, 1778 625 That gen. Pigot in a letter of the 5 Deer, informs gen. Burgoyne, that the Reasonable, man of war, with 26 transports from the Dela ware, were arrived off the harbour mouth. RC (MHi). i Although this letter is endorsed by Adams “Letter from Mr. Lovell to me. 21 Deer. 1777,” other evidence indicates that it was in fact written in January 1778. The "State of Facts” Lovell enclosed with it was undoubtedly the docu ment President Laurens was referring to when he told Adams on January 22 that Lovell had “fully advised” him “by the present opportunity” of the suspension of General Burgoyne’s embarkation. See Henry Laurens to John Adams, January 22, 1778. 2 The subject of Lovell’s proposed resolves has not been determined. Daniel Roberdeau to John Adams Dear Sir York Town Jany. 21st. 1778 I acknowledge your favors of the 19th & 24th Ultimo, and with great pleasure find you obey the call of yr. Country. 1 May it prove her advantage and your honor, of which I have not the least doubt, notwithstanding the deficiency you mention. I shall highly esteem a constant correspondence with you, which I shall endeavour to en courage and improve a friendship I so greatly value. A lex talionis has this day unanimously passed Congress so matured by the repeated barbarities of our Enemies that a very long report from the board of war on the subject had an uncommon quick passage thro the House, 2 a fate you know unusual even on trivial occasions, but it would exceed the bounds of Letter to transcribe it and unnecessary as your State and most probably yourself, will be furnished with a Copy by this Opportunity. The treatment of Canadian Prisoners on parole on their return home, being con strained by cruel usage and whippings to inlist with the British Troops coroborates the reasons for suspending the Convention at Saratoga. But I forbear a work of supererogation for our communica tive friend Lovel is writing at the same table. May the Lord bless and preserve you. I am with real regard, Dear Sir, Yr. very affectionate friend & hume Servt. Daniel Roberdeau P.S. A Committee is this day appointed to prepare a Manifesto which will exhibit species of Cruelty in our Enemies unheard of among Nations called civilized, except from the same Tyranical hand in the East Indies. 3 “Vengeance is mine I will repay saith the Lord.” RC (MHi). i Adams’ decision to obey Congress’ call to replace Silas Deane as com missioner to France also stimulated the writing of two other letters at about this time. For Roberdeau’s January 19 letter to Abigail Adams offering sympathy in anticipation of her distress over John’s impending departure for Europe, see


[Page 662]
626 January 21, 1778 rv-’ ' - w *?wy"yris In CONGRESS, December 19, 1777. 1 I: 2 W HEREAS sir WlUlam Howe, Commander in Chief of his Britannic Majefty’s forces, has required, that provifions ihould be lent in for the fubfittence of the American prifoners io his pofleffion, and tor the pur- ehafe of fuch neceffaries, as thev may Sand in need of, and has prohibited the circuiatum of the money truk by the authority of thefe Stares, within fiich parts of the country, as are. at prefent, iubjetted to his power, whereby - preat difficulties have occurred in relieving the diftreffes of the American mKimn: And whereas large fems of K> nr inetiral Bills oi Credit have been counterfeited and iffoed by the Agents, Lmittuics and Abettors of -bur William That the accounts of al! provident and other neceffaries, whseh already have been, ot which hereafter mav befu polled by the public to nnfoners in the power of thefe States, Bull be difcbarged, either by receiving, from the Britifo Commifary of prifoners or any of bis Agents, provifiow or other neceffanea equri in quality and kind ro what have been Applied, or the amount thereof, in gold and fiber at the rate of four Ihilhngt «»- ~nceGerling for every dollar of the currency of thefe States ; and that all thefe accounts be liquidated^ ^arged, previoui to the rcleafe of any prifoners, to whom provifions or otter neceffaries flull hate been Applied. In CONGRESS, January 21, 1778. T HE Board of War reported, that, having conferred with Mr. Elias Boudinot Co*miffary of prifo-’ers on the uft cd December and carefully examined the evidences produced by him, they efteem st tHcir duty to Bate to Consrdi theTbllowinr fafts relating to the American prifoners, in the power of the enemy. V 'St as far as can be collected from the teftimony of pnioners and inhabitants. who have left rhe enemy,there / arc about nine hundred privates and three hundred officer* <>*7 cf York > and • bu0 ’ fve hund 7 d F nvaur ’ ! “tEm’ Xe'privatw^ New-York have^een erouded all fummer in fegaa-houfes, and the officers boarded on Lpng- \ Ifland, except about thirty, who hare been confined in the provoft-guardAnd in the moll loathfopse goals. _.^11^ fince the beginning of Utlober, all thefe prifoners, both officers and privates, have been confined m pn- *152*the city of Philadelphia have been kepi in the two public goals and the officers in the State- ^°That from the beft evidence, which the nature of the fubjefl will admit of, it appears, ’ l ‘« of provifions, at the mofi, does not exceed four ounce, of meat and the fame qu«t»«y ° bre * d ' *s to be eatable) per man per day. and often much left, although the profefled allowance >. from eight to ren wnesi j and that the pnfoaen have been treated in general (oScm not excepted) with a cruelty fcarre to be paral > f Iwi. »nd wh the mod ftudied and illiberal icfnlt. , , 1 hat it Ws been a common praflice with the enemy, on a pnfoner being firft expturtd.ro keep him three, four and even five days without a moriel of provifions of any End, and then to tempt him to inlift with the new levies in "^Thw d^re numerous infiances of prifoners of war perifhmg in all the agonies of hunger, from their fevere * ■ senwaHy Svir - A of what cfnaths they have when taken, they have differed greatly for want thereof ^That^in the begmmng of laft fummer, lulla of exchange to the amount of £ 6oe fterling, purchafed of David Frwks hnufh Commiffary of prifoners, refilling within thejurifdiftionof thelc States, were lent uno *«*-*« k for the relief of the prifonen s that every obftacle was thrown in the way to prevent the negociation of thefe brils, and after a delay of two months, they were returned to Mr. Boudinot, the American Comnuffary of pnfoners. That the American Comnuffary of prifoners had perm.ffinn to fend in provifions from Hudlbn. and Ranto. rivers into New-Ymk, and to purchafe cloathing there for about two months pall; but on this condition, that the floon carrvine the provifions flop at the man of war Rationed in the mouth of Hndfon s river, where the hands are 5?n m of X fhips. and the Agent for American prifoners in New-York is obliged to fend hands from thence Coop over to the city, and return her again to the man of war; which not only renders it very tedmus Md expenfive, bit prevent! getting Coops for the purpofe, as very few owners ejioofe to trail their veffeU m the ene my's hands, and to remain prifoners on board of the man of war till the Coop returns. ... - f Th« provifions, which lave been font into the city of New-York for the fobfirtence of the American pnfoners, have ^^rtvenred by a public ordinance from being fold at a higher rate tnan.to^-five Cullings per cwt. for flour although the current price of that article was fix pounds per cwt. and it actually fold current at that price between indinduris, while the flour belonging to thefe State, was fold at the ordinance price. . Tht the American officers in the power of the enemy, have not had any allowance made to them for their fob- filUace, although the Britilh officers, in the power of thefe Stares, have been allowed, by a reiolution of Congrefs, dollars a week for their fubfiftence. . , ,, < . ■ Tu t. of repo.i«l remO»Hr»«C« from G.wr.l W^hregwo <o Gooml Howe .k m,.-.iJ. mxmS of pnfen«n io ki. po«r. G«<rel How. in hi. »•«”■.»« ■■ U« pw- iSla TUi . CommilTaQ ftoaU be pemi.red W mrj in a Gpply «f doaihing, money and nwolT»m. for she orifoners in Philadelphia, and to vifit the places where they were miaed. iCt on a conference; which paffed between Mr. Fergufon the Bnuih Commtffary of pnfoner*. and Mr. Boudmot suSmmiduy of prifoners forthefe State., who was ordered bv General aih-ngton to uft the prifoners agreea- hie roGeueraT HowK promtfe. Mr. Fergufon faid, that he was de&red by. General Howe to let Mr. Boud.oot know.< th^t there could be no neceffity for his coming into the city as bt would fee that the prifoners were properly dealt 1/’ and Mr. Boudinot was not foftred to go in. . . . •, Th* on this conference. Mr. Fergufon the Briuft Commiflary of prifoners complaining of the inattention p..id to the fopplying of prifoners in their hands with cloaths, find ” that there was plenty ppurpriten,d»< Goicral How. dra w» Si w ..lire >1 Resolves on Prisoners, December 19, 1777, and January 21, 1778


[Page 668]
632 January 22, 1778 Henry Laurens to William Heath Sir, York Town 22d January 1778 After I had closed my Letter which will accompany this, under yesterday’s date, Messenger Jones brought in your favours of the 6th 8c 8th Inst, which together with the Correspondence with General Burgoyne I presented to Congress this Morning. 1 The House ap peared to be pleased with your conduct in every respect relative to that Officer. I detained the bearer hereof one day in order to know the deter mination of Congress on your very alarming Calls for Money & I have received direction to refer you to a Letter which I writ the 14th Inst, to Mr. Hancock D.P.g. in the Eastern department advising of 350,000 Dollars ordered to be transmitted to him by the Board of War from which Sum you may draw for present releif, I am indeed extremely sorry to find that Money is not yet gone forward, but it will go tomorrow—and you may expect a further considerable Sum will follow in a few days. At present the demand of the Pay Master general for arrears of the Army at Valley forge has gleaned the Treasury, but from Loans Sc other means it will speedily be replen ished 8c you may depend upon me Sir to remind the Board of your pressing necessities. I have the honour to be, With very great Respect, Sir, Your most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi). i General Heath’s January 6 and 8 letters to President Laurens, which dealt with problems arising from the Saratoga Convention, are in PCC, item 53, fols. 113-14, item 157, fols. 65-68. Henry Laurens to Baron de Kalb Dear Sir, 22 Jany 1778 The 19th Inst. I was honoured by the receipt of your favor of the 7 th which is now in view. 1 It must be exceedingly mortifying to be so long a time as you have described without intelligence from our nearest freinds 8c the more so when there is reason to beleive the failure owing to vilainous interception, but mortifying as it is, we know it to be no uncommon thing in time of War, we must by every prudent means endeavour to guard against miscarriages, when they happen we must submit. I have had Some experience in disappointments of this kind. You are exceedingly welcome my Dear General to make use of me either for the purpose of conveying or receiving your Letters. You may depend upon my attention 8c fidelity.


[Page 670]
634 January 22, 1778 Troops—and the Report of the Committee upon which those Resolves are founded. If I do not ask too much let me intreat your sentiments —will the Courts in Europe acknowledge our Act to be founded in Justice 8c good policy? Dear Baron, I am with the utmost Regard [P.S.] I make no apology for a Letter hastily performed at 10 oClock at Night after a fatiguing days attendance in Congress 8cca 8cca. LB (ScHi). i There is an extract of this letter in Friedrich Kapp, The Life of John Kalb, Major-General in the Revolutionary Army (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1884), pp. 144-45. 2 Perhaps a reference to the December 31 resolution asking the states "to suspend filling up any vacancies in their respective regiments, until they shall hear further from Congress on the subject.” See JCC, 9:1073. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 22d Jany 1778 The 19th Inst. I was honoured by the Receipt of your favor of the 16th 1 by the hands of a French Gentleman whose name you have omitted 8c I have not seen him since he brought me the Letter. Be assured Sir, it will afford me the highest satisfaction to serve you effectually in all your Commands 8c yet I almost despair of Succeed ing in the present trifle, for it seems by Mr. Duplessis report the Gentleman would be content with a Lieutenancy but you Sir are now a better judge of the State of our Army than I am. I learn however from all quarters, there are very many supernumerary Subalterns, a certain number of these I apprehend will be reduced. There could never be a more improper juncture for applying for new Commis sions. In this view I feel my self unhappy because I cannot do all that I wish. Nevertheless my endeavours shall not be wanting to give a lift to this Young Soldier, I have just sent to seek him in order to offer at least, my countenance, 8c in a word Sir, I will make him a wit ness of my gratitude to Marquis delafayette for his friendship to my Country. The Committee appointed to confer with His Excellency the Commander in Chief in Camp, are now Stripped of all their intended Military Coadjutors 8c will consist of Members of Congress. Perhaps I ought to except Colonel Reed who is at the same time a Member of Congress 8c a Military Man. General Gates, General Mifflin 8c Colo nel Pickering are called to attend the duties of the appointment at the Board of War. An application to that Committee will be as likely a measure for obtaining employment for the Young Gentleman as


[Page 671]
January 22, 1778 635 any I can think of, but it is much against him that he speaks not a word of English. P.M. Just returned from Congress, where a Report was made from the Board of War making out a Seperate Command for Major Gen eral Marquis delafayette. This will undergo debate this Evening & probably you will very soon receive minute information from the Board of War or from the President of Congress. If the plan is Re solved upon the Young Gentleman in view will be provided for. 2 I continue in the the most sincere Esteem & Respt. 3 LB (ScHi). i Laurens is probably referring to Lafayette’s January 15 letter to him. See Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:237-38. 2 This day Congress resolved that "an irruption be made into Canada” and the next day appointed Lafayette commander of the projected expedition, with Gens. Thomas Conway and John Stark as his second and third in command. This project was largely the work of Gen. Horatio Gates, the president of the new Board of War, who had been meditating an assault on Canada since November. As for the specific objects of the expedition. Gates instructed Lafayette on January 31 that he was "to destroy, or possess the Enemys Vessels and Stores of every kind upon Lake Champlain and in the City of Montreal, and all Clothing and Stores of every kind, in the possession of private Persons, which may be necessary for the Service of the States, or Serviceable to the Enemy,” to encourage the enlistment of Canadians in the Continental Army, and, if conditions seemed propitious, to secure the adhesion of Canada to the Confederation. Unfortunately for the American cause, Lafayette discovered almost as soon as he arrived in Albany to take up his command that, contrary to the assurances of the Board of War, there were not enough men, money, or supplies on hand to carry out a significant attack against Canada. At the same time the Committee at Camp let Congress know that it considered a Canadian expedition a foolish diversion of resources from the main military task at hand— the defeat of Howe’s army in Philadelphia. After taking these factors into consideration, Congress decided on March 2 “to suspend for the present the intended irruption” into Canada, thus bringing this ill-fated enterprise to a con clusion. See JCC, 10:84-85, 87, 107, 172, 190-91, 216-17; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:249-50, 263-67, 295-311; Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 11, 1778; and Justin H. Smith, Our Struggle for the Fourteenth Colony: Canada and the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1907), 2:471-514. The abortive Canadian expedition was almost as productive of political mis understandings as military failure. Washington and his supporters in the army were offended by the failure of Congress and the Board of War to consult him about the enterprise beforehand. Lafayette refused to accept Conway, Wash ington’s known adversary, as his second in command and successfully maneu vered to have him replaced by Baron de Kalb. Nevertheless, there is no con vincing evidence in the letters of the delegates to suggest, as some scholars have done, that the Canadian expedition was a subtle plot by an anti Washington clique in Congress and the Board of War to detach Lafayette from Washington and thereby undermine the commander in chief. All previous Canadian expeditions had been commanded by officers independent of Wash ington; Lafayette’s and Conway’s French nationality was naturally expected to impress the Canadians; and Conway’s appointment can be construed as an honest effort by Congress to rid Washington of an officer he obviously disliked. More-


[Page 672]
636 January 22, 1778 over, it does not follow that had Lafayette been successful a Canadian victory would have worked to the disadvantage of his cherished friend Washington. See, in addition to the work by Smith cited above, Louis Gottschalk, Lafayette Joins the American Army (Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1937), pp. 110-27; and Paul D. Nelson, General Horatio Gates (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State Uni versity Press, 1976), pp. 171-77. 3 Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Lafayette this day “transmitting an Act of Congress of this date for payment of your Aids de Camp in the usual mode of the Army.” PCC, item 13, fol. 149; and JCC, 10:84. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, York Town 22d Jany. 1778 Your friend 8c fellow Soldier Duplessis leaves York Town with a heart full of happiness as yours 8c mine used to be when Mr. Staytape had brought home the New Coat—he will tell you every thing. More time will be required for me to consider the propriety of your scheme for raising a black Regiment, than you seem to have taken for concerting the project. There is nothing reasonable, which you can ask 8c I refuse. I will not refuse this, if after mature delibera tion you will say it is reasonable. But before you can mature such a Plan many considerations are to be had which I am persuaded have not yet taken place in your mind. A Work of this importance must be entered upon with Caution 8c great circumspection, otherwise a Man will be reduced to the ridiculous state of the Fox who had lost his Tail. 1 This is a very serious 8c important affair which shall have every proper degree of respect paid to it in my future contemplations 8c we will determine when we meet. I will close the subject at present by a frank declaration that I am more inclined to give than to leave you an Estate. It cuts me deep when I allow my self to think the chance for the later is rather against me. Congress last Night confirmed an Act consisting of much recital 8c many Resolutions, calculated for retaliating the Injuries 8c Insults offered by the Enemy to the Inhabitants of these States when made prisoners. 2 This when the Secretary’s Clerks are pleased to Copy will be transmitted 8c published in your Camp. My dear Son I pray God to keep you. Henry Laurens RC (ScHi). i John Laurens’ proposal for raising a regiment of black slaves is contained in his January 14 letter to his father. Simms, Laurens Army Correspondence, pp. 108-9. The history of this plan is the primary subject of Pete Maslowski, “Na tional Policy toward the Use of Black Troops in the Revolution,” South Carolina Historical Magazine, 73 (January 1972): 1-17. 2 See JCC, 10:74-82.


[Page 673]
January 22, 1778 637 Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, 22d Jany 1778. Since my last of the 19th Inst, per Messenger Ness I have received Your Excellency’s several favours of the 12th & 13th. The former is Committed to the Marine Committee, from whence I understand a Report will be delivered, this day or to morrow. 1 Monsieur Duplessis who will be the bearer of this 8c also of two hundred 8c fifty signed Commissions which he is so good as to take charge of returns to the Army well Satisfied, having through your Excellency’s representation of his vigilance, skill 8c valour obtained a Brevet to Rank Lieutt. Colonel in the Artillery of the Army from the 26th November last. To the Brevet is annexed a testimonial of his singular merit. These, I judge from his own expressions of pleasure, comprehend all the wishes he brought into York Town. Your Excellency will find inclosed an Act of Congress of the 19th Inst, for regulating the pay 8c Rations of Officers made prisoners by the Enemy 2 and another Act of the 20th for exempting the Members of the Board of War who were appointed of a Committee to confer with your Excellency in Camp from attendance of that Duty 8c for appointing two more Members of Congress for that purpose. 3 I have the honour to be with the utmost 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Washington’s January 12 and 13 letters to Laurens are in PCC, item 152, 5:263-65, 271-72, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:294-95, 303-4. On January 20 Congress referred to the Marine Committee the former letter and a January 17 letter from Gen. William Smallwood, both of which raised questions about the distribution of prize shares in the case of an enemy ship captured by a unit of the Continental Army. The Marine Committee’s January 24 report on this issue, which arose as a result of the recent capture of a British brig in the Delaware by General Smallwood’s men, is in JCC, 10:88. See also JCC, 8:66; and PCC, item 161, fols. 139-40. 2 Laurens also advised Deputy Paymasters Ebenezer Hancock, Jonathan Trum bull, Jr., and Benjamin Harrison, Jr., of this "Act” in brief letters that he wrote to them on January 21, 22, and 24 respectively. PCC, item 13, fols. 145, 148, 154; and JCC, 10:61-62. 3 Laurens informed board members Thomas Mifflin, Timothy Pickering, and Joseph Trumbull of this “Act” in brief letters that he wrote to each of them this day. PCC, item 13, fols. 145-47; and JCC, 10:67. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir Janry. 22d. 1778. I fear that, upon the recommendation passed some time ago to the states to seize necessaries for the army, our own state will exert itself while almost every other shirks. 1 Jersy 8c Maryland acknowledge the


[Page 676]
640 January 23, 1778 Pay & Rations of Officers who have been or may be Captured by the Enemy. And another Act of the 22d directing to Pay the Aids de Camp of the Marquis delafayette according to their Rank &ca. I am with great Regard, Sir, Your most obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (MHi). 1 Congress read Paymaster General Palfrey’s January 9 letter on the 10th, referred it to the Board of Treasury, and agreed on the 14th to provide him with $500,000. See JCC, 10:38-39, 52. Palfrey’s letter is not in PCC. John Harvie and Gouverneur Morris to the Pennsylvania Council Lancaster 24th January 1778. 1 The State of Pennsylvania having determined by a Law of that State to regulate the Charges of their Publicans, and General Wash ington having by his Passport directed that every thing should be furnished to the Gentlemen mentioned therein at the most reason able Rates, they paying therefor in Specie, and to adjust such Rates, having referred them to the Law of this State, it appears to us that Disputes upon this Subject are to be determined by Congress only, seeing that no single State ought of Right to interfere in Compacts which affect the public Faith and honor of the Confederacy; altho the Laws of Pennsylvania may direct that no Person shall sell any thing at a less Price for Gold or Silver than in Continental Money; yet if this Law is to be supposed binding in Matters which regard the United States and Foreign Powers, the equitable Interpretation seems to be, that the Price in Paper Money should be reduced, and not the Price in Specie encreased. Upon the whole it is requested that one of the Gentlemen mentioned in the Passport may be permitted to wait upon Congress under a proper Escort to obtain their Deter mination. John Harvie Gouv. Morris Tr (DLC). This letter forms part of a larger document prepared for Gen. William Howe, who sent it to General Washington with a February 21, 1778, letter complaining of the treatment that a relief party of his officers had re ceived in Pennsylvania as they sought to attend British and Hessian prisoners of war. PCC, item 152, 5:327-40. The document in question is endorsed: “Extract of a Report from Mr. Thomas Sandford Quarter Master of the Brigade of Guards.’’ Sandford was a member of the British party. Another copy of the letter, in the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed “Copy of a paper without any direction handed to me by Capt. Wilson & Lieutt. Patterson—24th Jany


[Page 677]
January 24, 1778 641 1778—T[imoth]y Matlack, Secry.,” is in the Laurens Papers, ScIIi. Gouverneur Morris stated that he was the author of the letter when he wrote to Pres. Joseph Reed of Pennsylvania on April 9, 1779, explaining his role in the con troversy that it touched off. 1 On January 21 a British and Hessian party, carrying passports from Gen eral Washington permitting them to deliver clothing, supplies, and medical assistance to British prisoners in Reading and Hessian prisoners in Virginia, stayed at the house of “Mr. Herbert, Inn keeper,’’ in Lancaster and paid £2.0.9 in specie for food and drink. Because they paid their bill in hard money, Herbert charged his guests less than the rates specified in a recent Pennsylvania law establishing prices for articles bought with paper money. News of this trans gression was almost immediately brought to the attention of the Pennsylvania Council, which was sitting at Lancaster, and on January 23 the council ordered Herbert to charge the rates required by law. The innkeeper complied with this order and submitted a bill for £4.14.0 to the British and Hessians, which caused them to complain of unfair treatment. At this point Harvie and Morris, who were passing through Lancaster on their way to join the committee at camp at Valley Forge, were approached by Dr. Hammond Beaumont, a British surgeon of the Twenty-sixth Regiment, who sought their help. As a result, Harvie and Morris, fearful of “the Advantage which our Enemies wduld take of such Circumstances, and how much our national Character for Probity might be injured by their artful Representations,’’ produced the opinion printed here suggesting that the matter “be determined by Congress.” The two American officers in charge of the British and Hessian party, Capt. William Wilson and Lt. William Patterson, delivered the opinion to the Pennsylvania Council, which indignantly rejected it and reaffirmed the original order to Herbert. The council also sent the opinion to Congress, but although a number of delegates were disquieted by what they deemed unwarranted interference in Pennsylvania’s internal affairs by Harvie and Morris, Congress took no formal action. Never theless, Harvie’s and Morris’ intervention was greatly resented in Pennsylvania, and as late as April 1779 Morris found it necessary to defend his behavior in the face of fresh criticism by state authorities. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:201-2; “Extract of a Report from Mr. Thomas Sandford,” [January 1778], Washington Papers, DLC; Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton, January 26 and 30, 1778; and Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed, April 9, 1779. The same British and Hessian relief party also occasioned a second alterca tion involving Washington, Congress, and the Bo'ard of War. After leaving Lancaster on January 24 and traveling but a few miles, the party was inter cepted and sent back to Lancaster by the commanding officer there, Col. William Stephens Smith, acting under orders from the Board of War, which had been mistakenly told that Gen. William Howe had recently forbidden provisions to be sent by water to American prisoners in Philadelphia. Washington informed the board on January 26 that this intelligence was false and ordered Smith to allow the British and Hessians to proceed on their mission of mercy. Smith was unable to carry out Washington’s order, however, because of the opposition of some military officers in Lancaster, who argued that only Congress or the Board of War could release the party. Foremost among this opposition was Gen. Thomas Conway, who exchanged sharp words on the issue with Lafayette when the latter defended the sanctity of Washington’s passport. For its part. Congress read Washington’s January 26 letter to the board on January 30 and ordered that body to conduct a full investigation. But before this inquiry could be completed the British and Hessians left Lancaster in disgust and returned to Philadelphia. See JCC, 10:101; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:216, 233, 268-69; Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:351-52, 355-57; and "Extract of a Report from Mr. Thomas Stanford,” [January 1778], Washington Papers, DLC. Although it may be that Conway and the Board of War were predisposed to


[Page 681]
January 25, 1778 645 restrained by Laws, would in the one Case as well as the other, have the Inhabitants in their Power, & by their exorbitant Demands would oblige the Farmers & Manufacturers to rise in the same Proportion, in order to support themselves 8c Families, & thus accomplish a Depreciation. A very good Reason may be assigned for the present Difference of prices, when Articles are paid for in Gold 8c Silver. These have a more extensive Circulation, & the present high prices of produce renders it necessary to obtain Species for Exportation; but by reducing the quantity of paper, 8c curbing Extortion, the prices of produce will naturally fall 8c Gold 8c Silver will not be often wanted to send abroad, 8c never by Traders at Home, unless, as I said before the State is in Danger. Has not every Legislature frequently interposed 8c provided restraining Acts, when by some unhappy Catastrophe or other Accident, many of the necessary Articles of Life have become scarce? 8c if this had not been done is it not evident, that during such Scarcity, some of their Inhabitants must have been a prey to others? I am sensible, after so lengthy an Epistle that the Subject is copious, 8c much may be said on both Sides, but it is evi dent from three Years Experience of most of the States, that Trade will not so regulate itself as to reduce the excessive prices of Articles therein, but that unrestrained in every Respect, it has been attended with a great Depreciation: And we have not had any Experience to determine the Effect of a general Regulation of prices, because the partial Attempt of a few States to restrain their Inhabitants, whilst those of the other States were permitted to make enormous Fortunes, must necessarily have produced the greatest Uneasiness, 8c created an Opposition that was not to be withstood. Mr Thaxter is in the Secretary’s Office & is much liked, he might have had the other place which You proposed, but was fearful of residing with a Gentleman troubled with a Disorder which often discomposes the calmest Minds. 1 His Merit will probably soon en title him to promotion. The Cloathing of the Army is a Matter of great Concern, 8c I sincerely hope that the Commissioners will consider it as meriting their immediate Attention. When Cloth arrives, It is almost impos sible in many States to find Tradesmen to make it up, 8c when this is accomplished, the Work is so slighted that the Cloaths are not durable. You may remember, that when the Cloathing was ordered twelve Months past, some ceconomical Gentlemen urged that part of it should be sent in Cloth, 8c to gratify them We have probably lost a thousand or two of our bravest Men. I hope that proper persons will be appointed in France to superintend the Business of making up Cloaths for the Army, 8c that Cloth will not in future be sent in the peice. I have this Day inclosed in a Letter to Mr Sproaut 2 the £4 which You owe him, 8c shall consult him on the best Method of sending


[Page 682]
646 January 25, 1778 your Chest to the North River. He is at a great Distance from hence, being as I am informed at a place 30 Miles below Philadelphia on the Jersey Shore. The other Chest shall be sent by the earliest Op portunity. Have you seen his Majesty’s Speech at the opening of the present Session? He appears to be in great Tribulation, & I hope to see him in greater, before the End of the next Campaign. By the Smiles of divine providence &: one noble Exertion, I think We may give the coup de Grace to his project for enslaving America. Mr Lovell has shewn me a Letter from a Lady of your Acquaint ance, who appears to be much displeased with Batchelors; I cannot think she is in earnest, because they are generally devoted to the Service of a Sex, Who are not to be exceeded in Kindness. But I suspect a particular friend of her’s of originating the opinion that “Batchelors are Stoics,” & conclude, that is is the practice of Hus bands to hide their Failings by imputing them to others. Certain it is that a Stoical Batchelor is an Inconsistency in Terms; & if our Friend supposes that her Opinion is founded in Experience, the In ference is, that she was never acquainted with a Batchelor. Pray give my best Respects to her, & believe me to be with the sincerest Esteem Sir, your Friend & hum serv, E Gerry RC (MHi). 1 John Thaxter, Jr., former law clerk of John Adams, had just arrived in York with recommendations from Adams for a secretary’s position with Congress. Thaxter first applied to President Laurens, but after being turned down by him Thaxter found a post in Secretary Thomson’s office. See Henry Laurens to John Adams, January 15, 1778; and Adams, Family Correspondence (Butter field), 2:382-84. 2 Not found. 3 Gerry is referring to Abigail Adams’ December 19, 1777, letter to James Lovell, which is discussed in Lovell to John Adams, January 13, 1778, note 1. Henry Laurens to the Marquis de Lafayette Sir, 25th Jany. 1778. I had the honour of writing to you yesterday by the hand of Monsr. SigougnA I omitted to inform you that by a Vote of Congress, Gen eral Conway is appointed second & General Stark third in command for the intended Northern expedition. 1 On the 6th December I made to you Noble Marquis very sincere promises of attention to your affairs at Salisbury, the day or the second day after that event, I was arrested by the Gout &: confined to Bed, the consequence of which has been a total neglect of all my own private businesses & a mortifying delay in the execution of the abovementioned engagement. I have been able in the mean time


[Page 683]
January 25, 1778 647 barely to discharge the duties of my public character, indeed I had spoken to Mr. Lovel again & relied upon him. Yesterday that Gentle man called on me & delivered a Memorandum of Monsr. Capitaine’s Name & Rank & informed me he had done nothing. I will therefore Instantly set about the business Sc send this very day to Salisbury 8c will pursue such measures as I hope will prove effectual for the pur poses intended. Inclosed you will find a Letter which you sent some time ago for Mr. Pliarne. It has lain on my Table because I had expected him again in this Town 8c knew not precisely how to direct to him, but having learned of his death I judge it proper to return the Letter to you. I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (ScHi). i See JCC, 10:87. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, York Town 25 January 1778 Mr. Duplessis who went from York I beleive on Friday did me the honour to bear a Letter to you. I did not tell you then that the Marquis delafayette is offered a Command upon an intended expedi tion into Canada, which will seperate him from the General. There can be nothing else intended but honour to the Marquis 8c benefit to the Public. General Conway is voted second in Command 8c Gen eral Stark third. General Conway called on me 8c sat an hour, he introduced the un happy dispute subsisting with the General, 8c assured me there were no such words in his Letter to General Gates as those quoted by the General. This he had learned from G. Gates, he had not kept a Copy of his Letter. Pray can you explain this Mystery, but you know tis not my wish or desire to pry improperly into the affairs of other Men. This indeed may be called a Public affair 8c I am afraid will become very Public, but as one party has appealed to me 8c the freinds of the other delivered their sentiments, I have some Claim upon each to inform me truly. By the continual passing of Officers from your Camp one would think you had all broke up for the holy days. What condition are you in? do you ever exercise your thoughts on that question, or do you go on like an honest, fearless, uninquisitive, unsuspecting Lad? My Dear Son, I pray God give You Wisdom 8c protect you from Snares. Henry Laurens RC (ScHi).


[Page 694]
658 January 26, 1778 to President Laurens that was received on December 21, Gen. Robert Howe, commander of the southern military department, explained that the resignation of Brig. Gen. Christopher Gadsden of South Carolina and the transfer of Brig. Gen. Lachlan McIntosh of Georgia necessitated the appointment of another brigadier general for each state and recommended Cols. Isaac Huger of South Carolina and Samuel Elbert of Georgia. PCC, item 160, fols. 414, 416. Gouverneur Morris to Henry Laurens Sir, Camp 26th Jany 1777 [i.e. 1778] I have taken Occasion to speak to the Marquis de la Fayette upon the Appointment you know of. The Sentiments of his Heart which are fully expressed in a Letter to you do him so much Honor that any Expressions of mine would be impertinent. 1 I am deeply surprized at the mature Judgment & solid Understanding of this Young Man for such he certainly is. 2 The Impropriety of having the first and second in Command from a foreign Country is strongly stated by him and his Apprehensions that it would be disagreable to the Subjects of America are certainly not ill founded for great Liberality in vulgar Minds is not common even in America. It deserves the Con sideration of Congress whether in Case an Accident should happen to the Commander in Chief it would be prudent to trust a Person whose object it is to push his Fortunes in France with an Oppor tunity to imbue the Minds of the Canadians with a Love of the Grand Monarque who may as probably like Canada as any of his Predecessors. This Consideration has not the less Weight from being mentioned by the Marquis. His having pitched upon McDougall who you may remember I wished to have with him may have prepossessed me in Favor of what some Gentlemen may call his Prejudices and this Prepossession is as you may well suppose not weakened by his Declaration that he would willingly act under him as second in Com mand if deemed necessary for the Service. I write standing in the midst of Company. You will therefore be so kind as to excuse the Stile of this Letter which upon Perusal I find to be very defective. I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, Sir, Your most obedient & very humble Servant, Gouvr Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Endorsed: "Refd. Board War.” i In a private letter that he apparently wrote this day, Lafayette explained to Laurens that he strongly opposed the appointment of Gen. Thomas Conway as his second in command for the projected Canadian expedition because of Conway’s efforts to stir up disaffection with Washington in the army and in Congress. ‘‘How can I support the society of a man,” asked the marquis, “who has spocken of my friend [Washington] in the most insolent and abusive terms, who has done, and does every day all in his power to ruin him, who tries to spend the fire in every part of the army and the country.” Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:254. During a brief stay in York to obtain formal instructions for


[Page 695]
January 26, 1778 659 the expedition from the Board of War, Lafayette officially wrote to Congress on January 31 and asked that it appoint Gen. Alexander McDougall or Gen. Johann de Kalb, both of whom had seniority over Conway, to serve with him in Canada. Congress agreed to this request on February 2. Although McDougall was not well enough to accept the post, Kalb did join Lafayette and displace Conway as the marquis’ second in command. See ibid., pp. 267—71, 281, 291-92; and JCC, 10:107. a Morris, who was nearing his twenty-sixth birthday when he wrote this letter, was only five years older than Lafayette. Daniel Roberdeau to Thomas Wharton Sir, York Town Jany. 26th. 1778 The Delligates of this State are honored with your Letter in Coun cil with it’s enclosures respecting the extraordinary interference of Mr. Harvey & Mr. Morris in the affair of the Brittish Convoy and the Innholder at Lancaster which were laid before Congress this afternoon, and defered for consideration ’till tomorrow, when I doubt not your spirited Conduct will be highly approved and the treatment you met with impunged. 1 The subject was introduced un der the idea of the Trojan Horse travelling through our land not filled with men but most probably with the more dangerous Enemy counterfeited continental money, which may be part of the contents of the Bails in the Waggons, agreeable to the Specimen obtained of the Waggoners, whose imprisonment was applauded by every member who spoke on the subject, as the searching every person of the Escort and of all the packages would have been; but most of all the bringing every traiterous Conspirator against the Liberties of these States by so diabolical a scheme would redound to the honor of our State, and would be seasonable Victims, in terrorem, to our much injured Country. You will have opportunity of special inquiry into any further hidden machination, as the Board of War have stopped the progress of the Waggons, and I hope it will be improved, and that you will not hold the sword of Justice in vain. Congress has no right to interfere in our civil policy, nor will it be presumed, however their result on the Subject of the papers above mentioned will be com municated as soon as I have it in my power. The copy of the Letter forwarded to Gen. Washington found on the Serjeant would have [been] very satisfactory, pray favor me with it without delay, with a particular account of the Escort, and the ostensible rank they bear, for I very much suspect ficticious Characters. I also request to know something more particular of the conduct of the Capt. &: Lieut, bearers of the indecent paper deliverd to the Secretary of Council, and whether they are not Continental Officers. The astonishing Con duct of the two Members of Congress who were to have consulted with the State on the Subject of Supplies, is a presage of the unfortu nate issue of that measure, concerning which you are entirely silent.


[Page 698]
662 January 27, 1778 omitted reference to it in his summary of Carroll’s delegate attendance for 1778. See JCC, 10:59, 67: and Burnett, Letters, 3:liii. 6 For Congress’ January 21 resolves designed to tie treatment of British prisoners of war to that accorded to Americans in British hands, see JCC, 10:77-81. Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de La Neuville Sir, 1 27th Jany 1778 The Letters 8c documents which you put into my hands for the consideration of Congress were duly presented this Morning, & after the opinions of Several Members had been delivered on the Subject, it was Resolved upon a question to postpone a determination until the House Shall have received a Report from a Committee lately Sent to General Washington’s Army, who have, among other Duties, in charge to make new arrangements in Some Ranks of Officers. I pressed the House as forcibly as became me, to consider your request for a decisive answer, but it was their pleasure to rest at the Resolve abovementioned, from whence, it is my private Sentiment, Congress are disposed from Considerations of your Merits as well as of those respectable recommendations which accompanied your appli cation to grant the Rank you desire in the Army of the United States of America, provided this may be done without prejudice to the Service. I have the honour to be 8cca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Le Chevalier Lanuville, York.” r Louis-Pierre Penot Lombart, chevalier de La Neuville (b. 1744), an im portunate French volunteer, received an appointment as inspector general of the northern army on May 14, a brevet commission as a Continental brigadier general on October 14, 1778, and then returned to France in January 1779. See JCC, 11:499, 12:1010; and Andre Lasseray, Les Fran(ais sous les treize ^toiles (1115-1183), 2 vols. (Macon and Paris: Imprimerie Protat Frdres, 1935), 2:349-56. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Sir, 27 Jany 1778. Your Excellency’s favours of the 7th 8c 8th Inst. 1 having immedi ately upon presentment to Congress been sent to the Board of War 8c not returned, from thence I have received no particular commands to transmit in return—except the Inclosed Warrant on the loan Office of New Jersey for Ten Thousand Dollars, the purpose for which it was granted is specified in the Warrant. 2 I likewise Inclose an Act of Congress of the 29th December for


[Page 699]
January 27, 1778 663 bringing to punishment when practicable, such of the inhabitants of these States as have joined or shall join the Enemy. 3 Also an Act of the 21st Inst, relative to the treatment of prisoners prefaced by a recital of an Act of the 19th December formerly transmitted & 5 Copies. 4 I am with very sincere Esteem &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i Governor Livingston’s letters—the first to the Board of War and the second to Laurens—are in PCC, item 68, fols. 317—22. 2 Congress issued this money to New Jersey on January 24 “for the purpose of recruiting the continental batallions of the said state.” JCC, 10:89. See also Laurens to Livingston, December 29, 1777, note 1. 3 This “Act” was actually passed on December 30. JCC, 9:1069. 4 See JCC, 10:74-81. Laurens also informed Commissary of Prisoners Elias Boudinot of this “Act” in a brief letter that he wrote to him this day. PCC, item 13, fol. 157. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear Sir, 27 Jany. 1778. I have but a moment at present for acknowledging, & returning thanks for the Honour received in your Excellencys favour of the 8 th. I shall always reflect upon the tender of Gov. Livingston’s freindship as one of the very happy events in my Life. I will also sedulously endeavor to retain an acquisition which feels the more valuable as it came unexpected. But alas Sir, what have I, who am neither a Scholar nor a Wit, to return in Exchange for your polite correspondence, call me one Step beyond the composition of a plain Letter of business, & I am gravelled. If after this frank & laconic declaration your Excellency shall be pleased to take me as I am, & to confirm the late proposition, you will find me faithful, ready to embrace occasions for evidencing an Esteem which I had entertained for your Character, long before the adventitious circumstance of Official addresses had drawn me into Your Excellency’s veiw. Set me down therefore, if you please Sir, upon the premised Conditions, as one of your humble Servants, one who rejoices in the opportunity afforded him of signifying his desire to be sincerely attached to you, & in nothing within the Sphere of my capacity will Your Excellency be deceived, or wilfully disappointed by me. If I were to indulge a querulous vein I should detain your Ex cellency by a long detail of disorders & distractions in all our public affairs, Superadded to the baneful effects of avarice & peculation, among them & not the least, the appearance, it would be warrantable to Say, raging, of a dangerous party Spirit, but I forbear, & will still


[Page 700]
664 January 27, 1778 trust, that the States will be awakened from their present Lethargy & again think it necessary to be Represented in Congress by Men of ability & in Sufficient Numbers. A most shameful deficiency in this branch is the greatest Evil & is indeed the source of almost all our Evils. Admitting that we, who are present, were all, what truth knows we are not, it would not be possible for 21, often 15, & some times barely 9 States represented by Units, to discharge with accuracy & expedition which is due to all business, the business which is daily presented to Congress, much less, if that can be, to look into that which has long been in Arrears. Hence Thousands I may say Millions have been wasted & are wasting every day—hence our American Foxes holding unaccounted Millions have gained time enough to learn 8c impudence enough to Say, the powers of Congress fall Short of compulsive means for bringing them to a reckoning. Besides, we want genius for Striking out new matter, for correcting errors 8c repressing dangerous appearances, by measures Wise, silent & effectual. Your Excellency is too well acquainted with the disorders of our domestic concerns, I am sorry to assure you, all our foreign wear the aspect of mere chance-medley. Hence Naked Soldiers, Deaths, replete Hospitals, desertions 8c evacuated Regiments, hence too in my judgment, we are very lightly esteemed abroad 8c probably are held up this very Instant at Auction—part of the conduct of the faithful Court of Versailles will justify the suggestion. Is it not from these considerations incumbent upon every Man of Influence throughout our Union to exert his powers at this Crisis, to exhort each State to fill up its Representation in Congress with the best, that is the most sensible, vigilant 8c faithful Citizens? At present it seems as if every such Man had bought his yoke of Oxen 8c prayed to be excused. A little longer trifling will fix a galling yoke upon them selves, there is but one thing I think can prevent it. Our Antagonist is as Idle, as profligate as ourselves 8c keeps pace with us in profusion, mismanagement 8c family discord. Some of us however should remember the fate of the quarreling Curs 8c guard against a Similar decision, disgraceful 8c fatal. Methinks I can perceive a design in our artful, Specious half-freinds to come in for at least part of the Bone. Perseverance in our present track will oblige us to run in debt more 8c more abroad, 8c there are among us some who discover an amazing avidity to do so. Let us be dipped a few Millions deeper in foreign debt, means will be easily found for protracting the War 8c our flimsy Independency will become abjectly dependent upon those who may either Send their Ships to collect accumulated Interest 8c dictate the mode of payment, or may obtain payment if they prefer it in Thread Needle Street. Will sober Men rely upon the faith or upon the Benevolence of Kings? Has France done one act of kindness towards us but what has been plumply for the promotion of her own Interest? Has she


[Page 702]
666 January 27, 1778 tion of his favorite Warrior. Forgive me Sir I have been deceived in the time & did not mean to have been so troublesome. I am with very Sincere Regard 8cca. LB (ScHi). i At this point in the LB Laurens inserted an asterisk to the following re marks he wrote just below the complimentary close of the letter: “It is morally impossible this can be true, & I believe they have already proved it by lending us a larger sum. I am afraid they have—but extending a kindness under a plea of Poverty heightens the obligation on one side & strengthens the claim to grateful & suitable acknowledgments on the other.” Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir, York Town 27th Jany 1778 While I was sitting in Congress yesterday a Member came in & delivered me the inclosed Paper 1 just in its present State except the broken Seals, the Gentleman’s declaration as he was putting the thing into my hand, that he had picked it up on the Stairs, was a sufficient alarm. I passed my Eye cursorily over the Pages, put them into my Pocket 8c intimated to the House, that it was an anonymous produc tion containing stuff which I must be content with, as perquisites of Office—that the hearth was the proper depository for such Records. I have shown it to no body 8c have long hesitated upon the propriety of troubling Your Excellency with the knowledge of an attempt for which I want a proper stigma. If I have erred in my present deter mination I beg Your Excellency will beleive that my motives are pure, 8c that as I wish to avoid the very appearance of being party Man or an Informer Your Excellency will be pleased to receive this in confidence 8c in the favorable light of an innocent intrusion. 2 I am with the most sincere Esteem 8c Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servant, Henry Laurens RC (DLC photostat). i The “Paper” Laurens sent to Washington was entitled “The Thoughts of a Freeman,” dated January 17, 1778, and addressed “To the President of Con gress & every member thereof.” It consisted of a scathing indictment of Wash ington’s performance as commander in chief and concluded with a ringing call for his dismissal: “no good may be expected from the standing army, until Baal [Washington] and his worshippers are banished from the camp.” The author of this anonymously written document remains unknown. See Washington Papers, DLC; and George Washington, The Writings of George Washington, ed. Jared Sparks, 12 vols. (New York: Harper and Row, 1847), 5:497-99. For Washington’s response to this paper, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 10:410-11. 2 Laurens also wrote a brief letter to Washington this day transmitting January 19 and 21 resolves relating to prisoners of war. PCC, item 13, fol. 156; and JCC, 10:61-62, 74-82.


[Page 703]
January 27, 1778 667 Francis Lewis to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Baltimore 27th Janry. 1778 Being indulged by Congress with a few days absence in order to Visit my family at this place, As a member of the Marine Committee, I have been charged by that Board, to inspect the fitting out some Continental Vessells now in this harbour; of which one is a new Vessell built for a Packet Boat 1 destined to carry the Congress’s dispatches to their Commissioners in Europe; This Vessell is ordered to be fitted for the sea with the utmost expedition, and Commanded by Thomas Read Esqr. of the Effingham 2 Frigate now laid up at Borden Town. As this Packet Boat is directed to be armed for defence, being pierced for Twelve Carriage Guns, four pounders and as no such cannon can be procured here, induces me to apply to your Excellency for Ten pieces of Cannon for that purpose, being informed that there is now at Annapolis several such belonging to this state under your direction. If the Cannon can be spared, please to let me know the terms on behalf of the State, and upon the receipt of your answer I shall return to Congress and report the same. 3 I have the honor to be, your Excellencys most Obedient Humbl Servant, Fra. Lewis RC (PHi). i The Baltimore. 2 Read actually commanded the Washington. 3 The Maryland Council of Safety informed Lewis on February 11, 1778, that it was willing to allow Congress to purchase “six four Pounders . . . and their Carriages compleat ... for the Price such would sell for at Baltimore.” Md. Archives, 16:488-89. James Lovell to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Janry. 27th. 1778. Your Letter of the 10th from Windham has come to hand, and, I assure you, gives me all the pain which a stranger to you would conjecture you wished it might give me at the time you wrote it. But, be equally assured that ninety nine hundreths of that pain arrises from the consideration of your ill state of health. Personally I deserve not any of your railing. And, if I was the main instrument in bringing about all you complain of, yet the present sufferings of the public Cause would, as they well may, so fully occupy my mind and occasion so much regret & pain that there would be no room left for your complaints of a personal nature to make impression. To be very honest with you, I think you have more than bodily Jaundice. The


[Page 704]
668 January 27, 1778 Gentleman who now presides here has a great regard for your hond. Father, and perhaps from an aim to show it has put you into a rage. A circular letter was written by a Committee to go to the Legislature of each of the 13 States. It begins Sir; and the President was ordered to transmit it. This he ought perhaps to have done variously as the Legislatures are variously constituted. He ought to have sent to the Govr. or the Presidt. or the Speaker; for Sir is meant for the Head of the Legislature. But you have taken it for granted that yr. good Father was treated differently from the Head of the other Legisla tures, and this designedly by Congress. The President being sick at Home thought Sir was intended for the Speaker of the lower house; here is the mystery. 1 I feel a little vexed with myself for having wrote so many lines upon this subject when I ought to have spent the same Ink in persuading you to come and help other honest men to mend bad plans or make some new ones. I must remark that you are as much wrong about P ’s being preferred before you as you were about yr. Father’s being ill treated. 2 A Board of War was chosen while a Committee was planning a Victualling board. This last Committee reported that the addition of yr. honor alone to the board of war would compleatly answer all the end proposed, thus you was elected. And the addition of one more was made as Genl. Gates may be occasionally called away in a mili tary line ergo Mr. P . I have no arguments to use with you to come here but merely that of serving your country, for be assured that your accommodations will be bad and your Salary little adequate to the avaricious griping Spirit of these anglo-german People. I recon, dear Justice, you will call this Letter a new Insult; but be prepared, for I will continue to ask you from time to time to help us through the dangers of Shipwreck tho’ I should be scolded by you ten times more than I have been. My best Regards to your Amelia who I suppose could hang me for persuading you to forget your Injuries & consequently to leave her and wear yourself out for the public. Yr. obliged Friend, J L RC (CtHi). 1 See Henry Laurens to the States, December 23, 1777, note 2. 2 Lovell may have been referring to either Timothy Pickering or Richard Peters, but the reference is probably to the latter. Pickering was elected to the Board of War on November 7, and Peters and Trumbull were appointed to it on November 27, 1777. JCC, 9:874, 971. If Trumbull was objecting to Peters' ap pointment, the protest was ironic because, according to Eliphalet Dyer, Peters was appointed instead of Joseph Reed, who was believed to be objectionable to Trumbull. See Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, November 28, 1777, and Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, November 27, 1777, note 1.


[Page 708]
January 27, 1778 672 away. The Congress have now positively determined that Burgoyne and his Army shall not be suffered to embark till there is a formal Ratification of the Convention Sent from the Court of London & that all the Expences of his Troops shall be paid in hard money or Provisions. I inclose you the Proceedings of Congress relative to the Prisoners & mean to Send Some English News Papers not very late indeed but which you must keep & return by a safe Conveyance when it can be found. If Dr Scudder comes I shall probaby set off immediately but am very much pressed to Stay & in Case any Important Intelligence came from England or France it may seem to demand it &: therefore I wish you would try to get Mr Faitoute to teach the few boys you have for a Week or two when you are obliged to go to the Assembly. I received no Letters from my Family by Dr Bloomfield which surprised me as well as disappointed me. Since therefore they are so very inattentive I wish upon any Opportunity offering you would put them in mind. I forgot indeed that I had a Short Letter from Mr Montgomery without any Date which was also the Case with his last but I had not a Syllable from any of them by Jos. Lane. I am Dear Sir Yours affectionately, Jno Witherspoon Thursday Jany 29 Postscript. I have just sent up for you all the English News Papers that are in this house. There were some come later but they are now so dispersed among the Members that it would be impossible to collect them. If I meet them I will send them by a future Opportunity. These however must be kept & returned. The Governor returned them lately. RC (PHQ. i William Churchill Houston (1746-88), professor of mathematics and natural philosophy at the College of New Jersey, served as deputy secretary to Congress in 1777, as a member of the New Jersey Assembly from 1777 to 1779, and as a New Jersey delegate to Congress in 1779-81, 1784-85. Bio. Dir. Cong.; and James McLachlan, Princetonians 1748-1768: A Biographical Dictionary (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1976), pp. 643^17. 2 Not found. s Congress took this action on December 19. See JCC, 9:1036. Burnett in serted an ellipsis after “New Jersey” as if to indicate he was omitting part of the letter between the end of this paragraph and the one beginning “I am sorry indeed,” but in fact there is nothing in the MS between these paragraphs. Burnett, Letters, 3:57. 4 For a text of the proceedings of the convention of states from New Hampshire to Pennsylvania that met in New Haven from January 15 to 20, see PCC, item 33, fols. 329-65. 5 See Witherspoon’s Speech in Congress on the Saratoga Convention, January 8, 1778. « Nathaniel Scudder took his seat in Congress on February 9, 1778. See JCC, 10:138. r Isaac Collins’ New-Jersey Gazette. s Drs. Moses Bloomfield and James Tilton were surgeons serving in the military hospital at Princeton.


[Page 712]
676 January 28, 1778 Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens Sir Camp at the Valley Forge Jany 28. 1778. Upon Conference with the General on the Business recommended to us, it appears clearly that the Appointment of a Qr. Master Genl, is a Matter of great Importance & immediate Necessity. When we consider the State of the Department, &: how much depends on filling it up in a proper Manner, we cannot help mentioning General Schuyler, & for the Benefit of the Service we could wish he would undertake it. 1 At the same Time we must observe it is by no Means clear, that he will accept of it; besides this, the Charge or Accusation he now lies under may demand some Attention. And the Rank he holds in the Army may be a strong Objection to place him in a Situation where Fortune may throw in his Hands the supreme Command. What Weight these Objections will have in Congress we cannot presume to say. They are great in the Minds of the Comm. But we are convinced that unless the Quarter Master Genls. Depart ment be administered by very superiour Abilities, very little can be expected from our Exertions during the next Campaign. The Committee are of Opinion that if Congress judge it inex pedient to make the Appointment we have suggested, no Time should be lost in acquainting the Committee of it, as they have some other Persons under Consideration, but cannot at present determine to whom they shall give the Preference on their Recommendation to Congress. I am with all possible Respect by the Desire of the Committee, Sir, Your Obed. Hbbl Servt. Fra Dana Chairman at Camp RC (DNA: PCC, item 33). In the hand of Joseph Reed and signed by Francis Dana. 1 This letter recommending Philip Schuyler as Thomas Mifflin’s replacement as quartermaster general reached Congress on January 31, when it was read just before Congress resumed consideration of a Board of War report on the quartermaster department. The board’s report was adopted on February 5 and forwarded by President Laurens on February 7, but no mention was made of Schuyler. See JCC, 10:103, 126-27; and Henry Laurens to Francis Dana, February 7, 1778. As late as February 12 the committee had received no word on Congress’ decision regarding Schuyler and on that day it wrote to Laurens urging that a decision be made. Unofficial notice that Congress did not approve Schuyler’s appointment arrived at camp by the next day in a letter from Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed, which has not been found. But in his reply Reed reported: “I have since that Time received your Favour & find we are not to expect Schuyler for our Qr. Master. I feared it & am really sorry for it as it is a Matter of great Importance & we are now much at a Loss whom to propose.” On February 25 Smith explained to Reed that Congress vetoed Schuyler’s nomination because they did not trust his “intriguing mind,” “unfriendly” temper, or ability to “conduct the great business.” See Committee at Camp to Henry Laurens, February 12; Joseph Reed to Jonathan Bayard Smith, February 13; and Jonathan Bayard Smith to Joseph Reed, February 25, 1778.


[Page 719]
January 29, 1778 683 [P.S.] Vessels under 50 Tons to be Commanded by Lieutenants & penalty of the Bond 5000 Dollars; above 50 Tons Captains & 10000 Dollars. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). i In this letter Laurens merely acknowledged receipt of a January 26 letter from the Pennsylvania Council and transmitted congressional resolves of December 30 on disaffected Americans and of January 21 on prisoners of war. PCC, item 13, fol. 157. See also JCC, 9:1069, 10:74-82; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 6:208. Marine Committee to John Barry Sir January 29th 1778 We having agreed to employ the Pinnace and Barges belonging to the Frigates and the Barge taken up by Captain Josiah in the River Delaware on a Cruize in Said River under your command We hereby empower you to receive such war-like Stores, Provisions & other Stores from the Navy Board, and to employ such Continental Navy Officers not in Actual Service and to collect such a number of Men as you shall think necessary for officering, manning, victualling and eqquipping said Boats. 1 As you will have frequent occasion to land on each Side of the Delaware during your Cruize you will take effectual care to restrain your officers & men from plundering, insult ing or in any way treating ill the Inhabitants of the Country. Humanity, good Policy and your reputation demand that they should be treated with kindness—you may want supplies from them and their assistance in moving to a place of safety such effects as you may capture. You will therefore attend particularly to this Instruction. We have directed the Navy Board to furnish you with every thing necessary for equiping your little fleet and with money to procure supplies for your Crews as occasion may require. You will take account of all goods of every kind which you may Capture and prevent their being pilfered. As it will be necessary that you should take with you or appoint on Shore some honest faithful persons who are well acquainted with the Country and will undertake to procure waggons for the speedy removal to a place of safety and take care of such goods as you may Capture—you will attend particularly to this necessary point and employ such persons. You will give immediate notice to General Washington of such stores as you may Capture which are necessary for the use of the Army. We would have you Sink or otherwise destroy the Hulls of all such Vessels as you may take which cannot be removed to some place of Safety. The Vessels which you take and preserve and the goods which you Capture must be libelled in the Court of Admiralty in the State into which they


[Page 722]
686 January 30, 1778 purposes afsd. This we Authorize you to do, and as Mr. Ross has transacted his business in A Satisfactory Manner, you will please to write and Sign a Suitable Letter to him (which we will also sign) directing him to dispose of those Cargoes &c and should any balance remain in his hands to invest the same in Goods suitable for the army, and Ship them for the Continent, observing to him also that the Vessels which carry the Tobacco and are chartered to return to the States should bring back salt. 5 By Express yesterday we had account of the arrival at Edenton in North Carolina of Two Vessels with 129 Bales of Cloths, Blankets, Hose, Shoes 8cc shipped by Monsr. Currabasse at Cape Francois; and Captain Morrison from Martinico touched at Edenton and landed 9 Bales of goods shipped by Mr Bingham. The Brigantine Success which we ordered round from Boston is also arrived at that port. We can see no better way than to order the purchase of Cargoes of Tobacco for those Vessels even at the high price it now bears, as waiting on that to be transported from Virginia would occasion great delay. We are Sir, with much respect, Your Most Obedt servts, William Ellery James Forbes P.S. Inclosed are the Coppies of A Letter from General Hand, of an Estimate of Provisions of Colo. Morgan and of A Letter from Mr Willing. The originals have been laid before Congress who were Startled at the Expence, which is like to arise on this Voyage or expedition and have postponed the Consideration thereof. As we were not in Congress when this Adventure was undertaken and know nothing about it excepting what appears by the Letters to the Governor of New Orleans & Louisiana to our Agent there and the Instructions given to Mr Willing and are no Judges respecting Colo. Morgans estimate of the Provisions we should be glad to have your Sentiments on this Matter as soon as possible.® Y We hope you will be able to compleat the Books of the Secret Committee in A Short Time so that they and the papers may be laid before Congress, and a Commercial Committee appointed upon the Plan proposed by you or one Similar to it, for we are fully convinced from the little we have seen that such A plan is necessary and that we are unequal to the Important business Committed to our charge. 7 William Ellery James Forbes RC (PYHi). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Ellery and Forbes, r None of these Morris letters to the committee has been found. 2 The committee’s letter to Stephen Steward has not been found. 3 See Marine Committee to Thomas Read, January 13, 1778.


[Page 723]
January 30, 1778 687 4 See Francis Lewis to Thomas Johnson, February 1, 1778, note 1. 5 See JCC, 11:738-40; Robert Morris to the Committee of Commerce, February 17; and Committee of Commerce to John Ross, February 21, 1778. 6 See JCC, 10:101, 184. Edward Hand’s January 17 letter to the committee and the enclosures by George Morgan and James Willing concerning the provision ing of Willing’s West Florida expedition are in PCC, item 159, fols. 402^, 431, 435-36. See also the letters of the Committee of Commerce to New Orleans agent Oliver Pollock, November 21, 1777, note 1, and to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 4. r Robert Morris’ proposed plan for reorganizing the Committee of Commerce has not been found but it was probably prepared in connection with Morris' work during 1777 on the committee that had been charged with preparing “a plan for the better conducting the executive business of Congress, by boards com posed of persons, not members of Congress.” Although reconstituted in December 1778, the Committee of Commerce continued to consist of congressional members. See JCC, 6:1041-42, 12:1216-17; and Committee of Commerce to Robert Morris, February 21, 1778, note 6. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Sir York Town 30 Jany [1778], 9 oClo PM. I am this moment returned from Congress & tis the first I have had for replying to your Note of this date brought to me when the House was in debate. I shall order the Bills of Exchange to be furnished the Marquis delafayette or the Officer commanding an expedition into Canada to be made out to Morrow Morning & deliver them to the Marquis. 1 I am with great Regard, Sir, Your most Obedt. servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NjMoHP). i Among the Laurens Papers at ScHi is a slightly mutilated letter that Laurens apparently wrote to a member of the Board of Treasury on January 31: "In pursuance of the above Resolve will you be so obliging as to Cause 6 Sets of Bills of Exchange to be made out agreeable to the specimen endors’d. I do not know [if] this comes within the sphere of your [. . .] Office Duty—but I think it will be [. . .] to Debit the Commanding Officer in the Treasury Books. For this reason as [well] as because you have a Clerk who [writes] a better hand than mine I trouble you [relying?] at the same time on your good [. . .] to [. . .] me.” This letter was written just below a copy of the January 28 resolve directing the commander of the expedition to Canada to be “furnished with bills of exchange drawn by the President of Congress on the commissioners of the United States in France to the amount of thirty thousand French livres.” On the back of the letter, moreover, there is a specimen bill of exchange dated “31 January 1778.” See also JCC, 10:96.


[Page 724]
688 January 30, 1778 Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais 30th January 1778 A whole Month has rolled over Since I threw my thoughts upon the preceeding pages. I have just passed my Eye over them again & determined imperfect as they are to submit them to your candor. I could add a long & affecting paragraph on the Subject of Non Representation, I could tell you truly the House has been reduced to nine States represented in Units—that we have Sometimes been Stagnant from a want of Members & oftner running whole days into weeds of unmatured conversations from a want of able Members. I could tell you that thousands & Millions have been wasted & are wasting, from a want of proper Men & sufficient members to attend the affairs of the Treasury, most amazingly in Arrears. Hence, peculators in all the Classes have gained time to learn & have now the audacity to boast, that Congress fall short of coercive powers for compelling them to fair reckonings. I could tell you of consequences infinitely worse than the loss of Money, aye, than the loss of as many millions as we have Issued. We have lost the opportunity of driving the Enemy from Philadelphia this Winter, but if what I have already said will not awaken you, you will not be persuaded by all the tellings & all the exhortations I am capable of. Go on, slumber in golden dreams till calamity shall overwhelm you & till your faces shall be covered with shame & disgrace. For many articles of Intelligence I refer you to papers & Letters which will accompany this & to Notes on them to which I specially refer. With respect to my private affairs under your Eye I refer to your friendship. ‘Tis utterly impossible for me to think fully of them without neglecting the Duties of my Office, which I will not do for any private consideration, but I will try to acknowledge & briefly answer all your late Letters, next opportunity, if possible in another sheet by this. I wrote you a very long & as I think Interesting Letter the 10th September which you have not acknowledged, I am desirous of knowing whether you received it. My Love & Compliments to Mrs. Gervais & the Children, to Mr. and Mrs. Manigault 8c to each 8c all my friends. I remain with sincere Respect 8c affection 8cca. LB (ScHi). A continuation of Laurens to Gervais, December 30, 1777.


[Page 726]
690 January 30, 1778 send Men only in quantity. Have the Strictest attention to quality— search for Men of vigilance, diligence, integrity, fortitude, knowledge (& address—and you search long in So Carolina for such—I think not—but you may be long searching for persuasives to induce them chearfully & heartily to leave their plans & schemes & pursuits for adding House to House & feild to feild. I lament in the present moment for my Country’s sake my own deficiency in those necessary qualifications for an able Delegate, but while you Command me to stay here, such powers as nature & Industry have vested me with shall be exerted in the Characters of Delegate & President for the benefit of our great Cause & I will particularly attend to your Concerns & give them motion & bring them to effect with all possible dispatch of which I shall have the honor of writing again in a few days—nor will I be inattentive to the article of Rank. I have scattered in different hands in Charles Town all the News of the time good & Bad, from whence & probably from better authority you will learn it—fast as pen in my hand could slide have the preceeding Lines been written—conscious of well meaning, 8c confident your candour forbids anxiety for the fate of what is not so well arranged or expressed. I am with great Respect &ca. LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Majr. General Robert Howe, Charles Town.” i On December 29 Congress had read and referred to the Board of War one November 3 and two November 4 letters from Gen. Robert Howe, the com mander of the southern military department. JCC, 9:1064. The November 3 letter and one of the November 4 letters are in PCC, item 160, fols. 400-406. Both pointed out serious weaknesses in the defenses of Georgia, prompting Congress on January 15 to appoint a committee “to take into consideration the State of Georgia” which submitted a report to the delegates on February 15. See JCC, 10:53, 120, 159-65. Transcripts of Howe’s other November 4 letter to Laurens as well as the one of November 28 are in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 2 Although these last four letters are not in PCC, a November 29 letter from Howe to Laurens which the president received on December 21 is in item 160, fol. 414, of the collection. Henry Laurens to George Read Sir, York Town Jany 1778 Upon receipt of your favour of the 18th I transmitted by Capt. Lewis twenty blank Commissions for private Ships of War together with Instructions & Bonds, the latter when duly Executed you will be pleased to return to Congress. I have received no particular Command in reply to the Letter abovementioned nor to a former of the 25th November. 1 Your Honour will find under cover with this Nine Acts of Congress


[Page 733]
January 31, 1778 697 of Calling in all our paper money Issued under the Sanction of the Crown, great distinction has been made by the dissaffected in this and many Other States, an evil universally complained of, & has been remedied in Several very Effectually, by Calling it all in, at a Certain day, after which it is not redeemable by any future tax, neither is it to be taken as a Tendre. In some States, Treasurers notes bearing Interest are given in lieu of this kind of money, redeemable in One Year. Congress have a high Sense of the Offer made by Our Country, of marching 5000 militia to the Assistance of the Grand Army, and greatly applaud their Spirit, whether they will be called for, is not yet known. I suppose they will not (having so great a distance to march) unless in case of Immergency. But this is no more than my Private Opinion & not to be mentioned. I take the Liberty to inclose a Memorandum which Mr. R. Henry Lee put into my hands a few weeks ago, which has been mislaid. 1 I shall be happy in receiving a Line from Yr. Excellency when you can find Leisure and am with Great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed 8c very hul Servt. 2 Cornl. Harnett RC (PHi). i Lee’s memorandum has not been found. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Harnett to Caswell, February 3, 1778. Robert Morris to John Brown Dear Sir Manheim Jany 31st. 1778 I received your favour by Capt Barry with its inclosures for which I thank you 8c herewith send a Packet for Mess Hewes 8c Smith which I beg you will forward by their express and inform me per first Conveyance whether the Committee send them any money. I shou’d also if agreable to the Committee be glad to see H 8c S’s letter to them which shall be returned again if you send it to me. Congress last Fall gave 100 Blank Commissions for Privateers or Letters of Marque to the Commercial Committee to be sent abroad to their agents. I beg you will put six of them under a Cover to Mr. John Ross to the care of Messrs Sami 8c J.H. Delap in Bourdeaux 8c put that letter under a Cover to Capt Patrick Barry 8c send it to him at Mess Hewes 8c Smith by their express. Mr Ross will have oppor tunity to make use of these Commissions agreable to the designs of Congress and I have promised him they shou’d be sent. Your complyance will oblige, Dr sir, your obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (PHi).


[Page 738]
702 Index Congress, 253, 516; criticizes John Hancock, 395; mentioned, 4, 225, 267, 297, 337, 393, 398, 488,492, 531, 578, 582, 602 Adams, Thomas: elected to Congress, xxii, 496; attends Congress, 496 Adjournment; see Congress Adjutant general: Alexander Hamilton recommended, 241; Edward Fleming recommended, 293; Alexander Scammell appointed, 295, 518, 535 Adjutant general’s department, John Trumbull resigns, 535 Admiralty appeals; see Derby v. Hopkins', Fowkes v. The Roseanna; Phoenix (schooner); Weyman v. Arthur Africa, British trade with, 367, 394 Agents, Continental: conflict with military officers, 89; shipbuilding duties, 195; commission rate authorized, 429; mentioned, 89, 172; see also Bingham, William; Bradford, William; Dorsius, John; Langdon, John; Lee, William; Morris, Thomas; Purviance, Robert; Purviance, Samuel; Tillinghast, Daniel Agnew, James, 79, 83, 87, 90, 95, 97, 102, 103, 112, 116, 117, 154, 157, 206 Aides-de-camp: for Lafayette, 640; mentioned, 535 Aitken, Robert, prints journals of Congress, 509, 615 Albany, N.Y.: James Duane ordered to, 421-24; Indian conference, 422-23, 469, 566; mentioned, 112 Albany, N.Y., Committee of Safety: reports Burgoyne’s surrender, 148, 155, 698; mentioned, 182, 206 Albemarle County, Va., aids Boston poor, 179 Alcott, Col., 568 Alexander, Charles: letter to, 20; marine committee instructions, 20; captured, 21 Alexander, William: letters to, 444, 597; drunkenness, 22; exposes Washington’s detractors, 330, 599; mentioned, xxvii Alfred (Continental ship), 457, 468, 492 Allegiance; see Oaths Allen, Capt., 175 Allen, Ethan, prisoner exchange, 587 Allen family (of Pennsylvania), 13, 15 Allentown, Pa., 16, 422 Allon, Capt., 490, 539 Amphitrite (French ship), 337 Ancrum, John, 99, 407, 539 Anderson, James, 478 Anderson’s Ferry, Pa., 422 Andrew Doria (Continental brig), 606, 685 Anglicans, protest disestablishment, 98 Annapolis, Md., 273 Annual Register, 544 Appleton, Nathaniel, 180, 264 Arendt, Henry Leonard Philip, baron d’, 547, 550 Argent, comte d’, 168 Argout, comte d’, 305, 319, 364, 439 Armand-Tuffin, Charles, chevalier de la Rouerie: letter to, 519; proposes in dependent corps, 519 Arms and ammunition: for Continental Army, 18; Continental returns, 135; cap tured, 221, 529-31, 534, 538, 558; imported, 367, 438, 442, 445, 451; mentioned, 22, 25, 37, 45; see also Cannon; Powder Armstrong, John: on recruiting, 473; mentioned, 75, 88 Army: see British army; Continental Army; Militia Arnold, Benedict: letter to, 343; seniority, 59, 343, 352; dispute with Horatio Gates, 73, 86-87, 107; wounded, 129; commended, 235; mentioned, 61, 93, 120, 368 Arthur, George, Weyman v. Arthur appeal, 141-42, 190-94 Articles of Confederation; see Confederation, Articles of


[Page 739]
Index 703 Artillery: Virginia, 83-84, 208, 217, 317, 324, 331-32; Maryland, 181; Continental, 354, 575, 578, 637; see also Cannon Auditors, appointed by Congress, 558-59, 596 Augusta (H.M.S.), 182, 190, 198, 215, 222, 232 Aurora (ship), 232 Austria, 445 Bache, Richard: identified, 567; letter to, 567 Bailey, Francis: letter to, 245; & prints Articles of Confederation, 297; mentioned, xxvi Baltimore, Md.: defense, 13; Congress’ flight to, 57; navy board relocates at, 639; mentioned, 398, 570, 582, 667 Baltimore (Continental brigantine): outfitted, 306; mentioned, 307, 582, 667 Bancker, Evert, letter to, 536 Banister, John: elected to Congress, xxii, 629; attends Congress, 629; mentioned, 274, 628 Banning, Mr., 99 Bant, William, 41, 48, 77, 138 Barney, Joshua, 239, 409 Barrels, 361 Barron, Mr., 616 Barry, John: letter to, 683; dispute with navy board, 441; marine committee instructions, 683; mentioned, 93, 107, 684 Barry, Levellin, 352, 392, 408, 682 Barry, Patrick, 697 Bartlett, Josiah: letters to, 213, 517, 695; elected to Congress, xix, 300 Barton, William: commended, 458; promoted, 471; mentioned, 430, 441 Batwell, Daniel: petitions Congress, 262, 497; mentioned, 548 Baum, Friedrich, 61 Bayard, John, 216, 269, 288, 442, 682 Beaumarchais, Pierre-Augustin Caron de, accounts, 439 Beaumont, Hammond, 641 Bedaulx, Charles Frederic de, 166 Bedford, Mass., 275 Bedlow, William, 259, 265, 266 Beef, 670; see also Cattle Beekman, Gerardus, cargo seized, 570 Bell, Thomas, 480 Bemis Heights, battle of, 124, 127-29, 131, 136 Bennett, John, xxiii Bennington, battle of, 56, 61, 424 Benson, Egbert: letter to, 415; Rhode Island inquiry commissioner, 412, 415-16 Bentson, Capt., 574 Beroth, Janet, “The Convention of Saratoga,” 487 Bethlehem, Pa.: described, 10; mentioned, 16, 25, 27, 80, 380, 422, 631 Bible, Hessian Psalm reading recounted, 267 Bicking, Frederic, 509 Biddle, Clement: letter to, 675; mentioned, 681, 682 Biddle, Nicholas: letter to, 178; marine committee instructions, 178; mentioned, 27, 28, 33, 44, 68, 469 Billingsport, N.J., 113, 127, 158, 190, 213 Bills of credit; see Paper currency Bills of exchange, remitted to Paris, 243 Bingham, William: letter to, 574; ft sends intelligence, 305, 312, 319; accounts, 574-75; mentioned, 140, 225, 294, 342, 366, 394, 439, 468, 491, 620, 628, 686 Bird, John, 83, 87, 97, 157


[Page 742]
706 Index Burlington, N.J., 57, 226 Burnett, Edmund, Continental Congress, 400 Burr, Aaron, 599 Burr, Thaddeus, 39 Burroughs, Ezekiel, Hampden inquiry, 251-52 Butler, Maj., 125, 323 Butler, Pierce: identified, 176; letter to, 175 Butter: price, 121, 186; mentioned, 531 Cadiz, Spain, 478 Caldwell, Robert, 9 Calmes, Marquis, 38 Cambridge, Mass., 386 Cameron, Alexander, 469 Campbell, Archibald: letter to, 587; parole, 79; prisoner exchange, 587; men tioned, 591 Canada: recruiting of prisoners from proposed, 221; invited to join U.S., 362; expedition proposed, 421—24, 560, 635 , 643, 646—47, 656, 658, 677, 681; Saratoga captives return permitted, 623; expedition suspended, 635; expedition expenses funded, 687 Candles, price, 360 Cannon: sought by Virginia, 332; imported, 367; naval, 667; mentioned, 583 Capitaine du Chesnoy, Michel: letter to, 648; health, 384, 648; mentioned, 382, 647, 677 Carabasse, Monsr., 167, 686 Carleton, Guy: prisoner policy, 623-24; mentioned, 462, 485, 557, 622 Carlisle, Pa., 403 Carlisle, Pa., Committee of Safety: letter to, 229; seeks prison improvements, 229-30 Carmichael, William: sends intelligence, 305, 312, 319; appointed secretary to commissioners at Paris, 338, 439; criticized, 438; mentioned, 295, 318, 366, 620 Carpenter, Richard, exchange recommended, 58 Carpenters, wages, 605 Carrington, Edward: dispute with Patrick Henry, 84; mentioned, 83 Carroll, Charles, of Carrollton: letters from, 8, 10, 17, 21, 26, 49, 72, 86, 109; letter to, 153; -ft attends Congress, xviii, 661; elected to Congress, xviii; portrait, xxiv, 111; urges military measures, 8; attendance, 11; conjectures British strategy, 11, 26, 113; on military prospects, 17; urges army reform, 22, 50; criticizes Pennsyl vania government, 26; on military discipline, 72; on confederation, 73; on fiscal policy, 73; elected to Maryland assembly, 87; on Thomas Conway, 153; committee at camp, 619, 638, 650, 661, 675; leaves Congress, 661 Carroll, Charles, Sr., letters to, 10, 17, 26, 49, 72, 86, 109 Carroll, Mary Darnall (Mrs. Charles): health, 661; mentioned, 73 Carter, Landon, letter to, 417 Cary, Archibald, 156 Casualties; see British army, casualties; Continental Army, casualties Caswell, Richard: letters to, 5, 22, 29, 59, 70, 97, 101, 129, 148, 154, 223, 226, 235, 322, 336, 375, 465, 511, 557, 567, 609, 642, 696; examines John Folger, 562, 564-65; mentioned, 421, 437, 584 Caswell, William, 97, 102, 129, 227 Cattle, 482, 499, 501, 508, 509 Cavalry: Continental inspector, 114; Continental, 241, 321, 364, 384, 560, 575, 578 Cayuga Indians, 566 Ceronio, Stephen, 167, 432 Chamberlain, Capt., 628 Champion, Henry, 414


[Page 746]
710 Index attendance thin, 124, 356, 410, 417, 461, 463, 466, 520, 581, 587, 638, 656, 664, 671, 688-89, 691-92; elects Henry Laurens president, 124-25, 220; on John Hancock’s presidency, 124, 212, 224, 226; declares British commerce subject to seizure, 126, 467, 470; subsidizes public printer, 130; President Hancock resigns, 131; orders lottery drawing, 141; acquits John Sullivan, 143, 163, 231; promotes Robert Howe, 144-45; investigates George Morgan, 173-74; awaits Saratoga news, 175, 181-82, 184-85, 189, 197-99, 204, 206-7, 214; distributes journals, 176; establishes Continental express, 186; appoints day of thanksgiving, 189, 218, 223-24, 238, 241, 243; defines navy board authority, 195; vote on Articles of Confederation, 198; prize regulations, 202; interposition sought in prize case, 203; receives Saratoga Convention, 216-17; debates proposed battalion of Canadian prisoners, 221; seeks lead miners, 221; restricts plural officeholding, 222; condemns Georgia’s re cruitment abroad, 225; improves prison conditions, 229-30; commends John Hazelwood and Samuel Smith, 232, 236; delegate turnover, 232; commends Continental Army, 235; memorializes Francis Nash, 235; commends Christopher Greene, 236; orders Delaware River fortifications strengthened, 236; reassigns Israel Putnam, 237; on seniority disputes, 241, 286, 364; reorganizes board of war, 241; requests army returns, 241; borrows books, 242; promotes James Wilkinson, 243; accepts Thomas Mifflin’s resignation as quartermaster, 244; orders roll of Convention Army, 244; requests Thomas Mifflin’s continuance as quarter master, 245; strengthens Hudson River defenses, 246; adopts Articles of Con federation, 253-54, 262, 273, 282, 289, 290, 292, 308, 326, 365, 368-70, 419; debates Saratoga Convention, 253, 483-87, 505, 527-29, 551-57; appoints general officers, 256; commissions foreign officers, 258-59; endorses scuttling of Continental frigates, 258; rules, 258; studies Daniel Batwell’s petition, 262; ration allowance resolves, 263; orders clothing purchase, 264; curbs Delaware loyalists, 265; studies inflation proposals, 266; allocates clothing, 275; authorizes deputy clothiers, 275; funds foreign officers’ passage home, 279, 354, 384, 511; orders prisoner treatment inquiry, 285; debates frontier defense, 288; studies molasses substitutes, 292; orders commissary reform study, 294; recommends quartermaster department reorganization, 295; prints Articles of Confederation, 296-97; orders Indian affairs inquiry, 301, 310, 315, 359; investigates Saratoga Convention violation, 308; recalls Silas Deane, 311, 381; orders leather, 322; returns prisoner to Maryland for trial, 325; promotes Thomas Conway, 330; vote on board of war nominees, 333; appoints Gates board of war president, 335, 356; appoints John Adams com missioner to France, 335; adopts provisioning plan, 336, 642; recommends confiscation of loyalist property, 336, 338; urges state taxation, 336; orders shipyard guarded, 337, 345; sends committee to headquarters, 338, 352, 358; restores Gen. Arnold’s seniority, 343; orders Rhode Island expedition inquiry, 346, 412, 415-16; sets tax quotas, 346; vulnerability to capture discussed, 350; opposes Convention Army return, 356—57, 362, 377, 430, 450, 485-87, 514; sends Articles of Confederation to states, 357; appoints committee to procure Pennsyl vania supplies, 358; orders Articles of Confederation translated, 358; collects barrels, 361; awards Lafayette division command, 362; invites Canada to join U.S., 362; opposes negotiations with Britain, 363; orders military inquiries, 363, 405; paper money emissions, 366; seeks foreign loans, 366; orders arms, 367; urges offensive operations, 374, 380, 408; opposes scheme to depreciate Con tinental currency, 376; urges preservation of mast timber, 376; appoints inspector general, 385; proposes prisoner exchange, 392; studies army reforms, 400; declines President Laurens’ resignation offer, 408; orders Canada expedition, 421-24, 635; addresses Six Nations, 423; assumes Rhode Island expedition costs, 430; ex onerates John Barry, 442; questions selection of winter quarters, 442—44, 449, 461, 669; demands specie payment, 446, 454, 462, 466, 471, 485, 530, 600; augments navy board authority, 457; curbs speculators, 460, 464-65; authorizes Washington to impress supplies, 482; releases Daniel Batwell, 497; adopts emergency provi sioning measures, 499; adopts commissary reforms, 501, 588-89; executive


[Page 751]
Index 715 Duffield, Samuel, elected to Congress, xxi Dugan, Cumberland, 512, 523 Dulany, Daniel, xxiv Dumas, Charles William Frederic: corresponds with Congress, 16; letters from, 487; mentioned, 492, 620 Duncibim, Jonathan, 391 Dunkers, 24, 50 Dunlap, John: prints journals of Congress, 615; mentioned, 498 Dunn, William, 243 Du Plessis, Thomas-Antoine, chevalier de Mauduit: seniority, 383, 385; Continental commission, 548; mentioned, 634, 636, 637, 642, 647, 649, 677, 678 Duportail, Louis Le Begue de Presle, Continental commission, 71, 284 Durkee, Robert, petitions Congress, 673 Durst (messenger), 190 Dyer, Benjamin, 25, 387 Dyer, Eliphalet: letters from, 24, 75, 104, 162, 228, 233, 332, 387, 412, 526, 583; ft attends Congress, xvi; elected to Congress, xvi; endorses Moravian petition, 9; flees Philadelphia, 12; on Pennsylvania’s defense, 24; defends John Sullivan, 104—5, 163; explains commissary regulations, 229; lauds Horatio Gates, 233-34; explains board of war reorganization, 333; committee at Lancaster, 385-86; soothes Joseph Trumbull, 387; on commissary reform, 413; on Saratoga Con vention, 527-29; on New England defense, 583-84; mentioned, 44, 128, 168, 514 Dyer, Huldah Bowen (Mrs. Eliphalet), 24 Dyer, Jabez, 387 Dyer, Thomas, 76, 163, 229 Eagle (packet), 301 Eastern military department, provisioning plan, 336 Eastern navy board: letters to, 195, 251, 306, 371, 518, 604; ft clerk allowance, 195; marine committee instructions, 195, 251, 306, 371, 604; and Manley-McNeill dispute, 196; money needs, 260; accounts, 261; authorized to suspend officers, 457; publishes Esek Hopkins’ dismissal, 518-19; requests supplies, 541; minutes quoted, 606; mentioned, 66, 627 Easton, Pa., 27, 422 Eclogues, Virgil, 59 Effingham (Continental frigate), 667 Eggs, price, 121 Einstein, Lewis, Divided Loyalties, Americans in England, 564 Elbert, Samuel, promotion recommended, 658 Elizabeth and Mary (ship), 478 Ellery, William: diary, 132; letters from, 346, 410, 428, 429, 440, 453, 457, 525, 585, 599, 627, 685; attends Congress, xxi, 177; elected to Congress, xxi; accounts, 412; on Saratoga Convention, 453; conjectures British strategy, 455; on fiscal policy, 456; on foreign policy, 456; seeks reimbursement for Rhode Island, 525; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 533, 611; and release of Quaker prisoners, 615; recommends William Vernon, 627; mentioned, xxxi, 231, 411, 682 Ellis, Richard, 411 Ellsworth, Oliver: letter to, 415; elected to Congress, xvi; Rhode Island inquiry commissioner, 412, 415-16 Elmer, Jonathan: letters from, 278, 288; attends Congress, xix; elected to Con gress, xix; recommends Elias Dayton, 278; leaves Congress, 288; expenses, 289 Emden, Germany, 312, 318 Engineers: Continental, 71, 519, 694; mentioned, 384 Engrossment; see Monopolization Enlistments; see Continental Army, recruiting; Continental Navy, recruiting Episcopalians, 179


[Page 752]
716 Index Errico, Capt., 561 Erskine, William, 95, 97, 101, 102, 103, 112, 116, 117, 154 Ettwein, John: identified, 631; letter to, 631; petitions Congress, 10 Eustace, John, promoted, 244 Evans, Israel, appointed chaplain, 610 Ewing, John: letter to, 218; committee for foreign affairs instructions, 218; mentioned, 104, 459 Exchanges; see Prisoners of war Exportation; see Trade Failly, Philippe-Louis, chevalier de, 447 Faitoute, George, 672 Family Compact, 313, 318, 324 Ferguson, Elizabeth, 473 Ferguson, Henry, 473 Ferling, John E., "Joseph Galloway’s Military Advice,” 59 Fermoy; see Rochefermoy, Mathieu Alexis de Field, Robert, xxv Finance; see Accounts; Board of treasury; Congress, appropriations; Continental loan office; Income; Loans, foreign; Lottery; Paper currency; Prices; Specie; T axation Finnie, William, 362, 418 Fishkill, N.Y., 422 Fitzgerald, John, on Thomas Conway, 657 Flagg, John, 457 Flax, 142 Fleming, Edward, recommended as adjutant general, 295 Fleury, Francois-Louis TeissMre de: letter to, 325; ft promoted, 325; seniority, 383, 385 Flints, 367, 418 Florida; see West Florida Flour: price, 127; emergency purchases, 607; mentioned, 172, 294, 298, 316, 361, 482, 499, 501, 520, 531, 534, 541, 559, 592, 605, 660, 670 Flower, Benjamin, 22, 135 Folger, John: suspected of stealing American dispatches, 560-65 , 567-68, 584, 612, 616; mentioned, 581, 597 Folger, Peter, 564 Folsom, Nathaniel: letters from, 42, 198, 213, 299, 517; ft attends Congress, xix, 42, 675; elected to Congress, xix; endorses Moravian petition, 9; denounces Jacob Duch^, 213; on Articles of Confederation, 299; criticizes "Schuyler Party,” 518; committee on Philadelphia attack, 537-38; committee at camp, 575—76, 673; opposes Philip Schuyler, 673, 681; mentioned, 164, 423, 581, 590, 604, 606, 618, 695 Foote, Samuel, The Commissary, 549 Forbes, James: letters from, 599, 685; ft attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii Ford, Worthington, Spurious Letters Attributed to Washington, 592 Foreign affairs: effect of confederation on, 98; Anglo-French relations, 112, 136, 166, 294, 305, 307, 312-13, 318-19, 323, 327, 334, 342, 347, 356, 364, 371, 383, 402, 445; U.S.-Portuguese relations, 160, 202-3, 295; independence recognition sought, 215; impact of foreign officers returning home feared, 273, 279, 317, 354; Spanish- Portuguese relations, 277, 312—13; Anglo-Spanish relations, 312, 460; unlikelihood of European war, 456; Congress explains Saratoga Convention suspension abroad, 601; mentioned, 468, 471, 615; see also Commissioners at Paris; Committee for foreign affairs; Loans, foreign; and individual countries Foreign officers: see Continental Army, foreign officers Forestalling; see Monopolization


[Page 754]
718 Index Galvez, Bernardo de, 171, 317, 620, 686 Gano, Mr., 669 Gansevoort, Peter: letter to, 53; -ft commended, 52, 53, 56; mentioned, 46, 61 Gardner, Caleb, 455 Gardner, Joseph, 225 Gardoqui, Joseph & Sons: commercial transactions, 65; mentioned, 117 Gates, Elizabeth Phillips (Mrs. Horatio), 422 Gates, Horatio: letters to, 53, 57, 221, 233, 235, 237, 243, 263, 308, 321, 329, 335, 344, 356, 421, 445, 590, 651, 687; commended, 54, 140, 232-35, 237, 421; ordered to strengthen Hudson River defense, 54; dispute with Benedict Arnold, 73, 86-87, 107; strength, 73, 112, 118; victory at Bemis Heights, 124, 127, 129, 131, 136; appointed to board of war, 151; Saratoga victory, 160-61, 164, 182, 188-89, 216—17, 223, 698; orders attack on Ticonderoga, 215; supply problems, 230; Saratoga negotiations, 246-47, 253; ration allowance policy, 263; Saratoga Convention, 279-80, 309, 329, 442, 450, 483-87, 527, 542-44, 551-57, 623-25; praised by Thomas Mifflin, 314; appointed board of war president, 326, 333, 335, 339, 341-42, 352, 356, 359, 453; appointment as commander in chief sought, 329-31; and Washing ton’s critics, 550; committee at camp, 575-76, 590, 618-19, 675; relations with Washington, 599, 647, 655, 657; recommends Canada expedition, 635; mentioned, xxvii, xxviii, 7, 11, 15, 18, 19, 24, 26, 27, 28, 41, 45, 46, 49, 56, 59, 61, 93, 113, 115, 120, 121, 122, 134, 145, 148, 154, 159, 160, 170, 175, 177, 181, 184, 185, 190, 197, 198, 200, 204, 206, 214, 220, 222, 227, 244, 254, 256, 277, 281, 283, 290, 304, 313, 334, 347, 348, 361, 377, 398, 423, 462, 467, 501, 517, 572, 582, 596, 597, 598, 606, 621, 622, 629, 634, 650, 668, 693; see also Saratoga campaign; Saratoga Convention General Gates (Continental brigantine), 306 Georgia: South Carolina annexation plan, 142-43; Continental troops, 225; recruits abroad, 225; sago manufacture, 474; defense needs studied, 690 Georgia Assembly, letters to, 218, 464 Georgia delegates: attendance, 581; and deputy paymasters, 653 Germain, Lord George, 665 Germans; see Mercenaries Germantown, battle of, 57, 64, 67, 72, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 97, 101, 102, 107, 110, 111, 112, 116, 117, 154, 156, 157, 162, 163, 206, 226, 290, 291, 302, 365 Germany, mercenaries from sought, 63 Gerry, Elbridge: letters from, 13, 18, 43, 65, 96, 155, 189, 205, 211, 241, 242,-253, 326, 373, 380, 388, 399, 403, 458, 475, 586, 600, 643; letters to, 4, 13, 242, 385, 681; attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; collects arms, 13; requisitions Continental supplies, 18; lodgings, 27; health, 43; criticizes Pennsylvania inaction, 66; on southern sectionalism, 67; seeks prisoner exchange, 9&-97; commercial transactions, 156; privateering, 156; on fiscal policy, 206, 211, 326, 405, 643-45; borrows books, 242; on Saratoga Convention, 253; explains board of war reorganization, 326; committee at headquarters, 337, 345, 378, 381, 388, 399, 629; assesses Continental Army, 373; urges winter offensive, 404; urges army reforms, 575; board of treasury, 580; committee on commissary reform, 598; mentioned, 3, 14, 106, 340, 393, 394, 397, 398, 401, 422, 439, 468, 507, 514, 579, 582, 603, 620 Gerry, Thomas, letters to, 155, 189 Gervais, John Lewis: letters to, 69, 79, 92, 106, 123, 140, 157, 160, 198, 199, 278, 410, 502, 688; mentioned, 119, 133, 151, 194, 357, 360 Gill, Moses, 321 Gillon, Alexander, 284, 291, 348, 357, 358, 558 Gilman, Nicholas, 695 Gimat, Jean-Joseph Sourbader de, 572 Gist, Mordecai: promoted, 232; mentioned, 411 Gloucester, N.J., 335, 352, 375, 384 Goddard, Mary Katherine, 51


[Page 755]
Index 719 Gottschalk, Louis, Lafayette Joins the American Army, 636 Gouvion, Jean-Baptiste de, Continental commission, 71, 284 Govett, William, 603 Grannis, John, reassigned, 252 Grant, James, 95, 101, 103, 112, 116, 117, 154 Gray (messenger), 545 Gray, Joseph, 694 Gray, Samuel: authority explained, 229; mentioned, 387 Graydon, Mrs., 41 Great Britain: seeks mercenaries, 63, 366, 456; relations with France, 112, 136, 166, 294, 305, 307, 313, 318-19, 323, 327, 347, 356, 364, 371, 383, 445; commerce declared subject to seizure, 126, 467, 470; trade disrupted, 166; Indian agent activities, 174; explores peace negotiations, 284-85; accused of breach of faith, 295; prepares for European war, 312-13; relations with Portugal, 313; relations with Spain, 460; Saratoga Convention ratification, 486-87, 528-29, 543, 585, 588-90, 593, 595, 609, 611, 621, 670, 672; seeks German mercenaries, 492; secret service steals American dispatches, 564; see also British army; British navy Greene, Christopher: letter to, 237; repulses Fort Mercer assault, 205, 207; commended, 236; mentioned, 184, 187, 190, 204, 231, 358 Greene, Nathanael: battle of Germantown, 88; appointed quartermaster general, 677; mentioned, 57, 75, 120, 164, 182, 185, 190, 271, 300, 320, 334, 347, 363, 368, 370, 458 Gribeauval, Jean-Baptiste Vaquette de, 273 Grotius, Hugo: On the Law of War and Peace, 242; mentioned, 269, 514 Gruel, Jacques, 428, 431, 475 Guyon, Dr., 557 The Hague, Netherlands, 488, 492 Haley, Mr., 561 Half-pay plan, 400, 576, 579, 580, 618, 673 Hall, Aquila, 93 Hall, Benedict Edward: identified, 232; letter to, 231 Hall, David, 130 Hall, George A., 124, 144 Hall, Josias Carvill, promotion recommended, 232 Hall, Lyman, elected to Congress, xvii Hall, William, 130 Hall & Sellers: letter to, 130; mentioned, 497 Hamilton, Alexander: urges evacuation of Philadelphia, 3, 6, 12, 14, 27; mentioned, 8, 15, 33, 241, 290, 509 Hamilton, Henry, 174 Hamilton, Kenneth, John Ettwein and the Moravian Church, 631 Hammond, Larkin, 60 Hampden (Continental brig), captured, 251-52 Hancock, Dorothy Quincy (Mrs. John): letters to, 38, 76, 137; mentioned, 181 Hancock, Ebenezer: letters to, 263, 594, 637; money needs, 264; mentioned, 632 Hancock, John: letters from, 3, 19, 28, 38, 47, 48, 53, 54, 55, 56, 68, 72, 76, 78, 79, 90, 91, 113, 114, 118, 119, 130, 131, 137, 143, 144, 179, 180, 181; letters to, 143, 224; ft attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; endorses Moravian petition, 9; arrives at Lancaster, 19; flees Philadelphia, 38; health, 39, 181; lodgings, 39, 77; presidential duties, 77; continuance as president discussed, 124; resigns as presi dent, 124, 131, 139, 212; presidency assessed, 125; leaves Congress, 132, 144, 179, 200, 209, 212-13, 216, 225, 516; seeks military escort, 132, 181; plans return home, 137; accounts, 181; thanked by Congress, 224, 226; criticized, 395; mentioned, 5, 14, 18, 32, 109, 176, 183, 201, 229, 250, 267, 372, 439, 489, 537, 549, 561, 578, 579, 581, 613


[Page 756]
720 Index Hancock (Continental frigate), captured, 196 Hand, Edward: letters to, 12, 173, 214, 298; urges attack on Indians, 12; releases George Morgan, 173; and Willing raid, 298; fears frontier war, 569; mentioned, 18, 287, 301, 305, 686 Harcourt, William, 402 Harnett, Cornelius: letters from, 19, 22, 29, 97, 99, 148, 154, 164, 222, 223, 254, 256, 283, 289, 291, 348, 349, 389, 390, 406, 424, 426, 428, 489, 539, 557, 604, 696; ft attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; endorses Moravian petition, 9; conjectures British strategy, 22; on state quotas, 98; recommends North Carolina generals, 255, 290-91; commercial transactions, 257, 349, 390; on fiscal policy, 290, 389, 425, 696-97; on military prospects, 348; board of treasury, 407, 426; commit tee of commerce, 426; lodgings, 426; on coastal defense, 489; requests North Carolina newspapers, 539; mentioned, 226, 269 Harnett, Mary Holt (Mrs, Cornelius), 489, 490 Harris, A., 214 Harrison, Benjamin: letters from, 60, 64, 651; ft attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; flees Philadelphia, 3; endorses Moravian petition, 9; on Washing ton and his critics, 651; mentioned, 54, 72, 183, 419, 628 Harrison, Benjamin, Jr.: letter to, 637; mentioned, 652 Harrison, Richard, 575 Harrison, Robert H.: appointed to board of war, 151, 245, 291, 304; mentioned, xxxi, 152, 241 Hart, John: letter to, 288; mentioned, 670 Hartley, Thomas, 16, 31, 101, 220, 410 Harvie, John: letters from, 138, 182, 217, 493, 640; ft attends Congress, xxii, 140, 675; elected to Congress, xxii; assesses Congress, 139; criticizes Pennsylvania inaction, 139; on supply shortages, 493; John Folger inquiry, 560-64; committee at camp, 575-76, 673; asserts Continental over state authority, 640-42, 659-60; mentioned, 179, 581, 590, 604, 606, 628 Harwood, Thomas, 661 Hassey, Mr., 10 Havana, Cuba: U.S. trade with, 63; mentioned, 316, 638 Hawke, David F., Benjamin Rush, Revolutionary Gadfly, 515 Hay, Udny, 550 Hazelwood, John: identified, 21; letters to, 21, 237; ft Philadelphia defense, 13, 15, 179, 184; marine committee instructions, 21; commended, 232, 236; criticized, 403; mentioned, 7, 20, 128, 134, 149, 158, 161, 187, 188, 204, 358 Hazen, Moses, 286 Heath, William: letters to, 244, 264, 336, 357, 386, 462, 483, 544, 614, 622, 632; ft ordered to take Convention Army roll, 244, 450; clothing needs, 275; instructed on Convention Army, 483-87, 544, 590; treatment of Burgoyne approved, 632; mentioned, 37, 259, 334, 361, 429, 430, 503, 514, 535, 557, 576, 593, 595, 596, 600, 624 Heister, Leopold Philip von, 83, 87, 157 Hendricks, James, 87, 157 Henry, John: letter from, 661; ft attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; and release of Quaker prisoners, 615 Henry, Patrick: letters to, 82, 127, 185, 207, 217, 275, 315, 316, 331, 336, 375, 451, 452, 465, 509, 511, 569, 609, 642; dispute with Edward Carrington, 84; recommends Anne Philippe Loyaute, 84; on lead supply, 135; mentioned, 15 Henry, William: letter to, 31; ft collects arms, 13, 18; mentioned, 121 Herbert, Mr., 641 Herkimer, Nicholas: memorialized, 52, 55; mentioned, 46, 61 Hessians; see Mercenaries Hewes & Smith, 697


[Page 758]
722 Index Hunter, Messrs., 201 Huntington, Jabez, letter to, 162 Huntington, Jedediah, 107, 311, 334, 341, 347 Huntington, Samuel: elected to Congress, xvi; mentioned, 44 Hutson, Richard, elected to Congress, xxii Hynson, Joseph: and John Folger, 560-63; steals American dispatches, 564 Hyrne, Edmund, 270 Impartial History of the Present War in America, xxix Importation; see Trade Income: board of war, 222, 229, 326, 333, 341, 343, 359; paymaster general, 327; teamsters, 473, 538; carpenters, 605; prisoner of war, 640 Independence: consequences of European recognition of, 215; as prerequisite to negotiating with Britain, 363; recognition by Prussia sought, 366 India: British operations in, 312, 324; British trade with, 367 Indian affairs, middle department: George Morgan inquiry, 173-74, 287; frontier warfare, 274, 287, 301, 304, 310, 315, 359, 570; commissioners appointed, 452, 463, 569 Indian affairs, northern department: talks with Six Nations proposed, 359; Albany conference, 422-23, 469, 566 Indian affairs, southern department, 469 Indians: attack on urged, 12; attachment to U.S. secured, 59; with British army, 61; on frontier feared, 274, 287; trade with U.S., 298; neutrality of, 621; mentioned, 122, 171, 292; see also Cayuga Indians; Cherokee Indians; Creek Indians; Saint Francis Indians; Seneca Indians; Six Nations Indigo, 366, 685 Industrious Bee (brigantine), 251 Inspector general: Thomas Conway appointed, 330, 385, 417, 453, 599; Baron Steuben appointed, 594; for northern military department, 662 Interstate relations: see Confederation, Articles of; Land, western Ireland: linen trade disrupted, 166; U.S. trade with, 418; British recruiting in, 456; mentioned, 544 Iron, 541, 559, 605 Irvine, Mr., 174, 214 Irvine, James, captured, 380, 391, 394, 397, 398, 402, 404, 411, 424, 426 Irwin, Henry, 102, 154, 292 Irwin, Matthew, 76 Isaiah, 618 Izard, Ralph, 447, 578, 623 Jackson, John W., Pennsylvania Navy, 21 Jarvis, Leonard, 200 Jay, John, letters to, 368, 369 Jefferson, Thomas: letters to, 138, 179, 182, 493; seeks workmen, 139, 494; men tioned, 507 Jenifer & Hooe, 472 Jensen, Merrill, Articles of Confederation, 101 Johnson, Henry: French cruise, 313; captured, 492 Johnson, Thomas: letters to, 17, 28, 45, 92, 117, 159, 220, 275, 336, 375, 416, 465, 507, 511, 570, 608, 609, 642, 661, 667; reinforces Washington, 13, 15; seizes salt, 639; mentioned, 14 Johnson, Victor, Administration of the American Commissariat, 501 Johnston, Francis, 240 Jones (messenger), 632 Jones, Frederick, 349


[Page 769]
Index 733 Congress, 379, 386; defines boundary claims, 401; instructs delegates, 442; protests Washington’s choice of winter quarters, 442-44, 449; elections for, 698 Pennsylvania Council: letters to, 249, 513, 615, 640; created, 121; orders seizure of loyalists’ supplies, 135; grants Robert Morris leave from Congress, 249; receives Daniel Batwell’s petition, 262; seeks aid against Indians, 274, 287; arrests John Brown, 284-85, 353; urges teamster pay increase, 473; urges attack on Philadelphia, 537-38, 607; protests Continental infringement of state authority, 641-42, 659-60, 694-95; see also Bryan, George; Matlack, Timothy; Wharton, Thomas Pennsylvania delegates: letter from, 262; quorum requirement, 442; attendance sought, 463; request newspapers, 498; attendance, 581 Pennsylvania Gazette (York, Pa.), 130 Pennsylvania Germans, described, 204 Pennsylvania navy, Philadelphia defense, 20, 21 Pennsylvania Packet, 498 Pensions; see Half-pay plan Peters, Richard: letters from, 36, 38, 71, 135, 221, 240, 321; letter to, 649; ap pointed to board of war, 151, 326, 333, 339, 341-42, 359, 453; dispute with Daniel Morgan, 649-51; praises Washington, 651; mentioned, 21, 398, 472, 499, 509, 668 Peters, Sarah Robinson (Mrs. Richard), 422 Philadelphia: map of, endpapers, xxiii; evacuated, 3, 6, 8, 12, 19, 25, 27, 38, 57, 80, 226, 355; captured, 26, 29, 34, 39, 42-43, 46, 51, 59, 62; loyalists, 73, 103; prices in, 127; British evacuation rumored, 185; recapture discussed, 246; British occupation, 256, 270, 273, 277, 280-81, 292, 294, 358, 365, 370, 375-77, 460; attack urged, 537-38, 606; mentioned, 117, 348 Philadelphia campaign: naval maneuvers, 15, 20, 34, 44, 57, 85, 107, 118, 127, 134, 161, 164, 168, 179, 182, 184, 187, 190, 197-99, 205, 207-8, 213, 215 , 217, 222, 228, 268, 270, 283, 289-90, 302-1, 311, 317, 319-20, 334, 341-42, 358, 360, 364, 403—4; mentioned, 7, 8, 11, 12, 13, 14, 17, 21, 22, 24, 26, 27, 29, 34, 42, 59, 61, 62, 66, 69, 70, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 120, 138, 209; see also Howe, William; Washington, George Philbrick, Joseph, seeks compensation, 518 Philbrick, Samuel, 518 Phillips, John, 9 Phillips, William: letter to, 180; mentioned, 624 Phoenix (H.M.S.), 239 Phoenix (schooner), prize case, 202-3 Pickering, Timothy: letters to, 241, 590, 600, 637; appointed to board of war, 151, 241, 245, 326, 333, 339, 341-42, 359, 453; committee at camp, 577, 590, 600, 675; mentioned, 152, 293, 398, 535, 582, 606, 634, 668 Pickett, William, 31 Pickles, William, 171, 172, 297 Pierce, John, 335 Pierce, Timothy, petitions Congress, 673 Pigot, Robert, 625 Pinckney, Charles, elected to Congress, xxii Pinckney, Charles Cotesworth, 28, 101, 123 Pitt, William, 1st earl of Chatham, 671 Pittnier, Mr., 562 Plater, George, elected to Congress, xviii Pleasants, Mr., 628 Pliarne, Emmanuel, 87, 620, 647 Pliarne, Penet & Co.: letter to, 428; -fa committee of commerce instructions, 428; mentioned, 431, 475 Plunkett, Thomas, 573 Plymouth, Mass., Pilgrim anniversary celebration, 618


[Page 770]
Index 734 Polk, Thomas: seniority, 290; mentioned, 129 Polk, William: letter to, 648; mentioned, 129, 677 Pollard, Robert, xxix Pollock, Oliver: letters to, 171, 297; committee of commerce instructions, 171, 297; on West Florida’s defenses, 172; mentioned, 318 Pond, William, 271 Poor, Enoch: identified, 610; letter to, 610; Ticonderoga inquiry, 610 Pork: price, 608; mentioned, 60, 349, 361, 499, 501, 508, 509, 531, 534, 670 Portsmouth, N.H., 439, 440 Portugal: relations with U.S., 160, 202-3, 295; relations with Spain, 277, 312-13, 324, 445; relations with Britain, 313 Postal service: criticized, 97; mentioned, 26, 98, 131, 291, 390 Potter, James, 150, 284, 405, 406, 425, 427, 430, 447, 454 Potts, Jonathan, commended, 243 Potts Grove, Pa., 9 Poughkeepsie, N.Y., 422 Powars and Willis, 515 Powder: manufacture, 96; imported, 472; price, 472; mentioned, 367 Powell, Jeremiah: letters to, 336, 375; mentioned, 321 Presbyterians, 179 Prescott, Richard: prisoner exchange, 587; mentioned, 458, 471 President of Congress; see Hancock, John; Laurens, Henry Press; see Printers Price, Thomas, promotion recommended, 232 Prices: cloth, 35; rum, 99, 490; slaves, 99, 164; stills, 99; butter, 121, 186; eggs, 121; flour, 127; in Philadelphia, 127; cheese, 186; coffee, 186, 490; salt, 186, 638; sugar, 186, 490; tea, 186; wood, 186; wine, 257; inflation proposals, 266; regulation proposed, 286, 405, 407, 605, 644; candles, 360; shoes, 360; powder, 472; pork, 608; regulation opposed, 670 Pringle, John, 472 Printers: sought by Congress, 130; unavailable in York, 390, 407, 425; presses destroyed, 470-71; changed by Congress, 615; mentioned, 525 Prisoners, political: Quakers released, 615; Woodbury Langdon’s exchange sought, 620 Prisoners of war: exchange proposals, xxx, 48, 58, 96-97, 239, 271, 300-301, 325, 363, 380, 392, 458, 587; paroled, 79; treatment investigated, 114, 285, 427, 449, 454-55, 615; status of captured British seamen, 126; Canadian battalion to be raised from, 221; sought to mine lead, 221; tradesmen among sought, 221; condition of improved, 229-30; returns, 231; merchant seamen return requested, 239; mis treatment protested, 392, 625, 636, 638, 661; loyalists, 403; provisioning, 446, 462, 466, 471, 540, 587, 600, 640-42; commissaries of, 450, 454; loyalists to be returned to states for prosecution, 609, 611, 630, 663; congressional broadside on mistreat ment of, 626; pay and allowances, 637, 640; British relief party detained, 640-42; mentioned, 495, 666, 683 Privateering: Pennsylvania commissions, 682; Delaware commissions, 690; men tioned, 156, 160, 166, 172, 200, 201, 202, 203, 298, 497, 697 Prizes: accounts settled, 180; duties on proposed, 211; share distribution dispute, 605-6, 637; share distribution plan adopted, 649; mentioned, 27, 33, 44, 68, 112, 141, 142, 156, 160, 166, 178, 200, 201, 202, 203, 251, 269, 457, 467, 468, 470, 491, 529, 530, 531, 534, 549, 681 Providence, R.I., 277 Providence (Continental frigate), 260, 605 Providence (Continental sloop), 606 Providence River, 195, 252, 260 Provisions; see Commissary general’s department; Continental Army; Continental Navy


[Page 771]
Index 735 Prussia: Arthur Lee mission, 63, 116, 295, 318-19, 366, 438; U.S. trade with, 307, 312, 318; mentioned, 324, 445, 456 Public debt; see Board of treasury; Continental loan office; Loans, foreign Pufendorf, Samuel: Of the Law of Nature, 242; mentioned, 269, 514 Pulaski, Casimir, 384 Purviance, Robert: letters to, 307, 573, 599, 619; marine committee instructions, 619; mentioned, 156, 412 Purviance, Samuel, Jr.: letters to, 276, 307, 573, 599, 619; marine committee instructions, 619; mentioned, 156, 412 Purviance, William, 292 Putnam, Israel: letters to, 55, 230, 266; requests reinforcements, 54; supply problems, 230; reassigned, 237; money needs, 266; mentioned, 42, 56, 58, 67, 72, 87, 106, 112, 115, 117, 127, 134, 148, 157, 184, 455, 698 Pyncheon, George, letter from, 84 Quakers: seek release of Virginia prisoners, 615; mentioned, 24, 50 Quartermaster general’s department: Thomas Mifflin resigns, 222, 242, 244, 290, 293, 314, 453; Thomas Mifflin’s tenure extended, 245; reform proposed, 293, 295; deficiencies, 482-83, 501, 507, 517; state regulation of sought, 536; quartermaster nominees discussed, 549; Philip Schuyler recommended as quartermaster general, 673, 676; mentioned, 362, 418, 506, 520, 532, 533, 535, 655 Queen of France (Continental frigate), commander appointed, 252 Quince, Richard, 99, 222, 284, 292, 349, 391, 407, 427, 539 Quynn, Allen, 18 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 457, 492 Randolph (Continental frigate): refitted, 178; mentioned, 28, 33, 468 Raven, John, 275 Rawlings, Moses: letter to, 427; on prisoner treatment, xxx, 427; mentioned, 455 Read, George: letter from, 691; letters to, 336, 375, 690; elected to Congress, xvii Read, Thomas: identified, 583; letter to, 582; marine committee instructions, 582; mentioned, 667, 685 Reading, Pa., 16, 25, 27, 80, 422, 590, 596 Reconciliation: talks proposed, 284-85; negotiations with Britain opposed, 363 Recruiting; see Continental Army, recruiting; Continental Navy, recruiting Red Bank, N.J.: assault repulsed, 205, 207, 213, 215; mentioned, 127, 157, 182, 184, 187, 189, 198, 204, 217, 220, 228, 255, 256, 317, 320, 327, 329, 341, 347; see also Fort Mercer, N.J. Redick, David, 76 Redman, John, 183 Reed, James, 269 Reed, Joseph: letter to, 310; elected to Congress, xxi; appointed Indian com missioner, 288; declines Indian commissioner appointment, 310, 452; nominated to board of war, 326, 333, 339, 341; committee at camp, 575-76, 634, 673, 675; upholds Pennsylvania state rights, 641; mentioned, xxviii, 152, 343, 393, 581, 606, 668, 676, 680 Religion: York churches described, 178-79; clergy solicited to obtain hospital supplies, 569, 574; see also Anglicans; Chaplains; Dunkers; Episcopalians; Men nonites; Methodists; Milese; Moravians; Presbyterians; Quakers Reynolds, Lt., inquiry, 258 Rhode Island: Continental loan office, 48; Continental troops, 176-77, 521; recruits requested, 176; expedition against British at urged, 177; attack on British at rumored, 231-33, 237, 698; blockaded, 260, 603; expedition against canceled, 260-61, 268, 270, 318, 327, 334; expedition inquiry, 346, 405, 412, 415-16, 429-30, 455, 602, 621; tax quota reduced, 346; and Convention Army embarkation, 356-57, 377; shipbuilding, 371; unrepresented, 387; militia, 416; expedition as


[Page 774]
738 Index Sheppard, Abraham, 97, 255, 291 Sherburne, Mr., 87 Sherburne, Henry, 157 Sherman, Roger: letter to, 318; elected to Congress, xvii; on fiscal policy, 320; mentioned, 44 Shialy, John, 93 Shipbuilding: Continental, 195, 261, 685; in Rhode Island, 371; in Massachusetts, 604 Shippen, William, Jr.: letters to, 160, 541, 574, 612; accused of corruption, 515; ordered to testify in Congress, 541; dispute with Benjamin Rush, 612, 650, 671; characterized, 650; mentioned, 507, 569 Shoemaker, Mr., 349 Shoemakers, sought among prisoners of war, 221 Shoes: seizure ordered, 240; price, 360; imported, 686; mentioned, 18, 37, 112, 120, 121, 135,204, 259, 275,416 Sigounie, Louis-Gaetan de, 643, 646 Simpers, John, returned to Maryland for trial, 325 Simpers, Thomas, 325 Six Nations: talks with proposed, 359; Albany conference, 422-23, 469, 566 Skimmer, John, commands General Gates, 306 Slaves; see Blacks Slough, Mr., 620 Smallwood, William: promoted, 232; captures British transport, 529-31, 534, 538, 558, 637; and prize share distribution, 637, 649; mentioned, 18, 88, 124, 231 Smith, Isaac, Sr., letter to, 180; mentioned, 373 Smith, James: attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi Smith, Jonathan Bayard: letters from, 442, 444, 461, 537, 615; attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; portrait, xxvii, 443; on selection of winter quarters, 444; committee on Philadelphia attack, 537—38; committee on commissary reform, 599; committee for printing the journals, 615; mentioned, 473, 669, 676, 682 Smith, Justin, Our Struggle for the Fourteenth Colony, 424, 635 Smith, Philip C. F., Fired by Manley Zeal, 197 Smith, Samuel: letter to, 237; Fort Mifflin defense, 184, 187; commended, 232, 236; mentioned, 118, 204, 289, 358, 403 Smith, Susannah Bayard (Mrs. Jonathan B.), 5 Smith, Thomas, 5 Smith, William: letters from, 159, 172, 220, 297, 298, 401, 428; letters to, 432, 559; ft attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; attendance, 9-10; conjectures British strategy, 160; marine committee agent, 559; mentioned, 472, 475, 497 Smith, William Stephens, 641 Society for the Propagation of the Gospel, missionary imprisoned, 262 Somerset County, Md., 509 South Carolina: militia, 116; plan to annex Georgia, 142-43; seeks foreign loans, 316; recommends general officers, 359, 656; recommends deputy paymasters, 653 South Carolina admiralty court, Weyman v. Arthur decree, 142, 145, 190-94 South Carolina Assembly, letters to, 218, 464 South Carolina delegates: attendance, 126, 145, 503, 581; attendance sought, 410, 654 Southern military department: command dispute, 144-45, 151; general officers recommended, 658; mentioned, 690 Spain: state arms imports from urged, 45; news from, 63; U.S. trade with, 171, 297; relations with Portugal, 277, 312-13, 445; Arthur Lee mission, 316; relations with Britain, 460; reinforces West Indies, 628; U.S. loans, 644 Spaulding, Simon, petitions Congress, 673 Specie, 446, 454, 462, 466, 471, 485, 530, 640, 643, 644, 645 Speers, Capt., 534


[Page 780]
744 Index Willing, Morris & Co.: dissolved, 489, 574; mentioned, 476 Wilmington, Del., 558 Wilmington, N.C., 165, 257, 561, 562 Wilson, James, letters to, 161, 345, 698 Wilson, James (British officer), prisoner exchange sought, 96-97 Wilson, William, 641 Winchester, Va„ Quakers’ confinement at, 615 Wine: price, 257; mentioned, 55, 161, 471, 548 Witherspoon, Mr., 87 Witherspoon, John: letters from, 60, 64, 136, 565, 621, 669; speech, 551; attends Congress, xx, 496; elected to Congress, xx; portrait, xxix, 552; flees Philadelphia, 3; seeks damages against Maryland troops, 92; committee on medical department inquiry, 515, 671; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 533, 610; committee on Philadelphia attack, 537-38; on Saratoga Convention, 551-57; drafts Saratoga Convention report, 556; protests Washington’s choice of winter quarters, 669; on army reform, 670; on fiscal policy, 670; mentioned, 157, 216, 278, 414, 627 Wolcott, Oliver, elected to Congress, xvii Wood, Joseph: attends Congress, xviii, 356; elected to Congress, xviii Wood: price, 186 Woodburn, Mr., 39 Woodford, William: letters to, 119, 285; seniority, 286, 352, 513 Wool cards, 276 Worcester County, Md., 509 Worth, Shubert, 560 Wyllys, Col., 229 Wyoming Valley, Pa., 229 Wythe, George: letter to, 146; letter quoted, 147-48; mentioned, 183 Yale College, elects Ezra Stiles president, 440 Yard, Sarah, 4 Yeates, Jasper, letter to, 174 York, Pa.: map of, endpapers, xxiii; Congress adjourns to, 26, 28, 32; Congress convenes at, 38, 42, 46, 59, 78; supply shortages, 49; described, 178-79; lacks printers, 390, 407, 425; cost of living, 426; criticized, 490; mentioned, 355, 432 York County, Pa.: courthouse, xxiii, 40; mentioned, 499 Yorke, Joseph, 492 Young, James: letter to, 675; mentioned, 442 Young, Peter, 478 Zane, Isaac, petitions for Quaker prisoner release, 615 Zantzinger, Paul, 304 Zimmerman (messenger), 611
