Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 21, October 1, 1783 to October 31, 1784
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_21/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 8]
iv Editorial Method and Apparatus TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [roman] [italic] (italic) One or two words missing and not conjecturable. More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. Number or part of a number missing or illegible. Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub joined footnote. Conjectural reading for missing or illegible matter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. Editorial insertion in the text. Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the de scriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed documents) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manuscripts in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 14th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1992). Each volume of this edi tion will contain a revised list. CSmH CSt Ct CtHi CtY DLC DLC(ESR) DNA DNDAR DSoC Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. Stanford University, Stanford, Calif. Connecticut State Library, Hartford Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford Yale University, New Haven Library of Congress Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection National Archives and Records Administration Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.C. Society of the Cincinnati, Washington, D.C.


[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v ICHi Chicago Historical Society IMunS Saint Mary of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, Ill. IU-HS University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois Historical Survey MA Amherst College, Amherst, Mass. M-Ar Massachusetts Archives, Boston MB Boston Public Library, Boston MH-H Harvard University, Houghton Library, Cambridge MHi Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston MdAA Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis MdBJ-G John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore MdHi Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore MeHi Maine Historical Society, Portland MiU-C William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich. MoSHi Missouri Historical Society, St. Louis N New York State Library, Albany NHi New-York Historical Society, New York NIC Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y. NN New York Public Library NNC Columbia University, New York NNPM Pierpont Morgan Library, New York NOsHi Oswego County Historical Society, Oswego, N.Y. Nc-Ar North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh Nh-Ar New Hampshire Division of Archives and Record Management, Concord NhD Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. NhHi New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord NjMoHP Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, NJ. NjP Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. OMC Marietta College, Marietta, Ohio PBMCA Moravian Church Northern Province Archives, Bethlehem, Pa. PHC Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. PHarH Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg, Pa. PHi Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PPAmP American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PPIn Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia PPL Library Company of Philadelphia PPRF Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia PSC Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa. PWacD David Library of the American Revolution, Washington Crossing, Pa. PWbW Wilkes College, Wilkes-Barre, Pa. R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus Hening, Statutes Hening, William W. The Statutes at Large; Being a Collection of All the Laws of Virginia. 13 vols. Richmond: J. & G. Cochran, 1809-23. Jay, Papers (Morris) Jay, John. John fay, The Winning of the Peace: Unpublished Papers, 1780-1784. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper & Row, 1980. JCC U. S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford and Gaillard Hunt. Washington: Library of Congress, 1904-37. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950-. Jefferson, Works (Ford) Jefferson, Thomas. The Works of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Paul Leicester Ford. 12 vols., Federal Edition. New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-5. Lee, Letters (Ballagh) Lee, Richard Henry. The Letters of Richard Henry Lee. Edited by James C. Ballagh. 2 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14. Livingston, Papers (Prince) Livingston, William. The Papers of William Livingston. Edited by Carl E. Prince et al. 5 vols. Trenton: New Jersey Historical Commission, 1979-88. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson) Madison, James. The Papers of James Madison. Edited by William T. Hutchinson and William M. E. Rachal. Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1962- Md. Archives Archives of Maryland. Edited by William H. Browne et al. Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1883-. Morris, Papers (Ferguson) Morris, Robert. The Papers of Robert Morris, 1781-1784. Edited by E. James Ferguson et al. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1973-. N.C. State Records North Carolina. The State Records of North Carolina. Edited by Walter Clark. Vols. 11-16. Winston and Goldsboro, N.C.: N. I. and J. C. Stewart et al., 1895-1914. N.H. State Papers New Hampshire. Provincial and State Papers. 40 vols. Concord, 1867-1943. NYHS Collections Collections of the New-York Historical Society.


[Page 13]
Editorial Method and Apparatus ix Pa. Archives Pennsylvania Archives. 9 series, 119 vols. in 120. Philadelphia: J. Sev erns & Co., 1852-56; Harrisburg: State Printer, 1874-1935. Pa. Council Minutes Pennsylvania. Minutes of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, from its Organization to the Revolution. 6 vols. [Colonial Records of Pennsylvania, vols. 11-16]. Harrisburg: Theo. Fenn & Co., 1852-53. PCC Papers of the Continental Congress. National Archives and Records Administration. Washington, D.C. PMHB Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biography. Report on American Manuscripts Great Britain. Historical Manuscripts Commission. Report on Ameri can Manuscripts in the Royal Institution of Great Britain. 4 vols. 1907; reprint ed., Boston: Gregg Press, 1972. R.I. State Records Rhode Island. Records of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Planta tions in New England. Edited by John R. Bartlett. 10 vols. Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1856-65. Rush, Letters (Butterfield) Rush, Benjamin. Letters of Benjamin Rush. Edited by Lyman H. But terfield. 2 vols. Princeton: Published for the American Philosophi cal Society by Princeton University Press, 1951. Steiner, James McHenry Steiner, Bernard C. The Life and Correspondence of James McHenry. Cleveland: Burrows Brothers Co., 1907. Susquehannah Co. Papers Boyd, Julian P., and Robert J. Taylor, eds. The Susquehannah Com pany Papers. 11 vols. Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1962-71. Washington, Papers (Abbot) Washington, George. The Papers of George Washington. Edited by William W. Abbot et al. Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1981-. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) Washington, George. The Writings of George Washington. Edited by John C. Fitzpatrick. 39 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1931-44. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence Wharton, Francis, ed. The Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States. 6 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Of fice, 1889. Wright, The Continental Army Wright, Robert K., Jr. The Continental Army. Washington: Center of Military History, United States Army, U.S. Government Printing Office, 1983.


[Page 14]
Acknowledgments This edition began in 1970 as a project of the Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Office, now incorporated into the Library’s Manuscript Division as the Historical Publications Office. The Library has had a long tradition of publishing scholarship on the period of the American Revolution. Its monumental edition of the Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (34 vols., Washington, 1904-37) is a predecessor of the present work and will be a companion to it. The edi tors wish to thank the Ford Foundation for a substantial gift which has been indispensable to the progress of the edition. Our appreciation is also extended to the innumerable individuals who have contributed to enriching the holdings of the Library of Congress to make it the pre mier institution for conducting research on the American Revolution. The photocopies of the more than twenty-two thousand documents that have been collected for this project have been assembled through the cooperation of several hundred institutions and private individuals devoted to preserving the documentary record upon which the history and traditions of the American people rest, and it is to their work that a documentary publication of this nature should ultimately be dedi cated. Unfortunately, all the many contributors to this collecting effort cannot be adequately recognized, but for permission to print docu ments appearing in the present volume we are especially grateful to the following institutions: the Algemeen Rijksarchief (The Hague), American Philosophical Society, Amherst College, Archives du min istere des affaires etrangeres (Paris), Bibliotheque Nationale (Paris), Boston Public Library, Annmary Brown Library, Brown University, John Carter Brown Library, Chicago Historical Society, Society of the Cincinnati, William L. Clements Library, Columbia University, Con necticut Historical Society, Connecticut State Library, Cornell Univer sity, Dartmouth College, Daughters of the American Revolution, John Work Garrett Library, Harvard University, Haverford College, Univer sity of Houston, Henry E. Huntington Library, University of Illinois, In dependence National Historical Park, Maine Historical Society, Mari etta College, Maryland Hall of Records, Maryland Historical Society, Massachusetts Archives Division, Massachusetts Historical Society, Mis souri Historical Society, Moravian Church Northern Province Archives, Pierpont Morgan Library, Morristown National Historical Park, Na tional Archives and Records Administration, New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, New Hampshire Historical Soci- x


[Page 16]
Chronology of Congress OCTOBER 1, 1783-OCTOBER 31, 1784 October 1 Debates instructions for ministers abroad. October 3 Debates Indian affairs. October 6-9 Debates location of the Continental capital. October 8 Receives Quaker petition for suppression of the slave trade. October 10 Resolves to leave Princeton; debates location of the capital. October 15 Adopts resolves regulating Indian affairs. October 17 Debates location of the capital. October 18 Adopts Thanksgiving proclamation. October 21 Adopts two capital locations—Congress to meet alternately “on the banks of the Delaware and Potomac.” October 22 October 23-24 October 27-28 October 29 Orders distribution of the peace treaty to the states. Debates peacetime military arrangements. Fails to convene quorum. Adopts instructions for negotiating commercial treaties. October 30 Authorizes Pennsylvania to negotiate Indian lands purchase. October 31 Ratifies fiscal contract with France; holds audi ence with Dutch minister van Berckel. November 1 Orders Post Office theft inquiry; adopts rules to improve congressional attendance. November 3 Convenes new Congress; elects Thomas Mifflin president (elects Daniel Carroll chairman in the president’s absence). November 4 Authorizes discharge of the Continental Army—“except 500 men, with proper officers.” Adjourns to Annapolis, to reconvene the 26th. xii


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclu sive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertainable from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in many cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from Newjersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various dele gates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller informa tion is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 7:lxiii-lxxvii for additional information on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are avail able in the Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, 1774-1989, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Charles Church Chandler Elected: May 13, 1784 Did not attend Congress foseph Platt Cooke Elected: May 13, 1784 Did not attend in 1783-84 William Hillhouse Elected: October 9, 1783 Did not attend Congress Benjamin Huntington Elected: May 8, 1783 Attended: October 1 to November 4, 1783 Samuel Huntington Elected: May 8, 1783 Attended: October 1 to November 4, 1783 xvii


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Richard, Law Elected: May 8, 1783 Did not attend in 1783-84 Stephen Mix Mitchell Elected: May 8, 1783 Did not attend in 1783-84 William Pitkin Elected: May 13, 1784 Did not attend Congress Roger Sherman Elected: October 9, 1783 Attended: January 13 to June 4, 1784 Jedediah Strong Elected: May 8, 1783; May 13, 1784 Did not attend Congress John Treadwell Elected: May 13, 1784 Did not attend Congress James Wadsworth Elected: October 9, 1783; May 13, 1784 Attended: January 13 to June 3, 1784 William Williams Elected: October 9, 1783; May 13, 1784 Did not attend in 1783-84 DELAWARE Gunning Bedjord, Jr. Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: October 1-11? 1783, March 8-13, 1784 Henry Latimer Elected: April 8, 1784 Did not attend Congress Eleazer McComb Elected: February 1, 1783 Attended: December 13, 1783, to January 17, 1784 John McKinly Elected: April 8, 1784 Did not attend Congress Caesar Rodney Elected: February 1, 1783 Did not attend in 1783-84 Thomas Rodney Elected: April 8, 1784 Did not attend in 1784


[Page 25]
List of Delegates to Congress xxi Samuel Osgood Elected: July 9, 1783 Attended: November 3-4; December 13, 1783, to March 1, 1784 George Partridge Elected: June 28, 1783;June 17, 1784 Attended: December 13, 1783, to June 3, 1784 James Sullivan Elected: June 28, 1783 Did not attend Congress NEW HAMPSHIRE Josiah Bartlett Elected: February 26, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 Jonathan Blanchard Elected: February 28; December 26, 1783; June 11, 1784 Attended: March 1 to June 4; June 26 to August 9, 1784 Moses Dow Elected: June 11, 1784 Declined Nathaniel Folsom Elected: February 19, 1783 Did not attend in 1783 Abiel Foster Elected: February 19; December 26, 1783;June 11, 1784 Attended: October 1 to November 4; December 13, 1783, to June 3, 1784 John Langdon Elected: June 11, 1784 Declined Ebenezer Thompson Elected: February 27, 1783 Did not attend Congress NEWJERSEY John Beatty Elected: November 6, 1783 Attended: January 13 to June 3, 1784 Elias Boudinot Elected: October 30, 1782 Attended: October 1 to November 3, 1783 Abraham Clark Elected: October 30, 1782 Attended: October 1-17? 1783


[Page 27]
List of Delegates to Congress xxiii John Morin Scott Elected: July 22, 1782 Did not attend in 1783-84 NORTH CAROLINA William Cumming Elected: May 24, 1784 Did not attend in 1784 Benjamin Hawkins Elected: April 25, 1783 Attended: October 1 to December 20? 1783 Abner Nash Elected: April 25, 1783 Did not attend October 1783 to October 1784 Adlai Osborn Elected: May 22, 1784 Did not attend Congress Thomas Person Elected: May 11, 1784 Did not attend Congress John Sitgreaves Elected: May 11, 1784 Did not attend May to October 1784 Benjamin Smith Elected: May 22, 1784 Did not attend Congress Richard Dobbs Spaight Elected: April 25, 1783; April 23, May 11, 1784 Attended: December 13, 1783 to February 13, 1784; February 23 to May 13; May 17 to June 4; June 30 to August 19, 1784 Hugh Williamson Elected: April 25, 1783; April 23, 1784 Attended: October 1 to November 4; December 13, 1783 to May 13, 1784; May 17 to June 3, 1784 PENNSYLVANIA Thomas FitzSimons Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: October 7-14, 1783 Edward Hand Elected: November 12, 1783 Attended: December 24, 1783 to February 5? 1784; March 27 to June 4; June 26 to August 19, 1784


[Page 28]
xxiv List of Delegates to Congress Thomas Mifflin Elected: November 12, 1782; November 12, 1783 Attended: December 13, 1783, to March 8, 1784; March 15-27; April 1 to June 3, 1784 John Montgomery Elected: November 12, 1782; November 12, 1783 Attended: October 1 to November 1? 1783; January 22 to March 19; March 25 to April 1; April 13 to June 3, 1784 Cadwalader Morris Elected: November 12, 1783 Attended: December 13, 1783, to January 15? 1784 Richard Peters Elected: November 12, 1782; November 12, 1783 Attended: October 1 to November 1? 1783 James Wilson Elected: November 12, 1782 Attended: October 6-22? 1783 RHODE ISLAND Jonathan Arnold Elected: May 7, 1783 Did not attend October 1783 to October 1784 John Brown Elected: May 5, 1784 Did not attend Congress William Ellery Elected: May 7, 1783; May 5, 1784 Attended: October 1 to November 4; December 13, 1783, to June 4, 1784 David Howell Elected: May 7, 1783; May 5, 1784 Attended: October 1 to November 4; December 13, 1783, to June 3, 1784 Henry Marchant Elected: May 7, 1783; May 5, 1784 Did not attend in 1783-84 SOUTH CAROLINA John Barnwell Elected: February 14, 1784 Declined


[Page 29]
List of Delegates to Congress XXV Richard Beresford Elected: March 15, 1783 Attended: October 1-21; October 30 to November 4, 1783; January 14 to June 3, 1784 John Bull Elected: March 9, 1784 Did not attend March to October 1784 Pierce Butler Elected: February 10, 1784 Declined Alexander Gillon Elected: February 10, 1784 Did not attend in 1784 Ralph Izard Elected: February 12, 1783 Attended: October 17?—21, 1783 Henry Laurens Elected: February 13, 1783; February 10, 1784 Did not attend in 1783-84 William Moultrie Elected: February 10, 1784 Declined Charles Pinckney Elected: March 23, 1784 Did not attend March to October 1784 Jacob Read Elected: February 12, 1783; February 10,1784 Attended: October 1—14?; October 30 to November 4; December 13, 1783 to June 4; June 26 to August 19, 1784 John Rutledge Elected: February 13, 1783 Did not attend October 1783 to October 1784 Thomas Sumter Elected: February 12, 1783 Declined VIRGINIA Theodorick Bland Elected: June 15, 1782 Attended: October 1-7, 1783 William Grayson Elected: June 22, 1784 Did not attend in 1784


[Page 37]
October 1, 1783- October 31, 1784


[Page 41]
October 1,1783 5 We are unable to determine, whether the Measure, if adopted, would have releived the Legislature from their present Embarass- ments, but as nothing better could be obtained, We were willing to ac cept it; & to make it palatable, were under the Necessity of consent ing, that a proviso should be inserted, for fulfilling the Engagements of Congress to Officers who might not incline to a Compromise; and also, that the funded Certificates which might be assigned to the State, by officers making a Compromise, should not be received at the Treasury of the united States, in Payment of Requisitions for discharg ing the Interest of the publick Debt—but notwithstanding these Con cessions, the report was rejected, & Congress have assigned their Rea sons for not complying with the Desires of the Legislature. The promise of half pay for Life, being made in the Year 1780, was prior to the Existence of the present Congress, or indeed of any Congress “assembled in pursuance of the Confederation”, & is there fore considered as being under the Sanction of the 12th Article, which provides ‘That all Bills of Credit emitted, Monies borrowed, & Debts contracted by or under the Authority of Congress, before the assembling of the united States, in pursuance of the present Confederation, shall be deemed & considered as a Charge against the united States, for Pay ment & Satisfaction whereof, the said united States, & the publick Faith are thereby solemnly pledged”. Congress therefore alledge that the Grant of half pay, was not their Act, nor subject to their Controul— that to deprive the Officers of this Grant, of this Debt due to them, as a Reward for their Services, would be unconstitutional & a direct Viola tion of the Articles of the Confederation—that the Commutation was conceived to be, & in Fact was an advantageous Contract on the Part of the united States—but admitting it was not, that the Faith of the pub lick being solemnly pledged for fulfilling that Engagement, can never be recalled—& that even an Attempt to recall it, would sap the Foun dation of publick Credit. How far these Measures & observations of Congress are consistent with Reason & good policy; the honorable Leg islature may be able to judge: it is incumbent on Us to state the Facts, and to submit the same to their Consideration. It may be necessary at this Time to inform the Legislature, that the State of Virginia has offered on certain Conditions to cede to the united States, a large Tract of Territory containing upwards of sixteen Million Acres—that Congress have accepted the Cession, with some Variation from the proposed Conditions 2 —that a great Number of of ficers, in Expectation that Virginia will close with Congress, have ap plied to the latter for a Grant of part of the Lands, in payment of the funded Certificates issued to the said officers for their Arrearages & Commutation—and that it appears to be the present Intention of Congress, when the Cession is compleat, to apply part of the Lands to the purpose mentioned. Should this plan be carryed into Effect, it


[Page 42]
6 October 1,1783 may be worthy of Consideration, whether it would not be more for the Interest of the State, to pay its proportion of the Army Debt by this Mode, than by compromising with the officers, & discharging in Specie, the Arrearages of their pay, Cloathing & Rations, agreable to the original Contract. We mean not however to give a decided Opin ion on this important Subject, but submit it to the Wisdom of the hon orable Legislature. With Respect to the old Emissions, 3 nothing further is done for call ing them in, neither have We the least Expectation, that the Measures of Congress, relative thereto, will be either satisfactory, or what We conceive equitable to the State. Should the Money be called in by the Legislature, & transmitted to the continental Treasury at 75 for 1, in part Payment of the Requisitions of Congress, some Members who are opposed to an Act of Congress for this purpose have intimated to Us, that they should acquiesce in the Measure; & We are fully of Opinion, that it would finally be submitted to without much opposition. Indeed the Legislature, in this Case, would stand on firm & constitutional Ground; their proceedings would bear the Test of Reason & Justice; & the Opposition of Congress must be condemned by every judicious & impartial Mind. Neither will Massachusetts if We are rightly informed by the Delegates of New Hamshire & Rhode Island stand alone in this Matter, these States being in similar Circumstances. But if the State should be unsupported by others, ought it to be less firm in a De mand of Justice, or in Measures to obtain it? We think not. If her Claims are not just she can have no Desire of succeeding in them; but if they are just, the more they are opposed, the more equitable they will appear, & opposition itself must finally vanish before the stern & irresistable Majesty ofjustice. With Respect to the proceedings of Congress of September 25th, We disapproved of them altogether, & therefore we made no Mo tions for Amendments; otherwise We should not have passed many parts unnoticed, & particularly that wherein it is asserted that the “confederated States at the Commencement of the War, leagued to defend the violated Rights of Massachusetts” 4 when it is known to every person, conversant with the History of the Origin of the War, that the Attempt of the british Ministry to alter the Charter of Mas sachusetts, alarmed the other Governments, & that they leagued in Defence of the chartered Rights of all the Colonies, each having a particular Regard to its own Safety. You will please to present our best Respects to the honorable Legis lature, & beleive Us to be Gentlemen with perfect Esteem & Respect your most obedt. & most humble serts, E Gerry S. Holten P.S. Our Collegue Mr Higginson, if requested by the honble Court,


[Page 44]
8 October 1,1783 October . Copy of Mr. Adam’s letter of 18th July 1783 13 —to Mr. B. Huntington. Copy of the same Delivered Mr. Montgomery. October 17. Delivered Mr. Montgomery a Copy of the proceedings of Congress relative to their permanent & temporary residence with the Yeas and Nays (in all 32 pages). 14 October 22d. Delivered Mr. Montgomery a copy of the proceedings of Congress relative to their permanent & temporary residence with yeas & nays from the 17th to this day—being 14 pages. 15 October 24th. Sent to the President to be transmitted to the differ ent States, 14 Copies of the Proclamation for a day of thanksgiving 16 — one of which for the Printer, 3 Copies of the exemplification of the provisional articles between G Britain & the Ud. Ss. of America. 17 October 26. Sent to the President 3 Copies of the resolves of Congress relative to the ceremonial of admitting Ambassadors to an Audience—those also respecting Myn heer Van Berkel 18 —and a copy of the resolves of Congress of 15 October 1783 respectg Indian Affairs to be transmitted to Genl. Schuyler. 19 October 28th. Delivered Mr. Duane all the proceedings of Congress relative to their temporary and permanent residence, in the whole 45 pages—And a Copy of the resolves of October 15th. 1783 respecting Indian Affairs. November 1st. Delivered Mr. Boudinot the proceedings of Congress relative to their temporary and permanent residence. Delivered Mr. Mercer, report on Indian Affairs passed 15 October 1783—Letter of Mr. Adams of the 18th July 1783—A State of receipts and expenditures of the Financier for the present year. 20 November 1st. Delivered Mr. Carroll copies of the proceedings of Congress relative to their permanent & temporary residence—of the resolution of the Assembly of Pensylva. as entered on the Journal 21 — of the report on Indian Affairs passed 15th October—of the estimate of the arrearages to the 1st Jany. 1783 & of one years interest arising on foreign & domestic debt. 22 Sent to the Supt. of Finance Contract with its ratification of 2d January 1783. 23 Duplicate Contract with its ratification of Octor. 31st 1783, 24 with all the referrences & resolves relative to the Office of Finance. November 1st. Delivered Mr. Peters the proceedings of Congress from the to the Ultimo respecting their residence &ca.— and a copy of Dr. Franklin’s letter of Novr. 1782. 25 MS (DNA: PCC, item 181). In the hand of Benjamin Bankson and Henry Remsen, Jr. 1 At this time Secretary Thomson established a new system for recording the work performed in his office in copying documents for congressional delegates by opening this memorandum book, which was maintained primarily by his clerks Benjamin Bank- son and Henry Remsen, Jr., through September 30, 1785. Thomson subsequently de-


[Page 49]
October2, 1783 13 which gave me sensible pleasure, but what added to it, was your safe return home & tho’ you have not mentioned your health, yet may I not conclude it to be better. The polite reason you are pleased to assign for not writing to me first, wou’d apply very properly to a stranger when writing to a person in my place, but the same formalities are not necessary in the relation you stand in to me. The accts. I have of your dear little babe is very agreeable. Last week two of the sergeants that were concerned in the late mutiny, being under sentence of death, were carried to the place of execution, & every formality gone through with, except the final stroke, when a full & general pardon was proclaimed from Congress, not only for these two, but for all that were under sentences, for cor poral punishment, on acct, of said mutiny; it can be better concieved of by you than expressed by me, how the poor criminals feel upon so sudden a change in one moment as they supposed they were to lanch into eternity; and the next moment not only set at full liberty, but their offences forgiven; It has given me great satisfaction in being con cerned in shewing mercy to such persons as seemed to have little or no mercy for us. The account of your Journey & observations were very acceptable. I now recollect a letter I reed, from you some time since, & not being able to comply with your wishes, I inclosed it to Mrs. Holten; I have not the least doubt of your prudence & economy, but such are the times, that I am concerned for you, and I wish you not to live at any greater expence on acct, of your relation to me, than you otherwise wou’d; and I am deceived if you have not a wife, that will conform to what you think best: I flatter myself you will excuse the freedom I have now taken when I assure you it proceeds wholely from parental affection & concern; happiness doth not consist in the abundance of the things we possess in this life, but in virtue & religion added to a contented mind. By the leave of providence I expect to be at home toward the last of Novr. I took particular notice of Mrs. Websters “kindest duty” & you will please to present her in return my most sincere love & affection. Yours, &c. FC (PPIn: Americana Collection). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Luke Webster, a goldsmith of Newburyport, Mass., had married Holten’s daughter Sarah in 1781. Vital Records of Danvers, Massachusetts 2 vols. (Salem: Essex Institute, 1909-10), 2:140.


[Page 50]
14 October 2, 1783 James Madison to the Reverend James Madison D r Sir 1 Princeton Sept [Octr] 2 1783 If you receive this at all it will be from the hands of Mr Isaac Stiles son of the President of Yale College who proposes to seek his fortune in some one of the Southern States. His ultimate object is the profes sion of the Law; But his wish is to be introduced in the first instance into a Gentleman’s family where he may at the same time be employ’d in teaching the Languages & some of the more useful branches of sci ence and may carry on his forensic studies under the auspices of a neighbouring Law[y]er. Being myself unacquaint[e]d with any situa tion in Virginia w[h]ich could answer these joint purposes, I take the liberty of giving Mr Stiles his introduction, and asking in his behalf such information and advice as you may be able to befriend him with I am Dr Sir yours Sincer[e]ly, J- Madison Jr Tr (CtY: Stiles Papers); reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:365. 1 The Reverend James Madison (1749-1812), a cousin of the delegate, had been pres ident of the College of William and Mary since 1777. DAB. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sj r, Princeton October 2d. 1783. In Order that Council may have a compleate View of the Plan be fore Congress, relating to Indian Affairs so far as the Committee have proceeded we have the honor to inclose an additional Report on the Subject. 1 We have the honor to be with great Respect and Esteem, Your very obedient Servants, Richard Peters John Montgomery P.S[scrip] turn. We also enclose a Copy of a Letter from our Minister Mr Adams for the Information of Council on Subjects very interest- ing.2 Also an Explanation of the Medal we had the honor to present. Tr (PHarH: RG 27). 1 For this “additional” report, which had been submitted September 22 and was adopted October 15, see JCC, 25:680-93, 989. The delegates’ enclosure was undoubt edly a copy of the broadside printed for debate, for which see PCC, item 30, fol. 195. For the report to which this was an addition, see Pennsylvania Delegates to Dickinson, September 28, note. 2 According to the minutes of the council (Pa. Council Minutes, 13:702), this was John Adams’ letter of July 18, 1783, which is in PCC, item 84, 5:13-16; and Wharton, Diplo matic Correspondence, 6:560-62.


[Page 57]
October 6, 1783 21 Bland and myself have written letters by Dozens. True it is that my in tentions were to have left this place about the 15th of last month & to have reachd Virginia about this time but important dispatches having arrived from Europe and some matters of the first moment coming on about that time in Congress—I have on this as on many other occa sions Since I became a Public Man postponed my own conveniency and Interest to the Public Weal and undergone too weekes more mor tification, as well as risqued the danger of loosing the pleasure of See ing you & Fanny before you took yr. departure for Bermuda. I have now fixed tomorrow for our departure from this place 1 and having left our affairs somewhat deranged—I fear it will take me near a fort nights residence in Philadelphia before I can adjust them so as to set forward for Virginia, so that I fear it will be near the End of this month before I can have the happiness of presenting my self to my Friends in that Country—from whose bosom I believe I shall never go again. You tell me Fanny is visiting the Sick without telling me who, which leaves me somewhat uneasy, as you have left me in the Dark whether my Father or some of your Family or some other of my Friends may not be the objects of her attention on that score. Having but little time it is scarce worth while to enter deeply on the Politics of the present day especially as I hope so soon to have the pleasure of Chattering them over with you at Cawsons. Patsy is well and desires her best love. Bob has had for some time a severe fit of Sickness at tended with an Ugly Cough. I believe the remnant of the Meazles—he is getting better and I hope the Journey which he will be well able to take with us may be a means of restoring him to perfect health. My love to the boys & girls adieu and excuse me to Fanny for not writing by this post. God Bless you all, Theok. Bland P.S. This day comes on the important Question of fixing on the per manent Residence of Congress 2 —the Candidates—N. York, N Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, viz ^Esopus, N York, Eliza beth Town, Newark, Brunswick, Prince Town, Trenton, Philadelphia, German Town, Wilmington, Annapolis, George Town, Williamsburg. 3 RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 In fact, Bland attended Congress on October 7 and may have set out for Philadel phia on that or the following day. See JCC, 25:654—58. In the accounts that he submitted to the Virginia treasurer he claimed a salary of $2,224 “for his attendance on travelling to and from Congress from the 27th day of Deer. 1782 to the first day of Octr. 1783 being 278." Bland Papers, ViHi. 2 See JCC, 25:646-54. 3 With this letter Bland also enclosed the following instructions for the rental of his property. “I will beg the favor of you to rent my Plantation at Farmindell (to a Tenant of good Character & responsible taking his bond for the Payment,) till the 1st ofjany. 1784.


[Page 58]
22 October 6,1783 “The terms are the fences to be kept up in good repair, the Houses to be return’d in as good repair as when received, the enclosures not to be alter d—no wood to be Cut but for firewood for the use of the tenant—the timothy lot to be enclosed so as to keep Hogs out—the taxes to be paid for the land—and the price of the rent fifty, if it can be got, or forty five—the lowest—forty. I can spare the Tenant, one or two tables, a bed & bedstead, some kitchen furniture, some Chairs, not the arm-Chairs but half a dozen Black Walnut chairs, these to be returnd when calld for by me. “If the Tenant chooses to undertake the Makeing of peach Brandy from the orchards at Cawsons he takeing the whole trouble & being at the whole expence I will give him one half of the Brandy for the other—this I will do to any other person. “N.B. The orchards at Farmindell go with the Plantation. The furniture abovemen- tiond at Mrs. Bollings & at Cawsons. Miss Nancy or my man Tom will deliver. “A Mr. Russel has applied to me to sell my Farm at the Church Hill which I intend to dispose of. I have asked him £1500. My intention was to have received the money £500 down in Specie or good Bills on Philadelphia—£500 in twelve months & five Hundred £ twelve months after the 2d payment to bear interest from the day of sale, in good Bonds with good Security for the two last payments. “But my ultimatum is 1250 Virginia Currency in Specie (gold & Silver—Seven hun dred & fifty down—& the residue in twelve months—the 2d to bear interest from the day of sale on good bonds & Secy. “If not sold I wd rent to a good Tenant—for fifteen £ the first year, on his makeing all necessary repairs to the Houses—no wood to be cut either for fences or firing. “Capt. Barret of the Fabius is to pay me some money which I shd. be obliged to you to receive & remit to me. Mr. Rose will furnish you with a Bill for that or any other Sum that may be paid you on my account.” James Duane to Mary Duane Princeton 6th Octobr 1783. Brother Robert, 1 my dearest Polly, stopped here for half an hour. I was then, as I now am on my duty in Congress which prevents me writ ing to you at large. I bless God that I continue in Health as it is my earnest prayer that you, our dear Children and Friends enjoy the same Happiness. I have sent a Collection of News papers for the amusement of our honord Father and the Family. I have a Letter from Duanesburgh informing that the great and un common Rains which have fallen this Summer and Autumn have pre vented the Repairs of my Mill; and that a melancholy accident has happened, Simson’s Wife having been shot by John Grenadeir and Hans Righter and that she died of the Wounds. I had a Regard for both these men who were strongly attached To our Setdement. If the matter is truly represented to me, I am apprehensive that these unfor tunate, rash and ferocious men will sustain a severe Fate! I have no time to add but that I am yours with my Blessing to our dear Children and my sincere Regards to all our Friends, my dearest Polly, Your ever affectionate & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane


[Page 61]
October 6, 1783 25 cline going, he will I hope remain with you through the Winter, for it is in my mind very important, that the Vote of Massachusetts should be right, if it is not, perhaps Congress may be again carried to Phila. or some other very great Evil ensue. I find many people here that have some knowledge of the french politics, they are also apprehensive of an undue influence from Our great Officers, & have some suspicion of there being an Oligarchy or Aristocracy very soon established, if great Care is not taken by the members from the northward. Finding this Idea a prevailing One & the impression strong, I have as yet said but little about that matter, except to a few Individuals, from an Idea that if it becomes sufficiently extensive & operative without my interference, it will be better than when it should appear to proceed from me. His Excellency has treated me very cooly & indeed rather Cavalierly, 3 he told me when I first met him, as I was going to the Council Chamber to pay him my respects, that he was happy he had by meeting me saved me the trouble of going there. This I considered as an intimation that he wished for no Conversation with me. I have therefore kept clear of him since & shall not put myself out of the way to show him any respect. The Court has agreed upon giving you Instructions as to the place of residence. I have not seen the Instructions but am told that they prefer some good situation in the Jersies, or upon the North River. I had much talk upon this Subject with some of the leading men & im pressed the necessity of Instructions not to restrain you but to govern others who may join you. Octr. 8th. I am informed since writing the above that the houses are like to agree upon an Impost to be collected by & carried to the Credit of the State. They may perhaps agree also upon some other Tax that shall equal with the Impost to Their Quota of the Int[eres]t on the Debt. I wish them to evidence to Congress a determination to furnish their full proportion of the necessary Funds & in every way to support the federal government agreeable to the Confederation, but their full expectation that the other States will discover the same dis position & make like Exertions, should be stated in the strongest & most pointed Terms, & I should like to have Them go so far as to as sure Congress that unless the other States can be brought to do Jus tice to this State & to give the strongest assurances that they will in fu ture do Their full share, a continuation of Our Exertions must not be expected. I expect that you will receive Instructions to urge for a new arrangement of the Treasury & on several other important points. A Committee is appointed to consider of a Cession of the vacant Territory & to propose our Claim to a large tract of Country which has been located by New York. I fancy they will cede all that Country which lies West of Hudsons River, & perhaps annex this condition,


[Page 63]
October 8, 1783 27 Samuel Huntington to Ebenezer Huntington Dear Sir, 1 Princeton Octor. 8th, 1783. I am this day favour’d, with your letter of the 3rd instant, and thank you for the intelligence you have been pleas’d to communicate. Congress have dertermind not to refer the matter of Commutation to the Several States to settle with their officers in the line of the Army. I beleive that the State have nothing to do in settling the amount you refer too, but rather suppose that all persons who acted under the late Jos’h Trumbull Esq. in his department as Commissary General must have their accounts settled in continental Way; whither any per sons are appointed to settle his accounts of Issues I am not at present able to inform. Be so kind as to Acquaint your Brother the General, 2 that I have Just receiv’d his letter, and if any thing can be obtain’d agreable to his wishes, it shall be sent to him or you at Camp without loss of time. I presume from his letter, He is now in the City at N. York. I have the Honour to be with due regards Your Humble Servt. Sam. Huntington Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 7:324, from “MSS of the late William D. Ely of Provi dence." Addressed: “Col. Eben’r Huntington, Camp at West point.” । Ebenezer Huntington (1754-1834), of Norwich, Conn., was at this time a lieutenant colonel in the 2d Connecticut Regiment. See AHRa (July 1900): 702-3; and Franklin B. Dexter, Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Yale College, 6 vols. (New York: Henry Holt and Co., 1885-1919), 3:565-67. See also these iMers, 13:138-39. 2 That is, Jedediah Huntington. John Francis Mercer to the Public [ante October 8, 1783] 1 The North American. 2 No. II. The object of the Author’s first address to his countrymen, was to develope those causes of civil dissention, which if not early checked, would put a period to their domestic tranquility; and the design of these sheets is to unfold their relative situation, in the character they have assumed, as one of the nations of the earth. He made no modest professions of ignorance or unworthiness: he considers them as too often the cloaks of vanity or hypocrisy; he laid no claim to superior in formation: that is the folly of a weak intellect; and above all he avoided solemn assertions of patriotism or disinterested zeal, for them he receives himself, with caution, if not suspicion. The only introduc tion he will now make of his person or character; the only clue he will


[Page 64]
28 Octobers, 1783 give to unravel his secret intentions in these addresses to his fellow cit izens is, that they will never know him, and consequently should con sider him a candidate—only for their attention. If wealth, dignity and power create influence, and confer advan tages on an individual, where an union of force extends the protec tion of law to the meanest member of society, and guards his rights from violation; we may conclude it a truth, (clear as the light) that they are essential to the welfare of nations, over whom there is no co ercive hand of authority to enforce the dictates of reason, and compel obedience to the decrees of justice. The subtle but degenerate successors of those Romans who rested the defence of their rights on the firm basis of power, and scorned to shelter them under the mean artifice of intrigue (become now a di vided prey to numberless petty tyrants) have invented the much boasted political balance; but this effort of ingenuity and refinement, although a barrier to the limits of their separate despotism, does not shield them from the sanguinary effects of the contentions, success or misfortunes of their potent neighbours: they on their part cherish with unwearied assiduity, that disunion which has humbled with the dust the proud mistress of the world, and foster that anarchy and con fusion with their attendants, corruption and profligacy of manners, which expose to derision and contempt, the descendants of a nation of heroes, who, when united, gave laws to civilized man. On the continent of Europe, where an acquirement of territory would be an immediate accession of power to a rival Potentate, mu tual jealousy may yield a temporary protection to precarious rights. But we have seen in our day the great inland powers dividing the fairest of all regions—one of her most powerful kingdoms, and pros trating the rights of its citizens, whose discord and anarchy had rent asunder the bonds of Empire, and opened easy avenues into the bosom of their country. And if ever civil dissention should loosen that Gordian knot, which binds these States together, and leave them resting on their individ ual impotence and insignificance, it would not be our imbecility alone, which would tempt, but necessity that must constrain the great commercial powers, to divide those advantages, which we should dis cover a want of wisdom to retain, and which they can never permit one—exclusive to enjoy. The late ungenerous, I may say hostile attack of Great Britain on our commerce, sprang confessedly from an early conviction, that we could not act as a nation; nor concert measures necessary for our mutual benefit and defence. Apprized that there was no general legislative power, vested in any one body, for regulating the commerce of this Continent, they presumed that the varying interests of the several States, co operating with the predilection of all for British manufac-


[Page 65]
October 8, 1783 29 tures, would render abortive any restrictions or regulations with which we might combat their attempts; for such being laid or devised by one State, the hopes of drawing the trade to another, would prevent their adoption, and perhaps produce an encouragement. These edicts of the British Council which openly disseminate those seeds of disunion which it will be the labor of their dispersed emis saries to cultivate—are framed on these principles, and with these ex pectations. They are to introduce into our harbours their manufac tures, unrestrained by regulations or imposts, to which that concertion among the States (they treat with ridicule and contempt) is, they well know, only competent—this whilst our produce is to find no entrance into British ports, but under a load of duties so enor mous and oppressed with restrictions so severe as to depreciate their value, or impede their sale—by confining advantages to one state, whilst they dart the keen force of resentment on another, they hope to rouse the jealousy of all. They cut off one of the most profitable branches of our commerce, cramp all and check that bold and adven- terous spirit of enterprize, which promised to carry the flag of these States to the remotest corners of the globe, and was (we fondly hope) a sure and happy presage of a rising Navy of America, that might pro tect her commerce from injury or insult. Presumptuous nation, secure in our disunion, thou hast ever been too eager, and thy premature violence has been the parent of our wis dom—catching at the glittering shadow—may the substance ever elude thy fangs. It is hard to say whether cruelty or injustice predominates in their policy; but it is easy to determine that should the attempt succeed, it would decide on our peace and prosperity. They have sounded the alarm bell of interest throughout Europe, and the event of this restric tion on our commerce, and insult on our national character, is waited for with impatience and with anxiety. The nations of the continent stand wavering on the brink of expectation—they cannot yet be per suaded that a rising people, whose unparaleled virtue and persever ance have drawn on them the blessings of the friends of freedom, and extorted admiration from the votaries of despotism, whose wisdom and heroism have been long the darling themes of panegyric, can the moment of success sacrifice to blind jealousy, and interested preju dices, the dear-bought fruits of their toils and sufferings. On the eve of laying every reciprocity at our feet, they now await the issue of this experiment: should the event be favourable for Britain, they must all pursue her example, least she should exclusively enjoy the superior and peculiar advantages, arising from her conduct. The die once cast, our fate would be irrevocably fixed, and the partition of our com merce would be but the prelude of those shackles which tyranny has invented as the sole security of injustice.


[Page 74]
38 October 9,1783 Clerk. Concurred in the upper House with addition, "to commence when another Delegate shall arrive in Congress to supply his place. ’ Test George Wyllys Secrety.” Arthur Lee to Robert Morris Sir, Copy Princeton Ocr. 9th. 1783. Mr. Deane has mentiond in his Acct, that 48252 livres four sous of the Monies received by him from Mr. Solier was on your Account; & that the same has been chargd to you by Pliarne Penet & Co. The Committee are obligd to trouble you again on the subject of his Accounts 1 by requesting you will furnish them with information as to the fact which Mr. Deane alludes to, & whether that Sum taken out of the public fund, tho charg’d to you, was ever credited or refunded to the U. S. It being the express injunction of Congress that the Com mittee shoud report on these Accounts, however unpleasant it may be, they must obey. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir Yr. most obed, A. Lee Tr (DNA: PCC, item 54). 1 For the appointment of this committee, see Lee to Morris, September 26, 1783. In his October 11 reply Morris refused to furnish the committee with information about his “private Account” because “the Superintendant of Finance has no Official Knowledge of the private Concerns of Mr. Robert Morris." He did concede, however, that Deane was accountable to the United States for all public funds received from Pliarne Penet & Co., whose accounts with the United States had been settled, but not for the 48,252 livres charged to Morris because Deane had already “deducted it from the gross Sum which he received from Mr. Solier" and thus “for that particular Sum he must Account to Robert Morris.” It was a moot question, therefore, whether the funds had been “credited or re funded to the United States.” See PCC, item 54, fols. 37-38. The committee delivered its report on November 4, the last day Congress met in Princeton, and recommended that the commissioner for settling the foreign accounts of the United States allow Deane his expenses as well as a 5% commission on goods purchased and shipped “from the time he left Philadelphia in the public service to the 4th of June 1778.” The committee, how ever, denied Deane salary and commission or any reimbursement for funds expended after that date unless Deane could demonstrate that he had acted with congressional au thorization. See ibid., fols. 1-2. The report was not entered on the journals and it does not appear that Congress took it up when it reconvened in Annapolis. Ezra L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, (private) Princeton, October 9, 1783. In my last Letter to your Excellency I gave an Extract from a Letter received from the Ministers of the United States at Paris; 1 and ob served that the other Communications were under an Injunction of


[Page 78]
42 October 9, 1783 the confederation in consequence thereof, see No. Il, 9 little or no hope remained of her ever making it more liberal & extensive. And should Virginia, following the late example of No. Carolina, have opend her land-office and refused to listen to conciliatory measures the consequences to the public could not readily be foreseen. The legislature of Virginia will soon convene, and it is expected con form their cession to the views of Congress. In case of her refusal differ ent measures must be adopted to obtain public justice on this subject. The delegates for No. Carolina have written to their State in the most urgent terms to induce them to make a cession of part of their western claims. What Georgia will do is altogether uncertain. But by accepting the cession of Virginia we shall have an additional voice for obtaining cession of other States. The paper No. 9 contains the cession of Virginia. 10 It has been earnestly contended that they should relinquish all their claims over the Alleghany mountain. In alleviation of the public disappointment, by failing in this point, it may be observed that the lands appropriated by Virginia to her line at all events must have been taken out of these western claims, that near 8000 inhabitants have planted themselves on the Southeast side of the Ohio at Kentucky and other Settlements whose claims would most probably have been allowed by the public, and formed another large deduction: And finally that the Indiana claims on account of which is contained in the paper No 10 would also have formed another large deduction; 11 so that on the whole the policy of contending with Virginia by coercive measures to relinquish her claim Southeast of the Ohio appeared at least questionable. The lands already ceded to the United States, should Virginia con form to the views of Congress, are estimated by the best informed to amount to upwards of five hundred thousand square miles. Allowing the State of Rhode-Island to strike one fiftieth our share would amount to ten thousand square miles; a territory of ten times the ex tent of the whole State. A proclamation has issued from Congress prohibiting all persons from purchasing or accepting cessions of land from the Indians with out the limits of the particular States, and declaring such purchases & cessions null & void; also prohibiting settlements on said lands. 12 And it is in contemplation to lay off a suitable district from the same for a new State, to be disposed of to satisfy the public engagements to the army and to form a fund in aid of public credit. On the fifth instant came on the great question respecting the per manent residence of Congress. After some debate it was agreed that each State in order should be in question. After separate votes were taken on each particular State it appeared that N. Jersey & Maryland stood highest, each having four voices in its favour.


[Page 82]
46 October 12,1783 James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell Sunday 12 Octbr. 1783 I added a few lines to my letter by post, under a very afflicting head ache. 1 To day I find myself greatly releived from this complaint, and imagine it proceeded from the debates of last week, which were long, renewed, continued, repeated, and more violent and acrimonious than any I have been witness to in Congress. They began on Monday and ended about 4 o’clock on yesterday. The subject was the perma nent and temporary residence of Congress. There is great truth, my Peggy, [in] the observation, that the value of any thing is not properly considered till after its loss. Philadelphia is now sensible of the additional weight she had in the councils of the union, by the residence of Congress; and how important this circum stance was to the whole State, by the fresh wealth it was daily bringing into it. She has used uncommon efforts to get Congress back, and vexed herself to the heart, that she did not exercise more forecast when she had them. Philadelphia had but one vote for the permanent residence and five for the temporary. Where Congress shall ultimately fix is still undetermined. Will my Peggy indulge me in a reflexion on this occasion. Now that I know we are mutually dear and necessary to each other, I shall not, like the foolish Philadelphians, part with so valuable an inmate as your affection; but cherish it with all possible care—call forth every passion to defend it against whatever would do it an injury, or disturb its repose—and endeavour by the tenderest returns to make its resi dence with me perpetual. Miss Yard will be entrusted with this letter under the usual precau tion. She is—but 1 must stop telling you what she is—Doctor Williamson has made his appearance, and we have much to talk over respecting the business of the week. In two minutes, I perceive by his approaches, he would have his nose within two inches of this letter. I shall [pr] event him however, by bidding my [de]ar Peggy adieu. James McHenry Monday. I cannot help communicating an incident that happened this morning. As I was was looking at your letter I perceived on the wafer a little circle that appeared to have been made by the edge of your thimble. You will laugh perhaps, when I tell you, that the discov ery of this little circle gave me more pleasure than I could have re ceived from a view of the impression of the finest seal in the world. I instantly associated with the thimble that made it, the finger it had often embraced, and I kissed the little circular impression, as I would have kissed the little hand to which the thimble belonged. Good morning my Peggy. J.McH.


[Page 85]
October 13, 1783 49 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:373-75 i See JCC, 25:665. 2 JCC, 25:667-68. S See, for example, James McHenry’s postscript to Maryland Delegates to William Paca, October 11, 1783. 4 See JCC, 25:671-72. 5 That is, Madison. 6 Arthur Lee and Theodorick Bland. At about this time Madison also prepared the following notes summarizing argu ments for and against the various sites advocated for the permanent and temporary seats of Congress during the debates of October 6-11, which he passed on to Thomas Jefferson, probably at the end of the month when Jefferson was in Philadelphia en route to Princeton. Jefferson appears to have used part of the information contained therein in his November 11 letter to Gov. Benjamin Harrison. Permanent seat of Congress North River—recommended for the permanent seat of Congs, chiefly by its security against foreign danger. Falls of Potowmac—By 1. geographical centrality. 2. proximity to western Country al ready ceded. 3. inducement to further Cessions from N.C. S.C. & Georgia. 4. remote ness from the influence of any overgrown commercial city. Falls of Delaware—By 1. centrality with regard to number of inhabitants. 2. centrality as to no. of States & of Delegates. 3. facility of obtaining intelligence from sea. Temporary seat of Congress Princeton. In favor of it, 1. its neighbourhood to the Permanent [se]at, 2. inconve- niency of a removal. 3. beneficial effect of a frug[al] situation of Congs, on their pop ularity throughout the States. 4. the risque in case of removal from Princeton of re turning under the commercial & corrupt influence of Philada. Against it. 1. unfitness for transacting the public business. 2. deficiency of accomodation, exposing the at tending members to the danger of indignities & extortions, discouraging perhaps the fitest men from undertaking the service & amounting to a prohibition of such as had families from which they would not part. Trenton. Argts. in favor & agst. it similar to those respecting Princeton. It was particu larly remarked that when the option lay with the President & committee between Trenton & Princeton the latter was preferred as least unfit to receive Congs, on their removal from Philada. Philada. In favor of it. 1. its unrivalled conveniency for transacting the public business, & accomodating Congress. 2. its being the only place where all the public offices, par ticularly that of Finance could be kept under the inspection & controul of & proper intercourse with Congs. 3. its conveniency for F. Ministers, to which, casteris paribus, some regard would be expected. 4. the circumstances which produced a removal from Philada. which rendered a return as soon as the insult had been expiated, expe dient for supporting in the eyes of foreign nations the appearance of internal har mony, and preventing an appearance of resentment in Congs, agst. the State of Pa. or City of Philada. an appearance which was very much strengthened by some of their proceedings at Princeton—particularly by an unnecessary & irregular declaration not to return to Pha. In addition to these overt reasons, it was concluded by sundry of the members who were most anxious to fix Congs, permanently at the falls of the Potow mac that a temporary residence in Philada. would be most likely to prepare a suffi cient number of votes for that place in preference to the Falls of Delaware, and to produce a reconsideration of the vote in favor of the latter. Agst. Philada. were alledged. 1. the difficulty & uncertainty of getting away from it at the time limited. 2. the influence of a large commercial & wealthy city on the public Councils. In addi tion to these objections, the hatred agst. Mr. M. and hope of accelerating his final resi[gna]tion were latent motives with some, as perhaps envy of the prosperity] of


[Page 86]
50 October 13, 1783 Philada. and dislike of the support of Pa to obnoxious recomendations of Congs, were with others. Annapolis. In favor of it. 1st. its capacity for accomodating Congs, and its conveniences for the public business. 2. the soothing tendency of so Southern a position on the temper of the S. States. Agst. it, 1st. the preposterousness of taking a temporary sta tion so distant from the permanent seat fixed on, especially as better accomodations were to be passed by at Philada. which was less than 4/5ths of the distance from the Permanent Seat. 2d. the peculiar force such a step would give to the charge agst. Congs, of being swayed by improper motives. Besides these considerations it was the opinion of some that a removal of Congs, to Annapolis would inspire Maryland with hopes that wd. prevent a cooperation in favor of George town, & favor the commerce of that State at the expence of Virginia. Jefferson Papers, DLC. Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:379-80. 8 See Thomas FitzSimons to Gouverneur Morris, October 11, 1783, note 1. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Monday Octr. 13. 1783 Saturday was spent in fruitless debates about the temporary resi dence. The unaccommodating spirit of some And the jealousy nay I may say the deep rooted hatred which others bear to the city of Philadelphia were displayed in the strongest colours. You will naturally ask to what cause can this be attributed. For my own part I am at a loss to determine. Much was said of the influence which that city had on the proceedings & acts of Congress. And yet this was disavowed by every man. Those who asserted it in the strongest terms were careful at the same time to intimate that it neither had nor could have any operation on them, and those that denyed the influence, & some of them had long been members of & given the closest attendance to the business of Congress, declared they had never seen any symptoms of such influence. They considered the insinuation as dishonorable & called upon the assertors of this influence to produce a single in stance of it. After repeated calls Mr. Gerry undertook in a former day’s debate to point out particular instances. But those he produced were so contemptible, so ill grounded & baseless, as only to raise in dignation and to shew that there was no foundation for the suspicion, that it was either imaginary or mere pretence. One of the instances he produced was in the conduct of Mr. Bingham while he was agent in Martineque. A Boston Privateer had at an early period of the war & before France acknowledged the independence of America, captured a vessel in the west-Indies & carried his prize into Martineque. Com plaint of this was made to the governor by the English, And as the gov ernor wished to favour the Americans he evaded the complaint by or dering the vessel & cargo to be sold & the proceeds to [be] deposited in the hands of an Agent, till the matter could be enquired into. The Agent he fixed upon was Mr. Bingham, who appeared there only in


[Page 87]
October 13,1783 51 the character of a merchant & who employed the proceeds for the public service in forwarding military stores for the use of our Army, at the same time informing Congress of his proceedings that they might take measures to reimburse him, if the Money should be ordered to be paid to the original owners or to satisfy the captors if it should be adjudged to them. After the treaty with France the captors instituted a suit against Bingham for the money. Bingham applied to Congress and Congress were so well satisfied with his conduct that they ordered the suit to be discontinued & took the matter upon themselves. 1 The other influence was an affair which not long since happened near New Orleans. A privateer was fitted out at Boston to cruize off the mouth of the Mississippi. She there captured a ship that was not only under the protection of a flag, but under that of a Spanish fort and in possession of a Spanish pilot sent out to conduct her in. There were sundry circumstances attending the capture, highly derogatory to the honor of the Spanish flag and contrary to the laws of nations and these were aggravated by a flagrant breach of the laws of hospitality. The prize nevertheless being carried to Boston & libelled was con demned in the court of Admiralty, but on an appeal the judgment was reversed and thereupon Congress recommended it to the state of Massachusetts to take measures for punishing two of those concerned in the capture for the insult offered to the Spanish flag & the violation of the laws of neutrality. Though neither of the judges of the court of appeals who reversed the sentence were inhabitants of Pensylvania, yet this was quoted as an instance of the influence of Philada. on pub lic measures. 2 On Saturday Mr. Lee proceeded to quote the appoint ment of Mr. Morris & the powers vested in him as an instance of that influence. But though he did not convince any by this instance he confirmed the opinion that private pique & resentment were his gov erning principles. The motion that was under debate on Saturday was to remove to Annapolis. Howell declared that rather than go to Philadelphia, if the vote for Annapolis was lost, he would vote for Williamsburg or Charlestown nay even for Savannah in Georgia— That a Vote for Philadelphia was a high insult to the eastern states and this assertion passed uncontradicted by any member from those states, nay they seemed to confirm it by their unanimous vote to pass by Philadelphia & reside in Annapolis till next June. However the quest- tion was not carried. The debates were continued till after 4 P.M. and the house broke up in such very bad humour that I had some appre hensions they would not meet again. However upon recollection the members determined to continue in town, & try what can be done this morning. Yesterday I took a ride to Trenton to view the banks of the river. There is a delightful Spot on the Pensylvania side for a small town. It commands a very extensive & beautiful prospect both up & down the river & over the Jersey & has many natural advantages; but


[Page 93]
October 14, 1783 57 Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah, Tuesday Oct 14 1783 I received your letter of the 12 by the Stage and was much pleased to hear of your safe arrival. You cannot be more uneasy than I am at our being separated. If the submitting to these inconveniences an swered any good purpose, or if it were necessary for promoting the interest or happiness of our country I could more easily acquiesce. But I confess my situation is the more irksome as I plainly see that the measures which led to it and the spirit and temper which con tinue it evidently tend to a dissolution of the Union of these states and will if I am not greatly mistaken involve our country in new calamities. It cannot admit of a doubt that the peace, happiness and prosperity of these new and rising republics depend greatly on a close and intimate Union. And yet the temper, disposition and views of the inhabitants are so discordant, that I have serious apprehen sions they will not be long kept together & that the predictions of our enemies will but too soon be verified in the dissolution of our Confederacy. Whether this is the intention of some men now in Congress or whether their conduct is guided by the prevailing senti ments of the states they represent or actuated by private motives I will not undertake to say. But this I will venture to assert particularly with regard to Howell, that were he in the pay of G. Britain I do not know any line of conduct he could pursue other than what he has done to answer his purpose and promote the designs of his employ ers. This you will say is harsh. It is so and I hope I may be mistaken. But the tenor of his conduct is so uniform, the means he uses to ac complish his purposes so unjustifiable and unrestrained by truth, and those purposes, in my opinion, so opposite to the interest, honor and dignity of the Union, that I cannot reconcile them with the true principles of policy and patriotism. I might say the same of some others who have co-operated with him; but they discover such strong traits of envy, & personal resentment that these may in some degree account for their conduct. Yesterday we had nine states on the floor, and to day I am informed we may expect eleven. A motion was made by Mr Mercer and sec onded by Mr Lee to adjourn to Williamsburg. This I believe was made without any expectation of being carried. For an amendment, which was offered to shew that the adjournment was only for a temporary residence, was negatived by the mover and that being lost the eastern states could not give their assent & therefore the motion for Williams burg was lost. 1 I am told it is in contemplation with some of the east ern states to propose a coalition with the southern and reconsider the vote for fixing the permanent residence near the falls of Delaware.


[Page 94]
58 October 14, 1783 And this being carried, either to fix the permanent residence at or near Georgetown on Potomack, or to establish two places for the meeting of Congress, one in or near the eastern states and the other in one of the southern states. This if carried will shew such a pointed resentment against Pensylvania and will so disoblige New Jersey, that 1 am confident it will throw them out of the Union. And the conse quence will be that this Continent will be split into three divisions, the Eastern, middle & Southern. And all things considered I do not know but this may be for the general good & the best that can [be] done for the interest and happiness of the whole, provided the several districts confederate together for the purpose of general defence. It seems to be the order of providence that this world should be divided into a number of seperate & distinct governments. Adieu my dear Hannah, take care of your health and rest assured of the unfeigned affection of your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). i See JCC, 25:675-76. Thomas FitzSimons to Nathanael Greene Sir Philada. 15 Octr. 1783 The Inclosed Letter was given to me by the secy at Warr & when I Inclose it I take the Liberty of Mentioning to you, a Circumstance which happened in Congress respecting you & Which Created a little delay in a business that all seemed disposed to forward. A Committee had reported that two field Ps of Brass Ordinance should be pre sented you With the other testimonys intended for your Eminent Ser vices & it was suggested by a Member that if you had taken any such during yr Command to the Southwd the Complimt would be greater if it was so Expressed—but Neither the Members present or the Secy at Warr Could Inform Congress whether any brass field pieces were taken in that Country, & it was thot best to Let the Resolution Lay till the Circumstance was Inquired into. You will perceive the design is to make the Testimony as honorable as possible & if you will please to In form the Chairman of that Committee (Mr Duane) how that Matter is, the Resolution will be Immy passed. 1 With Great respect I am, sir, yr Mo hble servt, Thos FitzSimons RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 For Congress’ adoption of this committee’s recommendations, see James Duane to Greene, October 20, note. As the resolution adopted specified the award of “field ord-


[Page 95]
October 15, 1783 59 nance,” it would appear that no “brass field pieces” had been taken by Greene in the Carolinas. JCC, 25:701. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir Princeton 15th October 1783. I enclose extracts of Letters from Mr Adams relative to trade, 1 and am to acquaint your Honr. that I have not been able to obtain any de termination on the subject of the Loan Office Certificates, 2 neither do I think any step will be taken in this matter by Congress. The objec tions are, that complying with the request will derange the System of Finance and therefore ought not to be granted. I am not alone how ever, in being of a different opinion, the Massachusetts and Rhod Is land delegates and some other States are for the Measure. In my opin ion, if the State cannot find a method for dividing the collection by those certificates the collecting the whole tax for the current Year will be very difficult & burthensome; I therefore think it would be proper to direct the Loan Officer to liquidate all certificates issued from the Office in New Hampshire and held by the citizens thereof & to issue certificates for the Interest, this measure, those who oppose the re quest from [the] State I have the Honr. to represent, say she is fully authorized to take. Congress have in contemplation a reduction of the National ex- pences, by lessening the civil List, disbanding part of the Army, & re ducing the Salaries of the public Officers, as the expenses of living are lessen’d. They have also before them a report for making peace with the Indians, and insisting on their making sessions of some part of the Lands they claim, to compensate for the injuries they have done the United States since the War. The subject of laying out & arranging a New State in the Western territory, for satisfying the Army, and dis charging the public debts, is likewise under consideration & in some forwardness. The resolution of Congress fixing the place of residence on the Delaware, at, or near the falls above Trenton, is not satisfactory to the Southern States. The place of temporary residence hath been much agitated, Motions for Trenton, Philadelphia, Wilmington, Anapolis and Williamsburgh have been negatived; at present the Question of temporary residence sleeps. While these important matters are depending it is very unfortunate that New Hampr. hath not her Vote. I must desire the State to make me soon, some further advance in Money or Bills; it being probable I shall be destitute of Cash, by the time it can be forwarded to me. I have the Honr. to be with great respect and esteem, your Honours very Humble & most obedient Servt Abiel Foster


[Page 104]
68 October 16, 1783 for a federal Town; & the Right of Soil, & an exclusive or such other Ju risdiction as Congress may direct shall be vested in the united States. 1 We inclose the proceedings of Congress for negotiating a Peace with the Indians. 2 We have sent the Reports as they were originally made & printed for Consideration, 3 having struck out what was re jected by Congress, & added the amendments so as to compare with the Journals. We objected to the paragraph in the first part of the re port, under the Word “Seventhly,” & had it negatived with the Yeas & Nays on the Journals, 4 because it appeared to Us to be calculated to strengthen the Claim of New York & affect that of Massachusetts to the western Territory. Indeed it was declared in Congress that the State of Massachusetts had never announced their Claim before men tioned, to the State of New York; this Declaration was made by a Dele gate of the State last mentioned, 5 but We were not authorized to con tradict it, neither did We conceive it of much Consequence, as We presumed the honorable Legislature would be soon prepared not only to make, but to support a Claim to the Lands granted at Onondaga & Cayuga by the State of New York, as well as to other por tions of the Western Territory. Having in our Letters of the 11th of Sepr. & 1st Instant to the Com mittee of the hona. Court, made the necessary Communications re specting their applications to Congress on the Subjects of half pay, Commutation, old Emissions & the civil List, We shall not add any thing on those Subjects & have the Honor to be Gentlemen, with the highest Respect for the General Court & yourselves, your most obedt &[...] servan[ts] [E. Gerry] 6 S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry and addressed by him: “Honble Samuel Adamfs] Esqr president of the Sen [ate] & the Honble Tristram Dalton Esqr Speaker of the House of Representatives of Massachusetts.” i See JCC, 25:547-60. 2 For these October 15 proceedings, see JCC, 25:680-95. 3 For the two reports upon which these proceedings were based, see JCC, 25:989. 4 Secretary Thomson recorded no “Yeas & Nays” on this issue, but for the “negatived” paragraph, see JCC, 25:687-88, 692. 5 Cf. the following entry at note 2. 6 Gerry’s signature has been torn from the manuscript. Whether Samuel Osgood’s signature was also on the piece of paper removed cannot be positively asserted. He did not sign the Massachusetts delegates’ letter to the Assembly of October 1; his signature follows that of Holten’s on their letter of the 23d. New York Delegates to George Clinton Dear Sir, Princeton, October 16, 1783. We should before this Time have transmitted to Your Excellency the


[Page 105]
October 16, 1783 69 material Parts of the Communications Congress have lately received from the Ministers of the United States at Paris, had they not been under an Injunction of Secrecy till lately, on Account of their being under a Commitment. In their joint Letter of the 16th [i.e., 18th] of July the preliminary Articles and their Reasons for concluding them are explained. 1 They observe that the British Minister were very un willing to make use of any Terms that might give uneasiness to the refugee Tories, and that the words for restoring the Property of real british Subjects were well understood & apertained between them not to mean or comprehend American Refugees. Mr. Fitzherbert and Mr. Oswell, they say, know this to have been the Case & will readily confess and admit it. They observe it was a more delicate mode of excluding the Refugees and making a proper Distinction between them & the subjects of Britain whose only particular Interest in America consisted in holding Lands & Property. They think the 6th Article declaring that no future Confiscation should be made & ought to have fixed the Time with greater Cer tainty, and the most fair Construction is, that it relates to the Date of the Cessation of Hostilities, as, they say, “That is the Time when Peace in fact took Place in consequence of prior informal tho’ binding Con tracts to terminate the war.” They consider the definitive Treaties as only giving the Dress of Form to those Contracts and not as constituting the Obligation of them: they observe that had the Cessation of Hostilities been the Ef fect of a Truce and consequently nothing more than a temporary sus pension of War another Construction would have been the right one. They say Mr. Heartley had officially assured them that positive Orders for the Evacuation of New York had been dispatched, and that no avoidable Delay would retard that Event; that had they proposed to fix a Time for it, the British Ministry would have contended that it should be a Time posterior to the Date of the definitive Treaty and would probably have been more disadvantageous to us than as that Article now stands. They are surprised to hear that any Doubts have arisen in America respecting the Time when the Cessation of Hostilities took Place there and say, “It most certainly took place at the Expiration of one month after the Date of that Declaration in all Parts of the World whether Land or Sea that lay north of the Latitude of the Canaries. The Ships afterwards taken from us in the more northwardly Lati tudes ought to be reclaimed” and given up, & say, they shall apply to Mr. Heartley, on this Subject, and also on that of the Transportation of Negroes from New York contrary to the Words and Intention of the provisional Articles. At present there is no Probability of a commercial Treaty’s being agreed on between the United States and Great Britain. The Powers engaged in the late War have agreed to sign the definitive Treaty to gether, which has hitherto been principally delayed on account of the


[Page 106]
70 October 16, 1783 United States, France & Spain having been ready to sign for some Time past. It is not now expected that our Ministers can obtain any other beneficial Articles than those contained in the preliminary Treaty & that in so many words. The definitive will now probably be soon concluded. Six or Seven different Powers in Europe have signi fied to our Ministers their Desire of entering into commercial Treaties with the United States. Congress have finally concluded that their Place of Residence shall be near the Falls of Trenton. We used our Endeavours to draw the Attention of Congress to the State of New York agreably to the Views of the Legislature expressed in their Resolves at their last meeting, but we found them vain; Connecticut being the only State from which we received any support. Thus disappointed we thought it our Duty to give our Suffrage for the Place now agreed on in pref erence to another much more remote and inconvenient, George Town on the Potomac. The Southern States are still much dissatisfied that the federal Town is not more South, holding up the Idea of Centrality as the only just Rule of determination, Hence they supported the Ideas of Potow- mac & complain of being overborn by the weight of States & not the Force of Justice. Prince town is found on Experience to be incapable of accomodating Congress alone exclusive of our public officers and foreign Ministers a Temporary Residence is, therefore, to be fixed upon for the Winter Season, and Trenton to be put in order for the Reception of Congress in the Spring. We were not a little surprised lately to hear the Delegates for the Massachusetts seriously mention on the floor of Congress the Claim of that State to the western Lands in the state of New York, and declare they had Instructions from their State on every Occasion to assert that Claim, and prevent any Act of Congress from passing which might be construed in favour of the Title of New York in preference to that of the Massachusetts. 2 There is no doubt but they will embarrass the Measures our state may judge expedient, where the Interposition of Congress is necessary either in making Peace with the Indians or securing our Frontiers. As soon as an Opportunity presents it will be the Interest of the State to put an End to their Claims by commencing a Suit agreably to the Arti cles of the Confederation; and in the mean time to use the most vigor ous Efforts for settling this Country under their Authority, for no re spect ought to be paid to a State Pretention which has laid dormant more than One Hundred & fifty Years. No answer has been given to Sir Guy Carleton’s Letter published in the Philadelphia Newspapers (by his direction as is supposed.) 3 If the matter of that Letter had not been exceptionable, nor the Terms made use of disrespectful, Congress would not have readily entered


[Page 107]
October 16, 1783 71 into a Correspondence with him. A Report has been made in Conse quence of that Communication which has for a long Time lain on the Table; it respects the Publication of the Ratification of the preliminary Articles by the United States, but so many difficulties have arisen on this Subject, that the Proclamation is yet delayed. 4 By the last Accounts from New York, which appear to come from good Authority there is reason to believe the Evacuation of that City will take place sometime the next month. Sir Guy Carlton has sent a verbal message to our Commander in Chief, by Mr. Parker that his Troops will embark in all the month of November. 5 We have the Honour to be with the utmost Respect, Sir, Your Excel lency’s most obedient & very humble Servants. Jas. Duane. Ezra L’Hommedieu. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:259-63. 1 See Ezra L’Hommedieu to Clinton, September 25, 1783, note 3. 2 Cf. the preceding entry at note 5. 3 Guy Carleton’s August 17 letter to President Boudinot complaining of the violence of Americans against loyalist refugees, in violation of the fifth article of the peace treaty, was printed in the September 10 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. The letter is in PCC, item 52, fols. 217-23. 4 See Elias Boudinot to the States, October 29, 1783. 5 Washington also explained Daniel Parker’s verbal communication of Carleton’s evacuation plans directly to Governor Clinton in a letter of October 23, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:204-5. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Thursday Oct 16. 1783 I have not received a line from you since that by the stage on Mon day. I hope however you are well. Nothing is yet done with regard to the temporary residence and I begin to be afraid we shall be tied down for the winter to this uncomfortable village, notwithstanding eight states have resolved “that for the more convenient transaction of the business of the United States and accommodation of Congress it is expedient for them to adjourn from their present residence.” 1 Yester day for the first time since their removal from Philadelphia they seri ously entered upon the business of the Continent and finished a very important matter relative to Indian Affairs. 2 But notwithstanding this I have little hopes of seeing the affairs of the Union in a happy train. You will see in the Packet of the 14th, under the Providence head, an extract of a letter from an American Minister dated Passy June 28 1783. The design of the Correspondent who furnished the extract is evidently to delude his constituents 3 and to induce a belief that our


[Page 116]
80 October 19, 1783 properly. The deciding or not deciding on the motion of the member from Massachusetts could have no effect upon the choice of either of these modes. If it was intended, upon carrying the vote for fixing an other federal town on Potomack, to adjourn Congress to Annapolis, Members must be sensible that the distance of that place and the shortness of time would put it out of the power of this Congress to re ceive the Dutch minister. And when the Congress of the United states which is next to assemble will be able to receive him is very uncertain. The times of a great number of members expire with the present month. New Delegates are to be chosen, & some of the states are in such a situation that their legislatures cannot soon be convened. So that there is little prospect of a new Congress meeting for this or any other business till December. All these arguments passed unanswered, saving only that it was observed, that the presence or absence of Pen- sylvania was of no importance in the present case. The vote could & would be carried if it was present notwithstanding a negative; that no tice was given of the motion intended to be made for a reconsidera tion, the member for Pensylvania heard it and if he thought the vote of his state of importance he might have tarried; other gentlemen as well as he had business which required them to be absent and their tarrying here was very inconvenient. The question therefore was in sisted on. When it was about to be put, the delegates for New Jersey in right of their state, agreeably to the rules of the house, required that the determination thereof should be put off till Monday next. And thus that matter now Stands. 2 Congress yesterday passed two procla mations, one for setting apart the second thursday in December next as a day of public thanks giving, and the other for disbanding all that part of the Army which had been furloughed, 3 so that there now re mains in the service of the United states only those that are at West Point & the few at Philada. which by the bye have no business there, and I am astonished the state remains silent on that subject. But I am wandering from my subject. You see, my dear, what it is to have a politician for a husband. Instead of love letters you are only to be entertained with business or politics. I confess my mind has been lately much agitated and I have deliberated very seriously on my fu ture plan of life. My comfort and happiness greatly depends upon being with you. I have devoted so much of my life to, and spent so many anxious hours, or rather years, in the public service without emolument, that I thought I might upon the return of peace and the attainment of those blessings for which we contended, continue to enjoy the profits arising from my Office, especially as the office is nec essary and I flatter myself I should not be unserviceable to my country in the exercise of it. Nevertheless rather than be separated from you I would relinquish it, as I can now do it with honor and the cause of America will suffer no detriment, and I can do it with the less regret,


[Page 121]
October 21,1783 85 Adjournment (for a Period not less than six nor more than twelve Months) to Annapolis, having passed the House this Morning, 1 I beg the Favour of you to inform me whether you mean to repair to An napolis, and at what Time. The Adjournment is from the twelfth of next Month to the twenty sixth. I beg also to know whether you mean to visit Princeton again. I take the Liberty of making these Inquiries that I may act upon your Information. 2 I am Sir, Your most obedient Servant, R. Beresford [RS.] A Letter sent to Mrs Cannon in 4th Street between Arch and Race Streets, will reach me. My Servant leaves Town immediately. As my Friend Capt. Parsons will take some Steps for me in Consequence of your Resolution I request you will communicate it to him. RC (PSC: C. F. Jenkins Autograph Collection). Addressed: “To The Honorable Jacob Read Esqr. Favd. by the Honorable Mr. Izard.” i For this “Question,” see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, this date, note 1. 2 Read, who had apparently been in Philadelphia the past week, endorsed this let ter “Answered fully immediately,” but his reply has not been found. Beresford appar ently left Princeton the following day, for South Carolina was not represented on the 22nd, and he and Read did not attend Congress again until October 30. Ralph Izard, who delivered this letter to Read, last attended Congress this day. See JCC, 25:713, 719, 752, 765. James Duane to William Malcom Dear Sir Princeton 21st Octobr. 1783. I am sorry to find my Letter embarrassed you. 1 I meant to say that altho’ I was informed by Mr Thompson that your Memorial complain ing of the Injustice or hardship done to you by the board of war was in the Office at Philadelphia, Yet that I first obtained an order from Congress for referring your Claims to the Secretary at war—General Lincoln—to be examined and reported upon by him. It appeared to me that you wished General Lincoln to examine and report upon your Case: For this Reason I mentioned the probability of a Change in the Department which he exercised in the Course of the present month, lest you might be disappointed. I am with Sentiments of Re gard, Dear Sir Your most Obedt Servt, Jas. Duane RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 For the context of this letter, see Duane to Malcom, September 18, 1783.


[Page 126]
yu October 22, 1783 Resolved that the place on the Delaware for erecting buildings for the use of Congress be near the falls. Whereas 3 there is reason to expect that the providing buildings for the alternate residance of Congress in two places will be productive of the most salutary effects by securing the mutual confidence and affec tion of the States. Resolved 4 that buildings be likewise erected for the use of Congress at or near the lower falls of Potowmac or Georgetown, pro vided a suitable district on the banks of the river can be produced for a federal town and the right of soil and an exclusive jurisdiction or such other as Congress may direct shall be vested in the United States and that until the buildings to be erected on the banks of the Delaware and Potowmac shall be prepared for the reception of Congress their residence shall be alternately at equal periods of not more than one year and not less than six months in Trenton and An napolis, and the president is hereby authorised and directed to ad journ Congress on the 12th day of november next to meet at Annapo lis on the twenty sixth of the same month for the dispatch of public business. Philadelphia 28th Octr. 1783. After writing this letter I was under the necessity of coming to this City, and I determined not to Close the let ter till I should be able to send you the papers of this day. Give my re spectful Complimts. to our Friends and believe me Your most obt. and most humble Servt. Benjamin Hawkins RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). Addressed: ‘John Gray Blount esquire.” 1 Hawkins penned this letter beneath the following “Extract of a letter [of December 20, 1782] from Casper Voght & Co. of Hamburgh to the President of Congress,” recom mending the city’s manufactures to the attention of Americans. Excited more by a patriotic Zeal than Self-Interest, we humbly beg leave to remind you of the superior advantages peculiar to Germany it being, in the opinion of very many great and learned men, who have no further Interest in the revolution of Trade, than a sincere wish for the good of the whole, of all places in Europe, That which best promises mutual Benefit from the conformity of its Climate with yours; having all the manufactures proper for your Trade: particularly those of the first necessity. “Hamburg a neutral, free and imperial City, happily situated upon the River Elbe, about eighty english miles from the Sea, is considered as the Key to all Germany, and the general magazine of all the northern productions. The Harbour is continually full of Ships from almost every nation, and so very safe and commodious, that the greatest can anchor close to the Keys. It is also esteemed one of the richest and most flourishing Cities in Europe: there being none which have such an universal Trade in the products of America, and both the Indies; nor so well stored with all the manufactures indispens ably necessary to the North Americans; who were formerly oblidged to receive them on very unprofitable Terms from England. In this Town therefore, the American Merchant can be certain of meeting the best Market, both for buying and selling.” It is not clear when this letter was received, but it was referred on July 23, 1783, to the committee of the week, whose recommendation that it “lie on the table” was ap-


[Page 128]
92 October 22, 1783 Arthur Lee to John Fitzgerald Dear Sir, 1 Princeton, Oct 22d 1783 May I beg the favor of you to give warning in your City of the Notes the Marks &c of which are enclosed in a letter to Mr. Mason 2 & then forward the letter & List to him immediately. Congress have resolved to adjourn to Annapolis on the 26 Novr for one year, & to have Buildings erected for them at or near the falls of Potomac, where they are to reside half their time. I have the honor to be with great esteem, Sir yr m. o. servt, A. Lee Tr (Robert Slate, Jr., Alexandria, Va., 1972). 1 For the recipient’s identity, see Alexander Hamilton to Fitzgerald, June 10, 1783, note 1. 2 Not found. James McHenry to Alexander Hamilton Dear Hamilton. Princeton 22 Octbr. 1783. I obey you. The homilies you delivered in Congress are still recol lected with pleasure. The impressions they made are in favor of your integrity and no one but believes you a man of honor and republican principles. Were you ten years older and twenty thousand pounds richer, there is no doubt but that you might obtain the suffrages of Congress for the highest office in their gift. You are supposed to pos sess various knowlege, useful—substantial—and ornamental. Your very grave and your cautious—your men who measure others by the standard of their own creeping politics think you sometimes intem perate, but seldom visionary, and that were you to pursue your object with as much cold perseverance as you do with ardor and argument you would become irresistable. In a word, if you could submit to spend a whole life in dissecting a fly you would be in their opinion one of the greatest men in the world. Bold designs—measures calcu lated for their rapid execution—a wisdom that would convince from its own weight—a project that would surprise the people into greater happiness, without giving them an opportunity to view it and reject it, are not adapted to a council composed of discordant elements, or a people who have thirteen heads each of which pay superstitious ado ration to inferior divinities. I have been deterred from day to day from sending you the extract you desire by a proclamation on the subject which I expected would have passed. It is still in dubio. 1 I have reported on Fleury’s case on the principle you recommend. 2 I fear his half pay will not be granted.


[Page 134]
98 October 23, 1783 would have held all I had to say & I have run it over With many Inter ruptions. I am not quite satisfyed with a sentimt that Duane Expressed of me to You—be so good to tell him If I am proud, Congress has made me so. I allways thot myself Indifferently honest but I certainly have been Led to think myself honester than many people there & If I have not allways borne with their Knavery & folly so well as I ought he must Impute it to my Little Knowledge of public Assemblys. I would allways however be glad to distinguish, & If I Ever said any thing offen sive to him, it was not Intentional for Except the Little Maneuvrs abt preventg the return of Congress to this place I have always thot him Candid & Very Usefull. Tell my friend Carroll his bill is Accepted & that the Mony shall be at his disposall when he thinks proper. Excuse this Scrawl & believe me Yrs &c. Thos. FitzSimons RC (PHi: Provincial Delegates Collection). Endorsed by Peters: “1783, Mr Fitzsimmons, Business in Congress.” 1 It is clear from FitzSimons’ references in this letter to the lodgings of the Dutch Min ister van Berckel at the City Tavern and to the results of the recent elections for repre sentatives to the Pennsylvania Assembly, that the “Thursday Eveng.” on which this letter was written could only have been October 23, 1783. See notes four and five below. FitzSi mons had just returned to Philadelphia, and Peters had remained with his colleagues John Montgomery and James Wilson in Princeton. Cf. Burnett, letters, 7:369-70. 2 See Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare, September 3, 1783, note 2. 3 For the identity of this enclosure, see PCC, item 69, 2:469-72; and Robert Morris’ Report to Congress, November 5, 1783, note 1, in Morris, Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming). 4 That is, Benjamin Stelle, for whom see David Howell to Nicholas Brown, July 30, 1783, note 10. 5 See Elias Boudinot to Robert R. Livingston, this date. 6 The results of the elections for representatives to the Pennsylvania Assembly were announced in the October 18 issues of the Pennsylvania Journal and Pennsylvania Packet and the October 22 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. 1 That is, FitzSimons’ and Peters’ colleague John Montgomery, and former Pennsylvania delegate Joseph Montgomery. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. Princeton 23d October 1783. I enclose a Copy of a Resolution of Congress for a second foederal Town on the Potomack, at or near George Town; and for adjourning Congress to meet at Anapolis, on the twenty sixth of November next. 1 The reasons of this resolution were, the uneasiness of the southern Del egates at fixing the residence on the Delaware, at, or near the falls above Trenton; and the apprehensions of the Northern States, that no other measures would prove effectual to prevent the return of Congress to Philadelphia, for a temporary residence.


[Page 135]
October 23, 1783 99 An authenticated Copy of the provisional Articles, and of the ratifi cation of the same by Congress, is ordred to be transmitted to the re spective States: 2 the desire is, that they may take no measures inconsis tent with those Articles & which would render the fulfilment thereof impracticable. The Articles themselves do not seem sufficiently ex plicit. A question may arise, at what period are they to take place in America? whither on the cessation of hostilities in consequence of the proclamation (which was no part of the preliminary Articles) or on the ratification of those Articles in America, or not untill the ratifica tion of the difinitive Treaty, in which the provisional Articles are to be inserted and to constitute part thereof. While we are waiting for the definitive Treaty (which will I hope remove these difficulties) every State will do well to judge in the best manner they can, on the sense of the provisional Articles, and endeavor to do nothing inconsistent with what is therein stipulated on the part of the United States. I have the Honr. to be with great respect and esteem Your Honrs very humble & most Obedt. Servt. Abiel Foster RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). 1 See Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, October 21, note 1. 2 See Elias Boudinot to the States, October 29, 1783. Samuel Holten to John Hancock Dear Sir Princeton, 23d October, 1783. In the 9th instant, I had the honor of informing your Excellency, that Congress had determined, that buildings shou’d be erected, for their use, “at or near the falls of the Delaware”; but the determination not being satisfactory to the southern states, Congress on Tuesday last resolved that buildings, for their use, should likewise be erected “at or near the lower falls of Potowmack or Georgetown;” and they have also determined that untill said buildings are prepared for their reception, Congress shall sit in Annapolis & Trenton alternately, not exceeding one year at a time in either place, and they have passed a resolution authorizing & directing the President to adjourn Congress on the 12th day of Novr. next, to meet at Annapolis on the 26th of the same month for the dispatch of public business, this seems to give more general satisfaction. 1 I understand Mr Van Berkel, the Dutch minister is in the City of Phila. but he has not yet made us a visit & I do not expect he will be reed, in his public capacity untill after Congress meets at Annapolis.


[Page 136]
100 October 23, 1783 Congress have, by proclamation, discharged all that part of the army, that were furloughed, & have left a discretionary power with the Genl, respecting the remainder. 2 Genl Washington informed me, a few days since, that by the last in formation he had reed from Sir Guy Carleton he expected to leave N.Y in the month of Novr next. Congress have agreed upon a proclamation, recommending to the states to sit apart the 2d Thursday of Deer, next as a day of public thanks giving, which you may receive officially before this comes to hand. 3 I have the honor to be, with great consideration, your Excellency’s most obedient servant. FC (PPIn: Americana Collection). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 For this October 21 debate, see JCC, 25:711-14. 2 For this October 18 proclamation, see JCC, 25:702-3. 3 See Elias Boudinot to the States, October 22, 1783. Erza L’Hommedieu to George Clinton Dear Sir, Princeton August [i.e. October] 23. 1783. 1 In Expectation that some General Questions might be put in a few Days relative to the peace Establishment in which our State might be much interested, I determined to tarry here one week longer than I had proposed to do. At present I see no Prospect of such Establish ment being agreed to for some Time, The Business of this week hav ing been to agree upon a Place for a Second foederal Town & a Place to which Congress are to adjorn; and it is now resolved that Congress will adjorn the 12th of next month to meet on the 26th Day at Anapo- lis, & by the same Resolve have agreed that Buildings be erected near George Town near the Potomack for a second federal Town for the Recidens of Congress, as by the inclosed Act appears. The eastern States agreed with the Southern States in this Resolve but upon very different motives. I beleive but few States will consent to Advance Money for erecting Buildings in Two different Places. If this should be the Case the Act for erecting buildings near the falls of Trenton is Virtually repealed. Should the States think it necessary to erect Buildings at Two Places, it is likely one of the Places will be further Northward than Trenton. It was yesterday agreed to send the Exemplification of the Prelimi nary Articles with the act of Ratification to the several States. 2 I expect to leave this Place tomorrow or the next Day 3 so that I may be at Home by the last of the Month which will make the Time of my Attendence in Congress for the present Year, including travilling Days, to be Ninety Two Days.


[Page 139]
October 23, 1783 103 soon as Circumstances will permit: if then Massachusetts should be unprepared, an advantage may be taken, as Connecticut asserts was the Case, in her Dispute with Pennsylvania. We enclose the Proceedings of Congress for two foederal Towns. The resolution for one Town at or near the Falls of Delaware, was so dissatisfactory to the southern States, that there was no prospect of ob taining an Appropriation of Money to Erect Buildings for the Use of Congress, the Voice of nine States being necessary for this purpose. In order therefore to promote Harmony, without which we can never ex pect to preserve the Union, We consented to erect another Sett of Buildings, on the Potomack, for the alternate Residence of Congress, but one great object of this Resolve, on which all the eastern & south ern States have united, is to preserve the foederal Ballance, Which We think is somewhat impaired by an Influence arising from the constant Residence of Congress in one State. The Loss of the Ballance should it ever happen, must be naturally followed by a Change of Government, which might involve us in greater Calamities than the Establishment of our Independence. The Expence therefore of erecting two Setts of Buildings, & of having double Archives cannot We think be put in Competition with the Advantages mentioned. Had We to save this Ex pence, consented to erect but one Sett of Buildings on the Delaware, a Number of wealthy, who are generally neither the most vertuous nor patriotic Citizens, by seating themselves in the foederal Town, might strengthen the Influence already existing, & too soon subject Us to an oligarchy or Aristocracy; but an alternate Residence, in two places, has an evident Tendency to prevent such Influence. We have hitherto rea soned on the Certainty of an Expence in erecting the Buildings, but the presumption is that they will be raised without an Expence, by the enhanced Value of the Territory of the foederal Town, after the Right of Soil is vested in the united States. 2 We have also the Honor to inclose the Treaty with Sweden, 3 to in form You that the second Thursday of December next is proposed by Congress, as a Day of Thanksgiving, thro’out the united States. We re quest You to present our best Respects to the honble Legislature, & to be assured that We remain Gentlemen, with the sincerest Esteem your most obedt. & most huml serts. E. Gerry 4 S. Holten S. Osgood RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Elbridge Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Samuel Holten, and Samuel Osgood. Addressed: “Honble Samuel Adams Esqr presi dent of the Senate and The Honble Tristram Dalton Esqr, Speaker of the House of Rep resentatives of Massachusetts.” 1 No such proposal is found on the journals of Congress, but see Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, October 21, 1783.


[Page 140]
104 October 23,1783 2 This debate had been initiated by a motion offered by Gerry. See JCC, 25:697-99, 702, 706-14. 3 See North Carolina Delegates to Alexander Martin, October 19, 1783, note 5. 4 Not long after writing this letter Gerry left Princeton for Philadelphia where he wrote to his brother, Samuel R. Gerry, on Monday October 27 explaining some com mercial transactions in which they were mutually involved and concluding that “I shall go with Congress to Annapolis, which will prevent my Return [to Massachusetts] at the Time intended.” Gerry Collection, MHi. He did not attend Congress when a number of roll call votes were taken October 30, but he was present when the new Congress con vened on Monday November 3. See JCC, 25:763-70, 795. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah, Thursday Oct 23. 1783 Yesterday the gentlemen from Pensylvania attended 1 & with them Madison & Bland in expectation the question for a second foederal town would be brought on. Judge what their surprize must have been when they found it decided. But as if what was done would not suffi ciently irritate Pensylvania the states of Massachusetts & Rhodeisland seem determined to drive her to desperation. The legislature of Pen sylvania at their last session judging it proper and necessary, in order to satisfy the promises made to their officers & men to purchase of the Indians their claim to the lands within the boundary of the state, ap plied to Congress for leave to send commissioners to the proposed treaty to make the purchase. 2 This was referred to a comee. who highly approved the application of the legislature, pointed out the wis dom & good policy of the step, & recommended that the commission ers should give notice to the executive of Pensylvania of the time & place of holding the treaty in order that the commissioners of the state might attend, and that the commissioners of the United states should be instructed to give them every aid but so as not to be incom patible with the interests of the United states & the purposes they had in view. This was opposed by the delegates of Massachusetts & Rhodeisland, under pretence that it was contrary to the Articles of Confederation, that it might enhance the demands of the Indians for the land which the United states wanted to purchase or give an advan tage to Pensylva. in making her purchase. Mr. Gerry seemed to inti mate that he would agree to the measure, if Pensylvania would throw what she meant to give to the Indians into a common stock with the United states, & the commissioners for the United states had the sole management of the business. But this being refused, Massachusetts & Rhodeisland voted against the report and the application was re jected, there being only six of the eight states present in favour of the measure. 3 Fain would I hope that Pensylvania by her wisdom and mag nanimity would shew herself superior to these insults & will not suffer


[Page 147]
October 24, 1783 111 and defence, and that Congress had only the right to judge of the quantum or degree of force which each should keep up and that the general defence was provided for by that part of the articles which en joined on each state to keep up a well regulated militia. That if a power was admitted to be in Congress to garrison posts & keep up troops it would be necessary to have it defined, least it should be abused to the injury of the individual states &c. On this subject he asked my Opinion. I told him that in matters of peace and war and what related to the general defence and common welfare the sovereign power of the United states was vested in Congress. That in every Sovereign there was a latent power to provide for the common safety and defence. To deny the existence of this power, would be absurd, to delineate & define it strictly would be dan gerous. While it was employed for the public good & general safety no one could complain. If ever it was abused, it would be easy for the states to repress and restrain it. But considering the constitution of Congress, there was little danger of such an abuse. I therefore thought that in the present question a discussion of the power of Congress was unnecessary and that the only enquiry ought to be whether the public safety required the garrisoning of some posts, what posts those ought to be and what force will be necessary to maintain them. This being agreed on, it will then be necessary to consider on what footing they are to be established & how they are to be raised & kept up. He was pleased to say there was weight in what I said. At dinner I happened to be seated between him and Mr Gerry. I could not help smiling at my situation. The Minister of France had arrived in town and was at the table. At dinner the president who loves to talk and is not very curious in his choice of subjects started a conversation about the propriety of selling instead of removing the furniture of the president’s house. Mr Peters observed that the expence of removing furniture backwards & forwards must be great, that selling it at every removal would incur a considerable loss. That therefore it would be necessary to have two setts, & instead of selling the furniture now he submitted whether it would not be best to keep it here till Congress returned & applying to Mr Gerry asked whether this was not good eastern ceconomy. I ob served to my Assessors that I fancied it would be necessary to sell the furniture to raise money to defray the expense of removing the pa pers. This led Mr Howell to our finances & consequently to Mr Mor ris. He had a great respect for Mr Morris and his state were perfectly sensible of the great services he had done to the united states, but they were opposed to his plans and measures. That for his own part all his opposition arose from that and whatever might be thought, it never was his intention to injure him in his private capacity or charac ter. I told him it was not for me to enter into any gentleman’s thoughts or intentions. I could only judge of actions. However I would


[Page 148]
112 October 24, 1783 put several circumstances together and leave others to form a conclu sion. Mr Morris had entered into his Office at a time when there was an end of all public credit, when our army was on the point of dis banding for want not of pay but of provisions, when those who were enemies to our cause were pluming themselves with hopes of our speedy ruin, the timid & wavering seemed ready to provide for their safety by going over to the enemy & the most stout hearted had the most serious apprehensions of distress & danger. Without a farthing in the public treasury, without any well grounded hopes of a speedy supply, Mr M stept into office & by his personal credit & wise mea sures retrieved & established credit, & fed & kept the army together, until our enemy was compelled to acknowledge our independence and agree to a cessation of hostilities. When after this he was desirous of quitting the office, he was induced to continue till the army was dis banded. This he agreed to on Condition that an application should be made to the court of France for a farther aid of money and an earnest recommendation sent to the states to forward the supplies called for and on a most solemn assurance given by Congress to aid & support him in the measures he should take. On these conditions & assurances he continued And proceeded to issue his notes & enter into engagements until his anticipations amounted to a million of dol lars. The moment this was known he, Mr H, had heard a motion to countermand the application to the court of France, to suspend the payment or collection of the taxes called for, and enquiries made by what authority Mr M issued notes & intimations thrown out that he was liable in his private capacity to be sued for those notes by the holders. Put all these together & what judgment is to be formed. He drew his face into a smile, which he has always at command & said aye, indeed, put all these together and it looks bad. In the mean while Peters had darted some strokes of wit at Gerry which seemed to touch him and as he has a great inclination to be thought a wit though I hardly ever knew any who had less pretensions to it he turned to me and said he had told somebody, I do not recol lect whom he named, that he must do one of two things though he believed he would chuse the last, either to stay in Congress and learn to be a Salamander & live in fire, or to leave Congress. I told him if Gentlemen continued in the disposition they had lately discovered it would be proper to learn the use of the sword and to come armed to Debate. That if they acted and spoke conformable to the general sen timents of their constituents it was no matter how soon they parted. The sooner the better. For jarring interests prosecuted with such tem per could never coalesce. And if they seperated before enmity took deep root, by mutual reproaches their common safety and common danger might the sooner bring the states together on better terms. I concluded the evening with the perusal of a pamphlet, sent me by Mr Dunlap, on a quarrel that has taken place in France between Mr


[Page 152]
116 October 25, 1783 James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell 10 o’clock [October 25, 1783] It is Saturday, my sweet friend, and I am just going to Congress. But as I dine out, I carry your letter with me to put into the post office— not from any apprehension that I shall be unable to put it there after dinner—but because, I may be obliged to sit with the company till after his departure. It is true the wine is said to be good—but I shall not be tempted to forget in its fumes the more delicious intoxication of love. Bon jour, my dear Peggy—bon jour. James McHenry [PS.] I hope, my love, got the letter I sent Thursday morning by a Mr. Van Vleck. 3 O’clock. Congress is just about breaking up. We have done little to day of any importance, unless you will suppose important to have agreed to give Mr. Van Berckel an audience, and an entertainment on next Wednesday. 1 I go to drink your health. Adieu. JMcH. 2 RC (MdHi: McHenry Papers). 1 That is, Thursday, for which see Boudinot to van Berckel, this date. 2 At noon, this day, McHenry had penned a separate note to Peggy after “Mr. Maddi son told me that he sets off immediately, and he carries this to your brother.” And the following day he wrote yet another letter informing his fiancee that he had ridden with Daniel Carroll to Cranberry, “a little village about nine miles from this place,” returning shortly after sunset. “I think it was in the latter end of the year 1776, that I passed through this Town a prisoner under a British guard; and I could not help comparing it with my present situation. See, my Peggy, in this instance, the mutability of human af fairs! But history is filled with such examples; nor is there a corner of the world, not a condidon of life exempt from the revolutions of fortune.” McHenry Papers, MdHi. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah Saturday Oct 25. 1783 I received yours of Thursday N.7, And was exceedingly surprized and much concerned to find upon opening it that you had not re ceived a letter from me since Sunday. I had written with great freedom and sent a letter every day by the stage directing it to be given to the driver and not to any of the passengers, that you might receive it the same evening. I was somewhat relieved by the postscript, which in formed that mine of Monday & Tuesday had got to hand. I wish you would direct Peter to attend every evening at the Indian King till the stage comes in and to search the box & pocket of the stage where the letters are kept. You may depend that one goes by every stage. And I


[Page 153]
October 25, 1783 117 should be sorry any were lost. It would make me more cautious in ex pressing my sentiments. I am much pleased with the attention you paid to Mr. Spear & his daughter. We are under obligations to him, which I longed to repay. You have not told me what sort of a girl his daughter is, nor given me any account of our Baltimore friends. As I mean the carriage house only for a temporary convenience I would have it made of rough boards and am very indifferent where it is placed. I think it may as well be placed on the street adjoining the enclosed lot. It will serve for a lime house if ever I should build. I will not trouble you with any anxiety about my future plan of life. I can form none for happiness or satisfaction in this world, unless you are with me. I am now advanced in life and find myself much more helpless for having been so long helped and tended by you. And yet I confess I have a strong desire, to watch the workings of the present fer ment, to mark the characters of the present actors and to see the issue of present measures. The Minister of France made a remarkable Ob servation, the evening before last at the President’s. “I told col. Hamil ton,” said he, “he was putting the Chesnuts in the fire to roast, but an other might eat them. I fancy he now finds I was a true prophet.” I leave you to judge what opinion he has of the late removal. Adieu my dear Hannah, take care of your health. I am with sincere affection, your loving husband, Cha Thomson RC (NjP: Thomson Letters). Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount Dr Sr Princeton 25th Oct 1783 Being informed by Mr Nash that he is not coming on I have taken the Liberty once more to ask our Govr for a little Mony & unless I am mistaken he ought to send an Order for at least 2000 Dlrs. I wish you would try to convey the Letter directed to him 1 & that for your Brother 2 to Hillsbro before the House rises. In that Case I think the Govr will not fail to give your Brother the Draughts in my favour. This you must suppose is an object with me and I have placed the matter in such a Light that I think the mony will not be refused. Mr Hawkins has written in the same Stile. 3 I have the Honor to be, your most obedt and hble Servt, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Williamson’s letter to Thomas Blount has not been found. 3 Not found.


[Page 154]
118 October 27,1783 Elias Boudinot to Pieter Johan van Berckel Sir, Princeton 27 October 1783 Your polite favour of last evening has been just delivered to me. 1 Congress are not sitting, but I will undertake to assure you that the intended audience shall be adjourned till Friday next. Congress being very desirous of making every measure altogether agreeable to you would no doubt be as ready to have put it off till Saturday, but that being the last day of our annual existence, there will not be any house on that day, by reason of the necessary and unavoidable absence of a number of Members. I did myself the honor of writing the substance of this by a private opportunity a few minutes ago, but lest any unncessary delay should happen, I send this by Express. I have the honor to be &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 99, fols. 25-28; a translation of it is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:716. Van Berckel had requested Congress “to change the designated day of audience [Thursday] to Friday or Saturday next.” Elias Boudinot to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Princeton 27th October 1783 I am honored by the commands of Congress to make known to you the pleasure they received from your communications of the 18th of September. 1 I cannot do this so well as by enclosing their Act of the 24th instant for this purpose. 2 Be assured, Sir, that every instance of the affection of our good Ally gives me great pleasure, and I feel equally interested in the due ac knowledgment of the many proofs we have received of this happy effect from the union of our two nations. Nothing can cement this alliance more perfectly than reciprocity and liberality in commercial regula tions, which, I doubt not, are principles that will ever temper the wise Councils of so great a Monarch as your illustrious Master. I have the honor to be, &c. E B LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For these communications to a committee of Congress, see JCC, 25:588-89. 2 For the enclosed resolve expressing pleasure at France’s reaffirmation of the Franco-American alliance and Congress’ wish that the same “spirit of liberality may per vade commercial regulations, on both sides,” see JCC, 25:745—46.


[Page 155]
October 27, 1783 Elias Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary 119 Gentlemen Princetown Oct. 27th 1783 Previous to my leaving the Chair of Congress, I take the liberty again to address you, merely as an individual that you may not be left totally without Information until the Choice of a Minister for foreign Affairs shall take place. I have pressed Congress much on this subject, and am fully convinced of the difficult Situation you must be in for want of Information from this important Office. I have the honor of acknowledging the rec 1 of your several favours of the . 1 My last addressed to you, was on the 15 th of July giving you a minute account of the Mutiny of the Soldiers in Philadelphia and of our subsequent removal to this Place—since which we have remained here tho. in but indifferent Circumstances of accommodation. Congress lately have determined to fix their place of Residence at the Head of the Delaware over the Falls of Trenton. They take in contemplation to fix another place the Falls of Potomack near Georgetown and to sit alter nately at each Place year about. They have also determined to adjourn on the 8 th Nov r2 to Annapolis for their temporary residence. They have also passed several important Acts lately, which you will see by the several Proclamations contained in the Newspapers which I do myself the honor of transmitting herewith from the month of Sep 1 2 d. Congress have not yet taken the Appointment of a minister for for eign Affairs under Consideration, as their Time is principally taken up with previous measures of a Peace arrangement both Civil & Military. It will now be put off till the removal to Annapolis. I shall add to this Letter (I believe) several Acts of Congress In consequence of a Report on your last Official Letter we have been most Anxiously (looking ?) for the Definitive Treaty which is really a matter of much more impor tance in this Country than it is in Europe. The States at best cannot be convinced that Peace is made to any Purpose without this welcome Act, and the Conduct of the British in these States has confirmed them in the Opinion. We lately sent Baron Steuben to Canada to set tle with Genl Waldenson 3 the Time and manner of delivering up & re ceiving the Posts and fortifications on the Frontiers whenever that Gen 1 should be ready so to do. He was refused even a conference on the subject. Gen 1 Waldenson declaring that he knew of no Peace be tween Britain and America, that his orders were to cease Hostilities which he had carefully done but could go no further. The Baron thinks they are planning their schemes in Canada for holding the Frontier Posts for a year or two longer which would prove ruinous to these States rendition of them must be urged without delay. The Min-


[Page 158]
122 October 28, 1783 than at Baltimore. The Average price at George Town during a few years before the war was from 6/3 to 6/6 per Busshell. I am, Dear Sr., with great esteem, your Mo. Obt Servant, Dani. Carroll RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell [Princeton] Congress room 28 Octbr [ 1783] Explains that he has invited her brother John to attend the public reception in Princeton for the Dutch minister van Berckel. “The audience is post-poned to Friday at the disire of the Dutchman. It will only be interesting from its nov elty.” In a postscript adds that “it is now six o’clock—congress having adjourned in the morning to meet in the evening. I do not think how ever that we shall make a house to do business.” RC (MdHi: McHenry Papers). Elias Boudinot to John Cox Sir, Princeton Octr 29th 1783 My Time in the Chair of Congress being just expired, and the sev enth Year of my expulsion from my House & Estate compleated (the greatest Part of which, has been devoted to the public Service) whereby my private Affairs are become totally deranged, shall I beg the favour of you Sir, to make known my request in the most respect ful manner, to the honorable the Legislature of this State in their joint Meeting, for their permission to retire to private Life, and at the same time to assure them of the deep Sense I retain of the Honors I have reed from them by the repeated Trusts reposed in me. My highest Ambition has been to serve my Country in her distress. This I have en deavoured to do, to the utmost of my Power, and, if at any Time, I have failed in so important a Duty for want of Abilities, it has been made up by the most unfeigned Integrity. If those Services have been acceptable to my Country I shall receive an ample reward. Suffer me in the most respectful manner to congratulate you Sir & the Legisla ture on the accomplishment of the honorable & glorious Peace with which my Administration has been honored.


[Page 161]
October 29, 1783 125 have a line by the Bearer, who is sent Express for this purpose. If any accident should prevent your being here early on Friday morning, be so good as to recommend some proper person on this occasion, lest we should be disappointed on that important event. I enclose a copy of the Credentials, that you may prepare a transla tion at leisure. Your &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). i For Pieter Johan van Berckel’s credentials, which were entered on the journals in conjunction with his audience on October 31, see PCC, item 129, fols. 21-24; and JCC, 25:783-85. Elias Boudinot to Henry Knox Sir, Princeton Octr. 29 1783 I am under the necessity of asking the favour of your delivering of the enclosed, 1 to Genl. McDougal yourself; and not suffer it to fall into the Hands of any of his family, as it is wrote on a private subject that I wish only to communicate to himself personally. Will you permit me Sir, to improve this Opportunity, to ask your at tention, to forwarding the two field Pieces designed for Count De Grasse 2 (as soon as the British leave New York) to that Port, to be for warded to him. I should be glad to be informed when this Event takes Place, as I shall then be at Elizabeth Town. I am under such particular Circumstances with regard to these Pieces, that I shall be extremely Anxious till they are embargued. I have the Honor to be with very great respect, Sir, Your most Obedt and very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (MHi: Knox Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See Boudinot to the comte de Grasse, April 23 and June 14, 1783. Elias Boudinot to Philip Schuyler Dear Sir, (Private) P T. Octr 29th 1783 This Morning I reed, your favour of the and as Congress have not made a House to day nor may not do it to morrow, I under take to answer it in an individual Capacity, in order to prevent any sudden Measure being taken that might embarrass your future Move ments. The whole of your Information is groundless, and a Scheme of


[Page 165]
November 1, 1783 129 happy event which is not the less important from the delay which has attended it. We are with great respect & esteem Yr. Excellency’s most Obt. Arthur Lee John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Mercer and signed by Mercer and Lee. 1 Mercer undoubtedly wrote this letter on October 31 as the events described in both paragraphs occurred this day. For the reception of the Dutch minister, see the preced ing entry. Moreover, copies of Pieter Johan van Berckel’s credentials, his address to Congress, and Pres. Elias Boudinot’s reply—all in Mercer’s hand and correctly dated October 31—are in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi. See also JCC, 25:780-86; and PCC, item 129, fols. 21-24. The news of the signing of the definitive peace treaty had also arrived just prior to the reception, for which see Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipo tentiary, October 27, note 3. Elias Boudinot to John Adams Sir, Private Princeton 1st November 1783 I have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your several pub lic letters under the dates ofjune the 23d to July the 18th inclusive, by Capt. Barney. 1 Nothing is done in consequence of those letters but what is contained in the instructions inclosed in my official letter by this opportunity to the Commissioners jointly. Congress have not come to any further determination on your last letters, relative to your resignation; on account of the peace arrange ment not being yet settled. Perhaps there will be but very few Ministers employed in Europe, and these in the Character of Residents or simply Ministers. The conduct of Great Britain does not appear yet very conciliating, and her measures on this side the water have rather tended to irritate than otherwise. Congress will not be in a hurry to send a Minister to the Court of Lon don, till they see how the definitive Treaty will end. We have an account this day from Colo. Ogden that it was signed on the 3d of September, and that Mr. Thaxter is on his way with it, whom we long to see. Your letters on the subject of our credit abroad and the strengthen ing and cementing the union at home, came at a happy moment, and have had a very good effect. 2 Your Countrymen were running wild on this subject, but your observations & opinion have helped to check them, and the Legislature of Massachusetts have passed the 5 Per Cent Impost recommended by Congress. Mr. Van Berckel is arrived and yesterday received his first public au dience of Congress. This address and our answer I send to the Com missioners jointly. He appears to justify the high opinion we had


[Page 169]
November 1, 1783 133 Elias Boudinot to the Burgomasters and Senate of Hamburg Gentlemen, Princeton 1st. Nov. 1783 I have the honor of acknowledging the receipt of your very respect ful and polite letter of the 29th of March last, by the hands of your faithful Citizen and Missionary Mr. de Boor. 1 Congress received this very generous and candid communication with all that pleasure and attention, which so great proffers of friendship from the honorable The Burgomasters and Senate of the imperial free City Hamburgh, jusdy demanded from the United States of America. Congress did not delay to take this honorable tender of the affec tion and esteem of the worthy Burgomasters and Senate, under their immediate consideration; and I am now honored by the commands of Congress to make known to the respectable Representatives of this great and imperial City, “in terms expressive of the most sincere re gard, the high satisfaction with which the United States in Congress assembled, received the annunciation of their friendship and attach ment, and their affectionate congratulations on the establishment of the liberty & Independance of the United States of America. That hav ing founded the commercial system of these States on the basis of equality and reciprocity, Congress will chearfully meet the wishes of the Burgomasters and Senate of Hamburg, and unite with them in en couraging the most friendly intercourse, between the Citizens of the respective Countries, on such liberal principles as will best promote their mutual advantage and prosperity; and that it is the earnest prayer of the United States in Congress assembled, that the Imperial free City Hamburg, may continue to encrease in commerce and splen dor and be blessed with uninterrupted tranquility.” 2 It is with the most sensible pleasure I make this communication, and hope and pray that a solid foundation will be laid, for the firm es tablishment of friendship and communion between the Citizens of our Republicks. May God Almighty keep the honorable Burgomasters and Senate of the Imperial free City Hamburgh in his holy protection. I have the honor to be &c E.B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “The Honorable The Burgomasters and Senate of the Imperial free City, Hamburgh.” 1 This letter, delivered byJohann Abraham de Boor, was referred on September 30 to a committee consisting of James Duane, Samuel Huntington, and Arthur Lee which re ported on October 22. See PCC, item 82, 3:91-112; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:351-53. 2 For this October 29 resolution, see JCC, 25:757-58.


[Page 170]
134 November 1, 1783 Elias Boudinot to John Jay Sir, (Private) Princeton 1 November 1783 I was honored by your several private favours, recommending Mr. Vaughan and some other Gentlemen, to whom I have endeavoured to pay every civility in my power. Also one enclosing my Nephew’s letter from Madeira, 1 for which I am much obliged to you. Congress has thought proper to appoint him their Commercial Agent at that Island. 2 He is a deserving young American, who I doubt not will do honor to his appointment. If you can be of any service to him I shall take it as a particular favour done to me. I have the honor of enclosing a copy of the acts of Congress relating to yourself individually, the authenticated copies of which I transmit in a set of instructions to the Commissioners jointly by this opportunity. 3 Congress did not think it just or honorable to alter or abridge your salary while absent at Bath for your health, and therefore have passed only a simple permission for your going to Bath for the re-establish ment of your former vigour. We are still at this town, but on the 6th instant Congress mean to adjourn to Annapolis having determined at present to have two places of residence or Fcederal Towns, one near the falls of Potomack, the other near the falls of Delaware. I send the New-papers to the Commissioners which will let you into the general state of things. Capt. Jones, the Bearer of this, can also give you much general information. I carefully forwarded your letters to the North River. I have the honor to be, with the most sincere regard and esteem, Sir, your most obedient & very humb. Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (PPIn: Americana Collection). 1 For this June 11, 1783, “private” letter to Boudinot, see Jay, Papers (Morris), 2:526-29. 2 For the appointment of Boudinot’s nephew, John Marsden Pintard, to this position, see JCC, 25:778-80. s See Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, this date, note. Elias Boudinot to Henry Laurens Sir, (Private.) P.T. Novr 1, 1783. I have the honor of acknowledging the rec 1 of your several favours of June 27 July 17 August 2 & 9th. 1 These Letters were very acceptable to Congress as they arrived in the midst of great Doubts of what could occasion so long silence of our Ministers in Europe, not having had any Official Intelligence from them since the Acct of the signing the


[Page 171]
November 1, 1783 135 preliminary Articles. By my Letters to the Com rs Jointly of July last, 2 you have undoubtedly been informed of our leaving Philadelphia & taking up our Residence in this Place. The Mutiny that occasioned this removal soon subsided and order & harmony was speedily re stored by a voluntary submission of the mutineers. Several of them were condemned to be shot and their Partners in Guilt ordered to do the execution. In the last moments of despair, they were all pardoned by Congress, which has had a good effect. This army is disbanded & gone home tho without any money. The Expectation of seeing you here in the Spring gives your friends great Pleasure. Congress were agreed to form two federal Towns one near the falls of the Potomack, the other near the falls of the Delaware set alternately year about at each Place. They adjourn on the 6th for Annapolis as the Place of their temporary residence. As I have not a moment to spare I must beg leave to refer you to my Letter to the Com r jointly & the News Pa pers sent to them for further Particulars of News. 3 I have the honor to be with very great respect & Esteem, Sir, E. Boudinot. MS not found; reprinted from Boudinot, Life and Letters, 2:7-8. 1 These letters are in PCC, item 89, fols. 307-29; and Wharton, Diplxmatic Correspon dence, 6:507-8, 555-56, 628-29, 640-41. 2 See Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, July 15, 1783. 3 See the following entry. Elias Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary Gentlemen, Princeton 1 Nov. 1783 I am honored by the commands of Congress to transmit you a set of in structions in consequence of your joint and seperate letters of the months of June and July last, by Captain Barney, which I do myself the honor to enclose. These were not finished till the 29th ult. after having undergone the most mature deliberation and fullest discussion in Congress. 1 Yesterday we received from Colo. Ogden the news of the signature of the definitive Treaty on the 3d of September, and that Mr. Thaxter was on the way with the official news. We long for his arrival tho’ we have no doubt of the fact, which is also announced by the post this day from Boston. I do most sincerely congratulate you, Gentlemen, on this most im portant and happy event, which has diffused the sincerest Joy throughout these States, and the terms of which must necessarily hand down the names of its American Negociators to Posterity with the highest possible honor. May the Gratitude of your Country ever be the fair reward of all your labours.


[Page 172]
136 November 1, 1783 New-York is not yet evacuated, but Sir Guy Carleton has informed our Commander in Chief, that he shall get clear of it in all this month, tho’ I think they will not dare to stay much beyond the 15th instant. Your &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: ‘The Honorable The Ministers Plenipotentiary of the United States of America, Paris.” 1 These instructions were drafted by a committee consisting of James Duane, Samuel Huntington, and Arthur Lee, which was appointed on September 29 and reported on October 22. Their work had its origins in the report of a previous committee consisting of Duane, Thomas FitzSimons, Elbridge Gerry, Stephen Higginson, and John Rutledge, to whom had been referred the dispatches of the commissioners that were read in Congress on September 12. See JCC, 25:587-88, 617-22, 628-32, 636-37, 753-57; and PCC, item 186, fols. 123, 128. The fifth of these new instructions directed that the American ministers abroad dis tance themselves from the convention of the League of Armed Neutrality, “which may hereafter too far complicate the interests of the United States with the politicks of Eu rope.” For an analysis of the issues that contributed to this reversal in the immediate goals of the American ministers in regard to the expression of neutral rights in new bi lateral commercial treaties, see Gregg L. Lint, ‘The American Revolution and the Law of Nations, 1776-1789,” Diplomatic History 1 (1977): 26-28. Elias Boudinot to the States Sir, Princeton 1st Nov. 1783 I am honored by the commands of Congress to transmit to your Ex cellency the enclosed certified copy of their Acts of the 7th and 21st October last, relative to their residence in Maryland and New-Jersey. 1 And am, with great respect &c. E. B. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency, The Governor of Maryland.” 1 Congress had been debating the question of its permanent residence since October 6. Its October 7 decision for a Delaware River site had been amended on October 21 to provide for a second site “near the lower falls of Potomac," which would alternate with the former as a federal capital. A committee had been appointed previously to report on a Delaware River site, and when a similar committee to report on a Potomac site was appointed on October 30, President Boudinot was belatedly directed to communicate the resolutions of the 7th and 21st to the several states. See JCC, 25:654-59, 711-14, 767-70; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:136-39; and Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson, October 21, 1783, note 1. Elias Boudinot to Thomas Wren Sir, Princeton. 1st Nov. 1783 Your Humanity & kindness to our helpless & distressed Citizens, who by the fortune of War, were thrown into the Power of their Ene mies, and within your reach, have been made known to the united


[Page 181]
November 3, 1783 145 11 For this September 1 congressional order for entering on the journals an August 29 Pennsylvania Assembly resolution inviting Congress to return to Philadelphia, see JCC, 25:530-31. 12 This enclosure consisted of a 39-page attested copy of congressional proceedings of October 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 13, 17, 18, 20, and 21 on the subject of the permanent residence of Congress, for which see JCC, 25:647-60, 664-68, 670-72, 675-76, 697-99, 702, 706-14. 13 Apparently Matthias Ogden’s October 30 letter to President Boudinot, for which see the November 1 postscript to Elias Boudinot to the American Commissioners, Octo ber 27; and Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare, November 7, 1783, note 2. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Assembly Gentn. Princeton 3d Novr. 1783, at Night. To-day Congress proceeded to the election of a president when Ths. Mifflin Eqr. a delegate from Pennsylvania was chosen. This Gentleman being absent a chairman was elected—when a motion was brought for ward and agreed to, that in the absence of the president the chairman adjourn Congress on the 6th instant to meet at Annapolis on the 26. 1 This step was taken in consequence of some doubts as to the propri ety of the resolutions for adjournment under the late Congress. We flatter ourselves that the business is now closed; and beg leave to sub mit it to the wisdom of the house the adoption of such arrangements and measures previous to the 26—as may best serve to accommodate Congress—and to render their residence, and the residence of for eign ministers agreeable. With the greatest respect we have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your most ob st. Dani. Carroll James McHenry RC (MdBJ-G: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by McHenry and signed by McHenry and Carroll. 1 After the presentation of the delegates’ credentials this day, the opening day of the third Congress under the Articles of Confederation, Congress elected Thomas Mifflin president and, in his absence, Daniel Carroll as chairman. On a motion of James Duane, Congress extended their thanks to the departing president, Elias Boudinot, “in testimony of their approbation of his conduct in the chair, and in the execution of the public business.” See JCC, 25:799. According to John Francis Mercer, “Our president was cheered, members of the Congress rising as he left the Chair"—perhaps the only president accorded such an honor. Mercer to Edmund Randolph, November 3, 1783, Tr (from original in the possession of Roy G. Fitzgerald, 1950), Herbert E. Klingelhofer Collection, Bethesda, Md. For James McHenry’s motion later this day to empower and direct Chairman Carroll “to adjourn Congress on the 6th instant, to meet at Annapolis on the 26th, agreeable to the resolution of the 21 of October last,” see JCC, 25:802.


[Page 183]
November 6,1783 147 Maryland Delegates to William Paca Sr. Princeton Novr. 3d. 1783 We expect the President has transmitted agreable to a resolve of Congress copys of the several acts respecting the places of residence of Congress, & the adjournment to Annapolis. 1 A doubt has arisen since the passing of the act directing the President to adjourn Congress to Annapolis on the 12th instant, whether under the articles of Con federation, the last Congress had a power to direct the adjournment of the present which commences this day. 2 Shoud there be the same States on the floor during this week, that voted for the adjournment, it is probable this point will be put out of question—this circumstance may detain Mr Carroll a few days longer than he intended. We have the honor to be, yr Excelly & honors, Mo Obt. Servts Dani Carroll James McHenry RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Carroll and signed by Carroll and McHenry. 1 See Elias Boudinot to the States, November 1, 1783. 2 This “doubt” was resolved later this day, for which see the preceding entry. Elias Boudinot to Elias Dayton Sir, Princeton, Nov. 6th, 1783 Your Favour covering the Certificate of my Election, as an honorary Member of the Society of the Cincinnati of this State, has just come to hand. Permit me Sir, to request the favour of you, to make known to that respectable Society, the high Sense I entertain of the honor done me, by this unsolicited Mark of their Respect and Attention, and to as sure them that while with Pleasure I accept the honorable appoint ment, I shall also endeavour by every Means in my Power, to render my self worthy of so peculiar a Mark of their Friendship & Esteem. The Line of the Army at large, and particularly that of New Jersey, has ever met with my warmest Support, but their distinguished politeness on this Occasion, will give me the happiness of considering myself as one of their Body, which I shall allways esteem as a valuable Badge of Honor. 1 Be pleased Sir to accept my particular Thanks for the very polite & friendly Terms in which you have communicated the Election of the Society, and be assured, that I have the honor to be with great Esteem, Sir, Your most Obed and very Hble Servt, Elias Boudinot RC (DSoC). Addressed: “The Honorable Brigadier Genl. Dayton, President of the Soci ety of the Cincinnati for the State of Newjersey, Elizabeth Town.”


[Page 191]
November 17, 1783 155 Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Secretary’s Office November 13th. 1783. I have the honor to inform your Excellency that on the first Monday in this month the United States in Congress Assembled proceeded by ballot to the election of a President—when The honorable Thomas Mifflin was elected. Next day they adjourned Congress to meet at An napolis in the State of Maryland on the 26th of the present month. 1 I am with perfect Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obedient And most humble Servt. Cha Thomson 2 Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). 1 For the November 3 and 4 resolutions pertaining to these decisions, see JCC, 25:799, 807. 2 Thomson also sent a copy of this letter to General Washington this day, Washington Papers, DLC. Sir Philadelphia 14th. Novemr. 1783. I arrived in this City on the 12th Instant, being unable to take the smallpox in Princeton for want of the infection. I shall this day be in- noculated here and proceed to Anapolis, when I am recovered. In the mean time if a Deligate comes forward from New Hampshire I wish him to call on me at the Revd. Mr. Marshalls in this City. I must beg the favor of your Honr. to forward some Money as early as possi ble my Cash being almost exhausted. I am Sir with great respect & es teem your most obedient Servt. Abiel Foster. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). John Francis Mercer to Charles Simms Philadelphia Nov. 17. 1783. Has investigated a Court of Appeals rul ing against an unidentified party represented by Col. Simms, an Alexandria, Va., lawyer, and expresses great doubt that there is any re course in the case. “An Appeal from the Court of Appeals is unknown to the Constitution & altho in cases of corruption, & such like, there is no doubt but that Congress wou’d interfere, yet the evidence must be glaring that wou’d justify or support this remedy, for the Articles of Confederation seem cautiously to divest Congress of all cognizance of such cases. My information tells me that what prov’d decisive with the


[Page 192]
156 November 17,1783 Court was—a Certificate produced by the Capt. covering the Goods— which he never had attempted to conceal. That the necessary repairs cou’d be no where effected but at Alexandria—& that he had every reason to believe that his exceeding the limits prescribed to him was agreeable to Mr. Hunter. “As to the Decree of Costs, I am instructed that altho’ it is unknown to the Common Law for the party succeeding to pay the Costs, yet it is by no means unusual in the Admiralty Courts. The Policy of these Courts is to favor seizures as much as possible—And whenever circum stances appear (prima facie) to be such as to afford grounds for strong suspicion, altho’ upon investigation they do not prove suffi cient for condemnation, the Court usually makes the Persons whose Property is thus circumstanced pay the Costs. This it is said was the case of the vessell alluded to, the circumstances were such as justified the conduct of those who made this seizure, altho,’ upon tryal they wou’d not support a forfeiture.” RC (DLC: Charles Simms Papers). Thomas Jefferson to James Monroe Dear Sir Philadelphia Nov. 18. 1783. Your favor of the 9th 1 came to hand yesterday and relieved us from the fear that sickness or some other accident had detained you. I am very particularly obliged to you for the attention you have been so good as to pay to my accomodation. Several circumstances had pre vented my taking measures for this purpose so early as I wished. I had ultimately relied on Mr. Carrol who left this place two days ago. I will therefore be obliged to you to releive him from the trouble I had given him as he has many commissions of the same kind on his hand. As you have been so kind as to procure alternatives for me it ensures me a comfortable situation. I leave Patsy here, having had it in my power to procure for her the best tutors in French, dancing, music & drawing. Mr. Carrol was so kind as to undertake to procure for me a stable for five horses. This I shall still wish for. Mr. Mercer talks of set ting out tomorrow. Mr. Madison and myself shall leave this place cer tainly on the 21st so as to be in Annapolis on the 24th. 2 The President does not set out till the 23d. Dr. Lee did not engage the house for the delegation, not having been desired to do so, nor having ever in formed them he had done so. I rather suppose it is for some particu lar set of gentlemen with whom he means to join. Be so good as to present my compliments to Mr. Hardy and assure yourself of the es teem with which I am Dr. Sir, your affectionate friend & servt., Th. Jefferson


[Page 193]
November 23, 1783 157 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Addressed: “The honourable James Monroe of the Virginia delegation at Annapolis.”Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:355. 1 Not found. 2 Jefferson actually left Philadelphia November 22 arriving in Annapolis the 25th. Ibid., note. In a November 28 letter to his daughter Martha prescribing her daily sched ule of activity and instruction, Jefferson noted that “after four days journey I arrived here without any accident and in as good health as when I left Philadelphia.” See ibid., pp. 359-60. Elias Boudinot to Thomas Mifflin Dear Sir, Elizabeth Town Novr 21. 1783 Last Evening I reed, the enclosed Letters & Treaty from New York, brought there by the Packett from England. 1 Not knowing from the direction but that they were private Letters, I opened them and for ward them on by the first opportunity. I paid a Charge of 17/11 Postage by the Packett. The British have at last evacuated New York and the Flag of the united States is now flying on the Fort of that City. 2 I have the honor to be with very great respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed Hble Serv Elias Boudinot RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter 21 Novr 1783. E Boudinot, enclosing two letters from doctr Franklin & a copy of definitive treaty.” 1 The enclosed August 31 and September 13 letters from Benjamin Franklin to ex president Boudinot are in PCC, item 82, 2:73-88. 2 Boudinot was mistaken, for American troops did not occupy New York until Novem ber 25 following the withdrawal of the last British troops from the city the same day, a fact General Washington reported to Congress on December 3d. In a previous letter of November 18, Washington had sent Congress a copy of Sir Guy Carleton’s November 12 letter to him explaining that the evacuation would probably be completed “some days before the end of the present month," and that he expected to get his troops off Man hattan and Long Island on November 21 and 22, “and Staten Island as soon after as may be practicable.” See PCC, item 152, 11:515-25; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 27:246, 255. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Mr Adams Philadelphia 23d Novr 83. (Sunday Even) Mr Thaxter arrived here last Evening, by the Way of New York with the definitive Treaty, 1 having narrowly escaped a severe storm by reaching that Port on Wednesday Evening. Your Favours by him I have received with great Pleasure, 2 as I was in Want of the Information they contain, as well as of your Sentiments on several important Subjects. Governor Reed will probably deliver You this, & my Confidence in him will induce me to be explicit.


[Page 199]
November 24, 1783 163 Thomas Mifflin to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia November 23rd. 1783. I have the honor to inform you, that Mr. Thaxter, private Secretary to Mr. Adams, arrived last night from France; being dispatched by our Ministers at Paris, with the definitive treaty between America and Great Britain; which was signed on the 3rd day of September. I beg leave to congratulate your Excellency on this great event, and remain with much respect & esteem Your Excellency’s obt. hble Servt. Tho. Mifflin 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Massachusetts. NB. A similar letter was written to their Excellencies The Governors of Rhode-Island, Maryland, Virginia, North-Carolina, South-Carolina and Georgia.” 1 Mifflin also sent copies of this letter to George Washington (Gratz Collection, PHi), and to the speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly, George Gray (Feinstone Collection, PWacD). To the latter Mifflin also added the following brief paragraph: “Colonel Har- mar has delivered to his Excellency president Dickinson a printed copy of the Treaty which appears to be the same with the preliminary Articles.” Richard Peters to John Dickinson Dr Sir, Belmont Novr 24. 1783. I enclose some Papers I had intended to have sent to Council in Conjunction with my Colleagues of the last Delegation. I had given Di rections for Copies & had began Several myself of some important Transactions where I thought it necessary that the State should be in formed. The Subjects of the Communications intended related to the Recommendations respecting the Tories of which the Letter from Dr Franklin herewith sent is a Part but it is the one which produced the Alteration in the British Counterproject of the Treaty from a positive Stipulation to a recommendatory Article. 1 There are other Papers on this Subject calculated to elucidate the intention of the Parties & which will be necessary when Congress issue the Recommendations on the definitive Treaty. There are also Informations on the Subject of Commerce which tend to develope the present British Systems & to shew that the European Nations are more likely to make a common Cause with Britain as to the carrying & exclusive Trade & how to thwart her Plans. These will be requisite to shew that unless there is a general Power to regulate Commerce so that there shall be a Unity of System & a Decision & Energy in its Execution, our Trade will be at the Mercy of foreign Nations & of none more than our late Enemy who will let no Opportunity slip of dividing us by throwing out Baits to some, &, when she dare, Frowns & Threats to others. Many of the


[Page 200]
164 November 24, 1783 British Papers are pompous, laboured & lengthy which prevented the whole Subject being transmitted in due Time. The Delegates ought to have contingent Money allowed for occasional Copies & other Busi ness of the Delegation which is often neglected owing to the Engage ments of Members who are either taken up with the Business of the House or averse from the Drudgery of collecting or copying Papers. The Copy of the Resolution respecting the Treaty with the Indians the Secretary of Congress directed his Clerk to send to me; but it is not done. There are some other Papers relating to Indian Affairs which ought to be laid before the Council & Assembly. If I see any of the Gentlemen of the present Delegation I will endeavour to point out particular Papers on the several Subjects I allude to. But it is neces sary for them to be acquainted with the general Subjects before they will see the Force of any particular Paper or know what Parts to com municate & what are of a secret Nature. Their Attention may there fore be drawn to the Points of Information which struck me when they come to make themselves acquainted with the foreign Papers & past domestic Transactions. I have the Honour to be, with sincere Esteem & Respect, Your very obed Servt, Richard Peters RC (PHi: Logan Dickinson Collection). 1 This “Extract of a Letter from Doer Franklin to Mr. Hartley, dated Passey, November 26th, 1782," suggesting that Britain drop her treaty demands for indemnification for loyalists and restoration of confiscated property, is in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 9:669-71. As a result, Article 5 of the treaty merely stipulated “that the Congress shall earnestly recom mend it to the legislatures of the respective states, to provide for the restitution of all es tates ...,” rather than absolutely requiring such action. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia 25t November 1783 The Support of the Suffering Citizens of the North Eastern part of our State who have fled for Redress to Congress has already com pelled Us to draw upon your Excellency. Having neither Authority, nor a Knowledge of any Funds in your Excellency’s power to answer our wants, we adopted this Measure with Reluctance. My own particular Situation obliges me however painful to take a further Liberty of the same nature. You know, Sir, that it has been my misfortune to be left at differ ent Times without any Provision by the State but ineffectual votes. While my Finances admitted it I never complained, but In June 1781 I was obliged to represent my Circumstances to the Legisla ture. They were pleased to order my Accounts to be adjusted by an Act passed the 30th of June. Accordingly They were settled by the


[Page 203]
November 28,1783 167 ties pecuniary in the State. He appears also to be clever. I left Mr Spaight at Philada. & expect him here on Monday. 1 The State House here is certainly an elegant Building. The Room we are to sit in is per haps the prettyest in America. Be so good as give me a detail of assem bly news. The acct, of western Lands in particular. As soon as I have settled at a private Lodging, which I hope will be on to morrow I shall try to connect the Chain of occurrences which have lately been inter rupted. I took a Seat from Princeton in the Carriage of an acquain tance and have not yet provided myself with Horses. Mr Spaight tells me that he thinks a Gelding of the first quality may be purchased near Halifax @ £45 to £50. If this is the Case and if such purchases are to be made with Paper Mony I have thoughts of requesting a friend to buy for me a couple of good Horses viz for the Saddle & Port Mantua. By those means I should save 200 or more of my present hard Dlrs, for which I foresee I shall have full use before the Spring. And I should come home by Water, or at least come as far as Suffolk or Portsmouth. However if I can save mony enough to buy Horses I shall buy them to the Northward and come Home on Horseback as by far the most ele- gable way. I wish to attend at the Spring Sitting of the Genl. Assembly. If I should be chosen a member so much the more convenient as in that Case I may be able in my Place to explain some measures that I have much at Heart. From this distance you know that I may readily at tend though I should leave Congress on the first of April. I am told that Mr Nash has been so kind as write to the Assembly that he will at tend Congress during the whole of the next year. He will doubtless keep his Word! You have heard of the pretty Mrs. Lloy’d. Her husband visited me to day. Perhaps I may visit his fair wife to morrow. This Place affords a multitude of fine women. As we have ceased taking the Phi lada Papers you cannot in future expect any Communications of that sort till we are otherwise provided. However I propose taking Clay pools for my private Accot if he will engage to furnish it regularly. 2 Be pleased present my Respects to Mrs Blount & be assured that I am, Dr Sr, with the utmost Consideration, Your obedt Hble Servt, Hugh Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 Richard Dobbs Spaight had apparently left North Carolina on October 22 and tar ried in Philadelphia before leaving on December 5 for Annapolis where he finally at tended Congress on the 13th. See JCC, 25:810; and Spaight to Blount, December 26, 1783. In an account submitted to the state of North Carolina in 1785, Spaight claimed compensation for “my going to and Attendance as a delegate in Congress ... from the 22d of October 1783." Spaight Papers, Nc-Ar. 2 That is, David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylvania Packet.


[Page 210]
174 December 3,1783 removed, and you have been acknowledged in your public character. This may occasion your continuing at the Court of St. Petersburg this winter; but will not I hope prevent your returning next Summer. It seems to be the opinion of Congress not to employ hereafter more than two ministers abroad, one at the Court of Versailles and the other at the Court of London. Mr. Jay is talked of for the first and Mr. Adams for the last; but I cannot say with certainty who will be ap pointed. At some other Courts we may have residents, or agents, or consuls. Our finances will not admit of maintaining many ministers abroad; and if they would perhaps they might do as much hurt as good. As soon as a minister shall be appointed for the court of Lon don, we may expect one from thence; and then we shall doubtless have an abundance of pretious intriguing. We shall not I imagine soon forget the favours we have received from our great and good ally; but interest you know governs the world. The order of the British King in Council prohibiting any trade to the B. W. Indias but in B. bottoms, has created great uneasiness; and it seems that our trade to the F. W. Indias is restrained. That nation which discovers the most favorable disposition toward our commerce will probably be most regarded by us. Whether the Dutch will copy after the French & British and not permit a trade to their ports on the continent of America & to St. Eustatius is uncertain; but it is my opin ion that they will avail themselves of the blunders of others, and give us a free trade. Good policy dictates that we should form commercial treaties with all commercial States, where reciprocity can be obtained, and I sup pose will be pursued. I am not sufficiently acquainted with the advan tages that might result from a trade with Russia, to determin whether we ought to court it or not; but certainly the more channels the stream of our commerce runs in the greater will be the prospect of gain, the less will be the danger of our being injured by any partial ob structions, and the more may that spirit of enterprize be gratified which springs from and is favorable to liberty. The thirteen stripes will in the course of a year, fly on the coasts of China, and hereafter be dis played wherever Seas shall roll to waft our ships. If the U. S. in Congress assembled should recommend to the sev eral States to lay heavy imposts upon goods imported from and ex ported to the B. W. Indias, in B. bottoms, it might perhaps bring Britain to reason; but commerce you know is a coy dame that must be handled delicately. The present system of finance is founded intirely upon the recom mendation for an impost. This State and the State of Massachusetts have complied with it fully; some others partially and some have not as yet taken the recommendation into their consideration. The State of R. Island &c will be the last that adopts it. She knows that it will be


[Page 212]
176 Decembers, 1783 duct of the correspondence with the Chancellor of Russia, and I have never heard you blamed but for your patiences. It is confessedly im possible to form a right judgment of the conduct of a public man at a distance; and yet some men will assume to pass a judgment upon it too peremptorily. A certain late Secretary for foreign affairs, was pret tily chastised by certain ministers for certain reprobatory hints. 7 Courts are schools to learn patience in; and you & Mr. Jay I think have not proved bad scholars. Mr. Jay has leave to go to Bath for his health. Dr. Franklin hath offer’d a resignation of his office on account of his old age. I suppose it will be accepted soon after Congress shall have met at Annapolis in Maryland, the place to which Congress is adjourned. I wrote you, I be lieve, in my letter by Capt. Jones, that Congress had resolved upon two places of permanent residence, one on the banks of Potowmack near George Town in Maryland, the other on the banks of Delaware near Trenton. How the idea of two fcederal towns, as they are called in the resolution, will strike you, will strike Europe I cannot tell. The wits of this city have diverted themselves exceedingly with this measure. Any thing, even the most serious things may be ridiculed, especially when wits are sharpend by disappointment. The Eastern States came into this plan, to accommodate the Southern Gentlemen, and to avoid being whirled into the vortex of Philadelphia as the cant expression goes. Whether we shall have any permanent place of residence or not is uncertain; but I do not see at present the absurdity of Congress sit ting at two or three places alternately. It would be attended with some inconveniences; but it might be attended with ballancing advantages. There has been much talk about the jurisdiction that Congress should exercise in the place or places where it may reside; but noth ing has been determined. 8 I don’t know that the assembly of the States, of the United Netherlands, or of the Swiss cantons, hath any ju risdiction over the towns where it resides. A peace or rather a military establishment hath been long on the tapis. I believe it will not be speedily agreed to. It involves an impor tant question, to wit, whether Congress are invested with power by the confoederation to erect a military establishment in a time of peace. Some hold the affirmative of this question, others on the same side fearful of confoederation ground pass over it and talk of certain im plied, inherent powers which they say reside in every supreme power. It may be necessary to maintain some temporary posts to secure the lands, become dependent on the States by the peace and by cessions of the States of N. York & Virginia, from intruders and to check the Indians, but from a standing army in time of peace Good Lord deliver us. Congress have accepted the cession of Virginia with some alter ations, which, it is imagined, will be acceded to. Presuming on this and on a purchase of the Indian right Congress have agreed to lay out


[Page 214]
178 December 3, 1783 nately be under the necessity of receiving it.” They advance each a month’s pay, and open a door for donations from others not of the Society, and for the charitable purpose of raising a fund as well as for the political one of engaging the leading men of each State in the in terests of the order, they have the following rule: “And as there will at all times be men in the respective States eminent for their abilities and patriotism, whose views may be directed to the same laudable ob jects with those of the Cincinnati; it shall be a rule to admit such char acters as honorary members of the Society for their own lives only: Provided that the number of the honorary members does not exceed a ratio of one to four of the officers and their descendents.” The quotations I have made are the words of the Genl. Association so that it seems to be the offspring of patriotism, friendship, and humanity. This account of the Cincinnati is taken from a peice signed Cassius and supposed to be written by Aidanus Burke Esqr. one of the chief justices of the State of So. Carolina, intitled “Considerations on the Society or Order of Cincinnati; lately instituted by the Major Generals, Brigadier-Generals, and other officers of the American Army. Proving that it creates a race of hereditary Patricians or Nobility. Interspersed with remarks on its consequences to the freedom and happiness of the Republic. Addressed to the People of South Carolina, and their Representatives.” 9 The motto is “blow ye the trumpet in Zion.” Cas sius is mistaken in calling Major General Baron Steuben President; Genl. Washington I am well informed is at the head of this Society, and therefore I have so far alterd his account. The President of this State John Dickinson Esqr. and the Super-intendant of finance are honorary members. This peice is keenly written, and I believe that the blast of Cassius’s trumpet will alarm the continent. 10 He says “it is in reality and will turn out to be an hereditary peerage; a nobility to them and their male issue, and in default thereof to the collateral branches: what the lawyers would call—A title of peerage of Cincinnati to them and their heirs male, remainder to their heirs general.” That “the order of Cincinnati usurp a nobility without gift or grant, in defiance of Congress and the States.” That “the order is self created and an infringement of the general law of the union.” That this order is planted in a fiery, hot am bition and thirst of power; and its branches will end in tyranny.” That “The Cincinnati will soon be corrupted and the spirit of the people depressed; for in less than a century it will occasion such an inequality in the condition of our inhabitants, that the country will be composed only of two ranks of men the patricians or nobles, and the rabble.” He says “I have the honour to tell Baron Steuben, that though an order of peerage may do very well under the petty princes of Germany; yet in America it is incompatible with our freedom; and instead of a bond of political union, it would on a future day prove a source of civil dissension


[Page 221]
December 7,1783 185 nor consider the Necessity of securing to Posterity the Blessings which are at their Disposal. There are several Weighty Reasons to support the late Decissions of Congress. It was necessary to accommodate the several Parts of the Continent, some of which were greatly agitated, & dissatisfied with the first Determination of Congress. It was necessary in Order to destroy Systems, which would finally have ended in abso lute Aristocracy—the Effects of which have been too apparent for sev eral Years past. It would not have been possible that Congress should ever have been a free & independent Body in the City of P a. Plans for absolute Government, for deceiving the lower Classes of Peo ple, for introducing undue Influence, for any Kind of Government, in which Democracy has the least possible Share, originate, are cher ished & disseminated from thence. With Respect to accommodating the several States in the Union, it is a Matter of absolute Necessity. The seven eastern States may, by the Iron Hand of voting, carry the Seat of Congress much more North ward than it really ought to be, & accommodate themselves very well. But it is unnatural to suppose that the Southern states would chear- fully submit to such a Decission; they openly declare that they cannot, and will not; and as a federal Town cannot be erected without their Concurrence; the final Event must have been, that Congress would have again fallen into the City of P a, & there remained, until the several States for Want of Confidence in them, should have voluntarily put an End to their Existence; which, without pretending to have the Gift of Prophesying, one might easily foresee would not be a very dis tant Period. As to the Matter of travelling one or two hundred Miles farther, it is of no Weight. The Climate has some. But if Congress can dispatch all their Business in the Fall & Winter, which they certainly may do in future, Our pointed Objection against a southern Climate will not exist at those Seasons of the Year. I am therefore fully of the Opinion that public Harmony & Concord are Objects of no small Consequence in the Union & that private Inconvenience ought always to give Way to them. That Systems of Intrigue & Influence have been laid, that they are too strongly rooted already, is but too well known to those who have had a Share in public Business for these several Years past. A Recital of the various Measures & Manoeuvres, that tend to corroborate the Opinion, would be too tedious for a Letter. I need only say, that the sensible Part of those who are deeply engaged in the intrigueing plans, are most violent against the Decission of Congress, respecting two Places of Residence, that they have ever since, had strongly marked in their Countenances, an evident Air of Dejection. Their un expected disappointment seems to have irritated them much, & we must be prepared to meet a Torrent of Abuse & many scurrilous Ob servations. The Prostitutes to Influence are capable frequently of mak-


[Page 222]
186 December 7, 1783 ing the wrong seem to be Right. But with a Jealous, well informed People, Truth will prevail; & there is little Danger of their condemn ing honest, well meant Endeavors to serve them. The System of Influence began, when the United States were re duced to the most deplorable Situation, on Account of their Finances; when the virtuous Spirit of the People began to Subside, & when among many an Indifference to the Cause began to be too manifest. At this fatal Moment the eagle eyed Politician of our great Ally, discov ered the absolute Importance of the Aid of his Master, & the critical Situation of the United States. It was then he ventured to propose that Congress should subject their Peace Commissioners to the absolute controul of a foreign Court. It was then found to be necessary to es tablish Ministers of State, a Financier, a Secretary at War, & a Secretary for foreign Affairs. It was necessary to place Congress in a Situation before the Close of the War that the Members of that Body, excepting a chosen few, should know little or nothing of the Negociations abroad. It was necessary to create an Office of foreign Affairs, & that the Chevalier & his Secretary should be the Persons behind the Scene to manage & direct all the Measures there of. In the Beginning of the year 1781 Congress found themselves extremely embarass’d—they had no money, nor any Credit—the southern States were some of them abandonned to, & others of them overrun by the Enemy. The Delegates from those States found it impractible for the eastern States to afford them much Assistance; & some from Despair of other Means, & others probably from less virtuous Motives, agreed to give up the united States to foreign Power, perswading themselves & en deavoring to perswade others, that disinterested Benevolence alone, was the Principle from which that Court always acted. All homage was due & it became Treason to speak, think or even look, as if one sup- pos d it possible that she should do us an Injury, or act from inter ested Motives. The Weakness & the Wickedness of the southern States placed the united States in a most humiliating Situation, opend the Door of Intrigue, which has been disclosing more & more every year Since. I have no Doubt their Object was to [...] their own Country; & for this Purpose, they became humble devoted Worshippers of the golden Image—And every Person that did not flatter, & dance Atten dance as much as they, was immediately [set] down as having a con tracted, illiberal Mind. Attention and a smile elated the one Party, whilst a cold formal Reception & often a pointed Neglect, markd evidently the point of Light In which the other was viewed. In this Situation was Congress, when the great Officers of State commenced. The Financier & Secretary for foreign Affairs 1 were ad mirably well adapted to support, and not only so, but to become the principal Engines of Intrigue. The first mentioned Officer, is a Man of inflexible Perseverance. He Judges well in almost all Money Matters;


[Page 223]
December 7, 1783 187 and mercantile Transactions. He well knows what is necessary to sup port public Credit. But never thinks it necessary to secure the Confi dence of the People, by making Measures palatable to them. A Man destitute of every Kind of theoretic Knowledge; but from extensive mercantile Negociations, he is a good practical Merchant; more than this cannot be said with Justice. He Judges generally for himself; and acts with great Decision. He has many excellent Qualities for a Fi nancier, which however do not comport so well with Republicanism, as Monarchy. Ambitious of becoming the first Man in the united States, he was not so delicate in the Choice of Means, and Men for his Purpose, as is indispensably necessary in a free Government. The good Ally of the united States could assist him in Money, & he was heartily dispos’d to make her very grateful Returns. The United States abound with Men absolutely devoted. With such a Financier and with such Materials, it is easy to conceive what an amazing Power he would soon acquire. He stood in need of foreign Support, & they stood in need of him; thus far the political Machinery was in Unison, and re publicanism grated harsh Discords. The Secretary for foreign Affairs was a Man of more acquired Knowledge, and less natural Ability. A Person as completely devoted to promote all the Views and Wishes of our good Ally, as his Minister and Secretary could possibly be. His Office was misterious, & secret to all those, who ought to have a perfect Knowledge of all it contain’d. It was undoubtedly public to all those, to whom it ought to have been a profound Secret. Two foreigners were private Secretaries in that Of fice; one of which it is probable was (a Disciple of the Sarbonne) educated a Jesuit, the other had been a french Priest. 2 With this Arrangement, it is impossible to suppose that any Thing of Importance, would not be communicated immediately to such as the Interest of the united States required, should not know it. More real Injury resulted from this Arrangement, than could possibly have done, if there had been no Office and no pretended Secrets. It was a Snare to our faithful for eign Ministers, and a secure Asylum, to such as were dispos’d to pros trate the Honor & Dignity of the United States, before the polluted Shrine of Monarchy. In this Situation it was impossible to support an honest Man; All our foreign Ministers, excepting one, have felt very severely the Effects of this unaccountable System. It is strange that so many, who seem to be republicans, were so easily drawn into the Snare, and that they either could not, or would not see, that it was giv ing up at once, all the Priviledges for the Preservation of which we had freely lavish’d our Blood & Treasure. It was fortunate for the United States, that the Secretary at War, 3 was a true Republican, and totally oppos’d to Intrigue & aristocratical Measures—had Genl. Schuyler, who nearly carried the Choice, been plac’d in that Office, It is a great Question in my Mind, whether it


[Page 224]
188 December 7, 1783 would have been practicable for Congress, to have disbanded their Army. The Financier only wanted a Person in that Office who would go any Lengths with him: a Number of Officers as well as Citizens were ripe for the Measure. It had undoubtedly been deliberately di gested—And the Finance Office was probably the Center of Motion. I am well informed that an Attempt was made to draw in the late Secre tary at War—But he checkd it with a Firmness, that will always do him Honor. Such a Triumvirate, would have been too powerful for the United States; and Heaven only knows what Kind of a Form our federal Government would have assum’d. The present, by that Party, is held in the utmost Detestation, & they will persevere inflexibly in their Attempts for any Alteration, by Intrigue, & by open Force, when Matters are matured, & promise more Success, than at present. These Plans, in which our good Allies, were undoubtedly more than idle Spectators, originated in the Beginning of the year 1781 & oper ated fully before the End of the Year. Having given you a general View of the prevailing politics of Congress at that Time, I hope it will not be altogether useless to com municate to you, as far as my Memory serves me, The Reasons that were urged in Support of several important Decisions of Congress re specting our foreign Ministers. The first took Place in June 1781 a few Days before I Join d that Body. It respected your Commission for Peace. 4 The Business was all matured before I arrived, therefore I am not well able to say, what suggested to Congress the Idea of an Alter ation. However I had not to look any farther, to satisfy myself, after I had perused the several Letters that pass’d between you & the C. de v s respecting the Resolutions of Congress of the 18th of March 1780; & also the Publication of your Commission, for a commercial Treaty with great Britain. That you might be restricted as to the free exercise of your own Judgment; If Nature had not made you servile & submissive, it was expedient that you should [be] (made so it possible) pointedly instructed. I find by the secret Journals, that after New In structions were made out for you alone, before the final Completion, the Report was recommitted, with Directions to the Committee to confer with the Chevalier. I find the Committee reported to Congress several Amendments propos’d by him, the most material of which was “and you are ultimately to govern yourself by the Advice of the Minis ter of his most Christian Majesty,” &ca. The Amendments were all said to be carried in the affirmative; the yeas & nays on the above Clause, shew that there were but Eight States in Favor of it. And it has always been a Question whether the Instructions were valid, as nine States never agreed to them and the Confederation requires the Assent of nine States, on all Questions relating to Treaties. But it was not suffi cient to let it rest here; A Treaty of Peace was a very important Matter to the united States; too much so, to be committed to any Individual. Two great Objects in that Treaty, would be, the Fishery & western Ter-


[Page 229]
December 7, 1783 193 It was concluded by some in Congress from a Passage or two in Mr. Laurens’s Letter to them, after he first met you in Holland, that he was not well pleased with the Reception you gave him—or that you did not properly Estimate the Value of his Services, in not accepting of his Assistance in negociating a Loan. 10 I beleive some wish’d at that Time to make a Difference between you, if possible; & the sys tematical Junto were capable of framing here, & disseminating there, (& vice versa) what they pleas’d. If I remember rightly the Passages hinted at, were not of much Consequence, & did not seem to be dic tated by Disappointment. You will pardon me in candidly mentioning to you the Effects of your long Journal, forwarded after the signing of the provisional Treaty. It was read by the Secretary in Congress. It was too minute for the Delicacy of several of the Gentlemen. They appeared very much disposed to make it appear as ridiculous as possible; 11 several ungen erous Remarks were made upon it, as being unfit to be read in Congress, & not worth the Time expended in reading it. The Day after it was read, the Delegates of Masstts. found on the Table of Congress your Letter addressd to J. Jackson or the Delegates. 12 A Pas sage in that Letter led them to conclude that your Journal was not in tended for Congress, as you mention that you had enclosed for his Pe rusal a Journal; and there was none enclosed. They therefore agreed to move that the Journal might be delivered to them. This Motion soon found Opponents. It was then said that it contained Matters of great Importance, which you had not mentioned in your other Let ters, but we examined your other Letters, & found all the great Mat ters touch’d upon, & the smaller ones omitted. The Secretary for for eign Affairs, was sent for to know whether it came address’d to him; he produced three several Covers with your Seal, all directed to him, and the foldings corresponded to those of the Journal: after this, we let the Matter subside, as we found we should loose the Question; & also, that a Number of the Members were convinced, that there was some Mistake: nothing was said against it afterwards. Whatever your Intentions were respecting your Journal, it was necessary for us to take the Measure we did; and it had a very happy Effect. By a Letter lately received from Mr. D it is probable he has left the C 1 of St. P sometime since. 13 If my Memory would serve me at this distant Day, to relate the various Manoeuvres with Respect to him, it might serve to show how compleatly the System has oper ated here, as well as in Europe. Mr. Dana’s Character was fix’d as an Antigallican, from the first Let ter he wrote to Congress from St. P , after he had conferd with the french Minister at that Court. He wrote as an independent Man ought to. He gave his Sentiments freely upon the politicks of France. This


[Page 230]
194 December 7, 1783 Mode of thinking, however well founded, was very unpalatable to Congress in general. At that Time he ought not to have committed his own Tho’ts to Paper—much less ought he to have wrote so freely against Gallican Measures without Cyphers. As Congress never re ceived but One Copy which was either the Duplicate, or triplicate, the others must have fallen into Hands of our Ally, And consequently in jure us extremely. The frequent Instances of her Generosity forbids every illiberal Sentiment. It indicates a little, contracted & Jealous Mind which would enter into the Minutae of their Politicks, & take every Opportunity to make unfavourable Inferences from mere Ap pearances only. This seem’d to be the Light in which this Letter was viewed. It was necessary therefore to point out to Mr. D the Line of Conduct which he ought to pursue: to let him know that Congress would not listen to any In sinuations against our great & good Ally, and to damp that Ardor which he seem’d to discover, for displaying his Ministerial Commission. A Lengthy Report was consequently made upon his Letter; the Work of John Morin Scott, in which Mr. D ’s Conduct was criti cized upon unreasonably—and set in a very unfavourable point of Light. This Report could not obtain the Sanction of Congress; It was therefore referred to the Secretary for foreign Affairs, for a new Draught, which was not much less severe. It was agreed that both Draughts should be postponed, and a short Resolution was proposed, and adopted. I mention this Circumstance, because I am informed, that previous to the sending forward the Resolution, Mr. R. R. L n forwarded one of those unauthentic Draughts; which, if true, was an unpardonable Piece of Cunning in him—for there was a Debate in Congress how those Drafts should be disposed of; & it was the Sense of Congress, that they should die. That Mr. L n was capable of this, is but too evident, from many Specimens of his Disposition to In trigue. Ever afterwards, the Systematical Junto, levelled their enven omed Shafts against him, Mr. D, & however important it might be to the united States, to have a Treaty with the Empress, they preferred the Sacrifice of that Advantage, rather than that Mr. D. should have the Honor of negociating that Treaty. 14 So strong has the Current been in favor of Gallican Politicks, that I am perswaded the Party here, were mortified at your Success with the united Netherlands, & were very content with the Ill Success of Mr. Jay as well as Mr. D. It was long since evident that Mr. J and Mr. Carmichael did not agree entirely. But before it had fully opened—there was an Attempt made in Congress, to transfer Mr. C- to the Minister at Verseilles. The Motion set forth, that his Services were no longer necessary at the Court of Madrid, and that a Secretary was necessary to the Com mission at Verseilles, that Mr. Carmichael be accordingly appointed to the said Commission, or to this Purport. It is not the Usage to make


[Page 231]
December 7, 1783 195 such Appointments without a Nomination & Ballot. It was therefore objected to. The Question was divided, & agreed to, that Mr. C ’s Services were not necessary at the Court of Madrid. The Party who made the Motion were very much perplexed how to vote—for if they should agree to it & then not obtain the Transfer, they would defeat themselves. This really happened, near two years ago, & they have been very content to let Mr. C continue from that time to this. 15 The Marquis LaFayette has zealously interested himself in all our important Matters. He assumes the Language of a true born Ameri can, & is a very popular Character in the Country. But if I Mistake not he is deeply immersed in European Politicks, which are the worst that can possibly exist for America. When he last left this Country he went with an evident Design to assist our Commrs. in negociating the Peace. It was pretty plainly intimated that he wish’d to be one of the Number. Had he been added to them, it would not have been more extraordinary, than some other Matters that have taken Place. An In struction however to you, to consult and advice with him, was car ried. 16 I do not apprehend you were much the wiser for the Informa tion you might have obtain’d from that Quarter. Few Americans are worthy to be trusted in some of the most important concerns of the United States—& not a single Foreigner. Doctor Franklin has long been urging Congress to make his Grand son a Minister; his last Letter presses them on this Subject & is accom panied with a particular Request purporting to be from the Minister of Sweden. 17 Nothing is to be feared from these Instances—for I am sure at present, that Congress will not make him a Minister; & I hope the Period never will arrive. It is said he has served an Apprenticeship; But with such a Master, & such Examples, he must be tenfold the worse for it. The little Conversation I had with Mr. Thaxter led me to this narra tive. I wish I had Time to arrange it better & not only so, but to exam ine our foreign Papers, from which, I doubt not that I could make many Extracts that would be worthy of communicating. You will I think be convinced that french Politicks have a great As cendency among us. They have taken very deep Root. May Heaven fi nally extricate us from all foreign Intrigues. RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). In Osgood’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed by John Adams: “reed 5 April.” 1 That is, Robert Morris and Robert R. Livingston. 2 The references are to Pierre-Etienne Du Ponceau, under secretary for foreign af fairs, and the Rev. John P. Tetard, for whom see these Letters, 9:367n, 18:153; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:100-101; and JCC, 24:347. 9 That is, Gen. Benjamin Lincoln of Massachusetts. 4 See these Letters, 17:302, 310, 320, 339-40. 5 John Thaxter, Adams’ secretary. 6 See these Letters, 19:114-17.


[Page 238]
202 December 16, 1783 we could be brought to act as one united nation she would make ex tensive concessions, but under present appearances she has no in ducement to this as she is not afraid of retaliation: and conclude by observing that if in our commercial system we do not act collectedly ‘we shall soon find ourselves in the situation in which all Europe wishes to see us, viz. as unimportant consumers of her manufactures and productions, and [as] useful labourers to furnish her with raw materials.’ We have no certain prospect of nine states in Congress and cannot ratify the treaty with fewer. Yet the ratifications are to be ex changed by the 3d of March. We have received a copy of the Dutch preliminaries. G.B. keeps Na- gapatnam, and restores all other places taken. The Dutch are still to pay them the usual salute at sea. There being at present nothing else worthy a communication to you, I subscribe myself with great esteem Dr. Sir Your friend & servt., Th. Jefferson RC (NN); reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:385-87. 1 Not found. 2 That is, on Saturday, December 13. See JCC, 25:809-10. s These documents had arrived December 4 and were read on the 13th, for which see Hugh Williamson to William Blount, December 5, note 1. They were referred to a com mittee chaired by Jefferson that was ordered “To prepare a form of ratification” for the treaty. The committee’s report, read and entered this day, was finally agreed to in al tered form onjanuary 14, 1784. See JCC, 26:22-23, 29-31; PCC, item 29, fols. 315-21; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:384-85, 462-65. See also William Ellery to Benjamin Huntington, December 19, note 3. 4 A copy of David Hartley’s June 1 memorial responding to the American commis sioner’s proposal “for a universal and unlimited reciprocity of intercourse and com merce” between the United States and Great Britain is in the Jefferson Papers, DLC, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:465—69. James Monroe to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir. Annapolis, December 16th, 1783. I am particularly happy to hear by your brother, that you have al most recovered from the indisposition, with which you have been lately afflicted: an event I must consider fortunate to the state and your family, for I flatter myself, when perfectly restored, you will not withdraw yourself from the public service. It must be hoped that those measures, which have hitherto, will not always, prevail; as to establish in our public councils, a greater regard for public faith, and in private life, for morality, your exertions joined with those of some worthy men, must certainly be more successful. I am called on a theatre to which I am a perfect stranger. 1 There are before us some questions of the utmost consequence that can arise in the councils of any nation: the peace establishment; the regulation of our commerce, and the ar-


[Page 243]
December 17, 1783 207 for treaties of commerce have come to Dr. Franklin from several Euro pean courts, and others are ready to treat. Denmark, Portugal, Sar dinia, the Emperor of Morocco have made overtures. The last is so well disposed that he has issued orders to his armed vessels to molest no American, and has sent a person to Paris to attend any person del egated from us to his court. Great Britain will send no minister to America till she receives one from thence. The Emperor of Germany cannot from the custom of his court. Our Minister Mr. Dana is on the return from Petersburg: nothing being done there, tho’ probably their dispositions were become favourable at the time it was thought necessary by his recall to shew we should no longer be supplicants any where. It is to be noted that the observation of our ministers in the in closed extract ‘that the present aspect of our affairs has somewhat abated the ardor of the European nations to form connections with us’ is posterior in time to the state given above. I recollect nothing im portant enough to be added to this sketch of our affairs in Europe and of those of Europe itself. The former method of correspondence by joint letters from the delegates to the Executive has been liable to some difficulties. The same object does not always make the same impression on different eyes. Of consequence it might happen that by pursuing the method of joint representation, much must be kept back because all had not formed the same ideas of it. Being sensible that frequent and full communications are for the public good, we have agreed to adopt the following plan of official correspondency with your Excellency if it shall meet with your approbation. Resolutions of Congress and other solemn things which call for authentic notification we will communi cate jointly. But all other matters which admit differences of opinion we propose shall be communicated weekly by some one gentleman of the delegation, having previously shewn his letter to his collegues. If they think he has omitted any thing or represented it differently from their own view of it, they reserve a private and separate right of writ ing to your Excellency their separate sentiments. In this way we think you will receive fuller informations and that you may judge for your self where you find a difference of opinion. The duty of correspon dence is made mine for the present month, and will be taken up by my collegues successively in the order of their nomination, each exer cising it a month. 5 I have the honour to be with sentiments of the most profound es teem & respect Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble servt. Th. Jefferson RC (PHi); reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:388-90. 1 Not found. 2 See Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton, December 16, note 3; and William Ellery to Benjamin Huntington, December 19, notes 3 and 4. 3 Not found, but for speculation on what the extract might have contained, see Jeffer son, Papers (Boyd), 6:390n.


[Page 246]
210 December 18,1783 worse, the better.” To what a despera[te ...] our affairs may be worked up—and how [many?] more mouths are to be opend in favor of 5 [...] by such an universal obstruction of p[...] where, in many cases it might be done, [ti]me only can discover. To use the phrase of the gentlemen of the turf, I look on the contest betwixt us 8c the Continen- talists to be now purely a trial of our wind—on the ground of argument they have confessedly no advantage. By the enclosed copy of a certificate you will see what Maryland has been doing in favor of the Holders of L.O. certificates. 3 I am told large Sums have been taken into their treasury. Would it not be better for us to adopt a similar mode—and to put on a heavier impost, with an excise on the back of it, to pay the intrest, which should annually arise to our own citizens, 8c trust the Union for compensation, than to think of giving Congress a revenue, to be at their disposal? With sincere esteeme, I am, 8cc. D. Howell RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). 1 Paul Allen was a deputy for Providence in the Rhode Island Assembly. Bartlett, Records ofR.I., 9:122, 392, 688. 2 Although clearly dated September, it is evident from Howell’s first two sentences that this letter was written in December. 3 Enclosure not identified, but for a discussion of Maryland’s action in behalf of Maryland loan office certificate holders, see E. James Ferguson, “State Assumption of the Federal Debt during the Confederation,” Mississippi Valley Historical Review 28 (1951): 417. For the act authorizing this relief for such Maryland certificate owners, see Laws of Maryland, Made since M,DCC,LXIII.. .. (Annapolis: Frederick Greene, 1787), 1782. Chap. XXV. Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Annapolis 18th December 1783. I wrote your Excellency, in great haste, a Letter by last Post, 1 requesting the favor of you to hurry Colo. Bedford down. I now, at more leisure, take the liberty of troubling you again. There has been very little business done in Congress since they met here. The time has been chiefly spent in reading dispatches, Memorials &ca. There have been many Letters received from our Ministers abroad, particularly Mr. Adams, 2 who appears to be a Man of great in dustry, and desirous of promoting the welfare of his Country. He men tions a conversation which he had with the Prince Stadtholder who finds fault with Congress for not sending ambassadors rather than Min isters to the Courts of Europe, and thinks we ought to assert our right, lest hereafter it may be disputed. He also communicates the substance of a conversation between him and the Sardinian Minister, who is of opinion that it would be respectful, and have a good effect, if


[Page 247]
December 18, 1783 211 Congress were to send Circular Letters to all the Powers of Europe, in forming them of our independence. That such Letters would have fa vorable answers. Mr. Adams is of opinion that a connexion with Ger many would have a tendency to make us appear more respectable in the eyes of the other powers; but above all recommends that our Citi zens should be inspired with proper ideas of their own importance and independence. He informs us that a Treaty between the Emperor of Germany and the Empress of Russia, offensive against the Porte, and defensive against all Christian Powers, had been concluded. That this embarrasses the French Ministry, as it was a very serious question whether or not they should involve themselves in a war with two Chris tian Powers in behalf of the Turks. The Emperor & Empress sent a Courier to inform the King of Prussia of their Treaty. His answer was, that he received the information with that sensibility which matters of such high importance meritted. Dr. Franklin mentions that Mr. Montgomery, of Alicant, had entered into a Negotiation with the Emperor of Morocco. That the Emperor was inclined to Treat with us, and that a Person was then in Spain on his way to Paris for that purpose. That in the meantime the Emperor had given orders to his Cruizers not to molest our ships on the open sea. That Portugal, as well as the other Powers, hesitated about Treat ing, and assigns as a reason the unsetded state of our Government, of which the removal of Congress from Philadelphia afforded an in stance. The Pope’s Nuncio had sent him a note, of which he inclosed a copy, mentioning Civitta Vecchia, and another Port where we might carry on a beneficial Trade; and requesting leave of Congress, for his Holiness the Pope to send over an Ecclesiastical officer by the name of a Bishop or Prefect, tho’ the former would be preferred, in order that the People of the Catholic Faith, residing here, might have the benefit of Orders and Confirmation without going to a foreign State. 3 That formerly they depended on such an officer residing in London; but the seperation of the two Countries seemed to make a new arrange ment necessary. He also inclosed a copy of a Letter which he received from the Grand Master of the order of St.John of Jerusalem (to whom he had sent one of his Medals) expressing great affection for the United States of America, and the pleasure it would give him to see the ships of this Country at the island of Malta. Mr. Laurens, at London, forwarded Bridgen’s and Walter’s second proposition for furnishing the United States with Copper Coin at 14/8d per lb.4 Mr. Dana, at Petersburg, communicated an Account of the Treaty of Germany & Russia, and mentioned his opinion that France & Prussia were interested in preventing the aggrandizement of the House of Austria—acknowledged the Receipt of his Letters of recall, and was of opinion that an advantageous Treaty with Russia might now be made.


[Page 250]
214 December 19, 1783 recollect. If it and the remission of the letters directed to you should give you any satisfaction you are kindly welcome. Present my regards to your wife and children, to Judge Huntington, his wife and, I wish I could add, their children, and let Squire B-n know that I am his friend & servant. W. Ellery FC (R-Ar: Ellery Letters). In the hand of William Ellery. 1 Not identified. 2 That is, Connecticut. 3 A letter from the American ministers of September 10 had been referred on De cember 13 to a committee consisting of Ellery, Elbridge Gerry, Benjamin Hawkins, Thomas Jefferson (chairman), and Jacob Read. The same day a number of other letters from John Adams, Francis Dana, Benjamin Franklin, and Henry Laurens were also re ferred to a second committee chaired by Jefferson and including Gerry and Hugh Williamson. PCC, item 186, fol. 136. These consisted of letters from Adams dated May 24, July 23, 25, 28, 28, 30, 31, August 1, 2, 3, 10, 13, 13, 13, 15, September 1, 5, 8, 8, 10, 13; from Franklin of August 31, and September 13, 14, and 27; and from Laurens of Au gust 9, 9, 9, and September 11, 1783. See PCC, item 82, 3:73-88, 215-22, item 84, 4:359-88, 5:17-101, 141-201, item 89, fols. 321-29, 337-40, item 185, 3:87-89; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:591ff. For the work of these committees, see Jef ferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:384-85, 393-402, 462-65. 4 Letters recently received from Francis Dana ofjuly 16 and 28 Old Style (July 27 and August 8, 1783), are in PCC, item 89, fols. 801-8; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:597-98, 636-37. In addition to Dana’s letters and those listed in the preceding note, dispatches read in Congress at this time also included letters of April 23, May 8, July 22, 29, and August 19, from C. W. F. Dumas at the Hague, and ofjuly 20 and September 14, 1783, from Thomas Barclay at “Auteuil near Passy.” Dumas’ letters of April 23 and May 8 are in PCC, item 93, 2:315-23. The others are missing from PCC, but Dumas’ file copies of these are in the Dumas Collection, Inventaire I, fols. 559-60, 562, 566-67, Algemeen Rijksarchief, The Hague, DLC microfilm. Barclay’s letters are in PCC, item 91, fols. 39-42, item 137, appendix, fols. 309-12. Samuel Osgood to John Avery Sir Annapolis Decemr. 19th. 1783 As it will be very inconvenient for me to continue in Congress after the Month of February next I propose returning Home on or about the 20th thereof; 1 & sooner if any of the Delegates now in the Com monwealth shall arrive before that Time. I must beg you to make such Communication of my Determination as may be expedient for the Interest of the Commonwealth. I am, Sir, [...], Samuel Osgood RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: ‘John Avery Esqr., Secretary of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, Boston.” 1 Nevertheless Osgood remained in Congress until March 1 when the committee on qualifications reported that he was no longer eligible to sit in Congress under the three


[Page 257]
December 23, 1783 221 4 That is, Henry Harford (1758-1834), the illegitimate son and heir of Frederick Calvert, the 6th Earl of Baltimore, who had died in 1771. Harford and Eden had ar rived in Maryland in August to recover their confiscated estates. See Bio. Diet, of Md. Lefs., 1:411-12; and Vera Foster Rollo, The Proprietorship of Maryland (Lanham, Md.: Maryland Historical Press, 1989), pp. 45, 129-35, 245—69. James McHenry to Margaret Caldwell [December 23, 1783] 1 Had I been obliged to count the sands as they fall from an hour glass, since last Friday, I could not have done it with more exactness than I have counted the minutes of each day. It is, my dear Peggy, im possible for me to tell or you to feel the solicitudes and suspenses I have experienced. I am now become reasonable and do not think you are sick: but this does not relieve me. I do not think you have ne glected me; but this does not place me at rest. I suppose that some suf ficient cause must have intervened to prevent me getting your letter, as clouds intervene and prevent the sight of the sun. But I will say no more on this subject, for I do not wish to communicate any distress this incident has caused me to my affectionate Peggy. To day my love the General at a public audience made a deposit of his commission and in a very pathetic manner took leave of Congress. It was a solemn and affecting spectacle; such an one as history does not present. The spectators all wept, and there was hardly a member of Congress who did not drop tears. The General’s hand which held the address shook as he read it. When he spoke of the officers who had composed his family, and recommended those who had contin ued in it to the present moment to the favorable notice of Congress he was obliged to support the paper with both hands. But when he commended the interests of his dearest country to almighty God, and those who had the superintendence of them to his holy keeping, his voice faultered and sunk, and the whole house felt his agitations. After the pause which was necessary for him to recover himself, he pro ceeded to say in the most penetrating manner, ‘Having now finished the work assigned me I retire from the great theatre of action, and bidding an affectionate farewell to this august body under whose or ders I have so long acted I here offer my commission and take my leave of all the employments of public life.’ So saying he drew out from his bosom his commission and delivered it up to the president of Congress. He then returned to his station, when the president read the reply that had been prepared—but I thought without any shew of feeling, tho’ with much dignity. This is only a sketch of the scene. But, were I to write you a long let ter I could not convey to you the whole. So many circumstances


[Page 258]
222 December 23, 1783 crowded into view and gave rise to so many affecting emotions. The events of the revolution just accomplished—the new situation into which it had thrown the affairs of the world—the great man who had borne so conspicuous a figure in it, in the act of relinquishing all pub lic employments to return to private life—the past—the present—the future—the manner—the occasion—all conspired to render it a spec tacle inexpressibly solemn and affecting. But I have written enough. Good night my love, my amiable friend good night. 2 MS not found; reprinted from Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 69-70. 1 Although not dated by Steiner, this letter was obviously written after this day’s “pub lic audience” for General Washington, for which see JCC, 25:837-39. 2 On December 26 McHenry wrote his final letter to Peggy before leaving for Balti more and then Philadelphia where they were married on January 8, 1784. “Thank for tune my dearest friend that our session of assembly is at last finished; and that there is one reason less for my remaining much longer in this place.... I go to dine at the presi dent of Congress’s.... I can only be detained now by the definitive treaty. I shall how ever leave this in the hands of my colleagues, and leave this the beginning of next week.” Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 70-71, 75. When McHenry submitted his account to the state of Maryland the following year, he claimed “attendance in Congress in the year 1783 from the 11th June inclusive to 26 Deer, inclusive 199 days and 8 days itinerant charges @ 40/ per day, 414.0.0.” He re turned to Congress again March 27, 1784. James McHenry Account, MdAA. See also McHenry to William Paca, March 15, 1784. Thomas Mifflin to Certain States $ lr Annapolis December 23rd. 1783. I am directed by Congress to inform your Excellency “That the Safety, honor & good faith of the United States require the immediate attendance of your delegates in Congress. That there have not been during the sitting of the Congress at this place more than seven States represented viz. Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia & North Carolina, and most of these by two dele gates only, and that the ratification of the definitive Treaty and several other matters of great national concern are now pending before Congress which require the utmost dispatch and to which the assent of at least nine States is necessary.” 1 I have the honor to be with the highest respect Your Excellency’s obedt. humble Servt. Thomas Mifflin LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hamp shire. NB. A similar letter was written to their Excellencies The Governors of Connecti cut, New York, New Jersey, South Carolina & Georgia.” 1 See JCC, 25:836-37. Mifflin also repeated this exhortation on December 26 when he sent another copy of this “Act" to the same states under cover of the following brief ex-


[Page 259]
December 24, 1783 223 planation: “I have the honor to enclose to your Excellency an Act of Congress of the 23d Instant referred to in my letter of the same date.” PCC, item 16, fol. 279. Thomas Mifflin to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis Decem. 23rd. 1783. I have the honor to inform you, that this day at twelve o’ Clock, His Excellency General Washington had a public audience of Congress, resigned his commission and took his leave of all the employments of public life. The General’s address & the answer of Congress I enclose for the Satisfaction of your Excellency & the Honorable Council. 1 The delegates of Pennsylvania will write to your Excellency by the next post & give you a detail of the business which has been acted upon in Congress since their arrival here. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s & Council’s obedt. Servt. Thomas Mifflin RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 See JCC, 25:837-39. Mifflin also sent copies of this enclosure with similar brief let ters of December 24 to the Dutch minister Pieter Johan van Berckel and to the French minister the chevalier de La Luzerne. PCC, item 16, fol. 278. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel R. Gerry DearComr Annapolis 24th Deer. [17]83. I have only a Moment to inform You that I have received your Favour of the 8th with the Inclosures, & am obliged to you for your punctuality in those Matters—they require no answer. Give me leave confidentially to inform You, that on my Journey from Philadelphia to this City, I saw an Annapolis paper in which a Master of a Vessel, who sailed to Nova Scotia in a Vessel belonging to Colonel Johonnot, and a Frenchman named Brutie, (who is said to be the Son of the Merchant that entrusted Colo Johonnot in France & shut him up at Baltimore) declares, that he (the Master of the Schooner) sailed with Colo Johonnot & Brutie on board for Nova Sco tia; that they proposed on the passage to cruise as pirates; that he re jected the proposal; that when they arrived at some port in Nova Sco tia, he was dismissed from the Vessel, & she sailed with Colo Johonnot & Brutie, & the rest of the Crew, on board, to cruise as pirates. These are the Circumstances in the publication as recollected by me, but as I read the paper only once, I am not certain of all the Facts. If I can ob tain the paper, I will inclose it, & request you to make this


[Page 261]
December 24, 1783 225 A second Letter of remonstrance to the delinquent States on this head was ordered yesterday. 3 A full representation would enable us to close the most material public business in two or three months, & have a recess. This I had proposed & written to some of my friends before I heard that it was the wish of the State. It would lessen the public expence—shew the people that Congress do not intend to be come a permanent body—And Delegates would attend more punctu ally at such short terms & the public business would be done with more dispatch. You must have heard that N. Hampshire has ordered their citizens to receive certificates for one years intrest due on L.O. certificates, which are to be taken in payment of the tax on the requisition of Sept. 4, 1782. 4 The power of the particular States to take such a measure without further order from Congress is not contested even by those who oppose the measure. I have wished that Congress would point out the mode—but the opposition against making any further advances in that way and the delay unavoidable in the case will perhaps justify, as you observe— “The States interfering in the business” It is cruelty in the extreme thus to delay doing justice, where it is practicable, in order to work up & thicken the Storm. I am sorry that we do not better coincide in opinion on the Subject of federal Towns. I shall reserve a more full discussion of this point to a personal interview, & only submit to you for the present, whether it was not better to adopt the measures we did than to have returned to Philadelphia—in which case, in all human probability, that would have been the place of our permanent residence? Nothing but drawn Bayonetts ever did drive Congress out of Philadelphia and there ap peared to me no sufficient reason to believe that any thing else ever would. A plan is now laid, if honestly pursued, to keep them out of any large city forever—And if that point is carried, it is of little conse quence in my view where they sit, or whether they have any federal Town—provided they have suitable accommodations. A perambula- tory Congress favors republicanism—a permanent one tends to inve torate power—Aristocracy—and Monarchy. I was greatly alarmed on hearing that Massachusetts had adopted the Impost. 5 I cannot yet learn what those saving clauses are. I perfectly agree with you that funds must be provided—but as you rightly ob serve in a constitutional way. I consider the Western Country as an im portant fund & hope that it will prove, in addition to State Imposts, State excises, & common taxation, a sufficient fund to secure the final payment of the national debt. At 1/8 Dollar per Acre it would extin guish a Debt of forty millions of Dollars. I hear of little being said or done about a Continental Impost to the Southward; I fear that Virginia will finally adopt it. 6 She is now in a


[Page 262]
226 December 24, 1783 good humor with Congress on account of our vote for a second federal Town on her Confines & accepting her cession on terms so advantageous to her. You very justly reprobate the dilatory & ineffectual mode of settling the public accounts. The Genl. Assembly of Pennsylvania has remon strated to Congress on this Subject, and reprehend some of the In structions given to the commissioners—particularly that which directs them to reexamine all certificates issued by our Quarter Masters, Commissaries, &c. They say in fine that it is their expectation that the Commissioners be governed by resolves of Congress & not by direc tions from the Office of Finance. This has been referred to Mr. M. & he has returned us a long report justificative of his Conduct & ex planatory of the whole business according to his views of it. 7 Here again we cannot take a single step for want of nine States. In this affair the public suffers extremely—but it is said to be of no consequence ’till funds are provided, &c. You wish to hear that Congress at their new place of residence are “devested of all party & local attachments. ” I am happy to give you such information. In what little business has been done hear I have not been able to discover the least tincture of poisonous influence. The Members appear to aim at the public good without regarding the dictates of any of their Servants; and I have the pleasure [to] inform you that we have some very amiable characters here at present. It is said that Mr. M. proposes to pay us a visit of some length. He will perhaps Give his friends previous notice of his time & get a full House of them to urge on his old System & which he may honestly pursue yet; for I have no Idea that he proposes to relinquish either his system, or his office untill his intrest & that of his friends in the public debt shall be secured by Funds in the Hands of Congress. I wrote you my mind on this head in my last. You observe that you are full of goods & more coming. I should think the plenty would reduce the price; & that it must be our intrest to have foreign goods cheap in our Markets—And our goods dear in theirs. The prices of our products, I should think would be naturally raised by a competition of purchasers from all nations. The fear ex pressed by some people that foreigners will take our trade into their hands & be our carriers as well as our Merchants appears to my weak apprehension very ill founded. Nature protests against such violence. The British 8c other European nations will soon find the bad policy as well as the impracticability of carrying their arbitrary orders into ef fect & of continuing them so much against the natural course of things. We have a natural right to carry our own trade—and a natural right will create in the event, an intrest in our favor, which will secure to us the exercise of this right. The W.I. Planters are already clam orous. All Europe will at length find their intrest in the freedom of our trade, as they do in our Independence.


[Page 263]
December 24, 1783 227 I confess it was an unpardonable omission in my last Letter not to have informed you of what we had done about the State’s accounts in Philadelphia; but as we did not neglect to do the business, I hope no in jury will accrue to the State. Mr. Milligan, the Comptroller General of the Treasury, in whose keeping the accounts are, promissed to write to Mr. Chinn on the Subject & concert the measures necessary to be taken thereon & to see that they were carried into effect at the public charge. Whereupon we left the business in his hands—confiding that the intrest of the State will not suffer in any event. You hope “removing to the South will not make me forget my old friends to the north. ” The hint, Sir, is very natural & it gives me no small degree of pleasure to find that you have a desire to retain an intrest in my friendship. You have, Sir, as the poet says “charissima pignora mei” “the dearest pledges of myself” in Providence. 8 My dearest Love—and five sweet prattling babes you have my whole earthly intrest—And in your estimation of me rests all my expectations in life. Be assured, Sir, my obligations to my friends in Providence—to the Town & to the State are too deeply graved in a faithful breast to be erased by time or dis tance. Sorry I am to have the least occasion to call in question the sin cerity of any of my friends regard for me. I will not call it in question. I will rather conclude that they consider me in their pay; and that it is my duty to carry on both sides of the correspondence. Mr. Ellery thinks I have written as much as six Quires of paper. And I have not reed above a quarter of a Quire—excepting Mrs Howells Letters. We left Philadelphia on the 8th Instant, having stayed for the ar rival of Mr. Stelle, & came thro’ Baltimore where we attended divine service on the Continental Thanksgiving day and arrived here on the 12th. There had been no Congress, as we expected, before our arrival. Mr. Ellery & myself have taken lodgings at a Mr. Millards near the State House. We are well accommodated with large & elegant apart ments & sufficient fare—but our living will, on the whole, come dearer here than in Philadelphia. The City stands on rising ground & looks into the Bay by a most beautiful prospect. The Severn runs by it on the North West & an other river or creek on the other side—so that we appear to be almost surrounded by water. The Soil is Sandy—and the walking good (tho the Streets are not paved) at all Seasons. The Shores are steep & the banks Sand & gravel. There are no morasses, salt-meadows—or stag nant waters. I should estimate the Houses from 4 to 500—the Inhabi tants, perhaps as many thousand. The State House & the House as signed for the President are spacious & eligantly finished, far exceeding those buildings in Philadelphia—Houses in general in the city are very large & look like palaces, compared with the huts of the peasants in the Country you pass through. This City is the Resi dence of wealthy land holders from an extensive circle. This is their


[Page 268]
232 December 25, 1783 James Tilton to Gunning Bedford, Jr. Annapolis, Christmas Day, 1783. The General came to town last Friday, and announced his arrival, by a letter to congress, requesting to know, in what manner they chused he should resign his authority; whether by private letter or public audience? The latter was preferred without hesitation. Some etiquette being settled on Saturday, a public dinner was ordered on Monday and the audience to be on Tuesday. The feast on Monday was the most extraordinary I ever attended. Between 2 and 3 hundred Gentn: dined together in the ball-room. The number of cheerful voices, with the clangor of knives and forks made a din of a very ex traordinary nature and most delightful influence. Every man seemed to be in heaven or so absored in the pleasures of imagination, as to neglect the more sordid appetites, for not a soul got drunk, though there was wine in plenty and the usual number of 13 toasts drank, be sides one given afterwards by the General which you ought to be ac quainted with: it is as follows. ‘Competent powers to congress for gen eral purposes.’ In the evening of the same day, the Governor gave a ball at the State House. 1 To light the rooms every window was illuminated. Here the company was equally numerous, and more brilliant, consisting of ladies and Gentn: Such was my villanous awkwardness, that I could not venture to dance on this occasion, you must therefore annex to it a cleverer Idea, than is to be expected from such a mortified whelp as I am. The General danced every set, that all the ladies might have the pleasure of dancing with him, or as it has since been handsomely ex pressed, get a touch of him. Tuesday morning, Congress met, and took their seats in order, all covered. 2 At twelve o’clock the General was introduced by the Secre tary, and seated opposite to the president, until the throng, that filled all the avenues, were so disposed of as to behold the solemnity. The ladies occupied the gallery, as full as it would hold, the Gentn. crouded below stairs. Silence ordered, by the Secretary, the Genl, rose & bowed to congress, who uncovered but did not bow. He then delivered his speech, and at the close of it, drew his commission from his bosom & handed it to the president. The president replied in a set speech, the General bowed again to Congress, they uncovered & the General retired. After a little pause, the company withdrew, Congress adjourned. The General then steped into the room again, bid every member farewell and rode off from the door intent upon eating his Christmas dinner at home. Many of the spectators particu larly the fair ones shed tears, on this solemn & affecting occasion. Sir


[Page 273]
December 27, 1783 237 RC (PHi: Newbold-Irvine Collection). 1 Apparently a reference to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull’s November 15, 1783, proclama tion on Connecticut’s land claims under their charter of 1662, for which see Susqueha-n- nah Co. Papers, 7:327. Thomas Jefferson’s Draft Resolution [December 27, 1783]* Resolved that however earnestly and anxiously Congress wish to proceed to the ratification of the Definitive treaty, yet consisting at present of seven states only they ought not to undertake that ratifica tion without proper explanations. 2 (1. Because the 9th article of Confederation takes from them the power, by declaring that Congress shall not ‘enter into any treaty unless nine states assent to the same. ’) 1. Because by the usage of modern nations it is now established that the ratification of a treaty by the sovereign power is the essential act which gives it validity; the signature of the ministers, notwithstanding their plenipotentiary commission, being understood as placing it, ac cording to the phrase of the writers on this subject, sub spe rati, only, & as leaving to each sovereign an acknoleged right of rejection. (2. Because it would be a precedent replete with danger to these states as under that on future occasions seven states in opposition to six may ratify treaties entered into by ministers in direct opposition to their instructions, though such instructions should have had the concurrence of nine states.) 2. Because ratification being an act of so much energy and sub stance, the authority to perform it is reserved to nine states by those words in the ninth article of Confederation which declare that Congress ‘shall not enter into any treaty, unless nine states assent to the same.’ 3. Because by the terms ‘enter into a treaty’ the Confederation must have intended that the assent of nine states should be necessary to it’s completion as well as to it’s commencement; the object having been to guard the rights of the Union in all those important cases wherein it has required the assent of nine states: whereas by admitting the contrary construction, seven states containing less than one third of the citizens of the Union in opposition to six containing more than two thirds may fasten on them a treaty, commenced indeed under commission & instructions from nine states, but concluded in express contradiction to such instructions and in direct sacrifice of the inter ests of so great a majority. 4. Because if 7 states be incompetent generally to the ratification of a treaty they are not made competent in this particular instance by the circumstances of the ratification of the provisional articles by nine


[Page 274]
238 December 27,1783 states, the instructions to our ministers to form a definitive one by them and their actual agreement in substance: for either these cir cumstances are in themselves a ratification, or are not: if they are, nothing further is requisite than to give attested copies of them in ex change for the British ratification; if they are not, then (seven states have no authority to supply any circumstance wherein they are defective) we re main where we are, without a ratification by 9 states and incompetent to ratify ourselves. 5. Because the seven states now present in Congress saw this ques tion in the same point of view only 4 days ago when by their unani mous resolution they declared that the assent of nine states was requi site to ratify this treaty and urged this as a reason to hasten forward the absent states. 6. Because such a ratification would be rejected by the other con tracting party as null & unauthorized, or, if attested to them by the seal of the states, without apprising them that it has been expedited by order of seven states only, it will be a breach of faith in us, a prostitu tion of our seal, & a future ground, when that circumstance shall be come known, of denying the validity of a ratification into which they shall have been so surprised. 7. Because there being still 67 days before the exchange of ratifica tions is requisite, (we may yet hope the presence of 9 states in time) and two 3 states only wanting to render us competent, we have the strongest pre sumptions that the measures taken by Congress will bring them for ward in time for ratification & for it’s passage across the Atlantic. And 8 because should we be disappointed in this hope, the ratifica tion will yet be placed on more honourable and defensible ground if made by 9 states as soon as so many shall be present, and then sent for exchange, urging in it’s support the small importance of an exchange of ratifications, a few days sooner or later, the actual impossibility of an earlier compliance, and that failures produced by circumstances not under the controul of the parties, either in points so immaterial as to call for no compensation, or in those which are material and admit of compensation, can never affect the validity of the treaty itself. MS (DLC: Jefferson Papers); MS (DLC: Madison Papers, Rives Collection). Both are in Jefferson’s hand; the second is a fair copy that Jefferson sent to James Madison in his letter of February 20, 1784. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:424-25. 1 This manuscript and the fair copy in the Rives Collection are undated, but in the fifth numbered paragraph Jefferson refers to a resolution of December 23 which was passed “only 4 days ago” (JCC, 25:836-37), and in the seventh paragraph he observes that there were only “67 days” remaining before the six-month deadline for the ex change of ratifications on March 3, 1784—67 days from this date. 2 Jefferson offered this resolution in opposition to Jacob Read’s motion of the pre ceding day for immediate ratification by the seven states represented, for which see Jef ferson’s Draft Resolution, December 26, note, and Hugh Williamson to Alexander Mar tin, March 19, 1784, note 4. The debate in Congress on the 26th and 27th, according to Jefferson’s testimony, pitted Read, Jeremiah Townley Chase, Arthur Lee, and Hugh


[Page 275]
December 29, 1783 239 Williamson against himself, William Ellery, Elbridge Gerry, David Howell, and James Monroe, for which see Jefferson to Madison, February 20, 1784, note 8; and Jefferson's autobiography in Jefferson, Works (Ford), 1:86-89. Since it had become clear after pro tracted debate that Read’s motion “could not be carried,” neither it nor Jefferson's counter-resolution were entered on the journals. For Jefferson’s attempt to reach a compromise on this issue, see Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, January 2, 1784. s Blank in MS (DLC); number supplied from MS in Rives Collection. Thomas Mifflin to George Washington Sir City of Annapolis 28th December 1783 This Letter will be presented to your Excellency by Mr Godin, a Re lation of Mr Van Berkel; who is on his Journey to South Carolina, with Mr Backer & Mr Barrow Vos. These Gentlemen have been introduced to me by Mr Robert Morris; a Copy of whose Letter I enclose. 1 Many Foreigners of Distinction, who have been desirous of viewing your Ex cellency at the Head of an Army, are still more anxious to see you in The Retired Scene of Domestic Life: and I could not refuse to Mr Godin & his friends, this Opportunity of paying their respectful Com pliments to your Excellency at your own House. We have had no Ac count, from the Potowmack since your Departure; and have been under great Apprehensions that the journey was disagreeable and dif ficult, from the Snow which fell on Wednesday Night. General Hand arrived here on Thursday and brought with him In structions to the Delegates of Pennsylvania in Congress, from the Ex ecutive of that State. I have copied the first Part of the Instructions, which relate to your Excellency; & now enclose them, as one Proof among Thousands of the affectionate Regard of your Fellow Citizens. 2 Mrs. Mifflin requests me to present her respectful Compliments to Mrs Washington 8c to your Excellency which I entreat you to accept from Your Excellencys most Obedt & humble Servt, Thomas Mifflin 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The enclosed copy of Morris’ December 15 letter to Mifflin, introducing “Mr. Peter Anthy. Godin as also Mr. Backer & Barrow Vos,” is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 For this December 16 Pennsylvania Council testimonial to Washington, see Pa. Archives, Istser. 10:151-52. 3 Washington’s January 14 response to Mifflin is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 27:301-2. Arthur Lee to Theodorick Bland Dear Bland Annapolis Deer 29. 1783 I write to you more to let you know I am alive and remember you


[Page 276]
240 December 29, 1783 than for any thing I have to communicate. Hitherto we have been just able to make up seven states. Nothing material therefore has been done. The only question of consequence has been whether seven states were federally competent to ratify the definitive treaty, after nine had ratified the provisional articles of which it consisted. Congress were divided in opinion and therefore nothing done. 1 The Massachusetts assembly have sent a letter to congress complaining of some unfair statements in the estimate of the national debt and of the article of contingencies in the financier’s account. 2 My love to Mrs. Bland & complements to all friends. Adieu. A Lee Tr (ViHi: Arthur Lee Transcripts). 1 See Thomas Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, December 27, 1783. 2 The Massachusetts legislature’s remonstrance concerning old Continental bills of credit had been cast in the form of an October 28 letter from Gov. John Hancock, which was read in Congress on December 18 and referred to a committee chaired by Hugh Williamson, for which see JCC, 25:815; and Massachusetts Delegates to Hancock, February 1, 1784. Hugh Williamson to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir, Annapolis 29th Deer. 1783 By the Committee Book it appears that a Letter or Memorial from Mr Du Radier was refer’d on June 2nd to Mr Fitzsimmons, Williamson & Izard. 1 The Letter was in French & was on the Subject of a Manufac ture of printed Linens, if I remember well; which the writer proposed to establish in America if properly encouraged. As Chairman of the Committee I presume the Letter was put into your Hands and I do not recollect that the committee was ever con vened on the Subject. I presume it was generally understood that Congress could do nothing in Such a Business. However for the Sake of order it is requisite that the Papers be all returned into the Secys. office before the Committee can be discharged. Being the only re maining member of the Committee it is my duty to account for the Papers, but I never saw them. Be so good as inform me whether you know any thing about them, or where it is likely that I may find them. 2 When I last had the Pleasure of seeing you, you mentioned some double charges that we should be exposed to in consequence of the manner in which Genl Lincoln’s Accots had been pass’d. 3 I wished to have had that matter obviated or rectify’d if possible & expected to have heard from the Comptroller of Accots before this Time on the Subject, but I believe no application has been made. I have the Honor to be, Dr Sr, Your obedt Servt Hu Williamson


[Page 278]
242 December 30, 1783 Eleazer McComb to Nicholas Van Dyke Sir, Annapolis 30th December 1783. Since the last Letter which I had the honor to write your Excellency, 1 containing intelligence drawn from communications made by our Ministers at foreign Courts, nothing material has oc curred, save the resignation of our commander in Chief on the 23d of this month, of which you will no doubt have seen a printed account, more accurate than any I could give, before this reaches you. Saturday last was the day I had appointed to leave Congress, and on Sunday my servant arrived here, having been sent for me: but as he brought an account of the general health of my friends, and as my leaving Congress at this time would have broke up the Council of the United States, I was induced to consent to continue here 8 or 10 days longer, in hopes that before the end of those days there will be a rep resentation from nine States to ratify the definitive Treaty, and to take up some other business of importance now before Congress. I have given Mr. Bedford notice of my determination by the Post 2 which will convey this Letter. As the office of Auditor of Accounts will require much of my atten tion for at least twelve months to come, and render it impracticable for me to give punctual attendance in Congress, I have come to a Res olution of resigning my Seat. I must therefore request your Excellency will be so obliging, when you go to Dover, as to present my duty to the Honble. the General Assembly, and inform them that, altho’ I think myself much honored by being one of their Delegates to Congress, yet, finding the duties of that appointment do interfere with those of Auditor of Accounts, I must beg leave to resign my Seat, that I may, without interruption, attend to the business of the other, less honor able, more laborious, and in our situation, equally important office. I wish Sir, this business may be taken up immediately after the meet ing of the Assembly. The present Delegates cannot serve longer than to the 1st day of February next, 3 and unless there should be a House pretty early in January, and this business be made their first care, the State will be unrepresented. I have observed that the Delegates in most of the other States have their appointments for one year to com mence from and after the first Monday in November, and untill others shall appear to take their Seats. By this means they keep up a constant representation. The General Assembly of this State rose on Friday last, having among other Laws, passed an Act empowering Congress to regulate Trade. The General Assembly of Virginia have passed a similar Law, and have also confirmed the Cession of the Western Country.


[Page 294]
258 January 4,1784 RC (MHi: Dana Papers). 1 This day Congress received Dana’s December 17 letter announcing his arrival in Boston and asking whether he should come to Annapolis “to render a more particular ac count of his late mission [to Russia],” which Congress immediately affirmed. See JCC, 26:4. 2 For Congress’ May 1782 rebuke of Dana, see these Letters, 18:469n.6. 3 That is, Robert R. Livingston. 4 Dana’s February 3 acknowledgement of this letter is in the Lee Family Papers, MH-H; and Richard Henry Lee, Life of Arthur Lee LL.D., 2 vols. (Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1829), 2:287. Thomas Mifflin to William Livingston Sir, Annapolis 4th Jan. 1784. 3 oClock P.M. I have already addressed three several dispatches to your Excellency of the 23d of November & of the 23d & 24th of December stating to you the arrival of the Definitive Treaty and the necessity, by an Article thereof, of its ratification and Exchange at Paris by the 3d of March next: I have also stated in those dispatches the particular situation of Congress. Nine States being necessary to a Ratification & Seven only being present. Apprehending that these Letters may have miscarried & having Reason to believe that the Representation from South Car olina will be compleat in a day or two, I have dispatched Col. Harmar my private Secretary with this Letter to your Excellency, informing you that if the Delegation of New Jersey attends in Congress without further delay we may yet ratify the Treaty in time. A Representation of Nine States to ratify the Definitive Treaty before the Time limited for its Exchange expires must appear to your Excellency too important to be longer delayed. 1 I have the Honor to be, Sir, with the highest Respect, Your Excel- lencys most obt. humble servant. Thomas Mifflin RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Although the definitive treaty was ratified with nine states on January 14, ratification was accomplished without the vote of New Jersey. John Beatty had arrived on the 13th, but the state was not able to cast a vote until February 25 when Samuel Dick finally ar rived to join Beatty. See fCC, 26:16-17, 97. The following letter from Jonathan Elmer to Dick written January 8 from “Bridge Town” contains information on the effort under way at this time to get two New Jersey delegates to Congress. “Since I saw you the other day I have recieved the Letter from our Colleague Dr. Beatty. I expect you will set out to join him in Congress as soon as convenient, which I hope will be very shortly. “Dr. Beatty informs me he has the Credentials with him, therefore nothing more is nesessary for you to do before you leave Home, but take and subscribe the Oaths of Government and Oath of Office as prescribed in the Supplement to the Election Law. That Law directs the Oaths to be taken before the Secretary of the State, but the last sit ting of the Legislature (I’m informed) altered it, and they may now be taken before any one of thejudges of the Inferior Court of Common Pleas.


[Page 298]
262 January5, 1784 on November 16, 1784, he resigned the post immediately and never returned to Congress. 6 In the FC Morris concluded with the following additional notes: 'The Capt. of this Ship is now waiting, I must reduce my Letter to a few Heads. “Mr. Willing and family, with all friends, were well three days ago. “Let Mr. Shettell have the inclosed papers when you looked them over. “No Convention likely to be agreed to by Our Censors—so writes Dr Rush. “I have a Cong Letter by me, which shall go by the packet. “Keep to yourself the public part of my Letter, or if shewed to anybody Let it be Mr. Shettell, to whom you [may] Communicate all or any part you please.” Charles Thomson to the Ministers Plenipotentiary Gentlemen, AnnapolisJany. 5. 1784. In Congress. I am directed to inform you that the definitive Treaty after a very long Passage arrived during an Adjournment of Congress from Prince ton to this Place. No more than seven States are yet assembled. These are unanimously desirous to ratify the Treaty and the measure will be taken up as soon as nine States are assembled. 1 In the meanwhile as the weather is severe and travelling extremely difficult from a heavy fall of snow, it is to be feared that the Ratification may not arrive in the time limited for the Exchange, and that Inconveniencies may arise un less the time for exchanging the Ratification should be extended. I am with the highest Esteem & Respect, Gentlemen, Your obedi ent humble Servt. Tr (MHi: Adams Family Papers). Addressed: ‘The honorable John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, John Jay & Henry Laurens.” 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the Ministers, January 14, 1784. See also Thomas Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, January 2, note. Elbridge Gerry to Francis Dana My dear Mr Dana Annapolis 6th January 83 [ 1784]. I have but a Moment, to express the Pleasure I feel at the News of your Arrival, after knowing Your Determination to leave St. Peters burg, without an audience, or finishing the Business of your Mission: but I am exceedingly mortified at the Circumstances last mentioned, because I think that a Treaty with the Court of Russia was necessary for the Extension of our Commerce, that it would have conciliated the Affection or rather the political Friendship of the Empress, & that if there was any Honor in the Negotiation, You was justly entitled to it.


[Page 299]
January6, 1784 263 But as the Measure is defeated by the Intrigues of a European Court, aided by her Dupes in America, 1 your presence here will be necessary, as well to prevent the ill Consequences which may result from your sudden Departure from the Court of Russia, as to do Justice to your Merit. I have taken the Liberty of recommending to a particular Friend of mine, your appointment to a Seat in Congress, 2 & wish for your assent to the Measure, if You continue a Member but one Month, for Reasons which You would approve of if present. I wrote to you by Governor Reed, 3 who sailed for Europe last Month, & directed the Letter to be opened by Mr Adams, in Case of your Return to America. Pray give my Compliments to Mrs Dana & Judge Trowbridge, & be assured I am on every occasion your sincere Friend & huml sert. E Gerry RC (MHi: Dana Papers). 1 Dana’s mission to Russia, and the role played by Secretary Robert R. Livingston in bringing about his departure, is also the subject of the following January 1784 letter to Theodorick Bland from Stephen Higginson, a recent Massachusetts delegate and An glophile critic of Livingston’s Francophile diplomacy. “Mr. Dana has returned from Russia, without having effected any thing. He had re moved every obstacle to his reception; had settled every point with that court; and waited only the news of the definite treaty being signed, to perfect his business: when he received a letter from our secretary of foreign affairs, which I have seen, telling him that congress did not wish him to form a treaty; and, farther, that his commission did not, in the opinion of congress, authorize him to complete one, but only to treat upon the terms proper to found one upon. This induced Mr. Dana to return with the best grace he could; for he knew that, after what he had stated to that court, he must have given them great offence, and rendered congress and himself very ridiculous, to have told them at the last moment that his powers were not sufficient for the business upon which he was sent thither. He therefore availed himself of his then ill state of health, and stated that as the cause of his departure. Mr. Secretary [Livingston] certainly wrote that which was false; for congress had, when Madison’s report for calling him home was under consideration last spring, thoroughly attended to his commission, and even Mr. Madison determined that his powers were plenary. This was done when the secretary was present, and Mr. Madison’s report was rejected; but the junto had de termined that Mr. Dana should come home, and that no treaty should be made with Russia, perhaps by the order of the Count de Vergennes, and the views of the junto must not be defeated; if congress could not be brought to order him home, Mr. Secre tary would do it himself.” Bland, Papers (Campbell), 2:114-15. 2 Dana, who had been a congressional delegate in 1777-78, was elected again on February 11 and returned to a seat in Congress on May 24, 1784. JCC, 27:418-19. 3 Not found. Eleazer McComb to Theodorick Bland Sir, Annapolis 6th January 1784 I beg leave to apologize for a mistake made by Dr. Tilton. When he was about setting out for Congress I gave him such papers as I judged


[Page 300]
264 January 6, 1784 Abiel Foster


[Page 301]
January8,1784 265 would be useful to him—among others one containing my senti ments, in the form of a Speech, on the subject of the Cession of Vir ginia, written at the time that subject was under debate in Philadel phia; about April or May last. 1 This, I informed him, might suggest some ideas to him, provided he should find the Cession in discussion on his arrival at Princeton. I also gave him the rough draft of a motion for an instruction to the Superintendant of Finance to prevent the holders of Warrants drawn on the different States, from being benefit- ted by the depreciation between the date of the warrant and the time of payment. 2 This was essayed in consequence of some conversation which we had at Trenton, which I explained in a written paper put into your hands at Princeton. I intended also to have asked your opin ion on the motion, but had not an opportunity. I desired Dr. Tilton to do it, but instead of that he gave you the other Paper, thro’ Mistake. Tho’ I never expect to have the pleasure of seeing you again, yet, from the friendship I have conceived for you, I cannot forbear from setting this matter right. With respectful compliments to Mrs. Bland, I am, Sir, your most obt. Servt. RC (ViHi: Bland Papers). In the hand of Eleazer McComb, signature clipped. 1 McComb’s speech “on the subject of the Cession of Virginia” may have been deliv ered in the aftermath of Bland’s April 23, 1783, motion calling for congressional accep tance of Virginia’s offer, for which see JCC, 24:271-72. 2 No mention of this matter has been found in the journals of Congress. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir. Annapolis 8th. Janury. 1784. A report of a Committee to whom your Honrs. Letter to the Presi dent of Congress relating to the Brigantine Lusanna was refered, this morning laid on the Table a report, respecting that affair. The Secre tary informed me that Mr. Jefferson, who drew up the report, had sent it in; but desired it might not be read till he could attend, which the state of his Health did not permit to do on this day. 1 I have read the report, it contains a recital of the resolutions & pro ceedings of Congress relating to appeals, and of the powers given by the several Acts of New Hampr. to Congress in those cases, & con cludes with recommending a Resolution purporting that the Court of Appeals were not authorized by any resolutions of Congress to take Cognisance in the Case of the Lusanna. Genl. Sullivan in a Letter to Congress, and which was presented at the same time with your Honrs., has particularly, & in my opinion in a convincing manner, stated the objections against the proceedings of the Court of Appeals in this cause; 2 he hath also attended the Com-


[Page 304]
268 January9,1784 Binder, so that you can at any time order what number you think proper, either sepa rate or bound with the Volume.” PCC, item 78, 6:227. 2 In Claypoole’s edition of the Journals for 1779, which bears the publication date 1782, the last page of the index has been inserted separately, indicating that he had complied with Thomson’s directive. The entry at issue reads: “Waggons ... employed by major general Arnold, order for examining witnesses respecting.” See JCC, 15:1462; and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 17,766. Thomas Mifflin to William Livingston Sir Annapolis 10th January 1784 1 I have the Honor to transmit to you an Act of Congress of the 6th Inst relative to the Robbery of the Mail at Princeton on the 30th Octo ber last; 2 together with a Copy of a Letter from the Post Master Gen eral, a Copy of a Letter from Mr. Harrison Post Master at Princeton & a Copy of an Affadavit ofjoseph Parker on that Subject. 3 I am with the highest Respect & Esteem, your Excellencys Obedient & humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 This letter is dated January 9 in Mifflin’s letterbook. PCC, item 16, fol. 280. 2 For the enclosed resolve requesting Governor Livingston “to order a strict enquiry” into this mail theft, and Congress’ original November 1 order to postmaster general Ebenezer Hazard to undertake such an investigation, see JCC, 25:790, 26:8-10. 3 The originals of these enclosed documents from Ebenezer Hazard, John Harrison, and Joseph Parker, are in PCC, item 61, fols. 155-72. For Livingston’s March 8 response to Mifflin and three enclosed depositions taken during his inquiry into the theft, see Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:97-98; and PCC, item 68, fols. 621-36. For Congress’January 15 resolution offering a reward of $300 for the arrest and con viction of “the perpetrator or perpetrators of the aforesaid robbery,” see JCC, 26:34. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis ISthJany. 1784 We have the honor to Acknowledge the receipt of instructions from the honorable the Supreme Executive Council dated Deer. 29th which shall be attended to. 1 The Inclosed papers we beg your Excellency will be pleased to lay be fore the Honorable the Council & Genl. Assembly for their information. 2 With great respect, we have the honor to be, your Excellencys most Obedt. & most Hble. Servts. Tho Mifflin Edwd. Hand Cad. Morris


[Page 305]
January 14,1784 269 RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by Edward Hand, and signed by Hand, Thomas Mifflin, and Cadwalader Morris. i “As the Peace Establishment will probably be very small,” Dickinson had explained, “we should he glad, that Measures might speedily be adopted for having Care taken of the artillery, arms, ammunition belonging to the United States. “It appears to us, that no better mode can be devised, than to have them divided in just proportions among the several States.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:154. 2 See Edward Hand tojasper Yeates, January 14, note. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Friend, Annapolis 14th Jany 84 The definitive Treaty is this Day ratified by Congress, & I have but a few Moments by Colonel Harmar, who is charged with the Delivery thereof, 1 to inform You that Mr Dana is arrived & requested to attend Congress. 2 I have suggested to some of my Friends the good policy of appointing him to a Seat in Congress, & to him the Advantages to be at this Time expected from the Measure; & I flatter myself, it will be adopted. The Dispatches by Mr Thaxter have been committed & a Report is made for authorizing Yourself, Doctor Franklin & Mr Jay to negotiate Treaties with every power mentioned in your Letters. 3 The general principles of the Treaties are stated in the report, conformable to which You are to be authorized to enter into them, without first re porting to Congress, as was proposed by the Resolutions of October last, pasd at Princeton. Those proceedings appeared to me calculated to defeat every Treaty & confine our Commerce to France & Holland, for after you had formed the projects, as they are called, & sent them to America, projects of another Nature, would have been contrived here to have made alterations which would have in Effect rendered null your proceedings. I hope the report will pass as it now stands & that You will be expeditious in the Business. I observe by your Letters that according to your Orders You have re ported your conferences to the Secretary of foreign affairs. Your In formation is useful, exceedingly so, but as the other Commissioners have not adopted the same Mode, I suspect they have not received similar Instructions, & that the original plan on this Side was, to dis cover to the other, your Communications; to prevent Or destroy this Confidence You have there Established, & to make this appear as an unfortunate Accident, which nevertheless ought to be attended with your Recall. Be this as it may, I think the Interest of yourself & Mr Jay is at this Time well supported in Congress. I have not Time to revise, much less to correct, & therefore must bid You adieu, after requesting my best Respects to Mr Jay, his Lady & Mr Carmichael, if in Paris. Your


[Page 306]
210 January 14, 1784 Family was in Health by the last Letters from Home, but Doctor Cooper was given over by his Physician. Be assured my dear sir I am on every Occasion Yours, Sincerely, EG [PS.] I shall propose to Congress a Resolution for approving in proper & honorable Terms the Negotiations of their plenipoes who negotiated the peace, but cannot say whether the Measure will be suc cessful. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, this date. 2 See JCC, 26:4. 3 For this December 20 report, submitted by a committee consisting of Gerry, Thomasjefferson, and Hugh Williamson, see JCC, 25:821-28. Edward Hand to George Gray Sir 1 Annapolis 14th Jany 1784 I have the honor to Acquaint you for the information of the honble the General Assembly that Congress have this day Ratified the Defini tive Treaty of Peace between the United States of America & great Britain & to congratulate you on the great Occasion. By this opertunity some papers are transmitted by the Deligation to his Excelly. the President to be by him laid before the Honble the Genl. Assembly & Council which probably may claim the early Atten tion of your honorable house. 2 With the greatest respect I have the honor to be, Sir, your most Obedt. & most Hble. Servt. Edwd. Hand RC (PHi: James Clark Moore Collection). Addressed: “The Honble George Gray Esqr.” 1 George Gray was the speaker of the Pennsylvania Assembly. 2 See the following entry, note. Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis Jany. 14th 1783 [1784] I have the pleasure to Congratulate you on the Ratification of the Definitive Treaty, it has taken place This day. God grant the Peace may be perpetual & productive of every happiness to America, as I think it commences with the joint & full accord of all her good Citizens. I am very uneasie at not hearing from Lancaster Since I left it, I hope this does not Arise from the Indisposition of any of my dear Family or Friends. I beg my duty. Love & Compliments to them jointly & Indi-


[Page 307]
January 14, 1784 271 vidually. By Sundry resolves of the Legislature of Connecticut, laid be fore Congress yesterday (Copies of which are transmitted to Our Council & Assembly) you will See the Steps taken by that State to kick up a new dust About the Wyoming Lands. 1 Farewell dear Yeates, very Affectionately yrs. Edwd. Hand RC (NN: Hand Papers). 1 These papers undoubtedly consisted of the proclamation and letter of Gov. Jonathan Trumbull, and enclosed Connecticut Assembly resolutions, which were en dorsed by Charles Thomson: “Letter Novr 15. 1783. Governor Trumbull, Act & resolu tions of Assembly of Connecticut & proclamation of Governor. Read Jany 13. 1784. Re ferred to Mr Jefferson, Mr Lee, Mr Williamson.” See PCC, item 66, 2:256-64. David Howell to Benjamin Stelle Dear Sir, Annapolis Jany. 14, 1784. Yours of It Instant is before me. Your caution about writing by the Post was well founded. I have many things to communicate on that head; but my politics are not secret. The curse of Evedroppers on those who break open other folks Letters. Mr. Morris’s report on the remonstrance of Pennsylvania is referred to a Comee & the report of the Comee chosen at Princeton on your affairs is referred to the same Comee—in order to digest the whole & reduce it to a single report—And bring every thing which regards di rections to the Commissioners, under a simultaneous consideration. 1 This day, for the first time in this place, we have had nine States. We have ratified the Definitive Treaty; 8c make the injunctions 8c recom- menda[tions] to the States therein stipulated. I shall take the liberty to communicate to the aforsd. Comee the Sub stance of your hints—without hazarding you in the matter. You wish for my advice—keep a clear head—an honest heart—and an industrious hand (whenever you have any thing to do) 8c mind your own business. I am very sorry that you omitted sending the flute to my Son. I hope you will keep it safe & send it by the first safe opportunity. I arrived safely at this place this Friday night after I left Philada. 8c have taken Lodgings at a Mr. McHards, near the Stadt House, where our ac commodations are in a republican Stile—but sufficient. New-Hamp shire, Connecticutt, N. Jersey 8c R. Island are all hotelled together. Please to inform the good Parson 8c his agreeable family that I have requested you to present them with my most respectful compliments. Through divine goodness I have not suffered an hours indisposition since left you. I fear the Spring should I not be relieved before that Season comes on. Pray let me hear from you every Post. What news from Providence? I have not reed a Providence Gazette since I left Philada and very few


[Page 309]
January 14,1784 273 will be a source of wealth to the U. S. superior to that of any Power upon Earth. The Officers of our late Army, have constituted them selves a perpetual Body under the title of Cincinnati. Genl. Washing ton is at their head. It gives alarm to the People, & this seems to in crease. To one of your discernment it is unnecessary to say what may probably be the consequences of such an Association. It is conjecture! that the french are at the bottom of it. What intentions some may have in it, I will not conjecture; but very manifestly it may be produc tive of monarchy in this Country. If you think it will be acceptable to Mr. Jay, I shoud wish you to make my respects to him. His conduct abroad has given me the high est opinion of his abilities & virtue. Col. Harmar (who is sent with the Ratification) is a gentleman of very approvd integrity, & on whom you may rely shoud you want a per son of such a character. Farewell, AL. P. S. Mr. Dana arrivd at Boston from Petersburg a few weeks since. P.S. I presume you have heard that Dr. F. has written to Congress against you. His enmity you cannot be a stranger to, & you will be in dued to dispise this effort of it, when I assure you it, has no manner of effect. It is however justice due to him to say that he allows you to be sensible & honest. 3 RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). Endorsed by Adams: “Mr Lee 14. Jan. 1784, ansd 6 April, reed 5th.” 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, this date. 2 See Connecticut Delegates to William Williams, January 15, note 2. 3 In his letter to Robert R. Livingston of July 22, 1783, Benjamin Franklin had com mented on Adams’ “imaginary” fears “that Count de Vfergennes] and myself are con tinually plotting against him and employing the News Writers of Europe to depreciate his character, &c.” But Franklin was persuaded that Adams “means well for his Country, is always an honest Man, often a Wise One, but sometimes and in some things, abso lutely out of his Senses.” See PCC, item 82, 2:393-94; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:582. Thomas Mifflin to John Dickinson Sir, Annapolis 14thjany. 1784 This day nine States being represented in Congress, Vizt. Mas sachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Mary land, Virginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, together with one Member from New Hampshire and one Member from New-Jersey, The Treaty of Peace was ratified by the Unanimous Vote of the Mem bers present.


[Page 317]
January 15,1784 281 N Carolina which I have the Honor to represent is greatly interested in this Subject and must be profited by every Arrangement that can be made for the regular disposal of naval Stores. We can furnish at least 130,000 Brls of Tar, Pitch & Turpentine every Year and there are two or three Houses in the State who would undertake to diliver any number of Brls not exceeding that mentioned at any Port or Ports which may be proposed. As Mr Carmichael has referd to the Trade of naval Stores in particular I have taken the Liberty to give you this gen eral Information on the Head & have only to add that I am assured you will not on this nor any other Subject neglect one opportunity of serving the United States and each of them in the most effectual man ner. I have the Honor to be &c &c H W FC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). Enclosed in Williamson to John Gray and Thomas Blount, February 16, 1784. 1 In a March 13, 1783, letter to Robert R. Livingston which had been received August 15, Carmichael had written that “the directors for the supply of the army and navy have engaged to give the preference to America for such articles as they may from time to time stand in need of from thence.” “I mention this,” he continued, “in order that the different members in Congress may be enabled to inform their constituents, who per haps might choose to furnish supplies of the produce of the States to which they belong to this country, and who may be able to do it on better terms than the parties I have rec ommended.” See PCC, item 88, fols. 352-60, item 185, 3:74; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:297. For Williamson’s initiative respecting these hints, see Williamson to John Gray and Thomas Blount, February 16, 1784. Connecticut Delegates to William Williams Sir Anapolis 15th Jan. 1784 We arrived at this place last Monday. 1 On Tuesday your letter to Congress with the address of the Honorable House of Representatives were read and referred to a committee, to wit, Mr. Arthur Lee and Mr. Jefferson of Virginia and Doctr. Williamson of North Carolina, they are informed that the General Assembly are now sitting, and we hope they will prepare a Satisfactory answer soon enough to be transmitted before the close of the session. 2 We are informed by the delegates of the Several States, that the leg islatures of Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, Newjersy, and Massachusetts have passed laws to enable Congress to collect the impost agreably to the requisition, That New Hampshire Assembly in a Committee of the whole have agreed to the measure, but the act was not passed when the Delegate came away, that Rhode Island are not so averse to complying with the last requisition as the former, but don’t hear that they have as yet agreed to it, that ’tis probable the Car olinas will comply with it, Nothing has been heard from the State of


[Page 318]
282 January 15,1784 Georgia respecting it. New York Assembly had not taken it into con sideration, but it is expected they will in their present session. ’Tis probable the Congress will adjourn and have a recess next Spring, and it is most ardently to be wished that every Obsticle in the way of establishing a revenue for the payment of the interest of the monies borrowed on the credit of the united States, might be re moved or surmounted, so that Congress may make provision for the Collection of it before their adjournment. The definitive treaty of Peace was unanimously ratified in Congress the 14th instant nine States being present, and a triplicate thereof for warded by express, to be Sent in different Vessels so that it may if pos sible be exchanged by the time limited for that purpose. We are with great respect and Esteem Your humble Servants Roger Sherman James Wadsworth RC (MA: Signers of the Declaration Collection). Written by Roger Sherman and signed by Sherman and James Wadsworth. 1 Sherman and Wadsworth took their seats in Congress on January 13. JCC, 26:15-16. 2 Speaker Williams’ November 1, 1783, letter and the Connecticut Assembly’s address “respectg commutation for half pay,” are in PCC, item 66, 2:248-55. The committee to which they were referred submitted a report on February 13 which was referred on the 26th to a second committee consisting of Arthur Lee, William Ellery, and Samuel Os good which submitted a report on March 1 that was debated and rejected on April 22. See JCC, 26:100-102, 135-36, 265-69; and PCC, item 20, 1:340-48, item 186, fols. 143, 150. See also Connecticut Delegates to Williams, April 27, 1784, note 2. Edward Hand to Benjamin Rush Dear sir Annapolis 15th Jany. 1784 As Chairman of a Committee of the public Creditors of the City & neighbourhood of Philadelphia, I think I may take the liberty to trou ble you with the inclosed resolution of Congress passed this day. 1 I hope it will ansr. the wishes of the Applicants, & I have a pleasure in informing you that after the Ratification of the definitive Treaty (on which I sincirely congratulate you) it was the first business done in Congress. With every sentiment of esteem I am Dr. Sir, Your Obedt. Hble Servt. Edwd. Hand RC (PPL: Rush Papers). 1 See Thomas Mifflin to Blair McClenachan, January 18, 1784.


[Page 321]
January 15,1784 285 inspire the people of these United States with wisdom to improve the opportunity now afforded of becoming a happy nation. I need not recommend col Franks to your notice as you are already acquainted with him. He has great Merit for the early part he took & the sacrifices he has made in the late controversy & his steady adher ence to our cause. I long for the pleasure of seeing you, but forego that pleasure with the more ease as I am sensible you are usefully employed in a work which is of great importance to our country. I need not assure you that I am with the most perfect esteem & respect, Dear Sir, Your affec tionate old friend, Cha Thomson RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). 1 See Thomson to Franklin, January 14, 1784. 2 See Thomson to Reuben Haines, January 1, 1784. Charles Thomson to John Jay Dear Sir, Annapolisjany 15. 1784 Though I am sensible that lieut Col D. S. Frank, who is the bearer of this needs no introduction or recommendation to you, yet I cannot suffer him to go without a line from me. He is intrusted with a tripli cate Ratification of the definitive treaty, which passed yesterday, the first time we have had nine states represented since Octr. last, and which was done with the unanimous consent not only of every state but of every member in Congress. The proclamation and recommen dation of which he carries copies passed also with a like unanimous consent; so that I have strong hopes the treaty will be carried into full effect, and that when the passions of the people are cooled a spirit of conciliation will prevail. But considering what many have suffered, whose feelings are still alive & whose wounds are not yet closed And considering that our new established governments have not attained their full tone and vigour, it can hardly be expected that people will in a moment forget what is past and suddenly return to an interchange of friendly Offices with those, whom for years past they have consid ered as their most bitter enemies. My apprehensions are greatest from your state where the people have suffered most, and yet there is such a spirit and vigour in that government, that I trust matters will be con ducted with prudence and moderation. We have had no delegates from that State since the first Monday in November, occasioned as I am informed by a law of the state which prevented the meeting of the Assembly till the city was evacuated. However as the assembly is now met we expect deligates will soon be


[Page 330]
294 January 19, 1784 from the annals of America & utterly effaced from my memory! You will judge of the feelings of some of the members by an expression which Mr Read used in a late Speech, while C , said he, are vagabon dizing from one paultry village to another it is impossible for gentle men to have to recourse to books or to consult writers on the laws of nations. I enclose you a half sheet of the journal from this first Monday in November, and if the printer can get another half sheet ready before the post arrives I will add it. These which I imagine will comprehend the whole transactions to this time will give you some idea of the busi ness transacted. You will then see that the indian treaty, the peace es tablishment, the western country, and in short every thing that con cerns the honor, dignity, peace, happiness, prosperity and safety of the US remain & are like to remain in the state you left them. The defini tive treaty indeed is ratified. A Representation of Nine states was with great difficulty got together on the 14 which continued for three days; and as the members were extremely uneasy on account of the time elapsed and the danger of the ratification not getting across the Ocean to be exchanged within the time limited, they immediately em braced that opportunity, ratified the treaty and dispatched the ratifica tion by two couriers. The first (col Harmar) set off from this on the 15 to take passage in the packet from New York and the other lieut col Franks set out on the 17 to go in the first vessel that sails from any of the eastern ports. This and accepting the resignation of the General is almost the only business done. I am sorry you have thought it necessary to resign. 3 I heartily wish you had been with us. I think you might have been of great service. Several are beginning to see the impropriety & ill consequences of their past Conduct and I am persuaded you might have been instru mental in bringing them again to right. A great majority are con vinced that this is not a proper place for the residence of C- and I have some reason to think that several are ashamed of their two fcederal towns. I except however the father of the project 4 who is of so peculiar a cast of mind that his pleasure seems proportioned to the absurdity of his schemes & who is only mortified when reason & com mon sense prevail. But a truce with politics. Mrs. T is obliged for your remembrance of her & returns her compliments to you & Mrs. Peters, to whom you will please to make my compliments acceptable. I am with much esteem & respect, Dr Sir, Your affectionate, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Peters Papers). 1 These letters are in the Thomson Papers, DLC. The former, which Peters dated “Belmont 20 lOber 83,” was also printed in “The Thomson Papers,” NYHS Collections 11


[Page 331]
January 20,1784 295 (1878): 177-79, but misdated “20 Oct., 1783,” as it was when reprinted in Burnett, let ters, 7:343-45. 2 Congress took up the accounts of Joseph Carleton, secretary in the war office, on February 3, crediting him with the $320 shortfall found in the final adjustment of his accounts as paymaster to the board of war. As “upwards of sixty millions of dollars passed through [his] hands," the loss of $320 was deemed “very inconsiderable, and cannot be imputed to want of fidelity or neglect.” See JCC, 26:63. 3 Peters had been reelected a delegate on November 13, but resigned three days later. The draft of his November 16, 1783, letter of resignation to the speaker of the Pennsyl vania Assembly, George Gray, is in the Peters Papers, PHi. 4 Apparently Elbridge Gerry, who had offered the original motion for creating two federal residences on October 17, 1783. JCC, 25:697-98. Abiel Foster to John Sullivan Sir. Annapolis 20th Janury. 1784. I am sorry to inform you that there hath been no House since your departure from this City. Delaware is not represented, and had been would probably divided on the Question relative to the New Hampshire Memorial. I shall call up the Report the first oppertunity, but doubt whither Massachusetts will agree to the resolution, as some of those Gentlemen seem disposed to raise objections in private conversation. 1 I received a Line from Mr. Jonathan Blanchard on Saturday last in forming me of his appointment to be my Colleague, & that he should come forward as soon as Money could be raised for his journey. Should you fall in with him, I must beg the favor that you will urge him to make the greatest possible dispatch. I am Sir with great respect and esteem your very humble and most obedient Servt. Abiel Foster RC (MHi: Sullivan Papers). 1 See Foster to Meshech Weare, January 8, 1784. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sir. Annapolis 20th Jany 1784 We have received your Excys. letter of the 7th Instant, 1 it gives us the greatest satisfaction to be able to inform the Honorable Council that the difficulties which had arisen respecting the ratification of the definitive treaty have been happily removed. We hope that Congress will in a short time appoint Commissioners & determine on the place & time of holding a Treaty with the hostile


[Page 339]
January 23,1784 303 sional chaplains since October 1777, see JCC, 26:12, 15, 38, 44. For some of the difficul ties Jones experienced in attending Congress from his home in Philadelphia, and his refusal to remain in the post when Congress made the appointment annual rather than permanent and continued to vacillate over selecting a site for its residence, see PCC, item 78, 13:313-20, 325, 16:417-20. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Jan 23. 1784 The inclosed papers from Oliver Pollock came to our hands a few days ago. 1 Ignorance of the organisation of our government probably led him to make this improper address, on a business so foreign to the line of our duty. We take the liberty, on his behalf, of inclosing them to your Excellency with a copy of our answer to him. 2 We have the honour to be with the most profound respect & es teem, Your Excellency’s Most obedient and most humble servants, Th. Jefferson Jas. Monroe Arthur Lee S. Hardy RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jefferson and signed by Jefferson, Hardy, Lee, and Monroe. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:510. 1 Enclosed were Pollock’s letter of November 20, 1783, together with other unidenti fied “papers," in which he protested a May 1783 resolution of the Virginia House of Del egates directing the state’s auditors not to issue any more warrants in his favor and the treasurer not to pay those already issued unless ordered by the General Assembly. Pol lock, who had long-standing claims against Virginia for supplies sent to George Rogers Clark during the war, claimed extreme indebtedness and expressed his fear that he and his family would be imprisoned by Spanish authorities in Havana if he were not able to satisfy his creditors. See ibid., pp. 356-57. See also these Letters, 17:207n.l; and Virginia Delegates to Bernardo de Galvez, May 4, 1783. 2 See the following entry. Virginia Delegates to Oliver Pollock Sir Annapolis Jan. 23. 1784 Your letter bearing date at the Havana Nov. 20th. 1783 came to our hands a few days ago. 1 The subject of it however is one of those sub mitted by the constitution of our state to it’s Executive power, our du ties being such only as respect the Confederacy in general. We think it therefore the most likely means of promoting your wishes to inclose the letter with the papers accompanying it to his Excellency the Gov ernor of Virginia which we will immediately do. We have no doubt you will receive justice from the state on every well authenticated claim.


[Page 346]
310 February 1,1784 A former committee had been appointed to revise the civil list and to adapt it to the change of circumstances which peace has induced. 5 They have gone through that work except so far as it relates to the de partment of Finance, by which I mean to include the establishments in the several offices of the Superintendt, Comptroller, Auditors, Reg ister, Treasurer, & the Commissioners for settling the accounts in the several states, and the accts of the Staff departments. They hope from your letter in answer to one written you by Dr Williamson their chair man that you are turning your attention to this subject and that you will be so kind as to inform them whether any of the offices or officers in that department may be dispensed with under present circum stances so as to lessen it’s expences without endangering more sub stantial loss, a true and laudable oeconomy being their object. I take the liberty of mentioning this subject to you only because the Grand Committee under whose instructions I write, will of course be delayed in their estimates till the other committee shall have made a full re port on the civil list. With you I know it is unnecessary to urge as early an answer as is practicable and have therefore only to add assurances of the sincere respect & esteem with which I have the honor to be &c. FC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). In the hand of Thomas Jefferson. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:531-33. 1 The FC is undated, but in his February 25 reply Morris acknowledged the receipt of “Your letter of the first Instant” and addressed it to “The Honorable Mr. Jefferson, Chairman of a Grand Committee of Congress, Annapolis.” See PCC, item 137, ap pendix, fols. 325-36; and ibid., pp. 558-64. 2 This grand committee, which had been appointed January 23, had originally been assigned Robert Morris’ report of October 21, 1783, and instructed to draw up “a requi sition on the States for the payment of Interest on the national debt.” At some point, perhaps after the committee’s initial meeting on January 24 when he was elected com mittee chairman, Thomas Jefferson moved “that it be an instruction to the Grand com mittee to prepare and report to Congress an estimate of current expences from the 1st day of January 1784 to the 1st of Jan. 1785.” On January 30 the committee was also as signed a letter and note from the French minister concerning the payment of interest to foreign holders of loan office certificates as well as other documents at later dates. See JCC, 25:715-16, 26:48; and PCC, item 36, 2:305, 309, item 186, fols. 145, 146, 147, 152. For the committee’s March 22 report which was considered on April 5, 12, 22 and approved on the 27th, see JCC, 26:185-98, 213-15, 263-65, 297-309; and Jefferson, Pa pers (Boyd), 7:65-80. See also David Howell to Jonathan Arnold, February 21, 1784, notes 3-5. s See JCC, 21:1089-91, 23:658-60. < See JCC, 23:545-46. 5 For the early work of this committee, which was appointed July 31, 1783, in re sponse to a July 11 letter from the Massachusetts General Court, see Massachusetts Del egates to the Massachusetts Senate, July 31, 1783, note 3. The committee was renewed on December 18, when Congress actively resumed business in Annapolis, and the new committee, consisting of Hugh Williamson, Elbridge Gerry, James Tilton, Jefferson, and James McHenry, took up the former committee’s partial report of September 27 (which was not officially referred to the committee until March 4, 1784) and issued its own re port on March 5. See JCC, 25:577n.2, 26:125-27; PCC, item 36, 2:235, 243, item 186, fols. 125, 137, item 191, fol. 46; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:12-15. The report was


[Page 347]
February 1, 1784 311 debated on March 25 and May 5, but Congress reached no decision probably because it had adopted the grand committee’s April 27 report (note 2 above) which had provided $107,525.33 for the civil department. In the May 17 report of the committee on unfin ished business, the Williamson committee’s report was listed in the section of those that “should be passed on previous to adjournment,” but later it was also listed among those needing no further action because they had been superceded by “subsequent Acts of Congress, or by an alteration of time and other circumstances.” See JCC, 26:164-65, 342-48, 27:398, 404-5. William Ellery to William Greene Annapolis Feby. 1st. 1784 The attention which your Excellency was pleased to give to my re quest to the General Assembly for a grant of money; your and their disposition to supply their public servants abroad, and the necessity which will oppress me before I can return home unless my purse should be recruited constrain me again through you to address them for another grant. I make this early application; because it is not probable that there will be more than one session before I shall leave Congress, and that I presume will be some time this month. Before I left Princeton I had expended the money I had received from the treasurer as well as other money I had taken with me, and was obliged to borrow to discharge my board. At Philadelphia I pur chased some cloathing; this, the repayment of what I had borrowed, my expenses for board there, on the road to this place and since I have been here, have consumed so large a part of the last grant that without a further supply it will be impracticable for me to discharge the debts I shall have contracted before my return. Sensible of the difficulty with which money is collected and of the numerous demands on the treasury I have reduced my expenditures to as small a compass as possible in order to lessen the occasion for calling upon the State. Before I left Princeton I sent home one of my horses; when I got to Philadelphia I sent of[f| the other (if I could have sold them there would have been less necessity for this application) and I would have dismissed my waiter also had it been possible for Mr. Howell and my self to pass the winter with any degree of conveniency, not to mention decency, without a servant. The board and wages of my waiter has made and will make my expenses greater than those of my colleague. Notwithstanding every retrenchment, such is and hath been my ex pense that I am compelled to sacrifice decency to my finances. How degrading, how humiliating it must be to a gentleman not to be able to return the invitations he receives I leave to the feelings of my constituents. I could wish that a stile of living more simple, and more conformable to republican principles universally prevailed; but


[Page 351]
February!,1784 315 only explanatory of the resolution of the 28th of June 1778. The amount of L.O. Certificates which draw real Intrest on the nominal depreciated principal is about 2% millions dollars—must note that a Committee is appointed to devise & report means of discharging them. The State of Maryland has assumed on itself upwards of a hun dred thousand pounds their currency of the L.O. debt due to its citi zens, & issued to the holders State certificates, the intrest of which is to be paid annually by the State, & the principal in due time. 6 No. 6, con tains measures adopted to obtain a full representation in Congress. 7 All measures, on this head, have hitherto proved ineffectual—only eight States are present. We have had nine but about a week since our adjournment to this place. What baneful planet interposes its malign influence!!! This is all the Apology I can make for not having better answered the just expectations of the people who have honored me with their confidence, & the important trust of representing them in Congress. Those who have less confidence than I have in the views of the present Congress, are less mortified on this occasion. No. 7, contains an act of the State of Maryland laying a duty on British vessels, &c. 8 Five Shillings per Ton is to be paid by all British vessels & 2 per Centum on their cargoes, in addition to duties already laid, or to be laid, on other vessels & cargoes. The act also empowers their delegates to ratify an additional article to the Confederation on the Subject of commerce. In a late Letter from Mr. Adams he observes that the present British Ministry (which being a coalition was thought to stand on a tottering foundation) gains strength & stability: 9 and that it is to be feared that the Orders of the British King in Council restraining our carrying trade will not be soon repealed. In that case some counteraction may be wise & proper on our part. I wish this subject may receive a serious consideration. What several States have done may be seen in the pub lic papers. It may be observed that Maryland has imposed duties on British trade to be paid into their own Treasury—And that altho’ they are disposed to invest Congress with power to prohibit the Importation of Foreign goods, &c. yet they are not disposed to invest Congress with power to impose duties on such goods. The power of regulating trade, so far as such regulations are bona fide not calculated to raise a revenue therefrom, would, in my humble opinion, be less dangerous in the hands of Congress than the power of raising a revenue. No. 8, contains copy of an Act of Massachusetts investing Congress with power to levy & collect a 5 pr Cent. Impost. 10 I cannot learn that they have complied with the other parts of the System of April 18th last; and a failure in one point, according to the resolves, will frustrate the whole. I observe that they have annexed some important proviso’s; And I will take the Liberty to name a few more. 1st. That the State should have credit for the monies collected within them respectively.


[Page 352]
316 February 1,1784 2dly. That all the officers employed in the collection & manage ment of the revenue within the States should be appointed by, & ac countable only to their States respectively. 3dly. That the Ordinance, under which the duties are to be col lected, should be framed by Congress & laid before the respective States to be enacted & executed under their authority. Should this Subject be taken up by the Legislature of our State & find powerful advocates, it is my earnest request that the official Let ters which I have heretofore written on this subject may be read, for the information of new members previous to putting the question, & considered as containing my present Sentiments & advice. This will prevent me the necessity of enlarging at present, which would only be a repetition of what is already on your Files. Our Ministers have not been able to negotiate for a term for the payment of British debts—nor for the release of intrest. It was well ar gued by them that G. Britain was the aggressor in the war—and there fore in equity responsible for its consequences—That it had disabled us & ruined many—That it would be for their intrest to give a term & so prevent numberless bankrupcies among us—that by their wrong done to us it was impossible for us during the war, to make payment & of course we were not in equity bound to pay intrest, which is in the nature of dammage. Even a lawful tender was impracticable. It is held, however, that intrest ought only to be allowed on Special contracts therefor & not on accounts. As the law is opened to British Creditors by the definitive Treaty, some States, whose citizens are greatly in debt to British Merchants, are alarmed. It is said that a bill is to be brought in the next Session of the Legislature in Virginia, to suspend execu tion on judgments for debts contracted before 1775—as well among their own citizens, as when one party is a foreigner. The Minister of France has lately arrived in this City. He was re ceived with demonstrations of joy. He has sent a note to Congress in forming that his Most Christian Majesty has been pleased to repeat his arret, suspending payment on navy bills for one year, so far as may re spect the citizens of the United States. 11 Should you be of opinion that these enclosures are of sufficient im portance, you will be pleased to lay them before the Honorable Gen eral Assembly at their next Session—And to assure them of my best wishes to promote the welfare of the State & the public good. I have the honor to be, dear Sir, with much esteeme, your most obedient hble Servt, David Howell RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Not found. 2 Postmaster general Ebenezer Hazard’s January 14 letter to Pres. Thomas Mifflin is in PCC, item 61, fols. 169-72. For the January 6 resolves referred to here, see ICC, 26:8-10.


[Page 353]
February 1, 1784 317 3 See Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, October 4, 1783, note 6. 4 See JCC, 25:680-95. 5 See the preceding entry, note 5. 6 See Howell to Paul Allen, December 18, 1783, note 3. 7 For the identity of this enclosure, see Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book, De cember 30-January 31, note 12. 8 See Pennsylvania Delegates to the Pennsylvania Council, December 30, 1783, note 4. 9 See the preceding entry, note 4. io See PCC, item 74, fols. 197-203. n This January 30 letter from the chevalier de La Luzerne is in PCC, item 95, 2:264-66. David Howell to William Greene Sir, Annapolis Feb. 1st, 1784. Your favor of Nov. 18th directed to Mr. Ellery & myself came duly to hand. I delayed answering it with a view of joining Mr. Ellery in writ ing an official Letter, but as he informs me that he wrote you by the last post, 1 I have thought it my duty to write without further delay. I am sensible of your attention in laying our several Letters before the Assembly—and of their goodness in making us the necessary grants of money for our expences. As our grants were made payable to the Deputy Governor, we have taken the Liberty to draw upon him in favor of Messieurs Hewes & Anthony of Philadelphia, whose friend ship has relieved us & enabled us to come forward to this place. It is nearly three months since Congress left Princeton & in this time, excepting the ratification of the definitive Treaty, nothing of consequence has been done. Notwithstanding the Summer had passed without a full House, or doing much business; our hopes were sanguine that a full representation would come in this winter & en able us to dispatch the most important business & adjourn over the Summer. As yet we have been disappointed, eight States only are pre sent—and nine have not been on the floor at once for more than about a week since our adjournment to this place, notwithstanding the most pressing applications have been made to the delinquent States. This is a Subject of no small chagrin to us, who are living at the public expence & prevented from doing the public business by an ob struction, which, on our part, is involuntary as well as invincible. No business has been omitted, to the transaction of which the States present have been competent, by the Confederation; & great industry has been used in digesting & preparing the remaining business that it may be the more readily dispatched by a full House. Whatever dissatis faction may prevail with the people at large on account of their busi ness not having been done; I hope their censure will be directed to its proper objects, Viz, those members of Congress who have criminally


[Page 355]
February 1, 1784 319 fall ultimately on the consumer & eventually oppress the poor, I do not wish to see them adopted in this country any further than real ne cessity may justify. It is my opinion that the late order of Assembly directing the Loan Officer to consolidate, & to issue his notes for one years intrest of L.O. certificates issued from his office had become really necessary. I am sorry that the benefit of this measure is to be confined to such hold ers of sd certificates as are citizens of the State.' 2 - This restriction will prove injurious to foreigners, & is not agreeable to the design of the requisi tion. Pennsylvania first adopted this plan, &, it seems, other States have followed their example, & perhaps the business will in future be done in this line; but what means have Congress to remedy the case of foreigners, who must wait for the surplussages to be remitted from the States to the public Treasury. The Minister of France has already re monstrated to Congress on this head 3 —and did it with the better grace as he had it in his power, at the same time to assure us that his Most C. Majesty had repealed his arret suspending payment on navy bills so far as the same respected citizens of the U. States. I pray you to make known these things to the General Assembly at their next Session; & to assure them of my sincere concern for their intrests. 1 have the Honor to be your Excys. most obedient & most hble Servt. David Howell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Not found. 2 For this Rhode Island Assembly resolve, see RI. State Records, 9:736. 3 See the preceding entry, note 11. Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock Sir. Annapolis Feby. 1st. 1784. We do ourselves the Honor to transmit to your Excellency, the Jour nals of Congress from the 3d of Novr. last, to the 23d of Jany. The Journals previous to the 3d of Novr. are not yet printed. We have also enclosed a Resolution upon a Letter from John Allen, tho’ we doubt not it has been forwarded before this, by the Secretary of Congress. 1 The Remonstrance from our Legislature, was read in Congress, com mitted the 18th of December last. 2 No Report is yet made thereon; we should have press’d this Matter more strenuously than we have done, if we had States enough represented to act upon such a Report as ought, & as we expect will be made. We have had nine States represented only three Days, since we have been in this Place. We shall not fail to urge an


[Page 356]
320 February 1, 1784 immediate Decission upon the Matters contain’d in the Remonstrance, after there shall be a sufficient Representation to act upon them. It is expected that Congress may so far dispatch the public Business in the Course of two Months; as to have a Recess of several Months, leaving a Committee of the States in the Interim. But this, however de sireable, depends entirely on a fuller Representation than we have at present. Several Matters of very high Consequence to the united States, & which require the Assent of nine States, are necessary to be done previous to an Adjournment. We are with Considerations of the most perfect Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient & most humble Servants Geo. Partridge Samuel Osgood RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Osgood and Partridge. 1 See Thomas Mifflin to Hancock, January 31, 1784. 2 This Massachusetts remonstrance “relative to Continental Bills of Credit of Old Emis sions,” embodied in Hancock’s October 28, 1783, letter to Congress, is in PCC, item 65, 2:225-28. It was referred on December 18 to a committee that was “renewed” on January 26 and discharged on April 8 after submitting a report that was referred to Grand Com mittee on March 27. Although the report was debated in May, Congress failed to act upon it before adjourning in June, at which time the Massachusetts delegates provided the Assembly a summary of the congressional proceedings on the remonstrance. See Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Assembly, June 4, 1784; JCC, 25:815, 27:395-97; PCC, item 186, fols. 139, 146; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:221-23.’ Jacob Read to Annis Stockton Annapolis 1st Feby 1784 My Dear, my good Mrs. Stocton 1 must not impute her not having heard from Me sooner to a Want of respect for her or to a want of a proper Sense of gratitude in myself; I assure her I entertain too lively a Sense of her favours and value her friendship too highly to incur a forfeiture of them willingly. She must for a moment step into the shoes of a distressed almost distracted Lover and if she will but for a few Minutes look round her in that Character she will par don all the Negligence, all the Seeming inattentions to other than the one Subject. Let her but add to the anxiety of the last Character the additional distressing scene of pale Sickness in the object beloved she will then readily excuse poor Read for all his seeming Ill behaviour. But to my good Friend I may Speak a little plainer. Your obliging sympathy forced me to Confess my case to you when I last Saw you and I will now tell you all. On my Coming down here I went immedi-


[Page 357]
February 1,1784 321 ately to the House of the father of my Charmer. I was received with the most marked politeness by the family, but my girl was too ill to be seen. I found means of writing to and hearing from her that her at- tacht. was undiminished. She became worse, which oblig[ed] me to wait on a Lady (my Cousin) in my carriage from Annapolis to see her. I still cou’d not be bless’d with a sight. I was almost mad. With the fa ther I conversed at a distance on the subject but as my last letters were unanswered I was desirous to have him break the subject. The Lady at last was near death. She made no Secret of her Attachment. I made a third Visit carried up Doctr. Williamson & was received with the love, the affection of a son. I know the Old Gendeman loved me but he was offended I had spoken to his Child before I paid him the Compliment of informing him of my Intention. He had made many general ap- pologies for his opposition. I forgive him, most heartily forgive him tho’ his obstinacy has cost me dear. But to speak of a more interesting scene, I have been admitted to visit my dear Girl! God, what a Change. I was almost petrified—posi tively I was Speechless, and if my limbs had been as much affected as my tongue, I had better turn away. I embraced all that remains of the once blooming lovely Miss Calvert. Now alas! a pale emaciated Skel- leton. She saw me and received me with that regard, true Modesty and distress that an absence of upwards of Two years wou’d naturally occa sion & was tho’ prepared for the interview very much overcome. Judge my dear Madam of my feelings, When I heard from her own lips that uneasiness of Mind and I the subject, had placed the finest woman on the Continent in such a state! Is this possible? Can your sex love with such truth? Pardon these questions! From my own feel ings I know the violence of the Attachments & the Sincerity of the Men but I own the frequent Inconstancies of the ladies & the ease with which they put off & forget love Engagements makes me rather doubtful in the Cases of females. Every assistance is now afforded and we have hopes but the Season— a Violent Cough & a threatned Consumption fill me with apprehensions which I will not attempt to paint, I am unequal to the task! Your own fine feelings & Comprehensive genius will better conceive them! All opposition at an end, I am a little more tranquil and in ruminat ing on past Scenes Morven frequently rises up to my Imagination. I place me by your Social fire Side, almost take the hand of my dear Sis ter Polly & am ready to Speak to Mamma. Sometimes I think I hear you say, the Scrubs have forgot us Polly! The gaiety of Annapolis has turned their heads. I see your expressive look & feel reproof but I have not deserved & I will not in future deserve it. Tho’ the Muse of Morven left unsung the parting of a Read, he has no right to say he was neglected! What right Can he have to Claim a first place in her es teem. Osgoods, Carrolls, McHenrys & many other Names art before


[Page 362]
326 February 2, 1784 Your Sentiments with Respect to the southern States, are very can did & charitable. Charity is an amiable Virtue. And in this Case, it cov ers a Multitude of Sins. How far their Apprehensions of being fixed permanently at Trenton, may operate, I know not. But this I am sure of, that they do not mean to have two federal Towns. And I venture to predict that there never will be two. They will endeavor to have the Resolutions of Congress so altered, as to have one permanent Place of Residence in some Part of Maryland or Virginia; & if they cannot ef fect this, they can another Point, which will be, to fix Congress again in Philadelphia. Here probably will be the Issue of federal Towns. I cannot find the shadow of a Reason to alter my former Opinion, with Respect to their aristocratical Principles; & if they vary from these, it will be to monarchical ones. It is impossible in the Nature of Things, that their Governments should be democratic. It is also impossible, that there should be a Coincidence of political Views, in some Matters of very great Importance to the Eastern States: for those who have ap peared to be honest Republicans, of which Number I have had the Misfortune to find not more than two or three, have uniformly depre ciated our Exertions, & denied to us that Justice, which is clearly due. Time only can discover which had the most Reason for his Opinion. I sincerely wish the Event may be as happy & favorable, as you expect it will. The present Members of Congress wear a different Aspect from those of the last year, but we have not had a fair Opportunity to dis cover their political Views. You ask what we have done to forward our commercial Arrangements. I answer, we have done nothing to for ward them; nor scarcely any Thing else. Since we have been at An napolis, we have had Nine States, but about six or seven Days—at present we have no Prospect of a sufficient Representation to transact the Business, which is necessary to be done, previous to the Adjourn ment of Congress. There are but a few Matters that keep Congress to gether, & these require the Assent of Nine States. It is cruel to the last degree, in those States which neglecting to keep up their Representa tion, oblige us to waste our Time, & spend the Money of our Con stituents, without being able to render them Services equivalent. But the Fault lies not with us. I am perswaded that our Commerce is of the highest Importance to us as a Nation: that the closest Attention must be paid to our commer cial Arrangements—and until they are placed upon the fair and lib eral Footing of mutual Reciprocity—& until they are extended to all Nations, that will afford us an advantageous Market for our Exports or that will furnish us upon the best Terms with Articles for our own Consumption, our commerce will be too limited & unproductive. It is not extraordinary that there should be a Desire, & even Attempts to limit our commercial Connections. But it will be strange, if we are so blind & inattentive to our own Interest, as to suffer ourselves to be


[Page 363]
February 2, 1784 327 caught in the snare. I do not recollect any Branches of Trade that are of so much Importance to our State, as the Whale & Cod fishery, & the carrying Trade. These several Branches at present do not stand upon a sure Foundation. It is true, we have a Right to take Fish by the Treaty, But that does not point out what we are to do with them. The Benifit that might result from this Part of the Treaty, depends very much upon the liberal sentiments that Great Britain shall adopt, when she enters into a commercial Treaty with us. You do not want to be in formed, that many of our own Countrymen do not only, not wish, but will use their Endeavors, that no such Connection shall ever be formed. Upon these three Branches of Trade, I conceive the future Wealth & Prosperity of our State entirely depend; & also the marine Power of the united States: the last, I am not anxious about in any other View than as the Result of the former. Bounties & Duties, may be so applied, as to destroy in a great Measure our Fisheries; These, & the carrying Trade, depend upon Treaties yet to be made. And would it not be astonishing, if we should for a great while to come, loose the Advantages that might result therefrom for the Want of Nine States in Congress. On these Points southern and Eastern Republicans will think very differently. You observe that if the Impost should be given to Congress, yet the collateral Funds will not be given—That the warmest Advocates for the Impost, voted for it, because they knew that their Arguments were not true in Fact. They knew that they then voted away other People’s Money; But when the Question shall be, to vote away their own Money, they will disagree to it. That consequently Congress will not have adequate Funds. You further observe, that a great Part of the Opposition to the Im post arises from a Want of Confidence in the Person, who is at the Head of the Treasury; from a Belief, that his Plans are artfully laid to subvert the Liberties of the People. That the Opposition to other Funds necessary to defray the Interest of the public Debt, is owing to the Want of honesty; & that nothing but the imminent Danger of a much greater Evil than that of parting with their Money, will induce the People to be honest: That not a single Government in the Union has sufficient Energy to enforce the Collection of their Taxes—That this is an Evil which will in the End produce it’s own Remedy. That the States are only manoeuvreing, to rid themselves of the Burthen of pay ing Taxes. That no System can be devised, which would be satisfactory to all. That the true System is contained in the Confederation, or rather the Principles of a proper System. That you are perswaded that were the Impost to be collected & committed to the present Adminis tration, it would be perverted to the most dangerous Purposes, & that this Kind of Revenue renders a fair Examination into mal Pra[c]tices, impracticable. And that Congress should persevere till they have as-


[Page 367]
February 2,1784 331 must be bro’t before Congress, or the Commissioner, or a discre tionary Power lodged somewhere, must be the Mode; I apprehend the first to be impracticable; & the other at least very objectionable. It is a very doubtful Matter, whether the Commissioners will be able in many years to close the Accounts—there is no great Reason why they should be in a hurry about it. If every Account is to be fairly transcribed, the Work in Detail must be immensely voluminous. The mere Expence of having the Accounts adjusted may be almost as great an Evil, as to let them remain unliquidated. With Respect to the Proposition; It must be supposed that the Leg islatures of the several States have exercised a proper Degree of Cau tion in contracting Debts. No good Reason can be given why they should involve themselves unnecessarily. Will it not naturally excite much Animosity, & ill Will, for Congress to call in Question their Wis dom & Prudence, more especially, for what they did after the Com mencement of the War, until the Confederation was ratified. The Contest during that Period, depended in a great Measure upon their Patriotism & Exertions. That they may have erred in Judgment, that they may have conducted without Regularity & System, is not extraor dinary. It is fortunate that all Matters have terminated successfully; & due Credit is to be given them for it. Will not the Policy be extremely narrow & contracted, if Congress should erect themselves into a Tri bunal, to sit in Judgment upon the several Legislatures, who, if they submit, will not do it in the most cordial Manner. It is not difficult to form an Estimate of the Difference of the two Ways, with Respect to Harmony & Satisfaction. But as it may respect the Interest of the States, it must be mere Matter of Opinion. It may be observed, that during the Period of Time referr’d to, the Expendi tures of the several States must have been principally, for public Pur poses, save those for the Support of civil Government, which is not a Matter of much Consequence; The civil List of the several States, from what I can collect, is not very different as to the whole Amount. If it is agreed that the remaining Part of the States Debts was contracted for supporting the general Cause, the Enquiry will be, whether they have assess’d & collected from their Citizens, Sums of Money in Proportion to their Abilities as States; and if not, how this Inequality will operate. Suppose two States of equal Abilities, the one had collected an hun dred Pounds from its Citizens, the other had contracted a Debt to the same Amount, it is plain that the Proposition would make a Differ ence of an hundred Pounds. But it is impossible that the Reality should operate so great an Inequality; because there is no State but what has collected considerable Sums of Money from its Citizens. There is one State in the Union, which is said to be in Debt twelve Mil lions of Dollars Specie; & that a great Part of this Debt arose from the Issuing of what were called Specie Certificates, which in the first In-


[Page 368]
332 February 2,1784 stance were pass’d at about Eighty pr. Cent. Discount compared with Specie. The Delegates of the State give the first as a Fact; but they do not agree to the last. The united States can never again be in Circumstances similar to those, previous to the Ratification of the Confederation. They now hope to be a happy, peaceable, & respectable Nation to the latest Ages. That this may really be the Case, much Liberality of Sentiment must be exercised among those that are truly Republican. Let us contrast the possible Inequality that might take Place from giving full Credit to the Wisdom & Prudence of the several sovereign Legislatures, for five or six Years only, with the unavoidable Discord that must ensue, if it is not done; & let a deliberate Opinion be formed thereupon; & will it not be in Favor of submitting to that pos sible Inequality, which in all Probability can never again exist under the regular Systems of Government that are now established. If the United States should ever be engaged in a War again, their past Expe rience will probably teach them to adopt in many Instances, very dif ferent Systems. But in the present Situation of Affairs, considering that there are six States in the Union, whose private Debts are a mere triffle compared with some others, considering that nine States will be necessary to pass to the Credit of any State, a Charge not expressly authorized by the Resolution of Congress, that the Towns damaged & destroyed, Ne groes carried off, Tobacco plundered & burnt, The Places laid Waste & in Possession of the Enemy. These & numberless other Charges, will be made, in Case we go on to liquidate upon the present Plan, consid ering these Things, does it seem probable that those six States will ever consent to any Thing more than what is expressly authorized al ready by the Resolutions of Congress. In Case the Proposition should be agreed to, what are to be done with the Securities? Are Funds to be given to Congress to discharge them? This would be neither necessary, nor admissable. The Amount of the States Debts, with that of the united States, might be divided among the respective States. When the Quotas shall be ascertain’d, the Amount of the State Debt, deducted (if less) from the Quota, will leave the Ballance which ought to be paid into the continental Chest. I am strongly induced to believe that this Plan would tend to prevent much Discord & Animosity. It is not probable that it would operate equal Justice, neither do I suppose the present will; What a Field will be opened, if the Ravages occasioned by the Enemy are to be liqui dated; yet this is set on Foot by the Superintendant of Finance; proba bly to Ballance the Claims of some States; & will it not have this Effect? The Proposition, if agreed to, would very speedily ease the united States of nearly forty thousand Dollars pr. Annum, which they now pay to Commissioners & their Clerks for settling the Accounts of the sev-


[Page 372]
336 February 2,1784 Sent to the Secy, in the war Office resolution of the 6th Inst, order ing brevet comissions to be issued to foreign Officers. 27 10th. Delivered Mr. Howell a Copy of a Letter of 11th July 1783 from the Legislature of Massachusetts—relative to half pay &c. &c. 28 February 11th. 1784. Deliver’d Canadian Officers a resolution of the 9th August 1783—respecting the Canadian refugees. Deliver’d the Prest. of Congress a resolution of 10th February 1784 relative to a Treaty with the Indians to be transmitted to Genl. Schuyler. 29 Delivered Mr. Osgood resolution of the 28th Jany. 1784. 30 Sent to the different States from New Hampshire to Georgia inclu sive 2 Copies of the proceedings of Congress from the 3 Novr. 1783 to the 24 Jany 1784. Sent 6 copies of the proceedings as above to Supt. of finance. Sent 2 copies Do. to J Carlton Secy in the War Office. 13th. Sent to the different States from N. Hampshire to Georgia 1 Copy of a Resolution of Congress of 1 Novr. recommending a full rep resentation from each State. 31 Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of a Resolution of Congress of February 11th 1784 founded upon a Letter of 20th Januy. last from J. Pierce Pay Master Genl. 32 Ditto to Joseph Carlton Secy, in the War Office one Copy of Ditto. Ditto to J. Pierce Pay Mast Genl, one Copy of Ditto. 14th. Sent to the Honble. the Minister of France the resolution for recognizing Consuls & vice consuls 11 Feby. 33 To Mr De Marbois the acts of recognition viz 13 for himself, 3 for de le Tombe, 3 for St Jean de Crevecoeur, 2 for D’Annemours & one for each of the five vice Consuls together with the Commissions & brevets wch are registered. Furnished Coll. Beatty with a resolution of Congress of the 23d Deer. 1784 [1783] .34 Sent by Post resolution of the 10th Feby. to Philip Schuyler Esqr. Sent to the Presdt. resolution of the 10 Feby to be sent to P. Schuyler. February 16. 1784. Transmitted toj Carlton Secy, in the War Office, the trials of Capts. Symonds & Christie and lieut. Huston & the trials of the privates of the Pensylvania line for mutiny, 35 to be filed in that Office, by the desire of Cha Thomson Esqr. Secy. Feby. 18. 1784. Copied for a Comee. of which Mr. Williamson is Chairman, a letter from Genl. Washington of the 1st of May covering a petition of Genl. Hazen. 36 Furnished the President with a copy of a report, respecting a full representation. 37 Sent to Mr de Marbois 2 copies of the proceedings of Congress from 1 Novr. 1783 to the 6th Feby. 1784. February 24. 1784. Furnished Mr. Gerry with a copy of the resolution of Congress of the 30th May 1783, 38 extracted from Secret Journal.


[Page 374]
338 February 2,1784 19 JCC, 26:63. 20 JCC, 24:496-98. 21 JCC, 26:58. 22 JCC, 26:42-44, 65-66. 23 Apparently the assembly’s instructions of September 12, 1783, on the necessity of holding a conference with the Indians “respecting lands appropriated for the use of the Pennsylvania line,” which are in PCC, item 69, 2:461-68. 21 JCC, 25:680-95. 25 JCC, 26:68-69. 26 Ibid., pp. 65-66. 27 Ibid., pp. 69-70. 23 PCC, item 66, 2:185-90. 2 9 JCC, 26:73-74. 30 Congress failed to achieve a quorum and consequently adopted no resolutions this day. See JCC, 26:50-51. 31 JCC, 25:790-91. 32 JCC, 26:80-81. 33 Ibid., pp. 78-79. 34 See JCC, 25:836-37; and John Beatty to William Livingston, February 20, 1784. 35 JCC, 25:564-66. 36 The Washington letter copied for Williamson is actually one of March 1, 1781, for which see PCC, item 78, 12:293; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 21:326-27. For additional documents and references related to the work of this committee, see PCC, item 78, 12:285-98; and JCC, 26:72n, 242-43. 37 See Thomas Mifflin to Certain States, February 20, 1784. 33 JCC, 24:369-71. 33 JCC, 26:92, 98. 40 See Thomas Mifflin to Clinton, February 24, 1784. 41 See PCC, item 78, 21:333-35. 42 PCC, item 42, 6:85a-88. 43 Ibid. 44 For the petition of Lt. Germaine Diony, see ibid., 2:303-6. 43 Ibid., 3:256-63. 43 JCC, 24:496-98, 26:98. 47 JCC, 26:99-100. 43 JCC, 23:586-91. «JCC, 26:48-49. Abiel Foster to Meshech Weare Sir Annapolis 3d. Febry 1784. It is disagreable to me to inform your Honr. that no determination hath yet been taken on the Memorial from the State concerning the Brigantine Lusanna. 1 On the twenty ninth Ulmo. I again called for the Report of the Committee on that subject, whereupon a Motion was made and seconded to postpone it generally, I called the Yeas & Nays, and it passed in the affirmative with but one negative besides my own.


[Page 380]
344 February5,1784 this House cannot be too solicitous that all engagements to the public Creditors of every species and particularly the Army who have so dis tinguished a claim to our esteem and gratitude, should be faithfully performed: They are therefore of opinion that the requisitions of Congress upon the States for funds, if yet insufficient, should be ex tended till they are fully commensurate to this object; and that the business of setting off the Lands designed by Congress for our line should be expedited, and the allotment of them in the vicinity of their other lands granted by this State requires your particular attention, it being considered by them, as an essential point. “Certain measures now pursuing by some European States having a tendency materially to injure the general trade of America, the atten tion of this House is naturally turned to the affairs of Commerce, and herein are struck with an apparent defect in the Constitution of Congress, for as the local exercise within the States, of the powers of regulating and controlling trade, can result only in discordant systems productive of internal jealousies and competitions, and illy calculated to oppose or counteract foreign measures, which are the effect of an unity of Council; this House are clearly of opinion, that the individual as well as general good will be best consulted, by relinquishing to Congress all these seperate and independant powers, “And this House are willing and desirous on the part of Pensylvania, to concur in substantiating this idea, by the necessary legal acts. “Another object of national consideration has been the establish ment of a Mint, and this House are desirous, your abilities should be employed to carry that useful design into effect.” 1 Submitted by, Thomas Mifflin John Montgomery Edwd. Hand RC (DNA: PCC, item 24). In a clerical hand and signed by Hand, Mifflin, and Montgomery. 1 Although this document actually contains three instructions—on the use of western lands for Continental veterans, granting Congress authority to regulate commerce, and “the establishment of a mint”—it was referred on February 6 to a committee charged with only the second of these. This committee, to which was also referred a Virginia act “empowering Congress to take measures for counteracting the proclamation of [George III] respect[in]g restrictions on trade,” consisted of Jeremiah Townley Chase, Elbridge Gerry, Arthur Lee (replaced by Thomas Jefferson April 14), Jacob Read, and Hugh Williamson, and it submitted a report on April 22. See PCC, item 24, fols. 175-76, item 186, fol. 148; and JCC, 26:70-71. For the background of the committee’s work,


[Page 386]
350 February 12,1784 For a discussion of the ramifications of this resolution, particularly as related to the concept of allegiance and the possibilities of a “national citizenship” implied in the offer of “the protection of the United States,” see James H. Kettner, The Development of American Citizenship, 1608-1870 (Chapel Hill: Published for the Institute of Early Ameri can History and Culture by The University of North Carolina Press, 1978), pp. 221-22. John Montgomery to Edward Hand Dear Sir Annoplas 12th Febry 1784 The inclosed Letter Came by the Post and which I now Send to you. 1 Thire is nothing done in Congrass Since you left us. We are now to Chuse a Deputy Secrty for Charles Thomson. Humphreys and Emson are also in nomination for this office so that Humphreys Stand a prity good Chance for one of them. I think that Emson will be apointed to the Latter and Humphreys to the former. 2 Too day we were to have apointed but thire was not a Congrass. Shall be glad to hear from you. I am Dear Sir your assured Frind and Humbl Servt, John Montgomery RC (PHarH: Hand Papers). Addressed: “Honble Edward Hand at Lanchester.” 1 Not identified. 2 Montgomery’s writing is opaque, but Congress had resolved on February 3, before Hand’s departure, to appoint an under secretary for the department of foreign affairs, a decision postponed on the 6th, and on the 10th and 11th, when Congress also or dered ‘That to-morrow be assigned for electing a deputy secretary” for Charles Thom son. Congress eventually took up both issues on the 24th and 25th without reaching a decision, but finally elected Henry Remsen, Jr., under secretary in the office for foreign affairs on March 2. However, the post of deputy secretary to Thomson, which had been left vacant at the resignation of George Bond on October 31, 1783, was not filled until June 23, 1785, when Roger Alden was elected. See JCC, 25:771, 26:64-65, 70, 74, 77, 93, 122, 28:474; and PCC, item 18A, fols. 160-66. “Emson” is apparently a reference to Henry Remsen. David Humphreys, a former Washington aide who had recently been recommended by the general to Congress for employment, was eventually elected on May 12 to be “Secretary to the Commission for negotiating treaties of Commerce with foreign powers.” See JCC, 27:375; PCC, item 78, 12:279-82; and Jacob Read to Washing ton, February 1, 1784, note 3. Charles Thomson to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir, Annapolis Feby. 12, 1784. On the 23 of July last a letter of 23 April from the Superintend’! of finance on the regulation of a Mint and a letter of 12 Deer. 1782 from the same respecting the rate of foreign coins were referred to a comee. of which you were chairman. As the comee never reported & of consequence the letters have not been returned I shall be much


[Page 387]
February 12,1784 351 obliged if you will please to examine whether they remain in your pos session and if so to forward them to me by the first opportunity to gether with any other public papers you may chance to have belong ing to Congress. 1 I am, Sir, with much esteem & respect, Sir, Your obedt. humble servt. Chas Thomson Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Papers). Endorsed by Burnett: “Copied from the original, then in the possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 A reply from FitzSimons to Thomson of February 18 enclosing papers belonging to Congress is in the PCC (item 78, 9:507), but this appears to be in response to an earlier letter from Thomson, as FitzSimons indicates that he is responding to “Your favor of the 3d.” Thomson wrote again to FitzSimons on March 22 about the letters from the super intendent of finance mentioned here, for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 7:739-40, 742n.l2; and Thomson to FitzSimons and to Robert Morris, March 22, 1784. Hugh Williamson to Thomas Ruston Dear Sir 1 Feby 12th 1784. It gave me much satisfaction to be informed, as I was by yours of Octr 10th which came to hand this morning, that you retain your Health—though I am sensibly affected by Mrs Ruston’s repeated losses of her fine Boys. I am sure the Thought of having Sons who might be free men & Princes in a free Country must be singularly pleasing to a Lady who seems to possess so much of the true Spirit of an antient Spartan or Roman Matron. I mentioned her name to Dr Lee this morning who spoke of her with great respect and she knows he is not apt to be much attached to or to flatter Ladies, I admit that apathy and misanthropy itself could not excuse a man from bestowing Praise on such a Lady as the one referd to. Your father whom I saw on Novr last in Philada. told me that you talked of a visit to this Country. Be so good as to tell Mrs R that such a Visit would certainly cast me a Ride for I should not begrudge a Ride of some length to have the Pleasure of congratulating her on her arrival in that Country which In my Heart I think is the only country on the face of the Earth where human Nature is not degraded by some species of Servitude. How can you wonder that I did not write by my Brother? In fact he went contrary to my intreaties. I gave him no Letters nor ought but advice which was if he should do so absurd a Thing as take an oath of Obedience to that King—to see to it that he did not return at least during the War unless he wished to be treated by his nearest Relations as an Alien. Whatever I may have said about your sensations on the treaty of Peace you cannot suppose that I had serious doubts of your political Sentiments when you recollect that you was the only Ameri can in London to whom I even intimated a design of returning to


[Page 388]
352 February 12, 1784 America, Captn Hutchins excepted who was then a Captn in the 40th Regt, and has since come over & is in our Service. I was then pos sessed of more secrets than his, but when a man is conscious of a fair Conduct arising from upright Intensions, I think him a small politi cian or a vile courier of popularity who will take the trouble of making a single declaration merely to remove the Suspicions or prevent the Tattle of idle or silly impertinents. Oft have I since that Time seen an Officer by an idle shew of his Intentions cut off a fair opportunity of defeating his Enemy. As all the vacant Lands were in the Charter Claims of one or an other State Congress as such had none unless some States should re linquish. New York had relinquished and Virga has just relinquished her claim to all the Land on tother Side of the Ohio & extending from the Lakes to the Mississippi. Their act of Assembly came to hand three days ago and the Delegates on tomorrow or next day are to exe cute the Conveyance in behalf of the State. We shall have some Pre liminaries to settle with the Indians who are many of them collected at this Inst, with the desire of treating with us. We are first to set off the Lands we owe to our Army. We shall then sell Land to sink our Na tional Debt and I presume on the next Summer a good Part of that Country will be allotted to the Purposes mentioned. Several of the States however have large Tracts of vacant Land which they have not ceded to Congress. The Office in N. Carolina has been opened on the last Summer and much Land taken up since that Time. Part of the Debts of the State are sunk in that manner. I have taken up some Land in our Western Country in Company with two other Gentlemen, one of whom served with me in the Army, and since the Peace has had Leisure to attend to our joint private affairs. Thinking that a man might fairly risque his Property Where he risqued his Person, I had advanced freely to the State, or rashly as the more cautious expressd it. I am one of those who have in no Instance had occasion to com plain of my Country. We can furnish a number of industrious Planters with a Tract of One hundred Thousand A[cre]s which is on Tenissee River which rises in the blue Ridge & runs into the Ohio. Those Lands are exceeding good, the Climate temperate so as to have hardly the appearance of Winter and withall very healthy. We are in contract for a larger Tract of four or five hundred Thousand Acres & by this Time I presume the Bargain is finished. That other Tract is on the Bend of what is calld the Cherokee River. Some of the best Land that was ever warmed by the Sun. I can only say that for your own Accot if you have any wish to have a few A[cre]s of terra firma & will explain your Views to me I will endeavour to see that you shall not be disap pointed. Dont charge me again with severe insinuations when I re mind you that aliens cannot hold soil in the United States. Is not the Word just marked a strange one when apply’d to a native of this Coun-


[Page 389]
February 12, 1784 353 try. But such is the fact and you may be assured that we are very atten tive to this Distinction. However the means of becoming a Citizen with us is extremely easy. Was not this distinction held up British Mer chants and others would try to hold us again in a species of Slavery by getting Mortgages & other holds of our Lands. As for yourself it cer tainly will not be difficult for you to make a Trustee of some Person on whose name the Lands may be taken up and who may reconvey to you if ever the Time should come when you could hold the Soil in propri nomine, if not, it might be sold for your Benefit. I cannot devise what the Price of vacant Lands may be; those I mean in the disposal of Congress. You doubtless know that our national debt is estimated at some thing less than Ten Millions Sterlg viz 42 Mills, of Dlrs. Of this near 8 mills of Dlrs are due to foreign Countries viz France, Holland, Spain. The remr. is due to our late Army & other Citizens of these States, for their Claims they hold Certificates at the Interest of 6 Per Ct. Small as this National Debt is, from the strong Im pressions made by the late Paper Money, The Certificates, which are also unfortunately on Paper, are much depredated; a good deal more than your Bank Stock. It is probable that the Office will open for the disposal of Land at a certain number of Dlrs Per Hundd As. to be paid in Silver or Certificates, you may be assured that no man will pay Silver while he can buy Certificates as at present at 25 or 30 Per Ct. Certifi cates will doubtless in a short Time appreciate so that the first adven turers will be apt to get their Land, on the best Terms. Be pleased to observe this is matter of meer Opinion, for the Terms have not ever been mentioned in Congress in my hearing, and though I have nearly perfected a Plan for the general & particular partition of the western Country which seems to be approved of by those who have examined it; the Question of Value I have not once considered. On the other Questions there can hardly be a difference of Opinion. I fervently wish to see an extinction of our national Debt—The borrower is a Slave to the Lender. Arguments have been often advanced in favour of national Debt. There are also Arguments in favour of Vice & Lux ury; they employ the poor. I wish to see America subsist without such Splinters. They may be apply’d to shattered frames. We are in the Vigour of Youth. Is it not strange, for it is certain, that some States whose numbers have been correctly taken, have increased in the Number of Inhabitants during the War. This is doubtless true also of the Inhabitants of the United States; And People are already removing in Thousands to live over the Mountains. We shall soon have three or four new States on the Waters of the Ohio. You know that Pennsylvana is now in the Center of Thirteen, but the Increase of States will be to the Southward. To this we look which is the true Cause why some of us are very desirous that Congress should at once take its Station and build a foederal Town near the falls of Potowmack. The Eastern States


[Page 399]
February 18,1784 363 persons who ascended in it regulated it’s height at about 3000 feet, and passed with the wind about 6 miles in 20 minutes when they chose to let themselves down, tho’ they could have travelled triple the distance. This discovery seems to threaten the prostration of fortified works unless they can be closed above, the destruction of fleets and what not. The French may now run over their laces, wines &c. to Eng land duty free. The whole system of British statutes made on the sup position of goods being brought into some port must be revised. In land countries may now become maritime states unless you chuse rather to call them aerial ones as their commerce is in future to be car ried on through that element. But jesting apart I think this discovery may lead to things useful. For instance there is no longer a difficulty how Congress shall move backwards and forwards, and your bungling scheme of moving houses and moving towns is quite superseded, 2 we shall soar sublime above the clouds. It is happy for us too that this in vention happens just as philosophy is taking such a start in our own hemisphere: for I find by the last election of members to the Society 3 there are no less than 21 new philosophers found, every one of whom is superior to my countryman Madison. From philosophy I must pass on to domestic things and thank you for your notice of my little daughter whose education and improvement is my first object now. I am sure your advice and society will forward these works with her. I am sorry Cimetiere 4 thinks her a dull subject in his line. I do not fore see that she will ever have another opportunity of learning to draw, and it is a pleasing accomplishment and a valuable one in many cir cumstances. 5 As to his pay, I would wish him to receive what he thinks due to him, because I would even purchase his peace at that price. Perhaps I may be able to get him to persevere when I return to Philadelphia which will probably be in the spring—but stop or I shall let out the secret. Much health and happiness to yourself and family, and sincere respects to Mr. and Mrs. Rittenhouse, remaining myself with great sincerity Dr. Sir Your friend & servt, Th. Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:541-43. 1 Hopkinson’s “favour” of January 4, in which he enclosed “A Literary Christmas Gambol” and “A Sample of good Writing,” is in ibid., pp. 443-47. 2 Jefferson’s allusion is to a “scheme” Hopkinson had advanced in his satire of Congress’ decision in October to build two federal towns, which was published in the Freeman’s Journal (Philadelphia), November 26, 1783. In this “Summary of Some Late Proceedings in a Certain Great Assembly,” Hopkinson had proposed that to avoid the expense of two sets of buildings for the two sites, Congress might instead build one “im perial city” on wheels. 3 That is, the American Philosophical Society in Philadelphia. 4 That is, Pierre Eugene Du Simitiere (ca. 1736-1784), artist, naturalist, and collector, for whom see these Letters, 14:228,15:471; and the DAB. 5 Jefferson also wrote to his daughter Patsy this day concerning the termination of her drawing lessons with Du Simitiere, and her attempts to master French, for which see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:543-44.


[Page 400]
364 February 20,1784 John Beatty to William Livingston Sir Annapolis 20th Feby. 1784 This is the fourth letter, 1 I have done myself the Honor to write Your Excelly. on the Subject of a representation of our State in Congress. Under the fullest persuasion, that Your Excelly. has made every Ex ertion (consistant with the important office you fill) to bring forward another Member; I should not have so recently troubled you on this Score, were I not pressed to it at the particular desire of the present representation on the Floor of Congress: thus Constrained, I am again to Solicit Your Excellys. interference in this Business. In addition to the letter from the President, which accompanies this, 2 I have to In form you, that the General discontent, which prevails among the Members attending, has become so serious & alarming, that it threat ens a dissolution of Congress & Eventually that of the Union. Nor is it to be wondered at, that gentlemen, who have given the most assidu ous attendance for these Six Months past, to promote the Interest, Happiness & Safety of the U.S. generally; should be disgusted at the delay of the important Concerns of the Union, being carried into Ef fect thro the remissness & inattention of the States particularly delin quent. There is no power in the Confederation; nor any Rule of the House to Compel the members to attend, or even to remain at the place where Congress are Convened; & should the Gentlemen who are now here, either thro a Sense of the Duty they owe to their States (in saving a useless Expence) or tired out with their repeated, yet fruitless endeavours to Coerce an attendance of those States unrepre sented; wholly withdraw themselves: Your Excelly. will readily conceive the Confusion which would Ensue & the Danger arising to the Union at large. Inclosed is a Copy of a report which was read in Congress on the 13th Inst. 3 but which could not since be taken up & acted on for the want of seven States. I cannot help flattering Myself, that when this State of things comes to be laid before the Gentlemen, who are in the Delegation with me; that one or other of them will be induced to at tend: and I must here take occasion to Mention also, that the adjourn ment to Trenton in the Spring will depend wholly upon the represen tation that Exists in Congress of the Nothern States. I have not been honored with a letter from your Excelly. since my being here, 4 but am inclined to attribute it to the Irregularity of the Posts. I must beg you to present my respectfull Comps, to Mrs. Liv ingston & the Young Ladies. With sentiments of respect & Esteem, I have the Honor to be, your Excellys. most obedt., Hum Servt. Jno. Beatty RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Only Beatty’sjanuary 22 and February 10 letters to Livingston have been found.


[Page 401]
February 20,1784 365 2 See Thomas Mifflin to Certain States, this date. 3 See JCC, 26:84. 4 A February 9 letter to Beatty from Livingston is in Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:80. Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis Feb. 20. 1784. Your favour of the 11th inst. came to hand this day.' I had prepared a multitude of memorandums of subjects whereon to write you, but I will first answer those arising from your letter. By the time my order got to Philadelphia every copy of Smith’s history of New York was sold. 2 I shall take care to get Blair’s Lectures for you as soon as pub lished, 3 and will attend to your presumed wishes whenever I meet with any thing rare & of worth. I wish I knew better what things of this kind you have collected for yourself, as I may often doubt whether you have or have not a thing. I know of no objections to the printing the revisal; 4 on the contrary I think good will result from it. Should this be decided I must make a short trip to Virginia, as from the loss of origi nals I believe my copies must often be wanting. I had never met with the particular fact relative to the grinders of the incognitum found in Brasil & Lima & deposited in the British museum which you mention from Dr. Hunter. 5 I know it has been said that in a very few instances such bones have been found in S. America. You will find a collection of these in 2. Buff. Epoq. de la nature 187. but they have been so illy attested, so loosely & ignorantly described, and so seldom even pre tended to have been seen, that I have supposed their identity with the Northern bones, & perhaps their existence at all not sufficiently estab lished. The authority of Hunter is respectable: but if this be the only well attested instance of those bones brought from S. America, they may still be beleived to have been first carried there either previous to the emigration of the Spaniards when there was doubtless a communi cation between the Indns. of the two continents, or after that emigra tion when an intercourse between the Spaniards of N. & S. America took place. It would be unsafe to deny the fact; but I think it may well be doubted. I wish you had a thermometer. Mr. Madison of the col lege 6 & myself are keeping observations for a comparison of climate. We observe at Sunrise & at 4 o’clock P.M. which are the coldest & warmest points of the day. If you could observe at the same time it would shew the difference between going North & Northwest on this continent. I suspect it to be colder in Orange or Albemarle than here. I think I informed you in my last 7 that an attempt had been made to ratify the Definitive treaty by seven states only, and to impose this under the sanction of our seal (without letting our actual state ap pear) on the British court. Reade, Williamson & Lee were violent for


[Page 402]
366 February 20, 1784 this, and gave notice that when the question should be put they would call the yeas & nays, and shew by whose fault the ratification of this im portant instrument should fail, if it should fail. I prepared the in closed resolution 8 by way of protest & informed them I would place that also on the journals with the yeas & nays, as a justification of those who opposed the proposition. I beleive this put a stop to it. They suffered the question to rest undecided till the 14th of Jan. when 9 states appeared & ratified. Colo. Harmer & Colo. Franks were immediately dispatched to take passages to Europe with copies of the ratification, but by the extraordinary severity of the season we know they had not sailed on the 7th inst. The ratification will not therefore arrive in time. Being persuaded I shall be misrepresented within my own state, if any difficulties should arise, I inclose you a copy of the protest containing my reasons. 9 Had the question been put there were but two states who would have voted for a ratification by seven. The others would have been in the negative or divided. I find Congress every moment stopped by questions whether the most trifling money propositions are not above the powers of seven states as being appro priations of money. My idea is that the estimate for the year & requisi tion grounded on that, wherein the sums to be allowed to each de partment are stated, is the general appropriation which requires 9 states, & that the detailing it out provided they do not go beyond these sums may be done by the subordinate officers of the federal gov ernment or by a Congress of 7 states. I wish you to think of this & give me your thoughts on the subject. 10 We have as yet no Secy, of Foreign affairs. (Lee} 11 avows himself a candidate. The plan of Foreign affairs likely to take place is to commission Adams, Franklin & Jay to con clude treaties with the several European powers, and then to return, leaving the feild to subordinate characters. Messrs. Adams & Jay have paid a visit to the court of London unordered & uninvited. Their re ception has been forbidding. (Luzern [e] leaves} us in August, whether (recalled) or on (his own request} is not known. This information comes from (himself) tho’ is not as yet (spok[e]n) of (publicly. 12 Lee) finding no {faction) among the (men) here, entered into that among the (women) which rages to a very high degree. A (bal[l] ] being ap pointed by the one party on a certain {night} he undertook to {give} one, and fixed it precisely on the same {night}. This of course has placed him in the midst of the mud. He is {courting Miss Sprig} a {young girl} of {seventeen} and of {thirty thousand pound[s]} expecta tion. I have no doubt from some conversations with (him) that there is a design agitating to sever the {Northern Nec[k][ and add it to this {state. He} supported in conversation with me the propriety & neces sity of such a general measure, to wit of enlarging the (small states} to interest them in the {union. He} deserves to be well {watched} in our state. {He} is extremely soured with it and is not cautious in betraying


[Page 404]
368 February 20,1784 first movers. Whereas if we draw the line those at Kentucky having their end will not interest themselves for the people of Indiana, Greenbriar &c. who will of course be left to our management, and I can with certainty almost say that Congress would approve of the meridian of the mouth of Kanhaway and consider it as the ultimate point to be desired from Virginia. I form this opinion from conversa tion with many members. Should we not be the first movers, and the Indianians & Kentuckians take themselves off and claim to the Al- leghaney I am afraid Congress would secretly wish them well. Virginia is extremely interested to retain to that meridian, 1. because the Gr. Kanhaway runs from North to South across our whole country form ing by its waters a belt of fine land, which will be thickly seated & will form a strong barrier for us, 2. because the country for 180 miles be yond that is an absolute desart, barren & mountainous which can never be inhabited, & will therefore be a fine separation between us & the next state, 3. because the government of Virginia is more conve nient to the people on all the upper parts of Kanhaway than any other which will be laid out, 4. because our lead mines are in that country, 5. because the Kanhaway is capable of being made navigable, and therefore gives entrance into the Western waters to every part of our latitude, 6. because it is not now navigable & can only be made so by expensive works, which require that we should own the soil on both sides, 7. because the Ohio and it’s branches which head up against the Patowmac affords the shortest water communication by 500 miles of any which can ever be got between the Western waters & Atlantic, & of course promises us almost a monopoly of the Western & Indian trade. I think the opening this navigation is an object on which no time is to be lost. Pennsylva. is attending to the Western commerce. She has had surveys made of the river Susquehanna and of the grounds thro’ which a canal must pass to go directly to Philadelphia. It is reported practicable at an expense of £200,000 and they have determined to open it. What an example this is! If we do not push this matter imme diately they will be beforehand with us & get possession of the com merce, and it is difficult to turn it from a channel in which it is once established. Could not our assembly be induced to lay a particular tax which should bring in 5 or 10,000 £ a year to be applied till the navi gation of the Ohio & Patowmac is opened, then James river & so on through the whole successively. Genl. Washington has that of the Pa towmac much at heart. The superintendance of it would be a noble amusement in his retirement & leave a monument of him as long as the waters should flow. I am of opinion he would accept of the direc tion as long as the money should be to be emploied on the Patowmac, & the popularity of his name would carry it thro’ the assembly. The portage between Yohogania & the N. branch of Patowmac is of 40 or 50 miles. Cheat river is navigable far up. It’s head is within 10 miles of


[Page 405]
February 20, 1784 369 the head of the North branch of Patowmac & I am informed offers the shortest & best portage. I wish in the next election of delegates for Congress, Short could be sent. 18 His talents are great & his weight in our state must ere long become principal. I see the best effects pro duced by sending our young statesmen here. They see the affairs of the Confederacy from a high ground; they learn the importance of the Union & befriend federal measures when they return. Those who never come here, see our affairs insulated, pursue a system of jealousy & self interest, and distract the Union as much as they can. Genl. Gates would Supply Short’s place in the council very well, and would act. He is now here. What will you do with the council? They are ex pensive, and not constantly nor often necessary: yet to drop them would be wrong. I think you had better require their attendance twice a year to examine the Executive department & see that it be going on rightly; advise on that subject the Governor or inform the legislature as they shall see occasion. Give them 50 guineas for each trip, fill up only 5 of the places, and let them be always subject to summons on great emergencies by the Governor, on which occasions their ex- pences only should be paid. At an expence of 500 guineas you will thus preserve this member of the constitution always fit for use. Young & ambitious men will leave it & go into the assembly, but the elderly & able who have retired from the legislative feild as too turbulent will ac cept of the offices. Among other legislative subjects our distresses ask notice. I had been from home four months & had expended 1200 Dollars before I received one farthing. By the last post we received about seven weeks allowance. In the mean time some of us had had the mortification to have our horses turned out of the livery stable for want of money. There is really no standing this. The supply gives us no relief because it was mortgaged. We are trying to get something more effectual from the treasury, having sent an express to inform them of our predicament. I shall endeavour to place as much in the Philadel phia bank as will repay your kindness unless you should alter your mind & chuse to take it in the Virginia treasury. I have hunted out {Chatlux} journal & had a reading of it. 19 I had never so falsely esti mated the character of a book. There are about six sentences of offen sive bagatelles which are all of them publicly known, because having respected individual characters they were like carrion for the buzzard curiosity. All the rest of the book (and it is a 4to. of 186 pages) is ei ther entertaining, or instructive & would be highly flattering to the Americans. He has visited all the principal feilds of battle, enquired minutely into the detail of the actions, & has given what are probably the best accounts extant of them. He often finds occasion to criticize & to deny the British accounts from an inspection of the ground. I think to write to him, recommend the expunging the few exception able passages & publication of the rest. I have had an opportunity


[Page 406]
370 February 20, 1784 here of examining Bynkershoek’s works. There are about a fourth part of them which you would like to have. They are the following tracts. Questiones juris publici—de lege Rhodia—de dominio maris— du Juge competent des Ambassadeurs, for this last if not the rest has been translated into French with notes by Barbeyrac. 20 I have had from Boinod & Gaillard a copy of Mussenbroeck’s cours de Physique. 21 It is certainly the most comprehensive & most accurate body of Natl. Philosophy which has been ever published. I would rec ommend to you to get it, or I will get that and any other books you want from Boinod or elsewhere. I hope you have found access to my library. I beg you to make free use of it. Key, the steward is living there now & of course will be always in the way. Monroe is buying land al most adjoining me. Short will do the same. What would I not give you could fall into the circle. With such a society I could once more ven ture home & lay myself up for the residue of life, quitting all it’s con tentions which grow daily more & more insupportable. Think of it. To render it practicable only requires you to think it so. Life is of no value but as it brings us gratifications. Among the most valuable of these is rational society. It informs the mind, sweetens the temper, chears our spirits, and promotes health. There is a little farm of 140 as. adjoining me, & within two miles, all of good land, tho’ old, with a small indifferent house on it, the whole worth not more than £250. Such a one might be a farm of experiment & support a little table & houshold. It is on the road to Orange & so much nearer than I am. It is convenient enough for supplementary supplies from thence. Once more think of it, and Adieu RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:544—50. • See ibid., pp. 537-38. 2 See Jefferson to Madison, December 11, 1783, note 3. 3 That is, the Rev. Dr. Hugh Blair’s Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Retires, 2 vols. (Lon don, 1783), which Jefferson purchased for Madison in May 1784. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:288, 290n. 4 For the revision of Virginia’s statutes, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 7:419n.7. 3 Ibid., p. 419n.l0. 6 That is, the Rev. James Madison, president of the College of William and Mary. 7 See Jefferson to Madison, January 1, note 4. 8 See Jefferson’s Draft Resolution, December 27, 1783, note 2. 9 That is, ibid. 10 For Madison’s “thoughts on the subject,” see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:8-9. 11 That is, Virginia delegate Arthur Lee. Words printed in braces in this text were written byJefferson in cipher. 12 In fact, the French minister officially notified Congress of his intentions on April 21 and he departed for France in June. See Thomas Mifflin to the Chevalier de La Luzerne, May 17, 1784. 13 For Madison’s comments on the proposed alienation of the Northern Neck of Vir ginia, see Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 8:10-11. 14 For Madison's admission of error, see ibid., p. 9.


[Page 408]
xn February 20, 1784 and taking measures for securing our frontiers, preserving our stores and Magazines; making requisitions for the expences of the current year and for satisfying the public Creditors. I have only to add that by the sickness of some of the Members, at tending at Annapolis, we have had seven States represented in Congress only three days since the sixth Inst.; as your Excellency will observe by the enclosed certificate of the Secretary, 1 and, that the Members present are dissatisfied with attending to no purpose, and are very impatient under their situation. I am with the greatest Re spect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin 2 ENCLOSURE Saturday February 7th, only five States attended. Monday February 9th, only six. Tuesday & Wednesday 10th, and 11th seven States attended. Thursday February 12, only five States attended. Friday February 13th, seven States attended, Only six States, attended. The States unrepresented, are New Hampshire, New York, New Jer- Wednesday Feby, 18th, Thursday Feby. 19th, Friday Feby. 20th, Saturday Feby. 21st, Monday Feby 16th, only five. Tuesday Feby. 17th, sey, Delaware, and Maryland, North Carolina and Georgia. 21 Feby. 1784. Cha. Thomson. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hamp shire. N.B. A similar letter was sent to the Governors of New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, North Carolina and Georgia.” 1 See enclosure, the text of which is taken from the copy sent to Pennsylvania Presi- dentjohn Dickinson. Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:207. 2 Mifflin also appended the following information to his letter to the president of Pennsylvania, who is not among the addressees noted in Mifflin’s letterbook. “States not represented: New Hampshire—One Delegate present. New York. New Jer sey—One Delegate present. Delaware—One Delegate present. Maryland—One Dele gate attending. One sick. North Carolina—One Delegate attendg. One sick. Georgia.” Ibid.; and Gratz Collection, PHi. John Montgomery to Edward Hand Sir Annoplas 20th Febry 1784 Agreeable to your Requist I have sent Sevral Letters for you that Came by the post and are returned by him to Philada. which I hop is


[Page 412]
376 February 20,1784 large quantities of land when this Country was invaded by the enemy, generously stepped forth in defence of their Country and some of them nobly fell in the Conflict, whose memory we honor and revere. That a number of your memorialists from the causes abovesaid and their having heretofore been constrained to live in forts & stations for their own safety & defence, and generally on land claimed by other persons, have spent the most of their little effects they brought with them, which has rendered them unable either to move away or pur chase land at the advance price the monopolizers hold it; and now after our long struggle in defending the Country & the land they pretend to hold, at our own expence, with the great loss of blood & Treasure, be forced to give an exorbitant price, or rent the land we have been fight ing for, or turn off, we complain of as a great hardship & grievance. We would further represent, that kind providence has been very bountiful to this remote inland Country in supplying it with a number of salt springs which we humbly conceive ought to be held sacred & for the use of the community in general, but we are sorry to say they are engrossed by Individuals and mostly non-residenters of this settle ment, that they have exacted extravagant rents for the privilege of making salt, which has greatly enhanced the price of that most useful, necessary article. Your memorialists would further beg leave to observe, that from our local situation, Nature placed us at too great a distance from the State of Virginia to be governed by one legislature; the nature of our cir cumstances differ so materially that it is almost impossible for the leg islature of Virginia at such a distance to frame such salutary, whole some laws that might in all cases answer the weal & interest of this Country; that many salutary laws made for our ease and comfort, from our remote situation, either expires or losses their good intentions be fore we have timely notice thereof; that from our situation we cannot have that equitable representation we are entitled to; that residenters & Men that has families to take care of & provide for, let them be ever so well qualified, declines the arduous task to represent us in Assem bly, unless they have private business of their own to induce them to attend, and be so long absent from their interest and families. That all the public business of this settlement is transacted & governed by the Legislature of Virginia, that most of the profitable Posts & Offices is held by Non-residenters & transacted by their deputies, that all grants & patents for land and other public Offices is transacted and done in Virginia, by which and other means all the little ready specie that can be collected is drained out of this settlement to the great damage & impoverishing thereof, that the salaries & fees of public Offices, levies & taxes raised, are all rated in tobacco which, from its fluctuating price, makes it very uncertain, and this Settlement as yet, raises no to bacco for exportation, it lays the Assessors & Collectors under great


[Page 419]
February 21,1784 383 About the most eligible mode of disposing of these lands there are various opinions. It has been the custom of the Southern States to issue warrants from a land office. The person taking the warrant has to look for unlocated lands to cover with his warrant, of which he makes a return. In this way the good land is looked out & seized on first—and land of little value & in all shapes left in the hands of the public: But this, I am told soon rises in value & is bought by the hold ers of the adjacent good lands in their own defence. In the eastern States, as you well know, the custom has been to sell a township by bounds, or certain lots, taken flush, good & bad together, & to push out settlement in compact columns. The measures to be finally adopted on this head must be the result of mutual concessions: & what they will be remains quite uncertain. Whether one general land- office ought to be opened, or one in each State is a question unde cided, There being different opinions among the members present. But the price of the land is the chief question after all. If the liberties of this Country are preserved it will, in my humble opinion, be done by paying & not by funding the national debt. I am therefore of opin ion with those who are for making the most of what we have to carry to market. I find the public creditors are very apprehensive that Congress will set an high price on their lands. We are told of the immense tracts of land the particular States have to dispose of—& of the lands at the dis posal of the British Crown adjoining their water boundary, which it will be their intrest not only to give away; but to hire people to settle on—in order to preserve their fur-trade. A Major General a few days ago told me that he did not think our lands would fetch us above an eighth of a Dollar per acre. I replied by asking if his Conscience would let him take eighty thousand acres of that land for his Commu tation only, (for it would come to so much nearly) when no nation, not even the British, ever gave any General Officer more than a Colonels half-pay! Some are of opinion that it would be politic to throw all our West ern Country into a bank & sell it out as bank stock—the Stockholders to chuse a Company of directors & to make the most of their property. But in my opinion this would be of too great magnitude to be effected in this Country. It might be more practicable in an ancient & wealthy Country such as England, or France. Such was the Missisippi Scheme in France, which paid the public debts, tho it ruined Individuals. A motion has been referred to a Grand Committie for a requisition on the States to pay intrest on the public debt—another motion has also been referred to the same Committee for requisition for the expences of the current year. 3 The Comee have not yet reported but have agreed to require of the States—


[Page 420]
384 February 21, 1784 2,680,646X Dollars 642,7644 1,603,877 2,2467641 434,005X Intrest arising & becoming due this year Total requisition for intrest For the expences of the current year The ballance of arrearage of intrest due the first of January 1783 after deducting the requisition of the 4th of Sept. 1782. Which ballance is Total of both requisitions 4,vuv,invz! The Committee has written to Mr. Morris to inform them how much out of the existing requisitions on the States, after satisfying all the remaining uses thereof, may be applied to the uses of the above requisitions in order to lessen them!5 The States are to be called on in the most earnest manner to comply with all the requisitions heretofore made. These measures are thought indispensably necessary to be adopted for the support of public credit, while the States are deliberat ing on the measures recommended in the resolutions of April 18, 1783. It may be observed that the estimate for this year is formed on a supposition that the reductions, which have lately been reported by a Committee on the civil List, will be adopted—but no decisive step can be taken in any money matters ’till nine States shall be present & agree therein. This is an event, which we wait for with the greatest impatience. You will please to let Mr. John Brown see this Letter & inform him that I have conferred with the Massachusetts Gentlemen on the regu lation of the weights of Coins—they discover a chearfulness in joining in some measures; but what those measures are to be we have not agreed. I propose soon to write him at large on the Subjects of his long & very entertaining Letter. You will readily excuse me for not enlarging as I cannot tell you any thing besides what you will class under the heads of conjectures & prophecies. Pray write me fully your mind on the points touched on in this Letter & any others you please. Please to give my regards to all friends & to believe me to be in all events as heretofore, Dear Sir, your sincere friend & very hble servt. David Howell P.S. I am at loss to account for the stoppage of my news papers from Providence—I have received but one since at this place. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 For Arnold’s Vermont connections, see Arnold to Daniel Cahoon, November 4 and 15, 1782, and to George Washington, January 28, 1783. 2 See Thomas Jefferson to James Madison, February 20, 1784, note 16. 3 For these motions and the appointment on January 23 of this committee, of which Howell was a member, see JCC, 26:48.


[Page 422]
386 February 24,1784 Arthur Lee to Theodorick Bland Dear Bland, Annapolis Feby. 24th. 1784 Are you & our dear Mrs. Bland frozen, torpid, or thaw’d during this unaccountably rigorous season. We have been blocked up here for near three months, with very little intelligence from your parts. The same reasons have renderd Congress very thin & frequently six states only represented so that very little business has been done. The acceptance of the cession from Virginia was this day rejected by two States against six, but I suppose it will be accepted when the representation is fuller. 1 Mr. Jefferson has nominated Dr. Maclurg as Secretary for foreign Af fairs; from which you will judge what is the turn of the Delegation, which I presume will vote for his nomination, & the old trick be played over again with respect to a friend of Yours. Mr. Dana & Mr. Clymer are the others in nomination. But I beleive there will be no election.2 The Minister of France was here for a few days, & then returnd to Philadelphia; He means to return to France as soon as the season will permit. His Successor is not yet announcd. Marbois is admitted as Consul-general, & 8 Consuls & Vice Consuls are appointed to reside in the principal trading Cities of the U.S. Col. Harmar has been de- taind at N. York by the season & an accident of the Packet running aground when She coud go out. We have not yet heard of his having saild & there is little probability of the Ratification reaching Paris in time for the stipulated. Whether the British will take any advantage of this accident is a doubt not a little disagreable. I hope you have not sufferd by the Thaw that we learn has occa- siond so much mischief in James & other Rivers. If we can get the principal business finishd Congress will adjourn in May, leaving a Committee of the States. Whether I shall then set my face north or south I know not. If the latter perhaps I shall pay my respects to you & my homage to Mrs. Bland. The Ladies here are very gracious to us, they are sociable & pleasing, some of them too pleasing rather to let our hearts rest short of desires which they are not disposd to gratify. My love to Mrs Bland Adieu RC (CSmH: HM 22748). 1 See Thomasjefferson to James Madison, February 20, note 15. 2 Although nominations for an under secretary for the department of foreign affairs were being considered this day, the journals are silent on further nominations for secre tary for foreign affairs, a post for which nominations to replace Robert R. Livingston had been made the preceding June. See John Montgomery to Edward Hand, February 12, 1784, note 2; and James Madison’s Notes, June 10, 1783, note 2. In his “committee book,” however, Charles Thomson recorded that on February 25 Thomasjefferson nominated fellow Virginian, Dr. James McClurg, and Elbridge Gerry had nominated Francis Dana for that office. On the 26th, according to the secretary, John Montgomery also renominated George Clymer, whose name he had advanced and withdrawn the pre ceding June, and the following day David Howell apparently nominated Jonathan


[Page 423]
February 24, 1784 387 Arnold (the name is nearly illegible). See PCC, item 186, fol. 1. The dates under which Thomson entered these nominations conflict with Lee’s testimony that they had taken place by or on February 24, although this letter is clearly dated. Lee’s reference to “the old trick” being played again, though obscure, suggests that he felt that his own nomina tion by Bland the precedingjune had been compromised. Congress finally appointed John Jay secretary for foreign affairs on May 7, 1784. See JCC, 26:354-55. For consid eration of James McClurg for this post, see also these Leiters, 19: 436n.3, 20:326n.9. Thomas Mifflin to George Clinton Sir, Annapolis Feby 24, 1784 I am directed by Congress to inform your Excellency that “Nine States not having been represented but for a few days since the Ad journment of Congress to this place, the arrangement of Garrisons for the Western and Northern Posts has not been entered upon nor can it be considered till the States become more attentive to keeping up a full representation in Congress.” 1 The States not represented are New Hampshire, New York, Delaware, Maryland and Georgia. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect and esteem Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 For this congressional resolution, adopted this day in response to a letter from Clin ton of January 31 (which is in PCC, item 38, fols. 403-4), see JCC, 26:93. Richard Dobbs Spaight to Alexander Martin Sir, Annapolis 24th Feby. 1784. In my letter of the 15 th Jany. 1 I informed your Excellency of the rat ification of the definitive Treaty, and the mode adopted by Congress forwarding those dispatches to our Commissioners at Paris for ex change. The French packet in which Colo Harmer goes had not sailed on the 7th Inst., in attempting to go out of the hook some days before the quantity of ice was so great, she missed stays and got aground on Governors Island; she has since got off and ready to proceed to sea as soon as the wind and weather will permit. Lieut Colo Franks is also at N York he intends going in the Edward Capt Couper bound to Lon don. Your[s] of the 8th Decemr. directed to the Delegation came to hand only this day owing to the irregularity of the Southern post which has been almost Stopp’d by the great falls of snow and the severity of the season. There has been no mail from No Carolina since 25th Decbr. I cannot at present inform in what manner the Continen-


[Page 431]
March 1, 1784 395 may have in view to add to or to increase her national strength. Pas sion or folly may sometimes govern her councils but in time she will observe her error & attempt to correct the fault. I think as national advantages are to be deriv’d from it she will turn her attention to these provinces & there is a kind of energy in the natives of that coun try wh. is not to be found in the peasantry of any, of the monarchies of Europe. When any of the Countries are overstock’d, in France or Spn. the overplus turn beggars in the street or starve, but the people of Engld. seek a dwelling in foreign climes & in distant countries. I suppose therefore these provinces will prove a drain to the surplus of Citizens in Brittn. What will be their policy with respect to these provinces & whither they will extend to them the freedom of the B. constitution or Nation I cannot pretend to say. Be this as it may will it not [be] a desirable circumstance to us to prevl. on them to keep few or no troops in Canada & will not this be the proper subject for a con vention betwn. us? But if they will not acceed to it I still think with you that the defence of the country shod, be thrown on the militia. FC (DLC: Monroe Papers). In the hand of James Monroe. 1 Date left blank in Monroe’s draft; the RC has not been found. 2 Lee’s January 5 letter is in the Monroe Papers, DLC; and Lee, letters (Ballagh), 2:286-90. Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett Sir Annapolis March 1st. 1784. I arrived in this City on Saturday eve’ last after a Tedious & Expen sive Journey and had the pleasure to find Mr. Foster 1 well tho’ rather low in Finance. To day I have attended Congress & had the honour of dining with the Presidt. Some of the Members have been unwell, Others Absent for Several days, that there has hardly been a Quorum of the house— there are 9 States now Represented in Congress. 2 You will be pleased to Excuse particular detail at this time, in my next I shall do my self the honour of Transmitting every degree of in telligence in my power—the post leaves this City early in the morning. I can only say that, I am Sir, Your Most hble Servant, Jona. Blanchard 3 RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Blanchard’s colleague Abiel Foster wrote the following brief note this day to Samuel Holten at Danvers, Mass. “I enclose a Letter [not found] to my Honrd. Father at An dover, and beg the favor, that to the other many & great civilities I have received from you, you will please to superadd that of forwarding the same by some safe conveyance. In doing this you will lay me under fresh obligations.” Roberts Collection, PHC.


[Page 432]
396 March 1,1784 2 See JCC, 26:109. 3 Blanchard wrote a similar brief letter this day to Nathaniel Peabody, adding that “I have Delivd. your Letters to the Gentlemen to whom they were directed and this day I had the honour of dining with the President, and to morrow I expect to be with Mr. Gerry & Mr. Osgood.” Emmet Collection, NN. Thomas Jefferson to William Short Th. J. to Mr. Short Annapolis Mar. 1. 1784. I am sorry my letter 1 found you so much indisposed, and still more so that it should have added to your sufferings. But you must learn to bear these things by always calculating on the possibility of a cross as well as pyle and having a plan of reserve to turn to by way of comfort. I can yet add nothing more on the subject. Nine states appeared on the floor to-day. But eight of them are represented by two members only, so that in every important question, as not only an unanimity of states, but an unanimity of members also will be requisite to carry propositions, we must expect to carry none, and that our time will be spent in proposing regulations, hearing one another a week on each, put them to the vote, and see them fall because one or two or more members are against them. We shall immediately try what we can do with the Western country (the deed for which was executed and ac cepted this day), the foreign arrangement, peace establishment &c. I see no reason yet to doubt the opinion I formerly gave you that there would be no (Ministers) kept {abroad}. 2 You ask an explanation of the senigma of the book, appendix, and index. For fear you should not understand the cypher, or catch it’s key I added that asnigmatical paragraph in hopes it might explain a subject to you who had some hint of it and not to any other who had not. To cure the fever it gave you however I will now observe that the book was a {minister} the ap pendix a {secretary to the embassy} and the index a {secretary} to the {minister}. There will certainly be no {appendix} and I question if there be a {book}. Of course there can then be no {Index} to it. If there be no {appendix} would {you} be the {Index} to the {book} sup posing there should be one. However I still think a {consul} or a {resi dent} on a {low salary) will be the {highest grade). Not a word has ever dropt yet from {Monro[e]). I thank you for your attentions to P. Carr. I approve of Liberty hall because you do, without knowing what or where it is. Will you inform me on this head? Not that I would detain Peter, for I hope you have sent him there, but that I may write to him, to the master or manager whichever is most proper. Having to my habitual ill health, had lately added an attack of my periodical headach, I am obliged to avoid read-


[Page 435]
March 1, 1784 399 Samuel Hardy, July 28, 1784. See also Mifflin to Harmar, January 14, and to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, January 14 and 15, 1784; and Richard B. Morris, The Peacemakers: The Great Powers and American Independence (New York: Harper & Row, 1965), pp. 447-48. 8 Edmund C. Burnett asserted that this passage “was doubtless written as late as Mar. 5” because it contained information that had arrived on that date in a packet of letters from abroad, notably Benjamin Franklin’s letter of December 25, 1783. See Burnett, Let ters, 7:457n.6. This information had actually been transmitted in Franklin’s letter of November 1, which had been read in Congress on February 24 when that portion relat ing to a Canadian merchant’s accounts was referred to a committee chaired by John Beatty. A duplicate of Franklin’s letter arrived in the March 5 packet and Charles Thom son chose not to duplicate its arrival in his dispatch book, but noted its assignment on that date to a committee chaired by Elbridge Gerry. See PCC, item 82, 3:223-26, item 185, 3:94, item 186, fols. 150-51. A close examination of the RC indicates that the entire letter was written at one sitting, undoubtedly on March 1. Franklin had assured Congress of the continued goodwill of France toward the United States despite contrary rumors. “The late failure of payment in the Caisse d’Escompte,’’ he explained, “an institution similar to the Bank of England, occasioned partly by its having gone too far in assisting the government with money, and the inability of the government to support their credit, though extremely desirous of doing it, is a fresh proof that our not ob taining a further loan was not occasioned by want of good will to assist us, as some have un justly supposed, but by a real want of the means.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:721. Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book [March 1-30, 1784] March 1st. 1784. Delivered Mr Read a resolve of the 27 Ulo. re- spectg. Genl Armand. Sent to the Presidents to be transmitted to Genl. Armand a resolve of the 27 Ulto. & two letters from the Comr. in Chief to Genl Armand. 1 3d. Delivered Mr. Osgood Copy of remarks on the 4th, 5th & 6th provisional Articles between G. Britain & America. 2 4th. Sent to the Office of Finance—a Copy of Mr. H Remsen’s ap- point[men]t (March 2d) as Under Secy, in the Office for for. Affairs. 3 Ditto a Letter directed to Monsieur Thos. Barclay at Nantes to be forwarded. 4 5th. Deliver’d Mr. H. Remsen a Copy of his appoint, as Under Secy, in the Office for Affairs (March 2d). Sent to the President 5 Copies of the Appoint, of 5 Commissrs to negotiate with the Indians with ditto of the Resolution directing him to forward the same. 5 6th. Deliver’d Mr. Montgomery Copy of a Memorial from a number of persons settle [r]s upon Delaware & Susquehanah—5 pages. 6 Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of a Letter from J. Barney Lieut in the Navy for promotion dated 6th March 1783 [1784] referred to the Supert. to report. 7 March 9th. 1784. Deliver’d Mr Howell Copy of a motion made by him relative to Virginia Deed with the Yeas & Nays. 9 Pages. 8


[Page 437]
March 1,1784 401 Delivered Mr. Cazeau Copy of a resolution of Congress of the 18th March relative to the settlement of his Accots. & directing the sum of 5000 Dolrs. to be advanced to him. 22 Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of Ditto. March 22d. Deliver’d Mr Partridge Copy of a resolution of Congress of the 8th April 1780 relative to an application from the State of Mas sachusetts for an expedition to be adopted for dislodging the Enemy from Penobscot &c. 23 Delivered Mr. Cazeau all the papers that were enclosed in his memorial of 1st October 1783 to Congress for which his receipt is taken and lodged with his sd Memorial. 24 Sent to the Supert of Finance a Letter of this day from the Secretary of Congress to him enclosing— 25 A List of the Letters & reports from him to Congress as Supt. & Agent of Marine from his first entering into Office to the end of 1783. Copy of a Letter from the Secy of Congress to Thos. Fitzsimmons Esqr. dated this Day—and Copy of a resolution of Congress respecting Mr. Cazeau dated 16th March 1784. Sent to the President to be transmitted Instructions to Mr Adams, Mr Franklin & Mr Jay 16 March & copies of letters from Robert Montgomery 26 Letters of 20 Oct from Thomas Barclay. 27 Sent to Mr Morris Super, f. Resolutions of 19 March ascertaining the allowance to be made to Comrs. to negotiate with Indians Goods to be purchased for the treaty. Power of Comrs. to Appoint Agents to take charge of goods & Au thority & directions to report what more may be wanted. 28 Deliver’d Mr Howell a Copy of an Act of Legislature of New Hamp shire granting an Impost & Duties upon foreign goods for paying in terest & principal of Debt contracted by the War (4 Pages) , 29 March 23d. Sent to the different States from New Hampshire to Georgia inclusive 2 Copies of the proceedings of Congress from Januy. 26th 1784 to March the 8th following. Ditto to the Office of Finance 6 Copies Ditto to the War Office 2 Copies Sent to the president to be forwarded Commission for the comrs. to negotiate with the Indians Instructions to do cont[ainin]g Instructions of 15 Octr 1783. The acts of March 3d, 4th, 5th & 19 relative thereto. 30 24. Sent to the Superint. of finance The resolutions of 23 for settling Marine Accots. & accots. of secret & com. Committes. 31 Sent to the president to be forward [ed]. A copy for each state of the resol. of 23 respectg the election of Delegates. 32


[Page 440]
404 March 3, 1784 cute the deed and lay it on the table, which after what had been done by Congress would be final, urging the example of N. York which had executed their deed, laid it on the table, where it remained 18 months before Congress accepted it. We replied, no, if these lands are not of fered for sale the ensuing spring, they will be taken from us all by ad venturers. We will not therefore put it out of our power by the execu tion of a deed to sell them ourselves, if Congress will not. A member from Rhode island 2 then moved that Congress should accept. An other from Jersey 3 proposed as an amendment a proviso that it should not amount to an acknowlegement of our right. We told them we were not authorised to admit any conditions or provisoes, that their acceptance must be simple, absolute & unqualified or we could not execute. On the question there were 6 ayes, Jersey no, S. Carolina & Pennsylva. divided. The matter dropped & the house proceeded to other business. About an hour after the dissenting Pennsylvanian 4 asked & obtained leave to change his no, into aye. The vote then passed & we executed the deed. We have desired an exemplification of it under the seal of the states which we shall transmit you by the post if no safer opportunity occurs. This shews the wisdom of the as sembly in not tacking any new conditions, which would certainly have defeated their accomodating intentions. We have just received from the Superintendant of finance a report of the paiments made and the arrears still due on the requisition of Octob. 30. 1781. for 8 millions of dollars. 5 This statement comes down to Jan. 1, 1784. N. Hampshire Massachusetts Rhode island Connecticut. New York Newjersey Pennsylvania Delaware. Maryland Virginia N. Carolina S. Carolina Georgia paid. Doll. 3,000 247,676% 67,847*%) 131,577% 39,06414 102,004% 346,632’% nothing 89,302% 115,103% nothing 344,301% nothing 1,486,511% due Doll. 370,598 1,059,919% 148,836.4 615,618% 334,533*% 383,67414 774,161 %o 112,085 844,693% 1,192,490% 622,677 29,296% 24,905 6,513,488% Colo. Harmer with the ratification of the Definitive treaty which was executed in Congress Jan. 14 got on board the French packet at N.


[Page 441]
March 3, 1784 405 York on the 20th of Jan. Colo. Franks took his passage in another ves sel a few days after. Neither sailed till the 17th of Feb., being blocked up by the ice. 6 They have certainly then not got to Paris to exchange them this day as had been stipulated. In right this can make no differ ence. We executed the ratification in time, and it’s passage across the Atlantic was prevented by circumstances not under our controul. The accomodation of the Turks and Russians, leaving Europe in Peace and France of course at liberty, keeps us safe. This accomodation is said to have been effected by the interposition of France & Prussia. This does not come from our ministers, from whom we have had no late intelli gence on this subject, but is told me by Monsr. Marbois who sais he had it from good information. We are still further insured against any ill effect from this accident if the news of the day be true. An English vessel, arrived at N. York, brings papers which say that Ld. North & Mr. Fox carried their E. India bill triumphantly by % of the voices through the house of commons, but lost it in the lords, whereon they resigned; and that Mr Pitt & his friends would be at the head of the administration. The Prince of Wales voted against the bill & received a reprimand from the king. So far the papers. The change would be for tunate for us, as Ld. North’s hostility is notorious, and Pitt rather well disposed to us. The movements of the K. of Prussia to emancipate the navigation of the Vistula, and of the emperor to free that of the Scheid, do not I beleive threaten the peace of Europe. On the con trary they indicate that they have no great work on hand. This asser tion then of the natural right of the inhabitants of the upper part of a river to an innocent passage through the country below is rather pleasing to us. It tends to establish a principle favourable to our right of navigating the Missisipi. We are now engaged in making an estimate of the expences of the current year. It appears that the Commissioners sent to the several states to settle their accounts add so unreasonable a proportion to the expences of the Finance department, that it is my opinion Congress will recall them after some not very distant day. I mention this that your Excellency may keep an eye over the progress of the state-settle ment with Mr. Turner & push it unremittingly to avoid the being obliged to send the vouchers, accounts &c. to Philadelphia for such parts as shall not be completed before the recall. I have the honour to be with sentiments of very high respect & es teem Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & most humble servt., Th. Jefferson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:4—6. 1 See Jefferson to James Madison, February 20, note 15. 2 That is, David Howell. See JCC, 26:112-17. 3 John Beatty. 4 Probably John Montgomery, but see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:7n.


[Page 442]
406 March 3, 1784 5 For the identity of Jefferson’s enclosure, see John Francis Mercer to Harrison, November 11, 1783, note 2. 6 See Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard, March 1, note 7. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Sir Annapolis 3d. March 1784. 1 It is disagreeable to us to inform your Excellency, that no Determi nation hath been yet taken with respect to the Memorial concerning the Brigantine Luzannah. 2 Nine States are now present, but so much important business had Accumilated, & is now necessary to be compleated without delay, that it will be impossible to bring any Matter, (which doth not relate to the United States at large) under consideration, & until those great Na tional Objects are provided for; these we hope from the Dispatch, which hath already been given to public Matters, since Congress have been competent to the business of Nine States, will soon be com pleated, so far as to Admit of matters, relating to the Individual States, to be considered. It will be our care to lose no time, in Obtaining the earliest decession on this Question, and in Transmitting the same to your Excellency. We are authorized to inform you, that on the first instant the Dele gates from Virginia, executed & Deliver’d a Deed to the United States, Agreeable to an Act of that state, of all their Right and Title of said state, to the Lands North-westward of the River Ohio—and Congress are now employed, in making the necessary arrangements for a Treaty with the Indians, & purchase of Lands from them; have chose General Clark of Virginia, General Green of Rhode Island, Mr. Higginson of Massachusetts, Mr. Woolcot of Connecticut, & Colo. Butler of Pensylva- nia, Commissioners for that purpose. 3 It is proposed that as soon as the Treaty & purchase shall be compleated, to lay out that Western Terri tory into states, and to Open a Land Office, for the sale of some part— and the proceeds to be applied to the discharge of the public Debt. Congress have also under Consideration Instructions to their Ministers abroad for negotiating Treaties of Commerce with European Powers. We flatter our selves, that in about ten Weeks, Congress may ad journ, & have a Recess of Six Months. We have the honour to be Your Excellencys, Most Obedient humble Servants, Abiel Foster Jona. Blanchard. RG (Joseph Rubenfine, Pleasantville, NJ., 1977). Written by Blanchard and signed by Blanchard and Foster.


[Page 445]
March 4, 1784 409 Subordination, without which they never could have attained such Reputation as they merit in their military profession, will undoubtedly consider themselves rather as an executive than a deliberative Body, & readily pledge themselves to carry the Decissions of their Congress into Effect, more especially as they honestly suppose the only object is to ob tain payment of their arrearages & Commutation. The Convention being thus prepared with the Arrets of their Congress, will return to their Towns & Counties, & use their Influence with the Representatives & Senators of their Acquaintance to promote the Measure whether to increase the power of Congress, or for other objects in the Legislatures of the several States. If this Measure should not be successful, the Towns & Counties may be called together, & the influence of the Mem bers of the State Cincinnati, which will not only extend to all the Sol diers of the late Army, but likewise to particular Friends & Acquain tance, may be exerted to produce Instructions to the Representatives & to accomplish the End proposed in the Legislature; & the same Influ ence, at the next Election of Members for the Legislature, may be & undoubtedly will be used {successfully in many Instances) to send the Members of the Cincinnati as Representatives or Senators to the Gen eral Assembly—in each State this Body should consist of a tenth part of those Members, whose object is fixed, & whose Exertions will be inces santly exerted to attain it, their Address, Ingenuity, perseverance, & prowess, will undoubtedly, if We consider the Manner of conducting Business in such Bodies, secure them Success. There may be some little Difficulty in the Beginning, but this will daily decrease; Solertia omnia vincit. 5 We have only reasoned on the presumption of a tenth part of the Members of the General Assemblies, being of the Cincinnati, but the probability is that the proportion will in a short Time be much greater, & the Influence of Consequence increased. The Assemblies being thus prepared, your Republican Congress will of course be soon filled with Members of the Cincinnati, having already five of this Order, & the fcederal powers will be enlarged. Whatever is proposed in the Cincinnati Congress, under such Circumstances, will be immediately adopted by the republican Congress & ratified by the Legislatures; & then you may bid adieu, a lasting & final adieu, to republican princi ples. You would probably see the government of the united States first consisting of three Branches, under the humble Denominations of Governor General, Council & House, but with all the powers of King, Lords & Commons; & after a short Time you may be told that to sup port the Dignity of Government, it is necessary to take these Titles, & that no Disadvantage can result from the Measure, because it may be adopted without any additional Powers, or with such an addition as is of no great Consequence. Thus my Friend may We loose the advan tages of a severe Conflict, which after an amazing expence of the Blood & Treasure of our Country, has so happily terminated in its indepen-


[Page 451]
March 5, 1784 415 lance of power is to be pursued—State of the Negotiations between their High Mightinesses the States of Holland & their High Mighti ness the Congress of the U. S.—State of our National Debt & the Schemes of Finance proposed for discharging of it—Cession of the Western Territory & the plans devised for disposing & settling that valuable & Extended Empire—Arrangement of our Foreign affairs— what Ministers are to be sent abroad & who are to be called home— State of Commerce & the several Treatys to be Entered into to cherish & protect it—& in short a succinct Narative of what has been done, is doing & is about to be transacted in Congress—a very pretty piece of Buisness to be sure. But as I cannot enter upon all these points at once I must beg you will inform me, where I am to begin; & how Minute a detail will be agreeable to you—& perhaps some future let ter may gratify your wishes. Our Situation here is tolerably agreeable, will be much more so, when the severity of the Season abates & we can take more exercise on Foot or horseback. The Inhabitants are polite & Hospitable—Balls, routs, assemblys, Tournaments, Concerts, plays, Fandango’s, & every species of Amusements prevail here—& I know not whether thro the all powerfull influence of Fashion, we Congressional republicans or plebians, may not shortly assume the Dress & Manners of the Patri cians or Nobles—of Annapolis—at present there are nine States on the floor of Congress & as chief of the Business pending before them, require by the Confederation the assent of Nine, to give efficacy to a Measure, things, succeed slowly—we are however daily in Expectation of N. York & Delaware—& Maryland, when we shall make a more rapid progress. I am to beg I may hear from you soon, thro the chan nel of Archy—& that you will present my affectionate regards to my Numerous Friends at Neshaminy. Yours with much Esteem, J- Beatty. MS not found; reprinted from PMHB44 (1920): 236-37. 1 Dr. Reading Beatty (1757-1831), who had been captured at Fort Washington in November 1776 while serving as a lieutenant in the Fifth Pennsylvania Battalion, had served as surgeon in the Eleventh Pennsylvania and Fourth Continental Artillery regi ments, 1780-1783. See “Letters from Continental Officers to Doctor Reading Beatty, 1781-1788,” PMHB54 (April 1930): 155-74; and “Letters of the Four Beatty Brothers of the Continental Army, 1774-1794,” PMHB44 (July 1920): 193-99. Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett Sir Annapolis March 5th. 1784. I do my self the honour to put under Cover, for your perusal, an Ex tract of a Law pass’d in Jersey, for establishing a Revenue &c, you will find in that Act, a Succedaneum for hard money, which we seem not to have. That only the amount of one Years interest is to be emitted in paper. 1


[Page 453]
March 5, 1784 417 Elbridge Gerry to Samuel R. Gerry Dear Comr. Annapolis 5th March 1784 I am favoured with yours of Jany 27th by the last Post, inclosing Sales of Flower &c—the Sales rendered are good, but the Voyages miserable, sinking two fifths of the Capital. You have not informed me whether the 49J4 barells of Flower mentioned in the Sales, is the whole of my proportion of the two Cargoes, but I suppose this to be the Case. I sent you an a/c of 46/5 lawful pd for the Dinah which I presume you have stoppd. Pray inform me whether Robin son is to be charged with any Part, & what of the 28.0.4. I am doubtful whether it will be best to purchase the Fably, unless she goes off cheap. She is very old, & will require so much to fit her out, that if You can get £30, for %, or at least, as much as with my proportion of her Wood Freights, will make that Sum & also pay all her Accounts since she arrived from the West Indies, it will be best not to bid for her. It will be also best not to mention any thing relative to Colo Johonnot. I presume he will hear of the Matter & take proper Measures to resent the Injury; for such I conceive it to be, more especially as he is returned to Massachusetts. You have not informed me what Money You want out of the sales, untill yours shall arrive from Cadiz, nor how much Wood is received from the Fably for Freight, nor how it is disposed off. I am happy to hear you are all well. Tell my little Folks, uncle wants much to see them, & expects to hear very fine Characters of them, on his return. With my Regards to all Friends, I bid you adieu dear Comr. Yours sincerely, E Gerry. [PS.] I have no News of Robinson. He is already a Cruiser, & before I see him, will be Robinson Crusoe. In your next send the Sales of the other Flower &C. 1 RC (MHi: Gerry Collection). Addressed: “Mr Samuel R. Gerry, Merchant, Marblehead.” 1 Gerry also wrote the following letter to his brother on March 15. “1 am this Moment favoured with yours by Capt Dennis of the 26th of December. The Vessel has been in the Bay near two Months, & is now about two or three Miles from hence, waiting an oppertunity, which the Ice at present prevents, of sailing for Baltimore. Robinson, the Mate informs me is very Desirous of being landed, having rarely ventured himself on Deck, since he left Salem. I have given Directions for the Delivery of both him & the Box of Fish; & request You to send his Cloathes, if You have a prospect of his obtaining them by or before the latter End of April or begin ning of May. 1 answered your Letter of October the 25th on the 5th of Novr. & your other Letters of Novr 25th & Deer 2d on the 19th of Deer.” Gerry Collection, MHi.


[Page 454]
418 March 5, 1784 Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Colonel Annapolis 5th March 1784 I have a spare Moment to acknowledge your Favour by Mr Blan chard, whom I am very glad to see in Congress. I have not received any Letter from You since I left Massachusetts, except that above men tioned, so that if two were sent by the post, they must have been inter cepted. I saw Colo Lee in this Place, soon after my arrival here, & he of his own accord enquired about You & mentioned the Note. I thought it had been sent to You, but upon Examination found it amongst my papers, & immediately wrote him a Billet, informing him of the Fact. He soon left Town & I have neither heard from nor seen him since. As he expressed a Desire of paying the Note probably he will be here before I leave the place & make payment. If not, I wish to know whether You would have the Note left with one of my Collegues, or of your Delegates, who will probably continue on a Committee of the States, should Congress adjourn as they now propose in May next? Schweighauser is dead, & I have not been able to obtain either your Ballance or my own. I wrote by a Captain of a Ship which I partly owned & which discharged at Nantes about two Years ago, but could get no answer. The Sums are so small I suppose they think them not worthy Notice, when to be paid, but not so, when to be received. Adieu my friend & believe me to be Yours sincerely, E Gerry [PS.] The Marquis La Fayette will be here in the Spring. He writes in Deer, that there will be no War between the Russians & Turks, this Year, but the Dispute is not, & probably will not be amicably adjusted. The Cession of the Western Territory is completed & the Deeds ex- ecutd to the united states by the Delegates of Virginia. An indian peace is to be negotiated by General Green, General Woolcot, Mr Hig ginson, Colo Butler of Pennsylvania & General Clarke of Virginia. All former Commissions are abrogated relative to Indians. Fox & North are ousted by their Attempts to carry the India Bill & Mr Pitt is brot into Administration. RC (NIC: Irving, Life of Washington, Sage Collection). Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison $i r Annapolis 5th March 1784. I have the honour to inform your Excellency that Congress have ac cepted the Cession of our western territory: and we have in conformity


[Page 467]
March 15, 1784 431 state of Congress is not new to you. We have only 9 states present, 8 of whom are represented by two members each, and of course, on all great questions not only an unanimity of states but of members is nec essary, an unanimity which never can be obtained on a matter of any importance. The consequence is that we are wasting our time & la bour in vain efforts to do business. Nothing less than the presence of 13 states represented by an odd number of delegates will enable us to get forward a single capital point. The deed for the cession of Western territory by Virginia was executed & accepted on the 1st instant. 1 I hope our country will of herself determine to cede still further to the meridian of the mouth of the Great Kanhaway. Further she cannot govern; so far is necessary for her own well being. The reasons which call for this boundary (which will retain all the waters of the Kan haway) are 1. that within that are our lead mines. 2. This river rising in N. Carola, traverses our whole latitude and offers to every part of it a channel for navigation & commerce to the Western country: but 3. it is a channel which can not be opened but at immense expence and with every facility which an absolute power over both shores will give. 4. This river & it’s waters forms a band of good land passing along our whole frontier, and forming on it a barrier which will be strongly seated. 5. For 180 miles beyond these waters is a mountainous barren which can never be inhabited & will of course form a safe separation between us & any other state. 6. This tract of country lies more conve nient to receive it’s government from Virginia than from any other state. 7. It will preserve to us all the upper parts of Yohogany & Cheat rivers within which much will be to be done to open these which are the true doors to the Western commerce. The union of this naviga tion with that of the Patowmac is a subject on which I mentioned that I would take the liberty of writing to you. I am sure it’s value and prac ticability are both well known to you. This is the moment however for seizing it if ever we mean to have it. All the world is becoming com mercial. Was it practicable to keep our new empire separated from them we might indulge ourselves in speculating whether commerce contributes to the happiness of mankind. But we cannot separate our selves from them. Our citizens have had too full a taste of the com forts furnished by the arts & manufactures to be debarred the use of them. We must then in our own defence endeavor to share as large a portion as we can of this modern source of wealth & power. That of fered to us from the Western country is under a competition between the Hudson, the Patomac & the Missisipi itself. Down the last will pass all heavy commodities. But the navigation through the gulf of Mexico is so dangerous, & that up the Missisipi so difficult & tedious, that it is not probable that European merchandize will return through that channel. It is most likely that flour, lumber & other heavy articles will be floated on rafts which will be themselves an article of sale as well as


[Page 476]
440 March 18, 1784 1 Thomas Sinnickson (1744-1817), a Salem, N.J. merchant, and brother of Dick’s wife Sarah, was a member of the New Jersey Assembly, 1777, 1782, 1784-85, 1787-88. See Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:624; and Francis Bazley Lee, comp., Genealogical and Memorial History of the State of New Jersey, 4 vols. (New York: Lewis Historical Publishing Co., 1910), 2:708. 2 This matter was under debate in grand committee. In the plan submitted by the committee on April 5 the proposed reduction was one-fourth; in that adopted on April 27 it was one-half. See JCC, 26:191, 306. 3 No action was taken on this proposed “further Demand,” which was incorporated in a report that had been read in Congress on March 5. fCC, 26:128-29. The proposal to permit payment of this requisition in loan office certificates “reducd to Specie Value” continued to be debated the next several weeks, for which see JCC, 26:195, 300, 313. 4 Apparently the “plan for the temporary government of the western territory” read in Congress on March 1 and recommitted on March 17, for which see JCC, 26:118-20. 5 Such a report had been read in Congress on March 15 and referred to grand com mittee on the 16th. JCC, 26:142-43n. Elbridge Gerry to George Washington Sir, Annapolis 18th March 1784 By the last Post I received from the president of the Senate of Mas sachusetts a Letter, inclosing the papers herewith transmitted, & re questing me to write to your Excellency on the Subject. 1 As I have no other Knowledge of the Matter, than what is derived from Colo Grid ley’s Letter & the Resolve accompanying it, I can only say, that when your Excellency is at Leisure, if You think it expedient to make any Observations on the Subject or Answer to the Resolve, & should in close them to me, I will direct them to Colo Gridley. 2 I flatter myself with the Hopes, that since your Retirement from publick Life, You have not only enjoyed, Health, peace & Compe tence, but likewise the pleasure of seeing all your Friends in the same happy Circumstances. My Respects to your Lady, & be assured sir I remain with every Sen timent of Esteem & Respect your most obedt & very huml Sevt, E Gerry RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Samuel Adams had written to Gerry on February 25 explaining the claim of Col. Scarboro Gridley “for Depre [tia]tion of his pay while in the Service” and enclosing a February 21 letter from Gridley to Gerry explaining the claim in more detail. Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:292-93. Gridley claimed that he had been appointed an assistant to his father, Col. Richard Gridley, in the fortification of Boston after its evacuation by the British in 1776, and that General Washington could verify his appointment. 2 In his March 31 response, Washington explained: “I have examined my Letter and or derly Books but find no such order as Mr. Gridley alludes to.... [he] never reported him self to the Chief Engineer (Genl Duportail) nor has he ever been returned to me by him,


[Page 477]
March 18, 1784 441 or any Senior Officer in that department that I remember as one of that Corps—in the Service of the United States.” Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 1:243-44. Gerry subsequently enclosed Washington’s response and Gridley’s letter in the fol lowing note of April 2 to Adams. “Inclosed are the Papers which you sent me respecting Colo Gridley’s Demand, & General Washington’s answer to a Letter, which agreable to your Request, I wrote him, on the Subject.” Both this note and Gridley’s letter are in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Thomas Jefferson to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Mar. 18. 1784. In my letter of the 3d inst. I mentioned to you the gazette account of a change in the British ministry. Just in the moment of the depar ture of the post we received a letter from the Marquis Fayette 1 con firming the account of the change, and rectifying that of the vote of the Prince of Wales. The letter which had come here supposed the king a friend to the E. India bill & that the Prince voted against it. The Marquis sais that the king by a special maneuvre got Fox & North committed on the fate of their bill which they carried thro’ the com mons, but by his practices were disappointed in the Lords, in which latter stage the Prince voted for the bill, in opposition to his father. Dr. Franklin’s letter containing an interesting paragraph I have copied it & take the liberty of inclosing it. 2 We have had no post since that which carried my letter of the 3d nor are we certain when to ex pect one. I am therefore obliged to have letters in readiness, to seize the moment of his coming as he does not stay above an hour here. Hence it happens that my letters are sometimes a week or a fortnight old before they leave the post office. I have the honor to be with great respect & esteem Dr Sir, Your most obedt. & most humble servt. P.S. The Marquis Fayette is coming out this spring. Mr. Laurence is supposed to be on his way to America, Mr. Adams left England for the Hague & Mr. Jay at Bath but about to return to Paris. 3 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Signature clipped. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:42. 1 For the arrival of letters from the Marquis de Lafayette, Benjamin Franklin, and oth ers, see Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett, March 5, note 4. 2 For Jefferson’s transcript of this paragraph from Franklin’s December 25, 1783, letter admonishing Congress to “preserve the friendships we have acquired abroad” as a safe guard against the continuing malignant policy of the British court, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:42-43. 3 The following day Jefferson also wrote a letter to his daughter Martha in Philadel phia inquiring about the progress of her education and telling her to inform Mrs. Mary House that the Virginia delegates had recently received a letter from her daughter, Mrs. Nicholas Trist, at Fort Pitt. See ibid., pp. 43-44.


[Page 478]
442 March 19, 1784 Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard Sir Annapolis 19th March 1784. Your favour of the 28th February by Mr. John Dove (the returning Express) came to hand on the 16th Inst. I thank your Excelly. for the News Papers accompanying your short Letter & shall look with much Anxiety for the Instructions & other Proceedings of our Legislature. I hope these will not be long delayed as ’tis highly probable one of the Points on which I wrote may be soon agitated in Congress. I find my Countrymen have done me the honour to place me in the new delegation. I am always sensible of their favours, but some family Occurrences particularly the death of my only Uncle & to take some steps in his Affairs will render my return to Carolina indispensibly nec essary as soon as a new representation can arrive. 1 I beg your Excelly. will urge the Necessity of their setting forward at any early day. Congress have it in Contemplation to adjourn in May & we wish the Assistance of the newly elected Delegates before that Period as well as to receive from them the Information they possess of the state of Matters in Carolina. I am with the greatest respect & regard Your Excellency’s Most obliged & most obedient servant (signed) Jacob Read P.S. I had the honour of your favour by Mr. Shutdeworth who is now in this Port. I scribble this as the Post is just about to set off. The un certainty of this Mode of Conveyance occasions my being less prolix than I otherwise shou’d. I shall write by a Vessel immediately from this Port in a few days. Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 Read had been reelected on February 10 by the South Carolina assembly which also elected Pierce Butler, Alexander Gillon, Henry Laurens, and William Moultrie as dele gates. Butler declined and shortly thereafter Moultrie was elected lieutenant governor. They were replaced in March by John Bull and Charles Pinckney. In the meantime, the assembly passed a special resolution in mid-February directing Read and Richard Beres ford to retain their seats in Congress “until a sufficient number of the Delegates Elected to represent this State shall arrive.” See JCC, 26:146, 27:646-47. Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Sir, Annapolis 19th. March 1784 On the 26th of September last the Delegation had the honor of ex- plain’g to your Excellency some of the reasons that induced Congress to recommend certain measures to the several States in the union; and expressed their hope that North Carolina would not be among the last in adopting the proposed impost in particular, which would


[Page 479]
March 19, 1784 443 not only be of all taxes the least burthensome to the Citizens, but must opperate strongly in favour of our State. For the general detail of occurrences during the last year, or for the particular explanation of any matters refered to in that or any other of our joint Letters, I shall now take the liberty of refering you to my wor thy friend & honorable collegue Mr Hawkins who has served during the whole of the last year with so much reputation to himself, and ad vantage to the nation. Your excellency and the State may wish to be informed of the cir cumstances of the ratification of the definitive Treaty and the conse quent recommendations which are sent to the states, and of such other important matters as are yet pending before Congress. From the papers which are forwarded by our Secretary you will learn that the definitive Treaty was not ratified before the 14th of January; 1 by a se ries of neglects or accidents it had long been coming to our hands, and some weeks afterwards elapsed before we had nine States present. The officers whom we sent in different Vessels with the ratification were both so long detained by the ice and bad weather, that we have reason to fear that they should not arrive in Paris before the 3d of March, the last day allowed for the exchange of ratifications. Appre hending that an accident of this sort might occur, and that other terms less palatable might be offered us in case the Treaty was lost by our latches [laches] , 2 the most pressing measures were attempted to bring forward a full representation. The Journals for the 23d of De cember will explain some of the steps that were taken. 3 After waiting some days longer, I confess that I was one of those who would have submitted to the risque of ratifying by seven States rather than loose the Treaty. Our reasons are contained in the paper annexed No 1 4 which was for some days the subject of debate; at length an officer whom we had dispatched for the purpose, brought Members enough to make nine states. Our opinion was, that the ratification by Seven states was good on behalf of the United States; and Great Britain who is not to judge of our Constitution must have received it as good, but we might have incured the displeasure and censure of our con stituents on the supposition that we had violated the spirit of the con federation. We conceived however that on great & pressing occasions, the Man who is honored with the dearest concerns of his Country would ill deserve that honor if he was not willing to risque his political existence or even his temporal existence in order to preserve the hap piness & Peace of his Country. With respect to the recommendations which are sent to the States in consequence of the Treaty, you will be pleased to observe that Congress had many reasons for defering them to this late hour. They have indeed been zealously pressed by the commander in chief of the British forces in america to make these recommendations immediately


[Page 481]
March 19, 1784 445 several States to cause an account of their losses to be taken was put into the hands of the British Minister as a proff that we were collecting materials, that we might be ready to settle such acct. From that hour no further demands were made of the restitution of tory property and a long negotiation terminated as you have it in the 5th, 6th & 7th arti cles. The proposition I have refered to is annexed No 4. 7 Our Ministers in their joint Letter say “It is much to be wished that the legislatures may not involve all the tories in banishment & ruin but that such dis criminations may be made as to entitle their decessions to the approba tion of disinterested Men.” 8 It gives much pleasure to cool dispassion ate observers to see that the Legislature of North Carolina has not gone into the banishment of that numerous class of misguided People who continued lurking in the State, though in the Eye of Justice they might have forfeited both property and life. Though there have been times in which it was necessary to cut off a limb in order to save the body politic, we are now happy in having at that period in which, to im itate the author of our being, offenders, who are not of the worst class, may be suffered to repent & return to their duty. On the last summer the Delegates received a Letter from H. E. Mc- Culloh who seems to be fully persuaded that his estate will be restored to him. I believe we were quite as well persuaded that his estate will not be restored to him, however that may be the Letter is enclosed. In our Letter of the 26th of September we took the liberty to repre sent to Your Excellency the fatal mistake of many of our Merchants in pushing their vessels into British ports and the more fatal mistake of some of the States in opening their ports to the British vessels without waiting for advice or giving Congress time to negotiate a Treaty, which at that period Great Britain would have acceded to on very desirable terms. By these errors our trade is destroyed and experience has taught those merchants, so covetous of British connections that they were mistaken. Certainly experience keeps a dear School though we daily see people who will not learn in any other. By the annexed pa pers No. 5 9 you will see what prospects we had of a favourable com merce before it was known in England that our ports were open to their vessels. By the papers No 6, seperate, you will observe that many of the States are now convinced that it is necessary to vest Congress with the power of protecting commerce by mercantile Treaties. 10 Great Britain has presumed that in the hour of peace the States would not support one another. On this supposition her proclamation was is sued for cutting off our trade with the West Indies. The spirit that is now rising in the States will be apt to convince her that she has been mistaken, as on many former occasions, when she counted on our want of union. From the good sense of the Legislature of N Carolina & their uniform desire to support federal measures, I am not to doubt what part they will take on this occasion.


[Page 482]
446 March 19, 1784 Congress are now engaged in preparing instructions for their minis ters abroad for negotiating Treaties with the several commercial pow ers in Europe with whom we have none at present. Virginia has compleated her Cession of territory to the United States, by which we may be enabled to pay of no small part of the na tional Debt. I have taken some pains, by comparing the most accurate Maps with the observations of Gentlemen who have been in the West ern Countries, to estimate the quantity & value of the territory now belonging to the United States on the West of the Ohio. There are somewhat more than 186 millions of acres. Of this quantity 44 mil lions of acres are to the Northward of latitude 45°. This Country being neither very fertile nor well timbered will not for ages be of much use, except for hunting ground. Between the latitude 45° and 42 there are above 44 millions of acres. This Country is in general fer tile & well timbered but the Indians will expect the exclusive use of it for a considerable time. Between the parallel of 42 degrees latitude & the river Ohio, extended between the state of Pensylvania & the river Mississippi there are about 85 millions of acres. In this Country the lands are extremely fertile and there is hardly any part of america so little broken by mountains. I presume that it may be sold at 25 Dollars for the hundred acres by which a debt of 20 millions may be paid off, after 5 millions of acres have been deducted, which is more than suffi cient for paying our late army the lands due them. An object which holds out the prospect of sinking near half of our national debt cer tainly claims the most serious attention. In pursuance of this object the next thing to be attempted is a treaty with the Indians who are daily soliciting that we should enter into such treaty. We have reason to expect that they will yield us a considerable tract in consequence of the outrages they have committed during the late war, and we propose buying as much more as they can be prevailed on [to] sell. Congress are desirous of being ready to treat whenever the Summer ap proaches. In whatever light, from time and habit we may view a large Nation in debt, it is certainly a chain of slavery. It will constantly be found that “the borrower is a servant to the lender" and those debts which are the necessary cause of taxation must prove the necessary source of grief. For these reasons I presume it is our duty to leave no honest measures unattempted by which we may pay of[f] the national debt. As the Citizens of our State have little foreign commerce, have little intercourse with Strangers and have not so many opportunities of re ceiving information concerning national & foreign occurrences as are presented to people in large commercial Cities, I have the rather thought it my duty to trouble you with so long a letter and to forward so many extracts. The State has an undoubted right to expect infor-


[Page 488]
452 March 22, 1784 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). 1 For this letter and the enclosed papers, see Thomson to FitzSimons, February 12, note. 2 The following reply from FitzSimons of March 30 is in PCC, item 78, 9:519-20. “I examined all the papers in my possession, & now Send those that I discovered to belong to Congress. I am positive no others are or have been with Me, & that the letter of the 23 April must have remained with Mr Gorham. I shall mention to Mr Morris that—it is not found—& he will direct a Copy to be Sent from his office.” On the verso of FitzSi mons’ letter, Thomson listed the following enclosures received: “A plan of a treaty of Commerce bet[ween] the US & GB, by Mr R R Livingston. A letter 30 March 1783 M Gen Lincoln. A paper on the value of foreign Coins.” See also the following entry. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Dear Sir Annapolis 22d March 1784 I enclose you a list of the Letters & Reports from your Office as Super- intendant of Finance & Agent of Marine from your first entering into Of fice up to the end of 1783 which are in the Office. 1 I find upon farther examination that some papers are missing; three of which are important, 1st. A Letter of February 1782 the substance stated “the danger that must ensue from the neglect of the States to grant the duties of 5 per Cent, and their backwardness in complying with requisitions for men & money and recommending a Letter to stimulate them to greater exertions. 2 2nd. A Letter December 12th 1782 containing an Ordinance for as certaining the value of foreign Coins. 3 3d. A Letter April 23d 1783 on the regulation of a mint. 4 The enclosed Copy of a Letter which I have this day written to Mr. Fitzsimmons will explain how the two last came to be out of the Of fice; 5 but I cannot yet find what is become of the first. If Mr. Fitzsim mons should not be able to find the Letters mentioned, I shall be much obliged if you will be pleased to order a Copy of the above to be made out & forwarded to me. I am Sir &c. C.T. 6 LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). 1 Enclosure not found; but for Thomson’s office copy of such a list, which contains entries continuing through November 1, 1784, see PCC, item 183, fols. 1-14. 2 For this February 11, 1782, letter to Congress, see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:205-13. 3 See ibid., 7:196-99. 4 Ibid., pp. 737-43. 5 See the preceding entry. 6 Thomson also wrote Morris a second letter this day, requesting that he send the en closed congressional resolutions “respecting the appointment of five Commissioners for negotiating with the Indians” to “several printers to be published in their Newspapers.” PCC, item 18, fol. 44.


[Page 489]
March 23, 1784 453 Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Mar. 22. 1784. We inclose to your Excellency by the bearer Mr. McAlister an Exem plification of the deed of Cession 1 executed according to the directions of the act of assembly transmitted us, and have the honor to be with very high respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. & most humble servt. Th. Jefferson Arthur Lee S. Hardy Jas. Monroe. John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Jefferson and signed by Jefferson, Hardy, Lee, Mercer, and Monroe. 1 This letter and the exemplification were printed in Hening, Statutes, 11:571-75. For Congress’ acceptance on March 1 of Virginia’s deed to its lands beyond the Ohio River, see Jefferson to James Madison, February 20, note 15. David Howell to Jabez Bowen Sir, Annapolis March 23, 1784. I have not been able as yet to obtain a copy of the act of the Legisla ture of N. Jersey investing Congress with power to levy & collect a 5 per Cent Impost, &c. Their act for raising a revenue of 83,358 Dollars per annum for the space of 25 years has come to my hands & I have made sufficient extracts therefrom in the paper No. 1, to give an Idea of their plan. 1 I call it their plan because it is manifestly short of a com pliance with that proposed by Congress on the 18th of April 1783, which requires “The said last mentioned revenue to be collected by persons appointed as aforsd, but to be carried to the separate credit of the States within which they shall be collected,” whereas this N. Jer sey revenue is to be collected by their County & Town collectors ap pointed by, & amenable only to, that State, & over whom Congress is to have no ControuL The State of N. Jersey hath gone the farthest to wards a compliance with the views of Congress of any State I have yet heard of; yet their failure in this point will defeat all they have done according to the strict resolve of Congress which requires “that none of the preceding resolutions shall take effect untill all of them shall be acceded to by every State." Enclosed in paper No. 2 is a copy of an act of the State of N. Hamp shire in [v] esting Congress with power to levy & collect a 5 per Cent Impost. 2 This act is formed on the groundwork of the Massachusetts


[Page 498]
462 March 27, 1784 MS not found; reprinted from Oide Ulsterb (April 1909): 110. 1 DeWitt had just arrived in Annapolis and took his seat in Congress this day. During his stay in Philadelphia enroute to Maryland, DeWitt had written the following letter to his son Gerret on the 16th describing the city and his impression of Van Berckel. “I now write you from a place the most magnificent that ever I saw and perhaps it may be ranked among the finest Cities in the World, the houses are elegant the streets spa cious and notwithstanding four horses were necessary and even six before we reached this city, to drag us though the mud, we walk here without the least difficulty with clean shoes on pavements as clean as a house floor. I suspect my situation at Annapolis will not be so agreeable, however I am again informed here that there is a probability of re turning soon from that place northward. “I have this day dined with the Minister of France, the Chevalier (for so he is called) as well as his Secretary treated me with great politeness and civility. Tomorrow I am to wait on the Minister of the United Netherlands whom I saw this day in the street and was introduced to him by my old friend Gouverneur Morris, he appears to be as plain a Dutchman as I am, indeed I believe I rather exceeded him in dress, however you must know I am rather better dressed on this occasion than usual. “As soon as an opportunity occurs I shall set out from this place for Baltimore, I brot with me several letters of introduction from New York Gentlemen to Gentlemen in this place, in consequence of which I have a great many invitations and am treated with great respect.” Oide Ulster, 5:84—85. James McHenry to Margaret McHenry Sunday 28th March 1784. Writing to his wife for the first time after taking his seat in Congress the preceding day, the newly-married McHenry complained of the burden imposed by his attendance at Congress. “In truth, I am no longer anxious to please my state, seeing it cannot be done without sacrificing too much of your company. It is time too that I should accommodate my leisure and industry to our prospects and circumstances. Neither of us can be happy under a long separation; nor can our interest be promoted by my sitting in Congress. My first object was to get you to Baltimore, to see you mis tress of your house, and pleased in your new situation—but a strong hand restrains me where I am and delays that necessary event. 1 I fear my beloved that I shall not have it in my power to move from this place sooner than the first of May. It is a tedious period—but unless I do what I have censured others for doing I cannot make it shorter.” 2 MS not found; reprinted from Steiner, James McHenry, pp. 78-79. I For an explanation of the “strong hand” that kept McHenry in Annapolis until the end of April, see McHenry to William Paca, March 15, 1784. 2 McHenry continued to write Peggy regularly while they were separated, but his let ters contain little of public interest. Writing on April 1 he observed that he had dined “at different houses every day this week” and that he had also “been very busy in Congress.” Steiner, James McHenry, p. 79. For letters of March 30 and April 4, 7, 8, and 13, see ibid., pp. 79-81.


[Page 499]
March 29, 1784 463 Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Annapolis 29th March 1784 There has been but little business of public Importance done in Congress for some time past for want of a fuller representation, all the States are now represented except Deleware and Georgia, a New ap pointment is soon expected from Deleware as the Assembly of that State were to convene this day. There are four or five Matters of im portance that will require the attention of Congress before the ad journment which is expected to be in May. Instructions to the Ministers in Europe to propose and conclude treaties with most of the Commercial States in Europe are now under consideration. A report of a Committee consisting of one Member from each State present has been made on ways & means for payment of the Interest in arrear on the foreign and domestic debts, and for the current expences of the present Year, which it appears may be done without making any New requisitions, but by application of part of the 8 Million dollars required by the resolution of Novr. 1781. 1 Another report is made respecting the reduction of the Civil List both as to the Number of Officers, and the Salaries of those that are to remain. 2 Five Commissioners have been appointed to Treat with the Northern and Middle Tribes of Indians and to obtain from them a release of their claim to a tract of territory Sufficient for one or more States North west of the Ohio, and west of Pensylvania. The Gentle men appointed are Generals Clark, Wolcot and Green, a Col. Butler of Pensylvania and Mr. Steven Higgison of Boston; they are allowed Six & an half dollars per day for their Services and expences while em ployed in the Service. Some further Instructions to the Commission ers for Settling accounts are under consideration. These are the prin cipal matters to be transacted before the adjournment. The answer to the Address of the Honble. House of Representatives of the State of Connecticut has been reported, and considered by paragraphs and amended as far as Congress thought proper, it only remains to take a question on the whole which has been delayed for Some time in order to have a full Congress. 3 Enclosed is a copy of the Answer to the Legislature of Massachusetts on the Same Subject 4 — also extracts from Several of the last Letters from our Commissioners in Europe, Shewing in what light our republican Governments are viewed there. I wish that we may cut off all occasion from those who desire Occasion to Speak evil of us, and injure the reputation [of] ris ing States. The letters contain No other i[n]formation of much importance. There is Some talk of leaving a Committee of the States when


[Page 500]
464 March 29, 1784 Congress adjourn, but it has not yet been determined—if one Should be appointed it would not be convenient for me to Stay, and General Wadsworth Says that he Should not be willing to continue here after the rising of Congress. I dont learn that the people at Wyoming are likely to get any releif from the General Assembly of Pensylvania. Their Complaint against Paterson & others was referred to a Commit tee who reported that the law was open to them, and that it is not proper for the Legislature [to] interpose. I am with great respect, Your Excellency’s humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (MHi: Miscellaneous Bound Collection). 1 See David Howell to Jabez Bowen, March 12, note 1. 2 See Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, February 1, 1784. 3 See Connecticut Delegates to William Williams, January 15, note 2. 4 See Elias Boudinot to John Hancock, October 1, 1783. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson and Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Annapolis 29th March 1784 In pursuance of the within Act of the United States in Congress Assembled, I had the honor of forwarding to your Excellency on the 26th January last, 1 in the terms prescribed, a notification of the ap plication made to Congress for the institution of a Court to deter mine the private right of soil between the Individuals claiming under different States in that tract of Country which by a late foederal Court has been adjudged to Pennsylvania & of the, assign ment of a day for the parties to appear before Congress or a Com mittee of the States for instituting such Court agreeably to the Arti cles of Confederation. As I have not been favoured with an Answer, and it may become necessary to shew that the notification has been duly received, I must request Your Excellency to take the trouble of acknowledging the re ceipt of this or of my former Letter. 2 I have the honor to be &c. C. T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). Addressed: “The Governor of Connecticut & President of Pennsylvania.” 1 See Thomson to Dickinson and Trumbull, January 26, 1784. 2 For Governor Trumbull’s April 24 response to Thomson, see PCC, item 66, 2:266; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:396. Pennsylvania’s April 14 response was returned over the signature of John Armstrong, Jr., secretary of the council, for which see ibid., p. 392; and PCC, item 69, 2:477.


[Page 502]
466 March 30, 1784 sion of Congress at their next meeting.” The report was not considered again until De cember 15 when it was assigned to a new committee. See JCC, 25:680-95, 27:398, 453-65, 550-51, 595-96; and PCC, item 30, fols. 219-28, item 72, fols. 167-70, item 186, fol. 173. For a review of congressional postwar policy toward the southern Indian tribes, see Kenneth Coleman, “Federal Indian Relations in the South, 1781-1789,” Chronichsof Ok lahoma, 35 (Winter 1957-58): 435-58; and Walter H. Mohr, Federal Indian Relations, 1774-1788 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1933), pp. 139-72. 3 This day Beresford also wrote to Robert R. Livingston asking for information about an Irish servant that Livingston had vouched for and that Beresford had hired in Philadelphia “about five Years since” and discharged a few months later in Boston “upon my Embarkation for Charleston.” Gratz Collection, PHi. Committee of Congress to Robert Morris Sir, Annapolis Mar. 30. 1784. Your very interesting Letter of the 17th Inst, with the Accounts In closed having been Committed to a grand Committee Consisting of a Member from each State on the floor of Congress—they have lost no time in deliberating on the Steps proper to be immediately taken by Congress for securing the public Credit & preventing the fatal Effects that must necessarily arise from a protest for Non-payment & return of your Bills from Holland especially shou’d the United States be found without funds for the Immediate repayment of the Amount of such Bills & the Charges accruing. 1 The Committee being of opinion that the subject is of too great Moment to admit of delay Conceive it is their duty to suppose for the present that the Bills are actually protested for Nonpayment & may shortly be returned and on that presumption to see what means Can be made Use of in this Country for satisfying the Holders on the ar rival of the protests. The first Sources that present themselves as likely to afford immedi ate Relief are the public Banks. That at Philadelphia having (As is un derstood here) very greatly increased its Subscriptions and others opening at Baltimore, New York & Boston on very Considerable Capi tals, The Committee wish to know Your opinion on the probability of obtaining a Loan from them or any of them. The Grand Committee relying on your wisdom & zeal for the public good Wish as soon as possible to be furnished with Your thoughts at large; On the Expediency of Attempting from the American Banks a loan of such sum as may be Necessary in Case of the Actual protest for Nonpayment of your Bills on Holland; On the premium to be offered for Obtaining such loan—And on the form & mode of issuing public Securities for the Same.


[Page 504]
468 March 31, 1784 Committee of Congress Draft Resolve [March 31, 1784] The Committee consisting of Mr Williamson, Mr Lee & Mr Osgood to whom was referd the memorial of J Etwein, A Hubner & H C de Schweiniz 1 submit the following Resolve That in disposing of the Lands on the West Side of the Ohio, so much of the Lands adjoining to the Towns of Gnadenhutten, Schoen- brun and Salem on Muskingum be reserved for the sole use of the Christian Indians who were formerly settled there or to the Remains of that Society as may be sufficient for them to cultivate, together with all the Buildings & Improvements thereon. MS (DLC: Peter Force Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Hugh Williamson. Endorsed: “Report of the Petition of Moravian Indians." Comee. Mr Williamson, Mr Lee, Mr Osgood, delivered March 31, 1784. Read. May 18 [1785] taken into the Ordi nance for disposing of Western lands.” 1 This October 28, 1783, memorial from Andrew Hubner, Hans Christian De Schweiniz, and John Ettwein, the Moravian bishop at Bethlehem, Pa., is in PCC, item 41, 3:73-76. It contained a request for information on the congressionally-ordered in quiry into the massacre of Moravian Indians at Gnadenhutten in March 1782 (see these Letters, 18:448), and expressed concern that the lands of the survivors were in jeopardy and ought not be opened to settlement before their claims had been purchased. It had been referred to this committee on November 1, 1783. JCC, 25:794n.3. For the “Ordi nance for disposing of Western lands” referred to in the endorsement, into which the committee’s recommendation was ultimately incorporated on May 18, 1785, and adopted by Congress two days later, see JCC, 26:324—30, 28:381. See also Charles Thom son to John Ettwein, April 7, 1784. Thomas Jefferson to George Washington Dear Sir Annapolis. Mar. 31. 1784. Your servant delivered me your favor this morning; 1 Capt. Barney is gone to Philadelphia and his vessel to Baltimore, having left with me one of your packages only. The persons who brought this could give me no certain account of the other package which you suppose to have been brought. This your servant now receives. Being obliged to seize a moment in Congress of writing you these few lines, I can only mention to you that late advices from Europe mention another revolution in the British ministry, Mr. Pitt & his friends having resigned. No new ministry was formed. This does not come however authentically. I am with very great respect & esteem Dr. Sir, Your most obedt. & most humble servt., Th. Jefferson


[Page 506]
April 1, 1784 The Apportionment of the 636,000 Dollars is as follows New Hampshire 22,348 Massachusets 95,157 Rhode Island 13,703 Connecticut 56,007 New York 54,375 Newjersey 35,344 Pennsylvania 87,000 Delaware 9,516 Maryland 60,003 Virginia 108,750 North Carolina 46,218 South Carolina 40,782 Georgia 6,797 636,000 Dollars RC(MiU-C: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hampshire.” The RC’s of this letter that have been located—to New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia—are all dated April 1, although it was entered in the presidential letterbook under the date April 4. PCC, item 16, fols. 297-99. 1 For the origins of the “subject of this address," a March 17 letter from the superin tendent of finance to Congress on the precarious health of the nation’s public credit which was referred to a committee that drafted this circular letter for the signature of the president of Congress, see Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, March 30, note 1; and JCC, 26:172-73. 2 Remainder of entry taken from the LB. Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book [April 1-30, 1784] April 1st. Sent to the president to be transmitted 13 Copies of a Circular Letter from Congress to the States pressing an immediate supply of Money for discharging Bills drawn by Supt. Finance—with the apportion [men] ts enclosed 1 —furnish’d Mr. Jefferson with a Copy of the above. April 2d. Sent to the President to be transmitted to Genl Schuyler a second Copy of the Resolution of Congress directing a return of the deputation to the late hostile tribes of Indians of February 10th. Ap pointment of Commissioners of March 4th. 1784 & a resolution of March 5 revoking all appoint[men]ts prior to the 4th instant. 2 April 3d. Transmitted to the Supert. of Finance Copy of a memorial of Wm. Duer Read March 31st. referred to him to report. 3 Sent to the President Two Copies of the Resolution of 23d March last respecting the election of Delegates. 4


[Page 511]
April 2, 1784 475 34 Ibid. 35 Ibid., pp. 239-41. 35 Ibid., pp. 245-46. 3’ For this September 23 Pennsylvania act, see PCC, item 69, 2:469-72. 3« JCC, 26:262-63. 39 Ibid., pp. 274-79. 40 See New York Delegates to Congress, April 24, 1784. 4i JCC, 26:287-96. 42 Ibid., p. 282. 43 Ibid., p. 309. 44 Ibid., pp. 309-10. 45 Ibid., pp. 310-11. 46 Ibid., p. 269. John Beatty to Reading Beatty Dear Brother Annapolis 2d. April 1784 The prologomenon of your letter I shall pass over: only reminding you; that I have long since been stiled Hon.ble & feel no new impor tance, on my new appointment, or at the great deference & “respect, ” with which you would seem to “approach” me, & I must beg you will prorogue any further flummery on this Head, but address me as standing on the same ground with other fellow “Mortals.” You speak the language of nature in asking the Question, relative to the State of our Funds, & it does not require the Spirit of Divination, to propound your “interestedness ” in a discussion of this Subject. But I fear the “reality” of our Debt, when Contrasted with the “Reality” of our Means of payment, will not admit of a very favourable Prognosis; and that the “Contents” of our Treasury, will strike you much in the light of my former letter; being only a “Preface” 8c containing no “Substance. ” Those who know least of the powers of Congress, are generally the most sanguine on this Head. We have neither the power of Resolving money into existance; nor diving in to and drawing it forth; from the coffers of those who possess it. Like the Indian Sachems, indeed, we can consult, devise, 8c call for requisitions; but it rests with the Executives of the states alone, to give Efficacy to the Measures recommended— our most ostensible resource is that of an Impost upon foreign Impor tations. This would constitute no inconsiderable Revenue 8c tend greatly to alleviate Taxation in the ordinary way—Being founded on the most perfect Equality; a Tax, wholly voluntary 8c insensible; I can not but be astonished at the opposition it meets with in the several states—only seven, of the thirteen Legislatures, have yet acceeded to the proposition; & were I to hazard a Conjecture, it would be that two or More, never will comply. Cut off from this Hope, I know not where we shall land. The Burthens of a people must be measured by their abilities to sustain the pressure: and when Taxes once become odious;


[Page 513]
April 2, 1784 477 457,525. 1,000,000 375,611 681,490 1,289,270 1,609,270. 22,500 7,500 37,037 The Civil Department The Military Department The Marine Department Indian Purchases—Expences Contingencys—Estimated at 107,525.33 200,000.— 30,000.— 60,000.— 60,000.— ENCLOSURE Schedule That there will be wanting for Arrears of Interest & for the Interest and services of the present year (84) the followg. Sums. Debts contracted & still unpaid, for the Services of 1782 and 1783 & assumed to pay by Mr. Morris. Foreign Debt. 1782. Deer. 31. Three years interest on Spanish Loan of 150,000 Dolls, at 5 Per Cent 1783. Deer. 31. Interest on Spanish Loan Private french Loans of 4 Milin. Livres. 1784. Interest on Dutch, Spanish and French Loans up to 31st Deer. 84 Domestic Debt. 1782. Deer. 31. Arrears of Interest due on Loan office Debt, Liquidated Debt & Army Debt N. B. This is a Ball, of Interest due for the year 82, after deducting the requisition of Sepr. 4th, 1782 for 1,200,000 Dolls. 1783. Deer. 31. Loan office Debt, Liquidated Debt, unliquidated Debt, Army Debt. 1784. Deer. 31. Loan office, Liquidated, unliquidated, & Army Debt By adding these sums together you will find our requisition of 4X Millions, falls short of the Amount near a Milin, of Dolls, but it is bet ter to leave some of the domestic Debt unpaid; than to call for More than can be raised & thereby frustrate the whole plan. I have taken this off in a hurry there may be some trivial Mistakes. 2 Yours, J.B. RC (PHi: Society Collection). 1 The estimate had been agreed to in grand committee and was contained in a report entered on the journals on April 5 but not adopted until April 27. See JCC, 26:186-98, 301-9. 2 Beatty’s figures are correct, although some of the categories of debt were further broken down into subotegories in the report of the grand committee, for which see JCC, 26:186-87.


[Page 514]
478 April 2, 1784 Edward Hand to George Clinton Sir Annapolis 2d. April 1784 The Deligates from your State inform me That it is likely the Legis lature have before now agreed on the terms on which the Land office is to be opened, & that they have passed a Bill in consequence. Very desirous of securing a tract of Land in the State of New York, I take the liberty to trouble your Excellency on the subject, beging to be informed if the Land-Office be really opened or likely soon to be, on what terms & in what quantities lands are to be procured—if there be a possibility of securing a particular Spot, for myself & Family, & what Steps are immediately necessary to effect it. The Steps to be taken preparatory to Garrisoning the Frontier Posts are under the Consider ation of a Committee of which Mr. Paine is one. Instructions to our Ministers in Europe for forming Commercial Treaties, are now the Subject of Consideration. Eleven States are represented. Viz N.H., Massa., R.I., Connect., N.Y, N.J, Penns., Maryland, Virginia & the two Carolinas. With the greatest respect I have the honor to be, your Excellencys most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. Edwd. Hand RC (WHi: Clinton Papers). Thomasjefferson to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis. Apr. 2. 1784. We have received no foreign intelligence through any authentic channel since the letter from Dr. Franklin of Dec. 25. an extract from which I formerly did myself the honour of inclosing you. 1 Through different ways however, such as to merit beleif, we have information that the utmost confusion prevails in the British government. The House of commons on the 16th of January came to a vote that the ministry (Mr. Pitt and his associates) neither possessed nor ought to possess the confidence of the nation. One account sais that on this Mr. Pitt resigned. Another that he had not resigned and that the doubt was whether the king would dissolve the parliament or part with his ministry. The error in the composition of that administration seems to have been the filling it from the house of lords, and taking in not enough of the men of interest and talents in the house of com mons. Matters on the continent are quiet. The Emperor and Dutch have appointed commissioners to settle their difference. Whether his object was to have opened the Scheid, or whether the dispute arose about contested territory seems not very clear. I should have added to


[Page 515]
April 2,1784 479 the above intelligence that the city of London were warm for Mr. Pitt and had addressed the King to continue his favor to him. Your letter from Mount Vernon came safely to hand. 2 We have eleven states in Congress; and are applying ourselves solely to the important subjects. I am not without hopes that we shall be able by the first of May to ad journ till November. Nothing could prevent it but the loss of votes sometimes by divisions of the states, 8 of the 11 being represented by two members only. Any three of sixteen individuals can still defeat our endeavors, and your knowlege of men will suggest to you the possibil ity of 3 dissenting voices out of 16 on any question. Mr. Mercer the corresponding member for the month will perhaps be able to supply any intelligence which may escape me. I have the honour to be with very great esteem & respect Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble servt, Th. Jefferson 3 RC (PHi); reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:59-60. 1 See Jefferson to Harrison, March 18, note 2. 2 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:45—46. 3 Jefferson also wrote a similar letter this day to Edmund Pendleton, for which see ibid., pp. 60-61. On April 4 he wrote to his daughter Martha inquiring about her stud ies and informing her that “I am again getting my health, and have some expectation of going to Philadelphia ere long; but of this am not certain.” Ibid., p. 62. Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis 2d April 1784 There being no doubt that Congress by Their Resolution of the 23d of January last meant that Commissioners or Judges should be ap pointed in June next to hear and determine the claim of the Con necticut Seders at Wyoming to the private right of Soil: 1 it only re mains for us to move for a re-consideration of that Act in compliance with the resolutions of the Honorable the General Assembly of the 14th of Feby. last. In order that at the same time we do this we may be able to shew, in the clearest light, the humane and generous inten tions of that Honorable Body towards those People, we request your Excellency may be pleased to transmit to us by the nex[t] Post, a copy of the resolution of the Honorable the General Assembly of the 2d of September last relative to this Subject & inform us of the cause or causes which gave rise to it, we also wish for an exact copy of the peti tion or application of the persons to whom grants of Land were made by the resolution of the 30th of January last. 2 Inclosed we have the honor to transmit a copy of alterations made in the Instructions of Congress to the Commissioners for negotiating with the Indians. 3


[Page 525]
April 5, 1784 489 impugning the dictates of common sense. As therefore it is possible that the component moieties of this Unit may sometimes find it con venient to occupy two spaces at one and the same time, I cannot think of abdicating the house at the corner of Spruce Street, which has for some time been a principal Object of my care. Were I to part with one or other of the places of my permanent resi dence, such is my prejudice in favour of old attachments and so far from having laid them aside that I could notwithstanding my growing fondness for Annapolis, much easier part with that house. I am, Dear Sir, Your sincere old friend & humble Servt C. T. FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 Cf. Alexander Pope, Moral Essays, Epistle 1:172-73, “Manners with fortunes, hu mours turn with climes, Tenets with books, and principles with times.” 2 That is, Dr. Francis Alison, an influential educator with whom Thomson had lived and studied as a boy. Boyd S. Schlenther, Charles Thomson: A Patriot's Pursuit (Newark: University of Delaware Press, 1990), p. 20. Arthur Lee to Joseph Reed Dear Sir, Annapolis April 5th. 1784 By this time I hope your health has been materially benefitted by your voyage to Europe. Our latest Advices from London announce great violence & confusion arising from the contests between Pitt & Fox. In this Country we are more harmonious & composd. The ces sion of all the territory northwest of the Ohio, belonging to the Vir ginia, has been formally made by that State & accepted by Congress. Generals Clarke, Wolcot, Green, Butler & Mr. Higgenson are ap pointed to negociate a treaty & purchase from the Indians their claims, which will secure the settlements in that Country, & enable us to satisfy the demands of the Army, & sink the public debt by the sale of the Lands. A consummation devoutly to be wishd. I expect, if there is any sense left in the english Nation, they will turn their attention to Lord Shelburne, who I believe is the only man capable of saving their Country from the ruin that threatens it from such Counsellors & Contests. If you see Lord Shelburne, please to pre sent to him my best respects, & the same to Dr. Price. I beg you will make my Compts. to Mrs. & Mr. Deberdt. On the other side is a Copy of the report on your Letter. 1 It has not been acted upon, from the number of public matters which have occupyd Congress. Farewell. A. Lee [PS.] The Committee to whom was referrd a Letter of Deer. 13. 1783 from Jos. Reed Esqr. submit to Congress the following Resolution


[Page 527]
April 6, 1784 491 good Company, even thro the instrumentality of Monsieur Mont golfiers grand travelling aerial Machine, a Balloon. Since Colo Dicks arrival, 2 the State can set down easier under the Loss of Mr. Stevens’s assistance: Yet I could wish for his presence here; as 1 am persuaded it would add great respectability to the representa tion of New Jersey. He is a good man & deserves much of his Country. Should he not be able to Join us before the Middle of May; 3 it will per haps be adviseable for him, not to come, as in all probability Congress will adjourn by the first of June for the remainder of the Year. This is an Event much to be desired; as it will tend to remove the Idea, enter tained by many Jealous Minds; that Congress are assuming powers not warranted by the Confederation & attempting to render themselves a perpetual Body, having no recess. Added to this it will be a consider able saving to the U.S. & I am inclined to believe; the Members will more punctually attend in the succeeding Novr. & set down with greater alacrity & diligence to Business. Having been Engaged these several days past, in preparing Instruc tions to our Ministers abroad, for negotiating Treatys of Amity & Com merce, with the several powers, who may be disposed to Treat with us; a question has Arisen; how many & who are necessary & proper to be commissioned for this purpose While some are of opinion that one, or more of the three already in Europe, ought to be recalled; others urge strenuously to add a Fourth thereto: I have as yet grounded no decission on this subject in my Mind; but would wish, that at the same time, we study public CEconomy; we should also carefully guard the public good. I am to request your Excellys Sentiments on this Head; but more particularly what Information you have, of Mr. Jays state of Health, or his wishes to return to America. While Dr. Franklins recall was under debate, it was suggested in the House; that a like indul gence might be plead in favr. of Mr. Jay, whose state of Health & wishes to retire, were equally Cogent with those of the Dr.; both of whose Letters in 83, express this desire in very strong terms. I have however so good an opinion of Mr. Jays Heart & Head (& withall youth being on his side) that if it is not wholly incompatible with his Health, domestic Concerns, or his wishes; I cannot assent to his being recalled. No doubt he has written to Your Excellcy on these points & if not improper, may I beg to be confidentially informed. I have laid Mr. Deare & Mr. Oldens Acct, before Congress, who have been pleased to make the necessary order for its payment. 4 I have nothing new or in teresting to Inform you of. I take it for granted you have a detail of our proceedings: as the Secretary has orders to forward to the Execu tives of all the States the printed Journals of Congress, as fast as they can be prepared. Mr. Dick Joins me in respectfull Comps, to Your Ex- celly. & Family & I must beg you will present mine to Mr. Bell & family & to the Squire, whose wants I find are still Unsatisfied.


[Page 528]
492 April 6, 1784 With great respect & Esteem, I have the Honour to be, your Ex- cellys Most obedt., Hum Servt. Jno. Beatty RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Samuel Dick had joined Beatty in Congress on February '25. JCC, 26:97. 3 John Stevens took his seat in Congress on May 2.0. JCC, 27:417. 4 Jonathan Deare and Joseph Olden were being reimbursed for expenses incurred in investigating a post office theft at Princeton. See JCC, 26:201; and Livingston, Papers (Prince), 5:97-98. Jonathan Blanchard to Meshech Weare Sir Annapolis April 6th 1784 I have the honor of enclosing to your Excellency, the Determina tion of Congress, on the Memorial of the Legislature of Your State, relative to the Decision of the Court of Appeals in cases of Capture. 1 When my colleague and I pressd for the Question, we imagined it would have been Carried, but a Division of the State of New York un expected to us prevented. The Honble. A Lee, one of the Gent, who framed the report, & agreed to the subsequent resolution, being absent when the question was taken, and by this Means the vote of Virginia was lost, this deter mination amounts to a reversal of the sentance as a considerable Ma jority were in favor of the Report. I cannot state to Your Excellency any thing in addition to a letter you will receive from the President of Congress, to induce a com- plyance (as far as may be in the power of the State) with the requisi tion for Money, to prevent the Injury which may happen to the Public, but every Day gives encouragement, that the Bills may not finally be protested for Non Payment. I have the Honor to be, Sir Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Hum ble Servant Jona. Blanchard. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Blanchard undoubtedly enclosed the March 30 congressional proceedings on New Hampshire’s memorial concerning the condemnation of the Lusanna, which culmi nated in the rejection of a motion declaring that Congress lacked jurisdiction in the case. JCC, 26:174—75. For the origins of this case, see Abiel Foster to Weare, December 26, 1783, note, and January 8, 1784, note 1. For discussion of the issues at stake and their resolution, see Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revolution, 1775-1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophi cal Society 122 (1977): 242-52, 307-13.


[Page 529]
April 6, 1784 493 Thomas Jefferson to George Washington Dear Sir Annapolis Apr. 6. 1784. I am obliged to you for your query as to the distance from New York to Cayahoga, 1 as it has occasioned my reexamination of that matter & detection of an error of 150 miles. The distances from New York to Ni agara I collect from information as follows. from N. York to Albany 164 miles. Oneida 165 Oswego 171 Niagara 180 680 from Niagara to Cayahoga 140 this last distance I collect 820 by measuring on Hutchins’s map & reducing that proportionably by the known distance from Niagara to Detroit which is 250 miles. The Public papers confirm the resignation of Mr. Pitt & his friends. A ship arrrived here, & some others in Philadelphia have brought us a riddle without a key. They received their bounties & drawbacks on clearing out from London as they used to do while we were colonies without any public act authorising it being visible. The custom house officers tendered them, & they were not so rude as to refuse them. The prohibitory proclamation they say is eluded & connived at by gov ernment. We have 11 states in Congress & hope by the middle of May to adjourn to November. If any thing prevents this it will be the repre sentation of 8 states of the 11 by 2 members each, who frequently di viding retard business extremely. The inclosed letter was put into my hands with a request to forward it to you. 2 This will be delivered you by Monsr. de Hogendorff, a relation of Mr. Van Berckel’s. A very par ticular acquaintance with him here has led me to consider him as the best informed man of his age I have ever seen. Nature & application seem equally to have concurred in fitting him for important business. He returns to Holland, his native country, in the summer, and cannot deny himself the satisfaction of paying his tribute of respect to you. 3 I have the honor to be with great esteem & attachment Dr. Sir, Your most obedt. & most humble servt., Th. Jefferson P.S. The Minister of France arrived here to-day. I beleive he is on a tour through Virginia, but I have not yet learned when he sets out. Since writing this I learn that the Minister has declined his tour through Virginia, but thinks to go as far as your house: perhaps within a fortnight.


[Page 530]
494 April 6, 1784 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:83-84. 1 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 1:240. 2 Not identified. 3 Count Gijsbert Karel van Hogendorp (1762-1834) traveled in America from Boston to Mount Vernon between November 1783 and June 1784 leaving vivid impressions of his journey, records of conversations, and characterizations of men that he met in America including Jefferson, Washington, Charles Thomson, Benjamin Lincoln, baron von Steuben, and Robert and Gouverneur Morris. Most of his recorded conversations are among the Hogendorp Papers, Rijksarchief, The Hague, and many were extracted and published by his descendants in Brieven en Gedenkschriften van Gijsbert Karel van Hogendorp, uilgegeven door zijn jongsten, thans eenigen Zoon, 7 vols. (The Hague: M. Nijhoff, 1866-1903). While in Annapolis Hogendorp met and befriended Jefferson whose observations about Congress the young nobleman reproduced as follows (in retranslation): “The members of Congress are no longer, generally speaking, men of worth or of distinction. For Congress is not, as formerly, held in respect; there is, indeed, dread of its power. Moreover the government of the States and the foreign missions absorb the men of first rank in the Union. It is difficult to form a majority. Congress only gets the minimum number of delegates necessary to vote and not the full number elected—that is, two in stead of five. The ratification of the treaty of peace was drawn up much too late, be cause there were not nine states whose delegates were present. I am not surprised to see Congress discouraged and in a bad mood, all of which is harmful to the affairs of the nation. The continuous change in members added to the other matters which I have pointed out, makes its management uneven. What is most discouraging is that its mem bers, being less men who have the confidence of the nation than men who are willing to accept the mandate, are composed of rich and frivolous young men; old men from the country who ignore what goes on in the world; officers, who, having no longer mili tary status enter into this national assembly out of vanity, perhaps; lawyers who appear only when the State who elects them needs their help in a particular discussion; and, in short, of few men who, gifted with high principles and the necessary attainments, have enough patriotism to sacrifice their private purposes to the public interest." And in a March 26 letter to his mother, Hogendorp quoted Jefferson directly. “Mr. Jefferson was speaking to me of a recess of Congress for the summer and of a plan not to convene again except for three months out of the year because of the leisure that peace will bring them. ‘Then,’ he said, ‘intelligent men from each state will be pleased to enter Congress for a short period, whereas now it is a sacrifice. After three years they will leave but others, like them, will replace them to be replaced in their turn. We will never again have in such a Congress obscure men who do its business badly.’” See Brieven, 1:342, 344; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:52n. See also Jefferson to Hogendorp, May 4, 1784. For a sketch of Hogendorp’s life and travels, see Howard C. Rice’s introduction to Hogendorp’s The College at Princeton, May 1784 (Princeton, NJ.: Princeton University Li brary, 1949), pp. iii-xii. Arthur Lee to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Annapolis April 6th 1784 I have the pleasure of informing you that the resolutions for allow ing your Expences as stated, & the loss of Money by Major Peirce passd this day unanimously. 1 I hope you will attend the Indian Treaty, which I think will be of infinite importance to our Country. 2 Genl. Clarke is gone to the western Country & I much doubt whether he


[Page 532]
496 April 7, 1784 The Chevalier de la Luzerne is here. I askd him whether he in tended visiting you. He says it will be impracticable. He leaves America for Europe in August. I beleive M. de M 1 has not treated him fairly, & that he has been undermind. We have appointed the Generals Clarke, Wolcot, Greene & Butler & Mr. Higgenson Commissioners to treat with the Indians. The Treaty to be held as soon as possible. Genl. Schyler will be added to-day. 2 A plan is preparing to put the department of finance into Commis sion & regulate its powers. 3 The Superintendent professes his intention of resigning in May. But I observe his partizans are much against the Report. Therefore either he is insincere or they servile. Perhaps both. We talk of adjourning in May & leaving a Committee of the States. It will I think be wrong; but some Members are so afraid of a southern Climate in the Summer, that they take it for granted they shall die un less they adjourn. My love to Mrs. Bland. Compts. to Mr. Tucker. Adieu RC (NN: Myers Collection). 1 That is, the marquis de Barbe-Marbois. 2 For Philip Schuyler’s election this day, see JCC, 26:207-8. 3 See Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, March 30, note 1. Charles Thomson to John Ettwein Sir, Annapolis 7 April 1784 I received by last post your letter of the 4 of March, and have to in form you that agreeably to my promise I laid your Memorial before Congress on the first of November last. It was then read and referred to a Committee, who reported thereon the 31 of March. 1 I presume the unsettled state of Congress and the want of a full representation rendered it in their opinion unnecessary to report sooner. The report is favourable. It has been read and now lies before Congress for their determination but at what time they will take it up I cannot say. It might not be amiss to write to some of the delegates of Pensylvania or of any other state you may be acquainted with and engage them to bring it forward. 2 You may rest assured I shall as far as in my power favour the cause of those unhappy people and most heartily wish your laudable endeavours to promote their spiritual and temporal Welfare may be crowned with success. I am, Sir, Your obedt humble Servt. Cha Thomson RC (PBMCA: Ettwein Papers). 1 For the committee report on Ettwein’s October 31, 1783, memorial to Congress on the plight of the Moravian Indians in the aftermath of the Gnadenhutten massacre of March 1782, see Committee of Congress Draft Resolve, March 31, 1784. Ettwein’s


[Page 538]
502 April 9, 1784 Committee of Congress to Timothy Pickering Sir. Annapolis 9th April 1784 By Desire of a Grand Committee of Congress, I inclose You a Copy of a Letter from the Governor to the Delegates of Massachusetts, & re quest You to give all the Information in your Power respecting the Na ture & Circumstances of the Contract mentioned in the Letter, & rela tive to the Subject thereof in General. 1 I am Sir, with very great respect, Your most obedt & most humble servt. FC (DNA: PCC, item 137, appendix). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry. 1 For the enclosed letter from John Hancock and “the Subject thereof,” see the pre ceding entry, note. For Pickering’s response to the committee, which was chaired by ThomasJefferson, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:125-29. Thomasjefferson to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis Apr. 9. 1784. No authentic intelligence from Europe. Public papers as late as the 27th. of January state Mr. Pitt & his associates as still in office, but hav ing a decided majority against them in the House of commons. The king seems well affected to them, & the city of London also. He prob ably would dissolve the commons in hopes of getting a new house under the influence of his ministry; but the commons have not made the annual grant of supplies as yet, & thus perplex the purposes of the king. Some captains of vessels who have come to this place & Philadel phia say they had the bounties & drawbacks paid them on clearing out from London without knowing by what authority; for no such order was public. A letter from Mr. Bingham, now in London, of late date is of a different complexion. He states the purpose of Gr. Britain to be that of adhering to the policy of the king’s proclamation. He sais too that Spain has laid such duties as amount to a prohibition on all arti cles which we can send them & which they can get from any other quarter: that Portugal has absolutely prohibited our flour. If these be facts I suppose we shall have further information of them. We are now II states present, 8 of whom are represented by 2 dele gates only. We are laying our shoulders to three objects 1. Foreign treaties of amity & commerce. 2. the annual account & requisitions. 3. Western territory. I am not satisfied that Congress can give a decided vote on either of these propositions. The 1st was damped the other day by an important part of the subject being lost for want of an indi vidual vote only. It will be tried again. 1 The 2d is much canvassed. The report of the grand committee on that subject explains itself. 2 But every part of it requires nine votes. A question is made whether we


[Page 542]
506 April 9, 1784 power to collect the Impost recommended by the resolution of the 18th of April last. There is no remarkable news here. We have had a very severe Win ter. The snow has been gone but a few days. I shall be glad to hear from you, Letters may be Sent without any expence of Postage. Please to present my compliments to Sister Gibbs. I am with due regards Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (CtY: Gibbs Family Collection). Addressed: “Mr. Henry Gibbs, Merchant at Salem, Massachusetts.” 1 This letter to Elizabeth Sherman, explaining that Gibbs would supply her money and lamenting that “at present there is no prospect of adjourning [Congress] till near the last of May,” is in the Roger Sherman Papers, CtY. Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount Dear sir Annapolis 9th April 1784 Your favour of 20th March came to hand by this days Post. I wrote you by the last that Mr Smith does not propose paying the Note, 1 giving for Reason that Mr Blount has accepted an Order on Banks or Hunter Banks & Co for Tobacco to the Arnot, which order is not returned & that Banks has charged him with the Tobacco. I reed, nothing less than I expected on that Note, hence I was not disappointed. I think I have Cash Enough to serve me till the Time when I expect to return to the State and therefore would not wish that you should put yourself to the smallest Inconvenience in making Remittances. At any rate if I should have occasion for more mony and should give you Notice of the same, I hope you will not by any means send me any public Bills, or Bills on our Treasury. While in Public Office I do not wish to touch one of them lest, if mony is scarce in the Treasury, which is generally the Case, some Body should complain, if I was paid, that partiality was used. If I should chance to need any Mony I can borrow it in Philada & the Remittances can be made thither to repay it with sufficient Ease. The Time of my present Delegation expires within 5 Weeks or thereabouts viz on the 13th of May. If the State should honor me with another appointmt, It is not probable that I shall continue longer than to the End of May at which Time I expect that Congress will adjourn. If you have vested any of my Cash or rather Paper in Rum to pre vent depredation I hope you will not leave the Accot. open to be at my Choice which I shall Take the Rum or the Mony. If you can afford to pay Mony to be paid at any Time in Philad. I certainly would prefer it. Therefore you may take the Rum or other Articles to your own Accot, on the Condition that you are not in danger of loosing by it. You will be pleased to make the Entry in your Books accordingly. Since my last


[Page 545]
April 10,1784 509 A standing Committee of qualifications is appointed, and the Dele gates of Delaware have agreeably to a report of that Committee been deemed disqualified to hold their seats. 4 They were appointed, twelve months last February, for the ensuing year. If Congress should not adjourn by the first Wednesday in May, our qualifications to sit beyond that time may be called in question, and perhaps our seats may be vacated; 5 altho’ there is an act of the State which I conceive would justify our sitting until we shall be relieved. All the States, excepting Delaware & Georgia, are now represented in Congress, and it is expected that delegates from the first will soon be in Congress. I hope we shall be able to finish or put the most im portant business in train so that Congress may adjourn by the middle of May to the first Monday in November. The minister of France a few days ago laid before Congress the ex tract of a letter written 24th Deer. 1783 to the Chevalier la Luzerne by the Count de Vergennes, of which the following is I believe a just translation. 6 His Majesty hath decided in a manner irrevocable that the Port of L’Orient shall be free and that American navigators may actually con sider it as such. The Edict of the King hath not however, been pub lished; because the intention of his Majesty being to give to this estab lishment all possible extension, the regulations must after a mature examination be framed in such a manner that the advantages granted to the merchants of the United States may not essentially prejudice our commerce and the revenues of the State. The merchants of the United States may equally enjoy the liberty to frequent the ports of Marseilles and of Dunkirk, and they shall partake like other nations of the franchises and privileges of these two places. It is probable that France will give some indulgencies to our trade to their W. India islands. I am confident She will grant to our trade every privilege that is not incompatible with her views of naval aggran dizement. The report on foreign arrangements proposes commercial treaties with every power that is concerned with commerce. 7 If this re port succeeds, Britain thereby and in consequence of measures which may be adopted by France, I imagin will be brot to see the error of her ways, and take up a more liberal line of commercial conduct. However this may be: By multiplying the avenues of trade, we shall al ways have some to report to if several of them should be obstructed. Please to present my compliments to Mrs. Bowen and all friends. I am with great consideration, Your most hble servant, William Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 The following letter to West relating to this matter, dated only “Api. 1784,” is repro duced from the RC in the possession of Mr. Herbert Klingelhofer of Bethesda, Md.


[Page 547]
April 10, 1784 511 of recommending to the Executive Doctr. Williamson now in Congress from No Carolina. His attachment to the interest of the Southern States may I think be rely’d on in every instance where they clash with the Middle & East ern ones. And he is said to be very deeply read in the branch of sci ence which is necessary to be posses’d by a Commissioner. I have consulted Mr Jefferson on the Subject & he fully coincides with me in sentiment. With every sentiment of respect, I have the honour to be, Your Ex- cellencys Mo Obedt. Servt, S. Hardy RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See Hardy to Harrison, March 12, note 3. 2 In August 1783 the Pennsylvania assembly had authorized the appointment of com missioners to determine the southwest boundaries of the state in conjunction with com missioners from Virginia. The “temporary boundary” established in 1782, for which see these Letters, 18:320n.2, and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 4:184-87, had brought seri ous complaints from settlers in the region and governorsjohn Dickinson and Benjamin Harrison sought to protect each state’s interest. The commissioners from Pennsylvania (surveyor general John Lukens, Rev. John Ewing, David Rittenhouse and Thomas Hutchins) and those appointed by Virginia (Rev. James Madison, Rev. Robert Andrews, John Page and Andrew Ellicott) split into two teams establishing astronomical observa tories at the eastern end of the Mason-Dixon line near Wilmington, Del., and at its mountainous western terminus from which they made independent observations for nearly seven weeks from early July to the autumnal equinox. Comparing their results through the fall, they determined the southwest corner of Pennsylvania and issued a joint report in November 1784. Rittenhouse and Col. Andrew Porter of Pennsylvania and Ellicott and Joseph Neville of Virginia met again the following summer to run the meridian line to the Ohio River, issuing a final report in August 1785. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 10:56-57, 95-96, 145-46, 223-24, 230-31, 372-78, 438-39, 506, 573, 14:655, 15:38; Journals of the Council of the State of Virginia, ed. H. R. Mcllwaine et al., 5 vols. (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1931-82), 3:295, 316, 345-46, 401, 421, 424; and Hening, Statutes, 11:554-56. John Francis Mercer to the Virginia Council Gentlemen Annapolis April 10th. 1784. Having heretofore wrote divers Letters to his Excellency Benja. Har rison, but no reason existing that can induce me to suppose they have ever come to hand I can but imagine that some wickedly dispos’d Per sons have intercepted all my correspondance, a practice become but too common by the relax’d morals of our people—to the great scan dal of all government—I have therefore determin’d in order to de ceive those villains, to open a new source of communication, which I hope will continue during the Month in which it is my duty to write official Letters, unsuspected & of course safe. 1 Enclos’d is a Report of a grand Committee on the requisitions for the current year, acted


[Page 548]
512 April 10, 1784 upon altho not yet pass’d. 2 I coud wish for information on the state ment mark d A which is an apportionment of 1,200,000, to compleat the payment of Interest on Loan Office Certificates. Has any Tax ever been laid by the State of Virginia for its payment? If there has not been I cou’d wish to oppose the idea alltogether for 2 reasons. 1. The state must pay this Sum in Specie as she has not among her Citizens above 300,000 Dollars out of 11,000,000, & the Requisition on which this sum is call’d for is intended manifestly to enable the States to re lieve their own Citizens. We will not allow any Complaints from them to reach Congress. 2dly. The Circumstances of our Citizens will not permit our paying up all the arrears of interest at this moment—& certainly whoever considers the history of the loan Office debt, will agree that if ever they get paid, they will have brought their Money to a good market. I am also against the clause marked B. for two reasons. 1. We are to pay ourselves first & every deficiency is to be borne by Foreign Credi tors—which woud be a breach of faith & in fact it is intended to make the Southern States pay all the Foreign Debt. 2dly. It will give the Northern States great facility, who have settled all the accts, of Individ uals, with the Continent, the Southern States have not of course have no Conti. Securities & they must in fact give more than their propor tion in Taxes being oblig’d to sell their property for specie to pay those Taxes, when the others are allow’d to sell for certificates. A System for making Treaties in Europe is now before Congress and will possibly pass. 3 The Delegation will I believe give their assent if we are properly represented in the Commission. I am Gentn. with the utmost Respect, Yr. mo. Ob. hble. Servt., John F. Mercer RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For Gov. Harrison’s April 16 response to this letter, which he believed to be an “in tentional affront,” see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:103-4. 2 Enclosure not found, but see JCC, 26:185-95, 27:720. 3 See JCC, 26:169-70, 176-77, 180-85. James Monroe to Benjamin Harrison Dear Sir. Annapolis April 10. 1784. I have just reed, your Excellencys private letter to me. I beg of you to write on the back of private letters that they are so, otherwise they may be consider’d as the property of the delegation & open’d by ei-


[Page 550]
514 April 12, 1784 taining information that his most Christian Majesty had finally established Port L’orient a free port; & resolved to admit the Americans to the freedom of Dunkirk & Marseilles in common with other nations. 1 The paper No. 1 contains copy of the act of N. Jersey adopting the 5 pr Cent Impost. 2 You will observe that ’till the measure shall be adopted by all the States they have declared all their ports—free. The paper No. 2 contains copy of a report of a Committee of Congress on the Subject of an Ordinance for collecting the Impost recommended on the 3d of Feby. 1781.3 The States are now generally astonished that they should ever have been led into such an error as to give Congress the vast & uncontroulable powers contained in this ordinance. Virginia, South Carolina & North-Carolina repealed their hasty grants, as did the lower house of Massachusetts—Georgia & Rhode Island never granted the request of Congress. I have transmitted you the acts of seven States adopting the Impost recommended on the 18th day of April 1783. Should some more com ply & bring the measure near to a crisis I expect that some States will repeal these acts as they did the former. Virginia, I am told is divided nearly into two equal parties on this measure; so that when one party gets the upper hand an Impost is granted, & when the other suceeds the grant is revoked; which will prevail in their next House is uncer tain. State Imposts from 2 to 2J4 pr Cent have generally taken place; & unless the meeting of the Cincinnati in Philadelphia next month strikes out some extraordinary political manoeuvres, I expect that the last impost will share the fate of the first. The paper No. 3 contains copy of the report of a Committee of Congress on a military establishment in time of peace. 4 On this I need make no comment—unless it be to remark that as the Ordinance No. 2 shews you in what manner the Impost was to have been collected— so the military peace establishment No. 3 shews you to what use the money raised was to have been applied. I chose to put these two to gether, because it has long been observed that Imposts & excises in the hands of the Sovereign power & standing armies have grown up together & yielded mutual support to each other. I have enclosed also in paper No. 4 copy of some notes on the estab lishment of a money mint & coinage for the U. States. 5 These notes were occasioned by a long Letter on the Subject from the Superinten dant of Finance to Congress—copy of which I sent to Mr. John Brown when at Congress before; to which I beg leave to refer. 6 Nothing can be brought to a close on this business before the recess proposed. By the printed paper No. 5 you will see that Pennsylvania has opened her land-office & receives of her citizens in payment—certifi cates of depreciation, Loan-office certificates, certificates for pay & commutation, Commissaries, quartermasters & Forage masters certifi cates &c, &c.7 This must not only give relief to her citizens who are


[Page 551]
April 13, 1784 515 public creditors but prove a great resource to the State: By such means the States which have such vast tracts of wild land to dispose of may buy up the public securities & eventually reduce their sister States to the condition of tributaries. These are the States too which so pertenaciously insist that the revenues to be derived from commerce should be thrown into common stock. Sure I am that if our State parts with its advantage in point of revenue from trade, it must soon suc cumb under its burdens & dwindle into insignificance. I have sent you these papers to be laid before the Hon. the Genl. As sembly at their meeting in May. I pray you to present herewith my most dutiful respects & to assure them of my careful attention to their interests. With perfect consideration, I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, your most obedient & very hble Servt, David Howell P.S. Since writing the above the door-keeper has brought me the re port on Paper No. 6, by which you will see that plans for a peace estab lishment are contracting to a less Scale as the prospect of a Continen tal Impost vanishes. 8 N.B. I pray you to excuse inaccuracies & bad writing. I have not time, thro’ hurry of business, to copy at present—& I hate it, if I had. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the States, April 21, 1784. 2 A copy of this June 11, 1783, New Jersey act is in PCC, item 75, fols. 191-92. How ell’s reference to the state’s ports having been declared free is to Section 3 of the act. 3 See Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book, April 1-30, note 7. 4 Apparently the report entered on the journals October 23, 1783, for which see Vir ginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison, November 1, 1783, note 6. 5 Undoubtedly notes recently prepared by Thomas Jefferson, which have become the object of great interest to students of United States monetary history. Although How ell’s enclosure has not survived, the subsequent publication of Jefferson’s notes in the Providence Gazette is presumed to have been the result of Howell’s efforts, which have been traced in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:156-57, 186. See also Jefferson to Robert Morris, April 26, 1784. 6 Apparently Robert Morris’ letter of January 15, 1782, for which see Morris, Papers (Ferguson), 4:25-40. 7 This act had been published in the April 3 issue of the Pennsylvania Journal. 8 Apparently the report on “measures proper to be adopted in order to take posses sion of the Frontier Posts” submitted on April ft.JCC, 26:201-7. Charles DeWitt to Gerret DeWitt My dear Son Gerret. Annapolis, Apr. 13, 1784. I never felt more happy at any place than I do this day here, by the receipt of a pkg of letters from my dear family, which Mr. Eltinge has been so good as to convey to me in so direct a manner that they have


[Page 552]
516 April 13, 1784 been but fourteen days coming from your remote Northern clime [Kingston] which is ab 1 340 miles distant from this place. I have read them over and over, and kissed every one of them in stead of the dear lips that have drop’t the affectionate language con tained in them. As I have not a single doubt remaining with me of your exertions as a young man of business, I shall not say anything on that subject, leav ing it entirely to you and your uncle with the advice of my other chil dren to do as you please; and therefore this letter will be only calcu lated to give you a little information which may gratify your curiosity. Sometimes I write a long letter to one, sometimes to another of my children for I consider the letters I write as addressed to all, and tho I love you I would not have you flatter yourself that I love you best, be cause this may be the longest letter that goes from me at this time. I sent a packet of letters from Philadelphia when on my way to this place, which I trust you have by this time received. 1 I wrote a history to my dear Anna, 2 which I suppose will afford you some amusement. I am now going to give you an account of this place: Annapolis is a small city beautifully situated on the great Chese- peake Bay which affords a most grand prospect and is a striking evi dence of the greatness of its Maker, there are many ordinary buildings and some very elegent ones; The State House in which Congress sits is the most superb, it is thought, in any of the United States. A place of little business and it is thought will never much increase. Baltimore is the flourishing town and very handsomely situated, Cousin Thomas DeWitt now keeps a Coffee House there, he and his little fat wife both look exceeding well, they treated me with great kindness and were extremely glad to see me. I am now going on another subject: When I was in New York one day, being invited by Col. Lean to dine I was there introduced to a Mr. VanHogendorp, a young gentleman from Holland, but old in understanding, he is about your age. I saw no more of him ’till I came to Philadelphia where he visited me more than once at my lodgings, and we dined together at the Dutch Minis ter’s who is related to him. He seems to be attached to me and I confess I love the youth to a very great degree; as well as my beloved Dutch Minister who treated me with more politeness than I could ever expect from such an ex alted character. Mr. Hogandorp and I came in the same stage from Philadelphia to this place, and in our travels he never seemed to be better satisfied than in my company, by which I at last considered him almost as a child of my own. He has now gone to visit Genl Washington who lives about 50 miles from this place, when he returns his intention is to take a tour up the North River.


[Page 558]
522 April 16, 1784 the spirit of them all, that the foundation, on which all these are built, is the natural equality of man, the denial of every preeminence but that annexed to legal office, and particularly the denial of a preemi nence by birth;—that however, in their present dispositions, citizens might decline accepting honorary instalments into the order, a time may come when a change of dispositions would render these flatter ing; when a well directed distribution of them might draw into the order all the men of talents, of office and wealth; and in this case would probably procure an ingraftment into the government; that in this they will be supported by their foreign members, and the wishes and influence of foreign courts; that experience has shewn that the hereditary branches of modern governments are the patrons of privi lege and prerogative, and not of the natural rights of the people, whose oppressors they generally are; that besides these evils which are remote, others may take place more immediately; that a distinction is kept up between the civil and military which it is for the happiness of both to obliterate; that when the members assemble they will be proposing to do something, and what that something may be will de pend on actual circumstances; that being an organized body, under habits of subordination, the first obstructions to enterprize will be al ready surmounted; that the moderation and virtue of a single charac ter has probably prevented this revolution from being closed as most others have been by a subversion of that liberty it was intended to es tablish; that he is not immortal, and his successor or some one of his successors at the head of this institution may adopt a more mistaken road to glory. What are the sentiments of Congress on this subject, and what line they will pursue can only be stated conjecturally. Congress as a body, if left to themselves, will in my opinion say nothing on the subject. They may however be forced into a declaration by instructions from some of the states or by other incidents. Their sentiments, if forced from them, will be unfriendly to the institution. If permitted to pursue their own tract, they will check it by side blows whenever it comes in their way, and in competitions for office on equal or nearly equal ground will give silent preferences to those who are not of the fraternity. My reasons for thinking this are: 1. The grounds on which they lately de clined the foreign order proposed to be conferred on some of our cit izens. 2 2. The fourth of the fundamental articles of constitution for the new states. I inclose you the report. 3 It has been considered by Congress, recommitted and reformed by a Committee according to the sentiments expressed on other parts of it, but the principle re ferred to having not been controverted at all, stands in this as in the original report. It is not yet confirmed by Congress. 3. Private conver sations on this subject with the members. Since the receipt of your let ter I have taken occasion to extend these; not indeed to the military


[Page 559]
April 16, 1784 523 members, because being of the order delicacy forbade it; but to the others pretty generally; and among these I have found but one who is not opposed to the institution, and that with an anguish of mind, tho’ covered under a guarded silence, which I have not seen produced by any circumstance before. I arrived at Philadelphia before the separa tion of the last Congress, and saw there and at Princeton some of it’s members not now in delegation. Burke’s peice happened to come out at that time which occasioned this institution to be the subject of con versation. 4 I found the same impression made on them which their successors have received. I hear from other quarters that it is disagree able generally to such citizens as have attended to it, and therefore will probably be so to all when any circumstance shall present it to the notice of all. This Sir is as faithful an account of sentiments and facts as I am able to give you. You know the extent of the circle within which my obser vations are at present circumscribed; and can estimate how far, as forming a part of the general opinion, it may merit notice, or ought to influence your particular conduct. It remains now to pay obedience to that part of your letter which requests sentiments on the most eligi ble measures to be pursued by the society at their next meeting. I must be far from pretending to be a judge of what would in fact be the most eligible measures for the society. I can only give you the opinions of those with whom I have conversed, and who, as I have before ob served, are unfriendly to it. They lead to these conclusions. 1. If the society proceeds according to it’s institution, it will be better to make no applications to Congress on that subject, or on any other in their associated character. 2. If they should propose to modify it so as to render it unobjectionable, I think this would not be effected without such a modification as would amount almost to annihilation; for such would it be to part with it’s inheritability, it’s organisation and it’s as semblies. 3. If they should be disposed to discontinue the whole it would remain with them to determine whether they would chuse it to be done by their own act only, or by a reference of the matter to Congress, which would infallibly produce a recommendation of total discontinuance. 5 You will be sensible, Sir, that these communications are without all reserve. I supposed such to be your wish, and mean them but as mate rials, with such others as you may collect, for your better judgment to work on. I consider the whole matter as between ourselves alone, hav ing determined to take no active part in this or any thing else which may lead to altercation, or disturb that quiet and tranquillity of mind to which I consign the remaining portion of my life. I have been thrown back by events on a stage where I had never more thought to appear. It is but for a time however, and as a day labourer, free to with draw or be withdrawn at will. While I remain I shall pursue in silence


[Page 565]
April 19, 1784 529 of my late situation as an officer in the Line of their Army I hope I shall not be charged with an improper Interference with the impor tant business which is now before them. I have delayed this Application to the present time in expectation that the principal Reports on the Files would have been acted upon before any matters relative to Individuals, but as that has not been the case & as an Adjournment will probably take place in a Short time I am obliged in order to have my Accounts Setled; to state to Congress some claims which I believe are founded in Justice but which cannot be Allowed by the Pay-Master General 1 without their special direction. In the Years 1777-78 & 79 I was honored with separate Commands on the Frontiers of Virginia, Pennsylvania and New York as will appear by a resolution of Congress of the 10th April 1777 2 and the Inclosed letters No. 1, 2, 3, & 4. 3 These commands obliged me to incur very heavy Additional expences. By a review of my situation as late Adj’t General, and of the Staff Ap pointments of the late Army, it will appear that I am the only Officer taken from the Line who has not had a compensation for Extra-Duty. My duties as Adjt. General were laborious and required such con stant Attention that I seldom had in the Field or in Quarters one hour for amusement or relaxation—that appointment encreased my Mili tary Family three fold & my Expences were in proportion without the smallest additional revenue. His appointment as Adj’t. General gave General Gates the Rank & (Emoluments of a Brigadr., to Colonel Reed & Colonel Pickering the rank of Colonel with the (Emoluments of Brigadr. In addition to these advantages they were Annexed to the Family of the Commr. in Chief & of course had a great part of their expences defrayed by the public. Colonel Schammell to Whom I succeeded in the office of Adj’t. Genl, was entitled to the pay & (Emoluments of a Brigadr. Genl, when I was appointed adjutant general (which Appointment I was Solicited to Accept) I made no stipulation for an immediate Additional Al lowance but trusted to the success of our Cause and to the Justice of Congress for the same pay & (Emoluments which they in like cases should extend to Others. I therefore submit my Case to Congress with a firm reliance that they will be pleased to order the Pay-Master Genl, to give me credit for the pay & (Emoluments of a General Officer Commanding in a Separate Department, during my Command on the Frontiers of Vir ginia, Pennsylvania & New York; and such an Allowance for my extra Services as Adjt. Genl, as to them shall appear just & reasonable. With much respect, I have the Honor to be, Your Excellys. most Obedt. & most humble Servt. Edwd. Hand


[Page 570]
534 April 21, 1784 Business will never be interrupted by the Citizens of Annapolis, for the Idea of Business to them is neither agreable nor reputable. But this is not a place capable of administring much to my pleasure, or of promoting my Happiness. Our Commissioners are ordered to attend to the Subject of Com plaint which You mention respecting the prize Money of our Seamen, but I confess I have no great Expectation of much advantage to the poor Men from this Measure. We are in some Expectation of rising the latter end of May; & of leaving a Comee of the States; much Busi ness has been done since the proposition was made. We have a report of a grand Comee for putting the Treasury in Commission, & a great Variety of important Business prepared for the Consideration of Congress. The portraits of the King & Queen of France are arrived at Philadelphia, & the Chevalier has Leave to return Home in the Fall. Mr Carmichael has had An Audience or rather been presented to the King of Spain, & says a Convention was signed in July last between that Court, France & Portugal. Having many Letters to answer by this post, I can only add my Complimts as usual, & an assurance that I am always D’r Sir yours sincerely E Gerry RC (NNPM: Signers of the Declaration Collection). 1 See Gerry to Holten, December 20, 1783, note 2. 2 See Samuel Osgood to Gerry, April 3, note 2. Thomas Mifflin to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Annapolis April 21st 1784 I have the honor to inform your Excellency that Congress have a due Sense of the care you have taken for preserving the Portraits of his Most Christian Majesty and his Royal Consort, and that they are desirous they may continue in your possession, untill proper places can be provided for them. 1 In answer to your Excellency’s letter of the 9th Inst. I am instructed to assure you 2 that “as all the Legislatures have not yet passed on the rec ommendations of Congress of the 18th of April 1783 for establishing permanent funds, supplementary requisitions on the States will be adopted to provide for the interest of the loans aforesaid for the present year, and that the greatest care will be taken by subsequent measures for the punctual payment of the principle and interest as they may respec tively become due according to the times of the several contracts.” I have the honor to be with every sentiment of respect and esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient and humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin


[Page 573]
April 23, 1784 537 the General Assembly & to assure them of my attention to their inter ests & best wishes for the welfare of the State. With perfect consideration, I am, Sir, Your most obedient & very hble Servt, David Howell P.S. Before this will reach you I presume you will have duly honored my late draft for 300 dollars 1 —of which I stand in great need to enable me to discharge my debts & defray my expences on my return home. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 The following draft on Bowen is dated “Annapolis April 3d, 1784”: “Please to pay to Messieurs Hewes & Anthony, Merchants of Philadelphia, or to their order, the sum of three hundred Dollars & charge the same to account of your hble Servt. David Howell.” Paul H. Smith Collection, Silver Spring, Md. James McHenry to Margaret McHenry Friday morning 23 April [1784], Responds to her letters of April 18 and 19 and explains that “I had planned to have left this [place] to day and felt lighter by many pounds in consequence of it—as Mr. Chase and Mr. Stone were both in town. But I am prevented most ef fectually by one of the delegation being taken suddenly ill, nor can I have the smallest expectation, from the nature of his complaint, of getting away till some time in the next week. 1 It may perhaps be the last of it; and the last of the week following (it will be necessary to stop a few days in Baltimore), I shall hope to be blessed with your presence in Philadelphia—On this plan then, the last day of April I shall leave this place and the last of the first week in May be with my beloved. 2 In the mean while, you will continue to address your letters to Annapolis; because if I am not here, I shall take them out at Balti more. Farewell my beloved, I shall write you on this subject by the next Tuesday’s post.” 3 MS not found; reprinted from Steiner, James McHenry, p. 83. 1 Actually McHenry himself had “taken suddenly ill,” and he chose to explain his delay and to spare his v/ife concern for his health by using this third person reference. He did not attend Congress Thursday through Saturday, April 22-24, but on Monday, the 26th, informed Peggy that he would take his seat that day. “For some days past I have been troubled with a slight inflammation in the throat, but you will conclude by my going to Congress... that it is not very troublesome.” See ibid., p. 84; and JCC, 26:256-60, 264-65, 275, 279, 282, 291-96. 2 McHenry did indeed leave Annapolis the morning of April 30, for which see his let ter of that date to his wife in Steiner, James McHenry, p. 85. He returned to Congress briefly at the end of May. For his accounts claiming 42 days service “from the 27 March inclusive to the 30th April” and "from 29 May to 4th June,” see James McHenry Ac count, MdAA.


[Page 574]
538 April 23, 1784 3 McHenry continued “this subject” in a poetical vein in a letter of April 25: “Who would not quit the cares of state, The subtle crew, the vain debate: Who would not leave a wrangling life, For such a woman—such a wife!” Ibid., pp. 83-84. And in an undated letter written “Monday—4 O’clock,” which could only have been April 26, McHenry ad vised Peggy that “We are this moment got out of Congress, after passing a resolve to ad journ Congress to Trenton the 3d of June,” an act in which he was a prime mover. See JCC, 26:288-96; and the McHenry Papers, MdHi. For his letters to Peggy of April 28 and 29, see Steiner, James McHenry, p. 85. Committee of Congress to Henry Gassaway [April 24, 1784] i In Pursuance of An Order of the United States in Congress assem bled, dated this Twenty fourth day of April Instant— You are hereby required and Commanded Forthwith to arrest the Body of Henry Carbery, late a Captain in the Pensylvania Line of the Continental Army, Who from a variety of facts and Circumstances ap pearing on the Oaths of Divers Witnesses Sworn in the Proceedings of the Courts Martial held for the trial of all such persons in a Military line as were concerned in the Dangerous Mutiny of part of the Pensyl vania Line of the Continental Troops on the twenty first Day of June last past as from his Letters written after his flight Manifesdy appears to have been a principal in the said Mutiny and the Violence and In sult on the Congress of the United States at the time of such Mutiny Assembled in the State house at the City of Philadelphia, And you are hereby commanded to produce the Body of the said Henry Carbery together with this Order before some Judge of the General Court of the State of Maryland, in the City of Annapolis For Further Examina tion, and to be dealt with according to Law, and for which this shall be your sufficient Warrant. Given under the Hands and Seals of the Committee of the United States in Congress Assembled this Twenty fourth day of April 1784 Jacob Read Seal John Montgomery Seal T. Stone Seal Tr (MdHi: American Revolution Vertical File). 1 The warrant for the arrest of Capt. Henry Carbery issued this day by a congressional committee chaired by Jacob Read had its origin in Read’s long-standing desire to see Carbery and Lt. John Sullivan brought to justice for their role in the Philadelphia mutiny of June 1783, for which see James McHenry’s Speech in Congress, September 13, 1783, note 1. Hearing rumors that Sullivan had returned from London aboard a ship then in the harbor at Annapolis, Read had moved in Congress on March 16 that Gov. William Paca arrest and hold him in custody until Congress could take further order. The motion was referred to a committee consisting of Read, Arthur Lee, and


[Page 578]
542 April 24, 1784 Congress, in full confidence that Congress would have kept their faith inviolate; and which in the most solemn manner they had pledged. That great danger and distress will arise, from the further procrasti nation of the said decision, as the leaders of the said District have raised troops and do now employ them to reduce other Inhabitants, resident in the said district and acknowledging themselves Citizens of and to owe allegiance to the State of New York, to submit to the said as sumed Government of Vermont; and many of the Inhabitants of the said district, for professing to owe allegiance to the State of New York, are now in the most grievous state of distress, under close confinement, calling upon the State of New York for protection and redress; and that when every State ought to be in the full enjoyment of the blessing of peace, under the protection of the foederal Union, the State of New York alone, is on the point of experiencing the calamities of an internal War: but that if she must recur to force for the preservation of her law ful authority, the impartial World will pronounce, that none of the bloodshed or disorder which may ensue, can be imputed to the Legisla ture thereof, who appeal to the Journals of Congress for the rectitude, moderation and liberality of the measures they have invariably pursued, to produce an amicable determination of the Controversy. That in order to afford another instance of the upright intentions of the Government of the State of New York, Congress be entreated to guarantee the concessions made on her part, by the said Act of the fourteenth day of April 1782. The Underwritten further represent, that the Legislature of the State of New York, conceive themselves to be urgently pressed, by the great duty of self preservation, to prepare without loss of time for the worst events, and however sincerely they are disposed to maintain the Union and to manifest an inviolable respect for Congress, yet if the decision which has so long, in vain been solicited, should not be pro nounced within two Months, next after nine States shall be repre sented in Congress, subsequent to a representation of the State of New York, no further expectation can be entertaind of such decision, and the said State of New York with whatever deep regret will be com pelled to consider herself as left to pursue her own Councils, destitute of the protection of the United States, to whose judgement they have chearfully submitted, and on whose justice they have hitherto relied. The Underwritten do therefore by this Public Act, which they pray may be received and filed among the Records of the United States, make known the just expectations and earnest request of the Legisla ture of the State of New-York, declaring their readiness to lay before such of the Members of Congress, as may be uninformed, satisfactory evidence of the Title of the State of New York, to all that part of the controverted District which lies on the West side of Connecticut River.


[Page 581]
April 25, 1784 545 Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis Apr. 25. 1784. My last to you was of the 16th of March, as was the latest I have re ceived from you. By the proposition to bound our country to the Westward I meant no more than the passing an act declaring that that should be our boundary from the moment the people of the Western country & Congress should agree to it. The act of Congress now in closed to you 1 will shew you that they have agreed to it, because it ex tends not only to the territory ceded, but to be ceded, and shews how and when they shall be taken into the union. There is no body then to consult but the people to be severed. If you will make your act final as to yourselves so soon as those people shall have declared their assent in a certain manner to be pointed out by the act, the whole business is settled, for their assent will follow immediately. One of the conditions is that they pay their quota of the debts contracted. Of course no di- fliculty need arise on this head: as no quota has been fixed on us unal terably. The minuter circumstances of selling the ungranted lands will be provided in an ordinance already prepared but not reported. 2 You will observe two clauses struck out of the report, the 1st respecting hereditary honours, the 2d slavery. The 1st was done not from an ap probation of such honours, but because it was thought an improper place to encounter them. The 2d was lost by an individual vote only. Ten states were present. The 4 Eastern states, N. York, Pennsva. were for the clause. Jersey would have been for it, but there were but two mem bers, one of whom was sick in his chambers. South Carolina, Maryland & [Virginia! voted against it. N. Carolina was divided as would have been Virginia had not one of it’s delegates been sick in bed. 3 The place at which Congress should meet in Nov. has been the sub ject of discussion lately. Alexandria, Philada. & Trenton were pro posed. The first was negatived easily. Trenton had the 4 East, states, N.Y, NJ., and Pennsylva. We expect Georgia & Delaware shortly, in which case it will become possible that Philada. may be determined on. The questicn is put off to be considered with the establishment of a committee of the states, which to my astonishment would have been negatived when first proposed had not the question been staved off. Some of the states who were against the measure, 1 beleive because they had never reflected on the consequences of leaving a govern ment without a head, seem to be come over. 4 Dr. Lee is appointed an Indian Commr. He is not present, but is known to have sought it, & of course will accept. This vacates his seat here. I wish Short could be sent in his room. It is a good school for our young statesmen. It gives them impressions friendly to the federal government instead of those adverse which too often take place in persons confined to the politics of their state.


[Page 588]
552 April 26, 1784 the other Commissioners on the Times & Places for holding the Treaties. 1 The Commission authorizing you to act on this Business will be transmitted to New York under Cover to Mr Oliver Woolcot. I have the Honor to be with great Respect & Esteem, Sir Your Obed humble Serv Thomas Mifflin RC (MH—H: bMS Aml649.4). LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). Addressed: “Major General Lin coln.” Endorsed: “A similar letter was written to the Honble. Arthur Lee Esqr." 1 For the April 24 election of Lee and Lincoln as commissioners “in the room of Mr. Sftephen] Higginson and Mr. N[athanael] Greene, who have declined that office," see JCC, 26:282. See also Mifflin to the Indian Commissioners, March 6 and 22, 1784. Thomas Mifflin to the Chevalier de Ternant Sir, Annapolis April 26th 1784. It is with great satisfaction that I transmit to you an Act of Congress of the 22d Instant, by which you are promoted to the Rank of Colonel in the Legionary Corps lately commanded by General Armand; your Commission to bear date from the Promotion of General Armand. 1 The report of the Committee accompanying the Act abovemen tioned is highly honorable to you, and it may not be improper to add that Congress were unanimous in giving you the rank you have so well merited. I have the honor to be with much Respect, Sir, Your Obedient Ser vant Thomas Mifflin. LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). 1 See JCC, 26:262-63. John Montgomery to Benjamin Rush [ante April 26, 1784] 1... Your letter of the 15th 2 made me very happy. Nothing Can give greater Satisfaction when our Conduct mets with Aprobation of good men and nothing can give more Secret Pleasure then a Coun- cisousness of that Conduct having been influenced by virtues and liberal motives. I must Confess that I was agreeably Dissapointed in the liberality of Sentiment of our Clergy and even in the Gene[ra]L In have since offen thought of it with pleasure and must ascrib much to the over ruling providenc of god who Can turn the hearts of men whichsoever way it will best promote his glory and the good of mankind and from many Circomstances and Considerations I am lead to belive that this


[Page 589]
April 27, 1784 553 instution is in a pecular mannor favoured by him and indeed this thought has relived me when our affair sometimes lookd. Dark. My heart rejoices when I reflect that you and I have in some measure been made the instruments of Carr[y]ing it so far into Effect. I agree with you that some of our professors 3 ought to [be] Chosen from among other religious Socities and make no Doubt but that such a Choise will be advantagous to us in many respects. Congress will adjoun the later end of May or begining of June to met the later end of Octbr at Trenton. 4 After the adjournment you will see me in Philada. I like Mr. Wilsons thought of Purchassing the Publick building with Certificates but I fear that nothing Can to be Done in it before the adjournment. I Sincrly wish that Mr Davidson woud Setle and take the Charge of our Congregation at Carlisle. If he did I am perswaded that it woud promote the intrest of our College. I Can say nothing to What you propose in regard to Mr. Linn but I woud wish Mr. Davidson first Setled and if Mr Linn or Mr McNight were brot. into the College the other perhaps woud take place. This is a new thought and therefore Can say but little about it. You forgot to Send Mr Bingham phamplet on Comerce. Will send it by the nixt post. Pleas to present my Complemt to Mrs. Rush. I am Dear Sir your assured frind and Humbl servt. John Montgomery RC (PPL: Rush Papers). 1 This fragment of a letter is a response to one of April 15 written by Rush from Philadelphia, and Montgomery obviously wrote it before Congress reached a decision on April 26 to adjourn from Annapolis on June 3, for which see notes 2 and 4 below. 2 See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:319-21. 3 That is, of the newly founded Dickinson College, for which see ibid. 4 For the April 26 resolution “to adjourn Congress on the third day of June next, to meet on the thirtieth day of October next at Trenton,” see JCC, 26:295-96. Connecticut Delegates to William Williams Sir Annapolis 27th April 1784 Congress came to a resolution Yesterday, to Adjourn on the 3d day of June next, until the 30th day of October next, then to Meet at Trenton in the State of Newjersy. This day a report was agreed to for requisitions on the States for Supplies for paying the expences of the current year, and the Interest of the foreign debt to the close of this year, and of the domestic debt to the end of the year 1782 & part of the year 1783, to accomplish which, one half of the requisition of 8 Million dollars made the 30th of October 1781, including the pay ments already made thereon, will be Sufficient. 1 Congress have also Agreed upon regulations for laying off the Western territory into new


[Page 596]
560 April 29, 1784 If the general assembly shall have passed the Law for granting the 5 per Cent impost I hope you will cause it to be forwarded by the return of the express. South Carolina had perhaps six months ago passed an imperfect act for an impost but they have lately amended it to the full of what was required. We are given to understand that Rhode Island only stands out till she sees whether all the other States comply. I do not know what Geor gia has done, all the other States except Connecticut passed the act. It is resolved that Congress shall adjourn on the 3d of June till the end of October, leaving a Committee of the states. The ordinance for opening the Land office, one for regulating the Indian Trade, For Se curing the frontier posts & sundry other very difficult & perplexing Subjects are still on hand. I have the honor to be &ca. Hugh Williamson Tr (Nc—Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 That is, the resolution on the cession of western lands passed this day, for which see JCC, 26:315-17; and N.C. State Records, 17:62-63. 2 See Thomas Mifflin to the States, May 6, 1784. 3 This instruction is not in JCC. 4 For the report of the committee on commercial matters adopted by Congress on April 30, see JCC, 26:317-22. Hugh Williamson to John Pierce Sir Annapolis 29th April 1784 You do me Justice in believing that I am in the number of those who count you a diligent and faithful Officer and are very desirous of giving you effectual Proofs of their Regard. There are at present Eleven states represented in Congress, for this Reason on the 15th Inst I call’d for the Report on your appointment. The Entry made in our Journal is thus. 1 On the Report of a Committee consisting of Messrs &c, to whom was referd the memorial of J Pierce Pay master Genl. Resolved that in settling the Accounts of Mr John Pierce the pay master Genl he be allowed at the Rate of one hundred and fifty Dol lars per month besides the Rations that are drawn by a Lieut Colonel. The Committee further reported that Mr Pierce be allowed in Consid eration of his additional Services in settling the Accounts of the army at the Rate of One hundred Dlrs per month while employed in that service. On the Question to agree to this the Yeas & Nays being required by Mr. Read. (seven States against it)


[Page 608]
572 May 3, 1784 I beg my duty, love, & Compliments to all with you, Adieu Dr. Yeates, Yrs. Affectionably Edwd. Hand [PS.] I write to Kitty & J. Ewing by this Post. 2 RC (NN: Hand Papers). 1 Hand apparendy enclosed a broadside copy of “the Report of a Plan for a tempo rary Government of the Western Territory” adopted April 23, for which see JCC, 26:275-79. Hand’s annotated copy of this broadside is in PHi, and is reproduced in fac simile as an illustration in A Rising People: The Founding of the United States, 1765 to 1789 (Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1976), p. 261. The legislative history of the report has been analyzed in detail in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:607-13. Cf. the fol lowing entry, note 1. 2 Hand’s letter to ‘Jacky” Ewing has not been found, but his letter of this date to his wife “Kitty” is in the Hand Papers, PHi. “In my last,” Hand reported, “I told you that Congress had determined to Adjourn this day month, by the middle of June I hope to See you & my Dear Children & Friends,” a subject he also repeated in a letter to Kitty of the sixth which is in the same collection of Hand Papers. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Hopkinson Dear Sir Annapolis May. 3. 1784. Not being learned in the laws of Pennsylvania I am incertain what will be the event if a prosecution of Scandalum magnatum should be instituted against Claypole for publishing in his gazette of Apr. 27 as an act of Congress a paper which certainly was no act of theirs, 1 and which contained a principle or two not quite within the level of their politics. I mean a pretended act for dividing the Western country into states and fixing the principles on which their governments should be erected, two of which as this forgery pretends were an exclusion of hereditary honours, and an abolition of slavery. When the true act shall be published you will find no such pettyfogging ideas in it. In the scheme for disposing of the soil an happy opportunity offers of intro ducing into general use the geometrical mile, in such a manner as that it cannot possibly fail of forcing it’s way on the people. However this bearing some relation to astronomy and to science in general, which certainly have nothing to do with legislation, I doubt whether it can be carried through. Were it to prevail it would lay the foundation of a very dangerous proposition; that is, to subdivide this geometrical mile into 10 furlongs, each of these into 10 chains, each of these into 10 paces, differing very little from the British furlong, chain, and fathom, but I hope it will be foreseen that should we introduce so het erodox a facility as the decimal arithmetic, we should all of us soon forget how to cypher. I have hopes that the same care to preserve an athletic strength of calculation, will not permit us to lose the pound as a money unit, and it’s subdivisions into 20ths. 240ths. and 960ths. as


[Page 610]
574 May 3, 1784 tions.” Although Congress had issued this report as a separate broadside for the use of its members, the plan had been heavily revised by the time it was resubmitted March 22 when another broadside was issued. It underwent even further revision during the long debate in Congress which adopted the final version on April 23, four days before the appearance of Claypoole’s publication. See JCC, 26:118-20, 246-47, 248-52, 255-60, 274-79, 27:719, 721; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:594. 2 For the proposal of a decimal system of coinage by Jefferson himself, see Jefferson to Robert Morris, April 26, 1784. s For Hopkinson’s handling of these transactions, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:245. Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book [May 3-31, 1784] May 3d. Sent to the Supt. of Finance Copy of Report of Comtee. di recting him to take order for advancing to Henry Gassaway 100 Dol lars his expences &c. to Baltimore—arresting H. Carbery by order Comtee. of Congress. 1 Genl. Washington Copy resolution of 28th last month directing Post Master Genl, to refund to him monies advanced for postage of Letters &c. since his resignation and direcg. his Letters to go free until the further order of Congress. 2 Post Master General Copy of the above. 4th. Sent to the President to be transmitted 13 Copies of the requi sitions upon the States. 3 Sent from this Office to the several States from New Hampshire to Georgia inclusive three Copies each of the above. 6th. Sent to the war Office Copy of resolution of 3 inst. directing the person having the care of Military Stores at Carlisle in Pensylvania to deliver to the order of the Corporation of the City of New York the Bells taken from the Churches &c. 4 Deliver’d Mr. Paine a Copy of the above. Del’d, the Delegates of South Carolina Copy of Resolve of 3d inst. directing the Minister of these States at the Court of Madrid to make application to his Catholic Majesty for compensation for service of S. Carolina Frigate in cooperating with Spanish Forces in reduction of Providence &c. in 1782; 5 Deliver’d Mr. Blanchard Copy of Resolution of 3d inst. recom- mendg. to State of New Hampshire to make good the depreciation of the pay of the Revd. Mr. Israel Evans to the first day of August 1780. 6 Deliver’d Delegates of New York Copy Resolve of 3d. Inst, recom mending to that State to make good to Doctor Schuyler the deprecia tion of his pay as an Officer in the late Genl. Hospital during the time he served in that capacity. 7


[Page 611]
May 3, 1784 575 Deliver’d Genl. Hand Sent War Office Sent Office of Finance Copy of Resolve of 4th Inst, confirming the Appoint, of T. B. Bowen & E. Beatty Agents for settling the Accts, of Officers & Soldiers belonging to Pensylvania Line. 8 Delivered Office of Finance Copy of Resolve of 3d. Inst, directing the Presit. to write to the Marquis de la Fayette—with do. of the Let ters following as entered upon the Journals. 9 7th. Deliver’d Genl Hand proceedings of Congress relative to Com merce passed April 30th. 1784. 10 Deliver’d Capt. Peter Perit resolve of 6th Inst, recommending to the State of Connecticut to make up to him & Lieut J. Hull the deprecia tion of pay See. 11 10th. Deliver’d Mr. Sherman Copy of proceedings of Congress rela tive to Commerce pass’d April 30th. 1784. Deliver’d Mr. Gerry Copy of Petition of Officers & Mariners of the Armed Schooner Franklin. 12 11th. Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of an Accot. of Comtee. of Congress of their expences in surveying the Seat for a federal Town near Trenton. 13 Sent to Ditto Copy of a Petition of a number of Officers, Marines & Mariners late belonging to the Frigate Alliance referred to the Supert. to report. 14 13th. Sent to Ditto Copy of resolve directing Agent of Marine to provide Accommodation for Mr. Jefferson’s passage to Europe. 15 Deliver’d Mr. Spaight Copy of Resolve 16 Deliver’d Col. Beatty Copy of Resolve of 3d Inst, relative to Accots. of the Revd. I. Evans. 17 Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of appointment of Col. Humphreys as Secretary to the Commission for negotiating Treaties of Commerce with foreign powers—12th May. 1784. 18 14th. Sent to Ditto Copy of a Resolve of 12th directing Supt. to take measures for recovering public property detained by Luther Stoddard & others &c. 19 Sent to the President to be transmitted Copy of a Resolve of the 12th Inst, directing Commandg Officer of the Troops now in service to open Correspondence with the British Commander in Chief—to deliver up Posts occupied by British Troops in Canada. 20 17th. Sent to the President Copy of Resolve of 3d Inst, instructions to Minister at the Court of Madrid relative to services of Frigate S. Carolina. 21 Sent to the President to be transmitted— Copy of a Letter to Ministers plenipo. at the Court of Ver sailles & Madrid explaining the reasons & principles on which the In-


[Page 613]
May 3,1784 577 5. Report of the Mutiny by Col. Humpton—24 June 1783 read in Congress July 3d. 1783. Copy of an Order of Congress of 17th Inst, directing the above pa pers to be transmitted—accompanied the above. 19th. Sent to the President to be transmitted Copy of Letter from Congress to Minister of France agreed to May 17th. 1784. 31 Sent to the Supert. of Finance— 1 Copy of resolve of 7th. Inst, reducing the Salary of Foreign Minis ters to 9000 Dollars per Annum—to commence 1st Augt next. 32 Mr. Jay’s Appointment as Secretary for Foreign Affairs—7 May. 33 Mr. Jefferson’s Appot. as an additional Minister to J. Adams & B. Franklin for Negotiating Treaties of Commerce—7 May. 34 Copy of Resolve of 11th Inst, fixing the Salary of the Secretary to be appointed to the Commission for negotiating Treaties &c.—at 3000 Dollars per Annum—from the 1st day of August next. 35 Copy Appointment of David Humphreys Secretary to the above Commission May 12th. 36 May 19. Deliver’d Mr. Gerry Copy of report of Supert. of Finance as Agent of Marine on the petition of Officers & Mariners of the Armed Schooner Franklin & of the papers annexed No. 1, 2, & 3—Read in Congress May 3d. 1784. 37 Deliverd Mr. Wadsworth Copy of the Civil Establishment as re ported by the Supert. of Finance. 38 24th. Sent to the Agent of Marine Copy of Letter 1st May 1784 from Edward V. Brown to the President of Congress respecting supplies fur nished Continental Shipping at Boston per Order Navy Board—re ferred to him. 39 25th. Deliver’d Mr. DeWitt Copy of the Civil Establishment as re ported by the Superintdt. of Finance. 26th. Deliver’d Mr. Thomson Copy of Resolves of Congress relative to Commissaries Genl of Purchasg & Issuing Departs, passed June 10th. 1777.40 Deliver’d Doctor Gordon Copy of Resolve of 25th Inst, allowing him perusal of papers in the Office of Secty. of Congress &c. 41 27th. Sent to the Agent of Marine Copy of Petition of Daniel Waters & other Officers of Navy for allowance for Depreciation—Referred May 25 to him to report. 42 28th. Deliver’d Mr. Lee Copy of the proceedings of Congress of 18th & 19 Inst, relative to Delegates of Rhode Island. 43 Deliver’d Mr. Blanchard Copy of Civil Establishment as reported by the Supert. of Finance. 29th. Delivered General Armand Copy of Resolve of 22d April— promoting Lieut Col. Ternant. 44 Deliver’d Mr. Gerry Copy of a Letter from him to the President of Congress dated 18th May 1780—respecting Genl Arnold. 45


[Page 614]
578 May 3, 1784 May 31st. Sent to the President of Congress to be transmitted to the States 13 Copies of Resolve of 29th May 1784 relative to an assault & battery upon the person of M Marbois. One ditto for the Minister of France. 46 Sent to the Office of Finance Copy of an Ordinance passed 28th Inst for putting the Office of Finance into Commission. 47 Deliver’d Mr. Howell Copy of the above. Deliver’d Doctor Gordon a second Copy of the resolve of Congress of 25 Inst, allowing him perusal of papers in the Office of the Secre tary of Congress. MS (DNA: PCC, item 181). In the hand of Benjamin Bankson and Charles Thomson. A continuation of Thomson’s Memorandum Book, April 1-30, 1784. 1 See JCC, 26:330-31. 2 Ibid., p. 314. 8 Ibid., pp. 301-9. 4 Ibid., pp. 336-37. 5 Ibid., p. 332. 6 Ibid., p. 335. 7 Ibid., pp. 335-36. 8 Ibid., p. 341. 9 Ibid., pp. 332-35. 10 Ibid., pp. 317-22. H Ibid., pp. 351-52. 12 See PCC, item 42, 6:93-98; and JCC, 26:226n, 340. >8 This account has not been found, but for the committee’s report, see JCC, 25:841. •4 See PCC, item 42, 6:100-105. is See JCC, 27:365. 16 Not identified; remainder of line blank in MS. 1’ JCC, 26:335. i» JCC, 27:375. in Ibid. 20 Ibid., p. 376. 21 JCC, 26:332. 22 See these Letters, 16:283—84. 23 JCC, 24:374-76. 24 JCC, 25:753-57. 25 See JCC, 26:357-62, 27:367-70. 26 JCC, 372-74. ™ Ibid., p. 372. 2 8 Ibid., p. 393. 29 Ibid. so The “following papers,” copies nos. 1-9 and “original papers” 1-5, are in PCC, item 38, fols. 3-9, 25-36, 41-43, 49-76, 79-80, 233-35. 31 JCC, 27:393-94. 32 JCC, 26:354. 33 Ibid., p. 355. 34 Ibid., p. 356. 35 JCC, 27:365-66. 36 Ibid., p. 375. 37 JCC, 26:340. 38 Not found, but apparently the “Account of the Civil Establishment” sent by Robert Morris to a committee of Congress February 25. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:559.


[Page 616]
580 May3, 1784 RC (DNA: Record Group 93, M 859). 1 That is, Col. David Forman’s Additional Continental Regiment, for which see Heit man, Historical Register, p. 179; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 100, 321. 2 According to Secretary Thomson’s committee book, a letter of April 26 from Robert Morris enclosing “charges of Genl [Moses] Hazen agst. J Pierce—The Answer of J. Pierce & his charges agst. Hazen” were referred this day to a committee chaired by Williamson which reported May 7. See PCC, item 186, fol. 160. The committee, whose report was endorsed on July 21 by the Committee of the States, fully approved of the attention and fidelity of John Pierce, esq. commissioner for settling accounts with the line of the army, in refusing to admit any charges against the United States, which are not founded on particular resolves of Congress, and supported by vouchers or by other good and satisfactory evidence.” JCC, 27:594. See also Williamson to Pierce, May 13, note 2. s See JCC, 26:242-44. Thomas Jefferson to Count van Hogendorp Dear Sir Annapolis May 4. 1784. Having waited thus long in the vain hope of procuring a private and confidential conveyance for the papers you left in my care, 1 I am obliged at length to trust them to the post, lest a longer detention of them should prove inconvenient. I hope they will pass safely. The desire of establishing a correspondence, which I am sure will be useful to me, induces me to consider as an invitation to it on your part the letter you were so kind as to address to me. 2 The sentiments therein expressed are much too partial, and I am sure had your time permitted you to have ranged a little more thro’ these states, you would have found many others whom they would have better fitted. I am particularly sorry that the route you had marked out for yourself did not permit me to introduce to you some of my own country who would have justly merited your praises. Your observation on the situ ation of my mind is not without foundation: yet I had hoped it was unperceived, as the agreeable conversations into which you led me, often induced a temporary inattention to those events which have produced that gloom you remarked. I have been happy and cheer ful. I have had many causes of gratitude to heaven, but I have also experienced it’s rigours. I have known what it is to lose every species of connection which is dear to the human heart: friends, brethren, parents, children—retired, as I thought myself, to dedicate the residue of life to contemplation and domestic happiness, I have been again thrown by events on the world without an object on which I can place value. From those which are distant I am excluded by reason and reflection. The sun of life having with me already passed his meridian, with you he is ascending, and I sincerely partici pate of your rising prospects. Your thirst after knowlege, your capac ity to acquire it, your dispositions to apply it to the good of


[Page 618]
582 May 4, 1784 be the best way for raising a revenue for the Interest of the National Debt—tho, I never wish to have the power in Congress to raise money extended beyond what may be necessary for the present debt, but never to raise any for current expences. I am not able to furnish you with the journals of Congress for the last year the volume is not com- pleated. I understand by the Secretary that he has Sent to Governor Trumbull all that have been printed. General Wadsworth & I in our late joint Letter gave you an account of the principal Matters done & expected to be done by Congress this Session, 1 all the States except Delaware and Georgia are now represented. It is not likely that Congress will agree to any Answer to the Address on commutation—the members are divided as to the Stile and tone in which it should be answered, some were for transmiting a Copy of the answer given to Massachusetts, or make an answer Nearly like it. Oth ers thought it would be best only to State what had been done and leave it to the House to make the inferrences, as was done in the draught reported by the last Committee of which we transmitted a copy, that would have been agreed to, if the question had been put without the Yeas and Nays, as several members told me they would have voted for it, in that case who now voted in the negative. 2 I dont find any Member that thinks that the commutation can be rescinded, or avoided without a violation of public faith, a Majority approve of the Measure. I hope the western territory will sink a considerable part of the Na tional debt, it is proposed to apply it only to the principal. You will see the Plan for establishing New States, and the requisitions for payment of arrears of Interest and the current expences, and a recommenda tion to the States, lately passed for opposing the System adopted by great Britain respecting Commerce, in the printed journals that will be transmitted to the Governor. I Sent Some extracts to the Governor from the Letters of our Ministers in Europe for his information and to be communicated to the General Assembly. I hope none of them will be published in the News Papers. As Some things of that kind have been very improperly done in a Neighbouring State, Congress has lately laid an injunction to taking or publishing extracts from Such Letters without express permission. 3 The act of the General Assembly of our State respecting allowance for Coast Guards &c is now before a Grand Committee not reported on. 4 We have not laid the Act for making a Cession of western territory before Congress. They have renewed the requisition to the States for that purpose—and we Shall offer a Cession a few days hence. I hope Sir that you or one of the other delegates will come forward to attend the Committee of the States to be left in the recess of Congress. I am Sir with the most perfect respect and esteem Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman.


[Page 619]
May 5, 1784 583 RC (CtY: Sherman Papers). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to William Williams, April 27, 1784. 2 Although a roll call vote was taken on this report, Secretary Thomson failed to in clude a record of it in his journals. See JCC, 25:265-69. a See JCC, 26:331-32. 4 See Sherman’s Draft Resolve, April 8, 1784. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Reed My dear Sir Annapolis 5th May 1784 It gives me great Pleasure to learn by your Favour of the 4th of Feby, 1 which came to Hand a few Days since, that You had safely ar rived, as the Severity of the Winter here, made your Friends appre hend that your Passage to London would be dangerous. I am much obliged to you for forwarding my Letters to Mr Adams & Mr Jay, & have been fully impressed with their disagreable Situation. How it happened that the Instructions were sent without a Commis sion I know not 2 —this being a meer Form for carrying the others into Effect, should I think have been prepared by the Secretary, officially, & layed before Congress: & if he neglected it, the president most cer tainly, should have communicated the Matter to Congress before he forwarded the Instructions, 3 as he must have known that without the one, the others were useless. I suppose the Fact to be, that neither the one nor the other of these Gentlemen were favorable to two of our Ministers, to whom the Union are so much indebted for an honorable Peace. We have now before Congress a Report which takes up the Matter on very extensive principles, & not only authorizes the Minis ters to negotiate & sign the Treaties, but to extend their negotiations to all the powers which have made advances for this purpose. The Re port has been debated & the Question put, but miscarried by the Neg ative of a single Member, & is now delayed in Consequence of the De mand of an addition of two Ministers from the southern States to Messrs. Adams, Franklin & Jay. 4 Congress I think will consent to one, & this will be Mr. Jefferson; but some of the States insist on a previous acceptance of the Resignation of Doctor Franklins Commission, for the Reasons he has offered, his Advanced Years &c, but there are not seven States I think which will vote for this Measure. Perhaps six would agree to it. I trust that neither Mr Adams nor Mr Jay will think of returning untill this Matter is brot to an issue, which must be soon, nor untill the negotiations of the Treaties, in Consequence of the new Instruc tions, if adopted, shall be compleate. Pray communicate this & inform them, I have deferred writing in order to give them full Information on the Subject.


[Page 620]
584 May 5, 1784 Congress have resolved to adjourn the 3d of next month to meet at Trenton the 30th of October next, for the Dispatch of publick Busi ness & in the Interim to leave a Committee of the States for the Con duct of such Matters as shall be assigned to them. We have passed two Resolutions recommending to the States an addition to the Power of Congress respecting Commerce. 5 We have also passed the Requisition for this Year, a Copy of which I inclose: 6 & are taking Measures for making the back Lands a Sinking Fund. A Report was made on your Application for a Certificate, 7 & having brot on the Matter I found that it was considered by some Members as an Interference in a personal Dispute, & that the Question could not be carried, but would probably be negatived by the Yeas & Nays ; for which Reason, it is dropped. The particulars I may communicate at our next Interview. Pray give my best Respects to Mr Adams, & Mr Jay & be assured dear Sir I am yours sincerely. E. Gerry [PS.] Pray excuse this Scrawl for I have but a Moment to write. RC (NHi: Reed Papers). i Reed’s letter, dated “London Feb. 4. 1784,” is in the Gerry Collection, DLC. 2 Reed had explained that Adams and Jay had left London “a few Days ago under the Disappointment... of not receiving a Commission as well as Instructions for the com mercial Treaty.” 3 See Elias Boudinot to the Ministers Plenipotentiary, November 1, 1783. 4 For the origin and progress of the debates on the negotiation of commercial treaties abroad, see James Monroe to Benjamin Harrison, March 26, note. 5 For these April 30 resolves, see JCC, 26:321-22. 6 JCC, 26:308-9. 7 For the report on the “Testimonial of the Approbation” of Congress that Reed had requested for use as a letter of introduction in his travels abroad, see Arthur Lee to Reed, April 5, note. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Si r> Annapolis 5th May 1784 We were honrd with yours of the 9th Ulmo. and had previously for warded to your Excellency, and to the Gentlemen imediately con cerned, the necessary information with Respect to the subject of it, since which, no oppertunity has occurred for obtaining a more ex plicit determination. We have the honr. to enclose a resolution pressing the payment of the one half a former requisition of eight Million Dollars, including the payments already made thereon. 1 The reasons for this call are so minutely stated in the Report itself, that we need say little on that sub ject. We shall therefore, only observe, that it seemed absolutely neces-


[Page 624]
588 May 6, 1784 Resolution, confirming the Appointment of Major Bowen and Cap tain Beatty to act as Agents for the late Pennsylvania Line. 2 With perfect Respect we have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s most Obedient and most humble Servants, Thomas Mifflin, John Montgomery Edward Hand. Tr (PHarH: RG27). i This letter is in Pa. Archives, 1 st ser. 11:504. 2 For this May 4 resolve, see JCC, 26:341. Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Adams Annapolis 7th May, 1784. My dear Sir, I am this Day favoured with yours of the 19th of April & have deliv ered the Memorial to the Committee of the Week. 1 We have determined, as You are undoubtedly informed, to adjourn on the 3d of June, & as I propose to continue here untill that Time, it may not be necessary to make the Communication to the Legislature respecting my former Intention to return. Congress have compleated This Morning, a Business which has been long before them, their Instructions to their Ministers for nego tiating Treaties of Commerce. To those, which are extended to almost every commercial Power in Europe, are added propositions for Treaties of Amity with the Emperor of Morocco, and other Barbary Powers, & the negotiations are to be carried on & the Treaties signed by Messieurs Adams, Franklin, & Jefferson. 2 Previous to the passing these Instructions, a Letter of the 9th of March from Doctor Franklin was received giving Information that Mr Jay was to embark in April, 3 & the Intelligence corresponding with his Declaration in his last Letter to Congress, they appointed him to the Department of Secretary for for eign affairs. The treaties are to be for a Term not exceeding ten Years, & the Term allowed to negotiate them, is not to exceed two Years. G W on his Way to the Meeting of the Cincinnati at Phila delphia, passed thro this place, & I am confidentially informed, that he is opposed to the plan, & is determined to recommend the drop ping it altogether. This is communicated in Confidence to yourself to be imparted only to our Friends Mr Higginson, Mr Osgood, General Warren & Mr Bowdoin: to whom any other part of the Letter may also be communicated. Whilst I am writing, Mr. Bourne is waiting, & I can only add my dear sir my Respects to your lady & that I remain very sin ¬ cerely Your Friend & humble Sevt, E Gerry


[Page 625]
May 7, 1784 589 RC (NN: Adams Papers). i Adams’ letter is in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:298-300. It was largely a diatribe against the Society of the Cincinnati, but he enclosed with it a letter and petition, dated “Marblehead March 12th 1784,” from the “Officers, Marines and Mariners, late belong ing to the Continental Frigate Alliance” concerning wages and prize shares. See PCC, item 42, 6:97-105; and JCC, 26:364n. 2 See JCC, 26:356-62. Because of Abigail Adams’ interest in joining her husband John in Europe, Gerry also sent her this information in the following brief letter of this date. “I have now the pleasure to inform You that Congress have this Moment finished the In structions to their Ministers, & Mr Adams, Doctor Franklin & Mr Jefferson are ap pointed in the order mentioned to negotiate a great Number of commercial Treaties, which will detain them about two Years in Europe.” Adams Papers, MHi. See also Gerry to Abigail Adams, April 16 and May 18, 1784. 3 Gerry also communicated this information to Jay’s father-in-law, William Livingston, in the following note of this date: “I have only a Moment to inform your Excellency that by a Letter this Day received by Congress from Doctor Franklin of the 9th of March last, It was the Intention of Mr Jay to embark for America with his Family in April. I received a line from his Excellency under the 19th of Feby, but no Mention was therein made of his leaving Europe.” Livingston Papers, MHi. Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis 7th May 1784 Inclosed you have The requisitions for the Current year. 1 They are not such as I could wish them. You have also, in manuscript, the hum ble petition of Congress for powers to lay general restrictions on Com merce, 2 both this & the printed paper explain themselves. Congress persist in the resolution of rising the 3d of June—if they do, they must wrangle less, & do more business, or leave much un done. The Season still continues backward here, but I believe it is the healthier for it. I beg my duty, love & Compliments to all with you & am Dear Yeates, very affectionately yours, Edwd. Hand [PS.] Tell Col. A. Hubley that our old Acquaintance Captn. Carbury has returned from England & is in the hands of the Law. He is to be delivered to the Executive of Pennsylvania if they desire it. RC (NN: Hand Papers). 1 For these April 27-28 resolutions, which were distributed in broadside form, see JCC, 26:297-309, 311-312, 27:721 (no. 434). 2 That is, Congress’ April 30 recommendation to the states to be vested with the power to regulate foreign trade for 15 years. JCC, 26:322. 3 To judge from the following surviving fragment of a letter from Hand to Maj. Gen. Anthony Wayne, Hand was also apparently helping Wayne at about this time to obtain settlement of his subsistence accounts for the period of his command in Georgia in 1782-83. “In the mean time,” Hand wrote on May 14, “we beg of you to furnish us with dates of the Commencement & Ending of your Seperate Command in Georgia. A Reso lution of the 22d April 1782 of which the following is an Extract renders this essential.”


[Page 629]
May 7, 1784 593 further loans in Holland without the further order of Congress.” See JCC, 27:480; and PCC, item 93, 2:411-14, item 137, 3:573-86; item 185, 3:100, item 186, fol. 161. The edi tor of the Jefferson Papers speculated that Congress also received this day a March 9 let ter from Adams which concluded with the brief explanation “that at a dear rate I have at last obtained money to save Mr. Morris’ bills.” There is no indication in Thomson’s dis patch book when Adams’ letter may have arrived, however, and the letter itself bears no endorsement. See PCC, item 84, 5:223-25; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:227n. Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis May 7. 1784. The enclosed resolutions on the subject of commerce are the only things of consequence passed since my last. 1 You will be surprised to receive another pair of spectacles. The paper with them will explain the error. If you can dispose of the supernumerary pair do so, and I will remit the money to Dudley: if you cannot, return them by the next post & I will return them to him. Congress is now {on foreign treaties. Mercer} 2 has {devised} new ex pedients for {baffling} the measure. {He has} put it into {Read’s head} to {think.} of being {appointed} a {foreign minister} and has by {his in trigues defeated} every proposition which did not proceed on that {ground. He is very mischievous. He is under no moral restraint}. If {he} avoids {shame} he {avoids} wrong according to {his system}. His fondness for {Machiavel} is {genuine} & founded on a true {harmony} of {principle}. RC (DLC: Rives Collection, Madison Papers). In Jefferson’s hand, though not signed. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:228. 1 Not found, but undoubtedly the April 30 resolution requesting the states to em power Congress to regulate trade. JCC, 26:317-22. 2 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Jefferson in cipher. For earlier comments on the machinations in Congress of his colleague John Francis Mercer, see Jefferson to Madison, April 25, and note 8. Thomas Jefferson to William Short Dear Sir Annapolis May. 7. 1784 5. o’clock P.M. Since the departure of the post an event has taken place which obliges me to send this by express in hopes of overtaking him at Marl borough. Congress have to day added me to the commission for nego tiating treaties of commerce with the European powers. 1 This was has tened by the receipt of a letter by this day’s post from Dr. Franklin which gives reason to beleive that Mr Jay is on his passage to America. The commission is now Mr. Adams, Dr. Franklin and myself. Mr. Jay is appointed Secretary for Foreign affairs. Not having received your ulti-


[Page 630]
594 May 7, 1784 mate determination in answer to mine of April 30, I send off the pre sent in the instant of having received the communication, in hopes that if you should decide according to my wishes you will be able to join me in Philadelphia by the 25th. instant, till which day I will wait there for you. In the mean time write me by post, directing to me at Mrs. House’s in Philadelphia.* I propose for a particular purpose to carry my servant Jame with me. I must therefore ask the favor of you to hire an express at my expence to carry the inclosed to Capt. Key with your instructions to him, adapted to the event of your own deter mination. If you conclude to join me I would wish you to order Jame to join and attend you without a moment’s delay. If you decline the trip, be so good as to direct that he shall immediately come on to me at Philadelphia. Adieu Yours affectionately, Th. Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:229. i See JCC, 26:355-56; and Jefferson to Short, April 30, 1784. 2 For Short’s May 14 and 15 replies to this letter, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:253-58. John Montgomery to Robert Magaw Dear Sir Annapolis 7th May 1784 I understand that my trail with Alexander is to Come on against nixt Court and as I Can’t Convenendy attend Either at the View of the Jury on the primise or of striking a Jury nor Can I Convenendy attend at the Court but if the trail must Come on and you will inform me therof I must I sepose go up I have wrote to Mr Smith toJoyn you and if you may think it any advantage to imploy Mr Hamelton in Case Mr Wilson Cant attend youll mention to Sam who will Engage Mr Hamelton but I think myself safe with you and Mr Smith. I must De pend on you when the Jury is apointed to have proper persons apointed and Sam must attend them. I Can’t say if Sam can get the pa- pars Ralitive to that affair. I rather doubt it. Mr MaClay is my principle Evidence and John McDowell in Kiskwokquils Velly if you have an op- pertunitty to write me order your letter to be put into the post office at Baltimore and I shall be sure of geting it. Congrass has Just apointed Mr Jay Secrty of foreign affairs who is now in his way to this Countray and we have also apointed Mr Jefferson a Commissr in Erorope in Mr Jays stead who is to Joyn Mr Adams & Franklin in concluding treaties of Commerse with the powers in Erorope and we have past a set of instructions to the Commissr on that Subject. I am Sir your assured Frind and humbl Servt, John Montgomery


[Page 633]
May 8, 1784 597 Roger Sherman to the New Haven Merchants Committee Gentlemen Annapolis 7th May. 1784. I have paid due attention to the request of the Merchants and Traders in the City of N. Haven of the 19th of December last for ob taining an act of Congress prohibiting the Subjects of any foreign na tion, whose Ports are Shut against the Citizens of these States from Trading in any of the United States. 1 I have the honor now to transmit you a copy of the resolutions of Congress on that Subject, which I hope will be Satisfactory and have the desired effect. I am with much respect, your humble Servant. R..S. FC (MHi: Miscellaneous Bound Collection). In the hand of Sherman and endorsed by him: “Messrs. Elias Shipman, Joseph Drake and William Powel, Committee.” 1 The committee’s December 19 letter (which is not in PCC) had undoubtedly been referred to the committee appointed on February 6 to prepare “an address to the states on the subject of Commerce,” which had submitted a report on April 22 that was adopted the 30th. See PCC, item 186, fol. 148; and JCC, 26:269-71, 317-22, 721. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Annapolis 8th May 1784 The present session of Congress draws near to a Close. It is deter mined to adjourn on the third day of next month, and to appoint a Committee of the States to Sit in the recess; and as it will not be convenient for either of us to Stay after the Congress is adjourned, it will be necessary that another delegate Come to be a member of the Committee. Your Excellency will receive the requisitions for Supplies for the ex- pences of the current year, and payment of Interest, from the Secre tary, 1 who will also transmit the printed Journals containing the other acts of Congress. Instructions for Negociating Treaties of Commerce with most of the Commercial Nations in Europe were agreed to Yesterday; and Mr. Jef ferson was appointed to be joined in Commission with Mr. Adams & Doctr Franklin for Negociating the Treaties. 2 We are informed by a Letter from Doctr. Franklin dated the begin ning of March last that Mr Jay intended soon to return home, Where upon he was appointed Secretary of foreign affairs. 3 The Letter was short & does not contain much information, the ratification of the


[Page 634]
598 May 8, 1784 definitive treaty had not been received, tho’ the time for exchanging it was elapsed, which the Doctr. Supposes will not Occasion any difficulty. The Salaries of our Ministers at foreign Courts were reduced yester day 2111 dollars below what they were before Stated; 4 the Commis sions now to be given them are to continue in force not exceeding two years. Further reductions are proposed to be made of the expence of the civil list, as your Excellency may observe by a report, brought on to the printed Journals by Yeas & Nays. 5 There are before Congress to be acted Upon this Session, several Matters of a public Nature of considerable importance, the principal which we recollect are the following, An Ordinance for Ascertaining the mode of locating and disposing of lands in the Western territory. Another for putting the office of Finance into Commission. A report for Garrisoning the western Posts. Directions for Settling accounts, appointing & Impowenng a Com mittee of the States. Treating with the Southern Indians &c. There are also several matters under the consideration of Commit tees—Such as the Sinking the old continental Bills of Credit—Al lowances to be made to the particular States for expence of Militia &c for their own defence—doing Justice to those States who have raised more than their quotas of the continental troops actually kept up as to bounties &c—Penobscot Expedition—Application of New York to decide on the Case of Vermont. Application of Pennsylvania to re voke the order for appointing a Court on the Petition of Zebulun Butler and others. Alledging that the Petitioners have no Grant under Connecticut & therefore do not come within the provision of the article of Confederation. 5 A Petition from Zebulun Butler & oth ers to be quieted in their possessions until their right shall be deter mined. 7 The two last referred to the Same Committee, viz. Mr Jeffer son, Mr. Ellery and Mr. Williamson. Mr. John Franklin from Wyoming is now here, 8 by his account the settlers there under Connecticut are under very distressed circum stances, from the destruction of their property by the flood—and the oppression and violences of the ciaimers of their Lands under Pensyl vania, & of the armed forces kept up there by that State, without per mission of Congress contrary to the articles of Confederation. We Submit to your Excellency’s consideration whether it is not expedient that a representation of their Case should be made by the State of Connecticut, both to congress and the Supreme executive of Pennsyl vania. If the executive can’t reach those troops they certainly might Govern them, and punish them for the lawless violences committed against the citizens of the State. It is probable that the appointment of a court to try the right of those Settlers to the Soil, will be postponed till the next session of Congress at Trenton.


[Page 635]
May 8, 1784 599 We are with great esteem and regard, Your Excellency’s humble Servants. Roger Sherman James Wadsworth RC (CtY: William Griswold Lane Collection). Written by Sherman and signed by Sher man and Wadsworth. 1 See Thomas Mifflin to the States, May 6, 1784. 2 See JCC, 26:356-62. 3 See JCC, 26:355. 4 JCC, 26:349-50, 353-55. 5 JCC, 26:342-43. 6 For these February 14, 1784, Pennsylvania Assembly resolutions, see Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:360—62. 7 For this May 1 petition, see ibid., pp. 400-405. 8 For Franklin’s correspondence with Sherman and May 10 report to Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull on his recent efforts on behalf of the Wyoming Valley claimants, see ibid., pp. 368-69, 378-79, 388-90, 411-21. Charles DeWitt to George Clinton Sir, Annapolis May 8, 1784..... I enclose a Resolution in favor of Doctor Schuyler, and a report of the Grand Committee, Stating the sums necessary to be paid for ar rears of Interest and Services, to which Congress have agreed. 1 I sup pose you will receive the Resolutions respecting the Bells from Mr. Paine. 2... Congress having Resolved to Adjourn on the 3d of June next to Trentown and to appoint a Committee to sit in the recess thereof, it may perhaps be thought unnecessary for the Delegates at Home to come, but this is not the case. General McDougall has promised in the most positive terms to be here by the First of June. I shall therefore propose in Congress that he be appointed the Member of the Com mittee, from our State. I proposed it to Mr. Paine the other Day, on which he replied that he did not believe that General McDougall would come. From this and other circumstances it appears to me that it would suit him to stay, but I hope not. I shall write General Mc Dougall by the next Post and put him in mind of his positive promise to me in New York, which I expect he will perform. If any documents to Prove that the United States took the Bells belonging to the City of New York can be produced, I wish they may be sent, in order to save the expence of transportation from Carlisle, if the Corporation Should think it an object worthy of an application to Congress. I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Excellency’s most Humble Servant, Ch. D.Witt


[Page 636]
600 May 8, 1784 Reprinted from Burnett, letters, 7:520-21, from a manuscript in the New York State Li brary copied before the 1911 Albany fire. i DeWitt had been a member of the committee that had recommended that “the State of New York ... make good to Dr. Nicholas Schuyler, late surgeon of Hazen’s regi ment, the depreciation of his pay as an officer in the late general hospital,” a recom mendation adopted by Congress on May 3. See JCC, 26:216, 335-36; and PCC, item 41, 9:285-88. For the grand committee fiscal report adopted by Congress on April 27, see JCC, 26:297-301. 2 See New York Delegates to Clinton, April 29, note 3. Thomas Jefferson to James Madison Dear Sir Annapolis May 8. 1784. I will now take up the several enquiries contained in your letter of Apr. 25 which came to hand yesterday. 1 ‘Will it not be good policy to suspend further treaties of commerce till measures shall have taken place in America, which may correct the idea in Europe of impotency in the federal government in matters of commerce?’ Congress think such measures requisite, and have accord ingly recommended them as you will perceive by my last. 2 In the meantime they seem to think that our commerce is got & getting into vital agonies by our exclusion from the West Indies, by late embarras- ments in Spain & Portugal, and by the dangers of the Mediterranean trade. These you observe form the aggregate of our valuable markets. They think that the presumption of one or two countries should not be a reason for suspending treaties with all countries: and that the prospect of effect from their recommendations on commerce will per haps drive on the treaties. The present favourable disposition of the piratical states on the Barbary coast has been repeatedly urged by our ministers as a circumstance which may be transient and should there fore be seised to open the Mediterranean to us. ‘Has Virginia been seconded &c. in her proposition for arming Congress with powers to frustrate the unfriendly regulations of Great Britain?’ Pennsylvania and Maryland offered much larger powers. Those of Virginia might have been defeated by the British king repeal ing his proclamation one day & renewing it the next. Yet the powers and plans from all these states were different: and it was visible they would authorize no single measure. Therefore Congress recom mended a uniform measure. ‘Is the impost gaining or losing ground?’ Gaining, most certainly. Georgia, North Carolina, New York, Connecticut & Rhode island are yet to pass it. The three first are supposed to be willing to do it. Con necticut has held off merely to try whether Congress would not re scind the commutation. Finding a firmness on this point it is said &


[Page 637]
May 8, 1784 601 beleived that at their next session they will come into it. Howell has often told me that R. I. will not accede to it as long as any other state holds off: but when every other shall have adopted it, she will. ‘Does the settlement of the public accounts make any comfortable progress?’ They are going on, but slowly I beleive. However they go on, and of course approach their term. ‘Has any resolution been taken by Congress touching the old Conti nental currency?’ That question has been debated by a grand Com mittee upwards of a month. They yesterday came to the inclosed reso lution. 3 It was decided by only 6 votes against 5. I think it will gain strength in the House. The Southern and middle states I beleive are for it, & I think one or two of the Eastern may perhaps come over. Yet there is far from being a certainty of this. ‘Has forborne to take any step in favor of ?’ 4 Their object was certainly not the same with ours. Yet they have not openly set their faces against us. They have one delegate, honest & disinter ested, who certainly will in no case do it. 5 ‘Whether the war ceased in March or April?’ I think no decision has taken place on that subject in our court of Appeals. Our ministers write that it is no question on that side the water but that it ended in March. The produce of our slave tax being nearly equal to the Continental requisitions, can you not get it appropriated to that purpose, and have it all paid in money? 6 Virginia must do something more than she has done to maintain any degree of respect in the Union & to make it bearable to any man of feeling to represent her in Congress. The pub lic necessities call distressingly for aid, and very ruinous circumstances proceed from the inattention of the states to furnish supplies in money. S. Carolina is the foremost state in supplies notwithstanding her distresses. Whence does this proceed? From a difference of spirit solely; from a pride of character; from a rejection of the unmanly supineness which permits personal inconveniency to absorb every other sentiment. There is no man who has not some vice or folly the starving of which would not pay his taxes. I am now to take my leave of the justlings of states and to repair to a feild where the divisions will be fewer but on a larger scale. Congress yesterday joined me to Mr. Adams & Dr. Franklin on the foreign com mercial negotiations. I shall pursue there the line I have pursued here, convinced that it can never be the interest of any party to do what is unjust, or to ask what is unequal. Mr. Jay was to sail for Amer ica this month. His health has obliged him to return to try his native air. He is appointed Sec. for Foreign affairs. I pray you to continue to favor me with your correspondence. At the close of every session of assembly a state of the general measures & dispositions, as well as of the subordinate politics of parties or indi-


[Page 638]
602 May 8, 1784 viduals will be entertaining and useful. During recesses other objects will furnish matter sufficient for communication. On my part I shall certainly maintain the correspondence. If moreover you can at any time enable me to serve you by the execution of any particular com mission I shall agree that my sincerity may be judged by the readiness with which I shall execute it. In the purchase of books, pamphlets &c. old & curious, or new & useful I shall ever keep you in my eye. Whether I shall procure for you the books you have before desired at Philadelphia or Paris shall be decided according to circumstances when I get to Philadelphia, from which place I will write to you. I have a tender legacy to leave you on my departure. I will not say it is the son of my sister, tho her worth would justify my resting it on that ground; but it is the son of my friend, the dearest friend I knew, who, had fate reversed our lots, would have been a father to my children? He is a boy of fine dispositions, and sound masculine talents. I was his preceptor myself as long as I staid at home, & when I came away I placed him with Mr. Maury. On his breaking up his school I desired Mr. Short to dispose of him, but Mr. Short I expect will go with me to Europe. I have no body then but you to whose direction I could con sign him with unlimited confidence. He is nearly master of the Latin, and has read some Greek. I beleive he is about 14 years of age. 1 would wish him to be employed till 16 in completing himself in latin, Greek, French, Italian & Anglosaxon. At that age I mean him to go to the college. I have written to my sister of the application I make to you & she will be very happy to have your advice executed. My steward Mr. Key will furnish money to his tutors &c. on your order. There is a younger one, just now in his Latin rudiments. If I did not fear to over charge you I would request you to recommend the best school for him. He is about 10 years old, and of course ceteris paribus, of any two schools, that nearest his mother would be most agreeable. You will readily understand I am speaking of the sons of Mr. Carr. I think Colo. Monroe will be of the Committee of the states. He wishes a correspondence with you; and I suppose his situation will ren der him an useful one to you. The scrupulousness of his honor will 8 make you safe in the most confidential communications, a better man cannot be. I think your two loans to me amounted to 50314 Dollars. I paid for the first pair of spectacles 13% Doll. & shall pay the same for the 2d unless they should be returned. I now inclose you an order on the Treasurer for 407% Dollars 9 which will leave in my hand a balance of 68% Dollars due to you which is about the sum you desired. May 11. Many considerations have determined me to go on to Boston & take shipping from thence. This was a conclusion of yester day. All my letters dated previous to that will state me as purposing to sail from N. York. I leave this place to-day; expect to stay in Philadel phia till the 25th and to be at Boston about the 3d of June.


[Page 641]
May 10, 1784 605 would be made & carry’d for striking off both the Geographers, Offi cers which a considerable Part of Congress do not suppose to exist at this Hour. You may have seen in the Hands of some public Officers in Philad’ the Resolves of Congress lately pass’d for dividing the western Country into states; there is now on its Passage an Ordinance for opening the Land Office. It is proposed that a surveyor Genl or a Reg ister, having the same duties, shall be appointed in each of the States. This will be a permanent and a good Office. There are several Candi dates for those offices; your friends count on putting you into one of the first. If a push should be made by Rivals well supported it will be much more easy to remove you from the present Office into the other than to put a Man into office who is absolutely out of it. On this View of the Subject, informed as I am of the general Ideas of the states on the Subject of Salaries I thought that your true Interest would be pro moted by suffering the Question to rest. There is now before Congress an application from Mr. DeWidt the other Geographer supported by Genl Washington. 3 Mr DeWidt requests to know whether it is the wish of Congress that he be discharged. And expresses his wish that he may be appointed Surveyor Genl in a new State which may be laid off. This application is committed & is in my Hands as one of the Committee. We cannot with consistence report that one of the Geographers should be discharged as a useless Officer while the other is retaind, nor can we say that one of them should continue to receive 4 Dlrs while the other takes only 2, & we certainly cannot with propriety insist on Mr DeWidts taking more than he thinks is due. Viewing the subject in Every Point of Light I shall not call for the Report on your Memorial unless you shall inform me of your wish to have a determination. I have reed. Pleasure & Information from your Publication respect ing the southern Port of Louisiana. 4 However true it may be that the U S may, when they shall desire so to do, take Possession of N Orleans & the Mississipi I wish that no such Idea had been committed to Print especially by an Officer of the United States. There are many things very true which in political Prudence should not be affirmed, lest they should be supposed to mean more than is really meant, or to excite suspicions that there existed some Intention to convert the theorem into a Problem. In preparing the Ordinance now pending before Congress for opening a Land Office & surveying the Western vacant Lands some Mathematical & Geometrical Questions occur’d. The Committee had not access to some Books which they wished to see. I wish to know how many miles & feet were found to be in a Degree of Latitude ac cording to the measurement made by Mason & Dixon in the Delaware State, for I think they made one. I wish also to know the precise Trans lation of a Taise into a British foot, in Order to know how many Miles & feet were found to be in a Degree in France, Norway & South Amer-


[Page 642]
606 May 10, 1784 ica. Our friend Dr Ewing 5 who has made out the computations can answer you those several Questions immediately. I should have written to him on the Subject but as he pays no more attention to Letters which he receives than prime ministers usually do to Pasquinades and refuses to give Proof even of his acquaintance with the Art of writing I have attempted in this circuitous manner to obtain the Information refer’d to. I am with great Regard, Sir, Your obidt Servt Hu Williamson RC (DNDAR: Collection 3131). Addressed: ‘Thomas Hutchins Esqr, Geographer to the US, Philadelphia.” 1 Williamson is apparently referring to Col. George Morgan’s efforts in behalf of New Jersey to obtain a congressional hearing for the Indiana Company’s claims against Vir ginia. Morgan’s February 26 petition on this subject had been tabled by Congress, and a March 1 motion offered by Williamson “for the appointment of a court, under the ninth of the Articles of Confederation” to hear this claim had been supported by only three states. See JCC, 26:110-12; and the April 4 postscript of Samuel Osgood to El bridge Gerry, April 3, 1784. 2 Hutchins had obviously renewed his memorial of September 8, 1783, in which he had charged that Congress had violated the “mutual agreement” reached between them in July 1781 granting him “four Dollars and four Rations per Day” as geographer to the United States by passing a November 1782 resolution reducing that allowance by half. His memorial had been referred on September 15, 1783, to a committee chaired by Williamson which recommended on October 20 that Congress should reinstate the original pay “from the time of his accepting his commission to this date and no longer, the act of 12th of November notwithstanding.” Congress, however, had taken no action on the committee’s report. See JCC, 20:475, 738, 23:721-22, 25:710-11; and PCC, item 41, 4:107-10, item 186, fol. 123. 3 See Thomas Jefferson to Washington, March 6, 1784, note 2. 4 That is, Hutchins’ An Historical Narrative and Topographical Description of Louisiana, and West-Florida... (Philadelphia: R. Aitken, 1784). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 18,532. 5 That is, Dr. John Ewing (1732-1802), pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Philadelphia, and provost and professor of natural philosophy at the University of Pennsylvania. DAB. Thomas Jefferson to John Tyler Sir [May 11, 1784] 1 Congress having thought proper to require my services in the nego tiation of their Foreign treaties, my seat as one of your delegates in Congress is become vacant. I feel myself on this occasion bound to ex press my gratitude for the confidence which the Genl, assembly were pleased to repose in me by this appointment and to assure them that during my continuance therein I have made the just rights of my country and the cement of that union in which her happiness and se curity is bound up, the leading objects of my conduct. Should any oc casion, distinct from the general duties of my mission, occur in the


[Page 644]
608 May 11, 1784 not be so illustrious, (but not less substantially benificial) as those of Europe. Congress is at present well disposd, & their deliberations have been much less under the controul of M. Marbois & the Financier since they left Philadelphia. Much industry will therefore be usd to make them return thither, But I think without success. The adjourn ment which is fixt for the 3d of next month, will end my congressional character, not being eligible another year under the confederation. The next year I mean to devote to a tour in the western Country, down the Ohio & Missisippi to New Orleans & from thence to Georgia & the Carolinas. After that I shall sit myself down in some retird place, the world forgetting, by the world forgot. I wish you every success in your negociations, & a happy return, to where no one will be more welcome, your own Country. Farewell A. Lee RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 That is, Robert and Gouverneur Morris. Thomas Mifflin to Nicholas Van Dyke Si r> Annapolis May 11th 1784 I have the Honor to inform your Excellency that there are Subjects of considerable importance which demand the immediate attendance of your Delegates in Congress, 1 which must necessarily be postponed unless they come forward without Delay, Congress having determined to adjourn on the 3d day of June next. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin RC (DLC: Van Dyke Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency Governor Vandyke.” 1 That is, of Delaware. Georgia was also unrepresented, but President Mifflin appar ently concluded that a similar appeal to Gov. John Houstoun could have no practical ef fect at this time. Roger Sherman to Ezra Stiles Sir Annapolis 11th. May 1784 I take the liberty to introduce to you the Honorable Thomas Jeffer son Esqr. late Governor of Virginia. Now a Minister Plenepotentiary of the united States for negociating Treaties of Commerce with Great Britain and Several other European Powers in conjunction with Mr.


[Page 649]
May 13, 1784 613 of their Sentiments, yet their want of information with respect to the true Commercial Interests of the Southern States, must have remain’d an insurmountable obstacle with us, to the commission of such exten sive Powers of clogging our Commerce to a Delegation wholly from Northern States. Shou’d this have been the motive, which influenc’d the Legislature, we flatter ourselves that their objection will have been remov’d by the appointment of Mr. Jefferson—and that the present European Com mission will be as satisfactory to the State of Virginia as it appears to be to Congress. In this hope & when we reflect on what essential bene fits the Union may derive from his Talents & exertions in an employ ment as arduous in its execution, as it will be important in its effects, we feel ourselves in a great measure compensated for the public loss of a very able, & our private loss of a very amiable Colleague. We woud suggest the Utility of collecting memorials from the prin cipal trading Houses of Virginia, on the present State of our Foreign Commerce. An intelligent merchant employ’d in the direct exchange with Europe, might furnish useful hints to the ablest negociator. His accounts of sales in Foreign Countries together with his remarks on the inconveniences & impositions he was in the several instances sub jected to, woud throw light on the particular Stipulations, which it will no doubt be the policy of the United States to preferr, to the loose, vague & general terms adopted in the Treaties heretofore made. Any information on this subject, which the Executive woud transmit to the Delegates, woud be by them instantly forwarded to our Commission ers in Europe. The Plan for the purchase of the Western Territory ceded to the United States, having been digested, a meeting of the Commissioners, appointed to negociate with the Indians, was directed to be held in New York. Thither but two of them repair’d & three having refused to accept of their appointments, Congress went into the nomination of others to supply their places. 3 Before this the Express sent in pursuit of General Clarke had return’d, without seeing him, so that but little hopes remain’d of his attending the Treaty, accordingly, we thought it best to nominate our Colleague, the Honorable Mr. Lee, who had pre viously consented to undertake the business. He was appointed, to gether with General Lincoln, but before he cou’d leave Congress, the two Commissioners at New York, after waiting some time without being able to form a board, had seperated, to meet again in the Month of August. The Statement of the Expenditures of Public Monies, from the Of fice of Finance, Mr. Morris informs he had delay’d furnishing, not having yet relinquish’d hopes of being able to quit that Department at a very early period, to which it was his wish to make up his Accounts at


[Page 652]
616 May 14, 1784 gentleman in a different State, dated March 4, mentioning the novel Order of Cincin nati.” A continuation of it was also printed in the April 29 issue. 3 See Gerry to Stephen Higginson, May 13, 1783. < See JCC, 26:343. 5 Adams was referring to the fourth condition set forth in the original draft of the or dinance “for the temporary government of the western territory”—“That their respec tive governments shall be in republican forms, and shall admit no person to be a citizen who holds any hereditary title.” It had been revised during debate on April 20. Cf. JCC, 26:119, 250, 277. James Monroe to Benjamin Harrison Sir Annapolis May 14. 1784 At length our foreign affairs are put upon as excellent an establish ment as we could desire. As respectable talents as these States possess with characters eminint for integrity & attachment to the publick in terest collected also in such manner from the different parts of the union as to possess a knowledge of the local interests of the whole are concenter’d in the three gentn. Mr. Adams, Mr. Franklin & Mr. Jeffer son who are imploy’d in the negotiation of our commerc[ia]l treaties abroad and Mr. Jay who is we expect by this time on his passage to America is appointed minister of foreign affairs, an arrang’ment which pass’d by the unanimous vote of Congress, & founded as we conceive in an equal representation of the interests of the States, will I trust gain the approbation of the State. I have also the pleasure to in form your excellency that Colo. Humphrey is appointed secretary to the commission. 1 By this the States not only engage in their service a gentleman who merits this attention, but comply with their engage ment to the late commander in chief by providing for one of those who attended his person till his retreat from publick life. Attention hath also been paid to the interests of the southern States upon the infringment of the article of the treaty with G. Brittain respecting the negroes in their removal from N. York. We hope that the conduct of that court upon this occasion will be so conformable to the principles of justice & good faith as to remove all cause of umbrage from these States. A late letter from Dr. Franklin informs us that the unfavorable impressions entertain’d sometime since in Europe of these States, aris ing from the retreat of Congress from Phila., are remov’d & that the govt, of each State & of the union are held now in higher estimation. 2 Your Excellency hath already receiv’d a copy of the requisitions on the States for supplies, appropriated as stated in those requisitions to the expences of the civil govt. & the discharge of the interest due upon the foreign & domestic debt. I am persuaded the State will derive ad vantage from that part which admits of the payment of % in facilities. Whatever liquidated claims the State hath against the U. States are


[Page 653]
May 14, 1784 617 comprehended under this description, & in the payment of the inter est due the State line as well as every other kind of advance, by im pressment or otherwise, I shod suppose had put it in possession of more than sufficient for that purpose. Your Excellency hath also been advis’d of the resolution of Congress to adjourn on the 3d ofjune next to meet in Trenton on the 30 of October. It is farther resolv’d to leave siting a committee of the States. This I am persuaded shod always be the case during the recess of Congress for while there exists a fcederal government & any arrangments abroad or within depending on it, any responsible characters acting under it, there shod, always be a foederal head. I have further to inform your Excellency that I entertain very sanguine hopes, the business of importance still before us, will be con cluded before we adjourn in a manner which will generally give satis faction to the members & I trust to the States which they represent. I have the honor to be Yr. Excellency’s most obt. & very humble servant, Jas. Monroe RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Stephen Higginson, May 13, note 4. 2 This information was communicated in Franklin’s letter of December 25, 1783, which had been read in Congress in early March. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 6:741; and Jonathan Blanchard tojosiah Bartlett, March 5, note 4. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson My dear Sir Annapolis May 14. 1784. I hope before this you have safely arriv’d in Phila. I very sensibly feel your absence not only in the solitary situation in wh. you have left me but upon many other accounts. What direction the delegation may take even for the short space that we shall remn. here, upon the few important subjects that are before us, is to me altogether incer tain. The same men still act on the same principles & upon points where no personal objects are in view on either side, accommodation on the part of those gendemen is if possible more difficult to be at tain’d. As I have not been able to finish our cypher I can only give you an acct, of one or two measures. By the next post I will send it and be fore your departure give you information of whatever hath or may happen. We have appointed Colo. Humphreys secretary to the Em bassy or commission. The report upon taking possession of the west ern posts hath been before Congress. Hand mov’d for its postpone ment to take up a plan of his, more concise, but not very explicit. His plan is to dismiss the troops at west point & elsewhere & enlist others for this service which he supposes may be effected in a very few weeks & in time to serve the purpose of the Indian comrs. 1 I wish you to in-


[Page 655]
May 15, 1784 619 men being from the Eastern, the Middle, and the Western parts of this Continent, will I trust give General Satisfaction. Mr. Jefferson has already set out, intending to go as far East as Boston, to take passage in some of our Eastern Vessels. This Mr. Jeffer son is a Sensible, Judicious Man, and particularly acquainted with the policy of the Southern states. I have the most sanguine Expectation, of the good Agreement of the Commissioners, & that they will affect Treaties, advantagious to the Commerce of these States. I trust that your Excellency is Appriz’d that Congress are determined to Adjourn, on the 3d of June, leaving at this place, a Comtee. of the States. The powers to be exercis’d in the recess, are not yet ascertaind, perhaps Generally that of Seven States. It would give me great Satisfaction to Return with my Colleague. I am determind however to remain so long, as I can be of Service to the State, I have in part the honour to Represent, but Sir, permit me to Suggest, the Idea of a large body of Water nearly fresh in front, two considerable Coves, almost surrounding this City, the Buildings Chiefly of brick, a sandy Soil, the most extravagant place, perhaps in the world for living, Conspiring to make my Situation, not the most agreeable. But Stimulated [as] I am to keep up a Representation, I trust I shall receive every Support in your Excellencys power. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your Excellencys Most Obt. Servt. Jona. Blanchard RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 JCC, 27:382. Weare’s letter is in PCC, item 64, fols. 246—47. 2 JCC, 27:367-74. Thomas Mifflin to Henry Knox Sir, Annapolis May 15th 1784 I enclose to you an Act of Congress of the 12th Inst. 1 which you are directed to open a Correspondence with the Commander in Chief of his Britanic Majesty’s Forces in Canada in order to ascertain the precise time when each of the Posts within the Territories of the United States now occupied by British Troops shall be delivered up. You are also to endeavour to effect an exchange with the British Com manding Officer in Canada of the Cannon and Stores at the Posts to be evacuated, for Cannon and Stores to be delivered at West Point, New York or some other convenient place, and if this cannot be ac complished, that then you cause the compliment of Cannon and Stores requisite for those Posts to be in readiness to be transported in the most convenient and expeditious manner possible. 2 I am Sir with great respect, Your Obedient & humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin


[Page 656]
620 May 16, 1784 LB (DNA: PCC, item 16). i See JCC, 27:376. 2 In his May 24 response to this letter, which is in PCC, item 167, fols. 395-97, Knox recommended that he discharge this directive by ordering “a confidential field officer to repair to Canada, who will be able upon the spot to negociate the affair much sooner than it could be done by Letters,” a suggestion that Congress immediately endorsed. JCC, 27:420. Edward Hand to Catharine Hand My Dearest Kitty, Annapolis 16th May 1784 Since I wrote you last week 1 nothing extraordinary has happened, the month draws to a close & the 3d of June nearer. I had a letter from Mr. Hiltzheimer, he says he has not had a single offer for the horses, which surprises me much, it is an unlucky circumstance but must be born. The Carriage he has been offered 200 Dollars for. I have told him to take it if he can’t get more. I presume the longer it lies the worse it will be. The two Mr. Gallaways have lately been to see me, they are very well, I expect them in town again on Tuesday next. I hope soon to see you & my dear little pratlers. Adieu my dearest life! Present my duty, love, & Compliments to all & believe me to be, your most Affectionate, Edwd. Hand 2 RC (PHi: Hand Papers). 1 See Hand to Jasper Yeates, May 3, note 2. 2 Hand also wrote a second letter to Kitty this day, reporting little more than “Having written to Jacky Ewing [not found] and your Self this morning, & committed my letters to a Mr. Gamble who set out for Philada. I have nothing to Add by this Opertunity which Mr. Hoofnagle’s going immediately to Lancaster gives me, but to tell you that I am well & one day nearer the 3d of June.” Hand Papers, PHi. Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Annapolis 16 May 1784 I expect you will receive by this conveyance all the necessary papers with the twenty Commissions. 1 You will find by these that my simple draught did not suit the taste of our sovereign body. With much ado the additions were confined to two, and so far did the Gerrian taste prevail that contrary to the practice of every other nation the prefix of Honble was inserted. Should you or any of your collegues be hereafter honored with a new commission & the Gerrian taste continue to pre vail, what a noble string of titles may be added to your names! 2


[Page 669]
May 20, 1784 633 are—if 7 states were on the floor represented generally by but two members & the question was, shall a delegation retain its seat, or any particular member, the time of service having actually expir’d, the vote of one member only wod. keep him in Congress. 2. That the question is not, shall they be turn’d cut? It is not an ordinary legisla tive act, but a judicial one & the confideration the law & to be applied to the case in question. It is a question of right, does it or not exist? If it does what number of States are necessary to confirm it. That in all judicial the decisions the majority of at least the siting members is nec essary to establish any right. In most or indeed all a majority of the commission. That here it is more essentially necessary, that the major ity of the U.S. in Congress assembled are competent only to the infe rior duties of govt., that 9 States are necessary to the most important acts. That a scrupulous attention to the object & principles of the con federation wod. perhaps require that the number necessary to govern the States shod, concur in the opinion of the validity of their respec tive credentials, but that neither the policy of the confederation nor any principle of govt, will admit that the consent of less than 7 States shall be necessary. That in this case there is not only a minority of the U.S. in Congress assembled in their favor but a minority of those pre sent. On the other side it was argued 1. that having their seats 7 States are necessary to turn them out; that the power of excluding delega tions from their character & office shod, not be committed to a less number. That if the question was shall a delegation be admitted under indisputable credentials from his State, the number present being as before stated, & only one member voted against it, it wod. be nega tiv’d. That this wod. be a dangerous engine in the hands of party men—that the resolution of the committee agnst. them was negativ’d & of course they remain members. I submit to you the reasons on both sides as they occur to me at present but perhaps I do not recol lect the whole for being just ready to mount our horses, I have not time to be so particular as I cod. wish. Give me yr opinion upon this affr. I have negotiated the affr. of the bill, pd. the Intendant £7.10s. & inclose you the balance except three dollrs. wh. he gave me in money & wh. I reserve not being able to send it. I inclose you a cypher, which I hope you will be able to read, but upon examining it I find it incom plete & must therefore leave it with Mr. Clerici to be finish’d & sent by post. 3 The gentlemen wait for me & have only time to add that I am yr. affect, friend & servt., Jas. Monroe RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 For Monroe’s appointment to this committee, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Hutchins, February 21, note. 2 See Charles Thomson to Jefferson, May 19, note 2. 3 See Samuel Hardy tojefferson, May 21, note 1.


[Page 670]
634 May21, 1784 Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Si r. Annapolis May 21st. 1784 Herewith You will receive a Copy of the civil Establishment of the united States as reported to a Comtee. of Congress by the Financier the last winter. 1 Have delayed to transmit the Same untill this Time hoping that a Report of a Comtee. for reducing not only the Offices but also the Sallaries would have been considered. Yet fear that will not be done before the adjournment. Some Altarations in the civil Estab lishment have taken Place since the Report of the Financier. The Hon- ble. John Adams, Benjamin Franklin & Thomas J ef ferson Esqrs. are ap pointed Commissioners for entering into Treaties of Commerce with several forreign Powers with a Sallary of 9000 Dollars [Per] Annum each. Colo. David Humphry Secretary to the Commission with a Sal lary of 3000 Dollars Per Annum. The Honble. John Jay Esqr. Secretary for forreign Affairs. A Reduction of the Expence in the civil Establish ment is earnestly desired by many of Congress but that and some other Objects equally important are still delayed while six Days have been spent in determining the Question whether the Time for which the Delegates of the State of Rhode Island were appointed is expired? The Matter is not yet ended and every other Buissness is delayed. We have the Honor to be with the highest Esteem & Regard Your Excellency’s hble. Servants, Roger Sherman James Wadsworth RC (CtY: Franklin Papers). Written by Wadsworth and signed by Wadsworth and Sherman. 1 This document was enclosed in a Robert Morris letter to Thomas Jefferson of Febru ary 25, 1784, but no copy of it has been found. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 6:564n. Charles DeWitt to Gerret DeWitt My dear Son Gerrit: Annapolis, May 21, 1784. I feel exceeding happy this day on receiving letters from all my dear children, expecially when I learn from them that you all enjoy the great blessing of health, and when I am happy to inform you that 1 have ever since I left you enjoyed good health, even in this Southern climate. Can you think that I lie down without the least disturbance of mind and sleep sweetly every night like a little child, when you are ac quainted with the many anxieties in which I generally am involved, I am astonished at it myself at times. But I have endeavored to divest myself of all those cares that I may be the better enabled to devote my whole time to the public whose servant I am at present, and I wish to be faithful however incompetent for the important purposes for which I was sent here.


[Page 671]
May 21, 1784 635 I am happy to learn that you are so well reconciled to business. I hope this trial will have such an effect on you as to make you in love with industry and business. I have an higher opinion of industry and business now than ever before, occasioned by my stay in this place, this school of idleness and dissipation. Never did my eyes behold a set of people so totally devoted to plea sure, dress and extravagance of almost every kind as the Marylanders. The best part of this week they have spent in horseracing it is their an nual week for that purpose, and also at plays which have been I be lieve acted every evening of this week, and I am told there is one this evening that may last till one o’clock in the morning which will bring them to Sunday. I have myself attended a Tragedy with some Gentle men of Congress. On Wednesday last I took a walk after adjournment of Congress to the Common where they have their races, I saw one heat and then left the plain where there were some hundreds of idle spectators, ’round about and in Booths where liquors of all kinds were sold, fool ing away precious time. I then bent my walk toward the banks of the great Chesepeake Bay (you must know before you arrive there that great work of Omnipotence opens to your view) when approaching thither a train of serious and solemn thoughts crowded into my mind, which is always the case when I view the great bay, the contem plation thereof affords me such pleasures as all the horseracing are incapable of, and I left affected that such numbers were killing time by wholesale, but as soon as I return from my lonely walk into this lit tle City this school of idleness, the frailties of human nature are apt to vail these pleasing reflections. I must however say that the people are exceeding kind, and their morals in other respects are not worse if so bad as our Northern folks. In this little town is a play house pretty elegantly finished on the in side, and also a Ball house, both these buildings are of brick, but I find no Church, they have however a Minister who officiates at pres ent in the State House which is elegant. My letter is long enough, I suppose I shall set out from this place in about a fortnight, some visits and business in Philadelphia will detain me there I suppose for a week, and in New York it may be that I shall be obliged to stay a fortnight, if I am not mistaken, this will bring me home near July, I trust all to my children, and above all I have com mitted all my cares and concerns to Him whose goodness has con ducted me through the darkest scenes of my life. This I believe will be all the letters I shall write, and I suppose the last from this place before I leave it. I am my dear Son, Your ever affect and most loving father, Charles DeWitt. MS not found; reprinted from Oide Ulster') (May 1909): 146-48.


[Page 672]
636 May21, 1784 Samuel Hardy to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Annapolis 21st. May 1784. Enclosed you will receive a Cypher which Colo Monroe requested me to transmit you. 1 He together with Mr Lee & Mr Gerry sat out yes terday to Georgetown. We thought it expedient that the Committee should proceed in order to turn the view of the Continent to that place as the spot where Congress may perhaps ultimately fix.2 Since your departure we have done nothing. Congress have been involved in a scene of Confusion greater than you can conceive. The Committee of Qualifications reported that the time of the Del egates of Rhode Island had expired. To this report five states assented, two dissented & three were divided. A question then arose whether as the report was not agreed to by seven states, those Gent, were de prived of their seats—Or whether when the right of a Member to sit was questioned it did not req[uire] seven states to establish that right. It has produced great diversity of sentiment, & more altercation than I have ever seen either in Congress or any other place—so that I begin seriously to apprehend we shall be forced to adjourn & confess to the World that the division of our Councils has prevented the adoption of those measures which the interest of the Union so loudly call’d for at our hands. I am sir with every Sentiment of respect, Your Most Obedt. S. Hardy 3 RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 For this cipher and the problems associated with it, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:279n. For another code used in the Virginia delegates’ correspondence, see Monroe to Jefferson, July 20, 1784, note 1. 2 For the work of this committee, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Hutchins, February 21, note. 3 This day Hardy also wrote a brief note to Gov. Benjamin Harrison acknowledging the receipt of his letter and assuring him that “its enclosure shall be forwarded without delay.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Hugh Williamson to John Gray Blount Dear Sir, Annapolis 21st May 1784 The last Post brought me a new Commission by which it appears that it will be my Duty to continue in Congress till the adjournment. That Event is fixed for the 3rd June, perhaps we may put it off to the 15th. I presume the state does not expect nor wish that I should con tinue on the Committee during the Recess of Congress. I propose therefore to return to N Carolina soon after Congress shall adjourn. I fear that I shall be short of mony. I wish you could make it convenient


[Page 673]
May 22, 1784 637 to lodge 3 or 400 Dlrs in the Hands of Miles Hillbourne of Philada. for my Use. Though it should not arrive before I set out, if I have oc casion to borrow the mony I can give him conditional Orders to repay it. Should I fall into the Hands of those Jews, paying as both Mr Nash & Mr Hawkins did for some Time an Interest of 5 Per Cent Every month, the sooner I can pay the Debt the better. My Expences have lately been more than I had counted on. The Payment of the Note due by Smith would have established my Independence for the sea son, but of that Mony there is not the most distant Hope. 1 By a Vessel just arrived from England reports are reed, that after the Parliamt of England had been dissolved on the new Elections Mr Pitts Party were very successful and that Mr Fox was in danger of losing his Election for Westminster. That a new political Phenomenon had ap pear’d. The Dutches of Devonshire had personally appear’d on the Hustings or Stage and solicited Votes for Fox. The Pitt administration if established will greatly promote our Plans of mercantile Treaties. I am with the utmost Consideration, Dr Sir, your obedt Servt, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 Williamson wrote a second brief letter to Blount this day upon learning from Blount’s brother, William, that “Mr. James Smith.... will pay the Note” and that an an swer could be expected “in a few days.” Blount Papers, Nc-Ar. Charles DeWitt to Robert R. Livingston My Dear sir. Annapolis May 22. 1784 I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your very agree able Favor of the 9th Inst. From Clermont, 1 where you undoubtedly enjoy more happiness than a Delegate in Congress. Our whole time has been spent in doing very little. We have destroyed this Week past in debates on the Rhode Island Delegation, which was reported by the Committee of Qualifications to be expired, but no more than Four States agreed in Opinion with the Committee. 2 This occasioned great Heats, insomuch that appearances indicated open Violence in the House, by a Young Virginian and one of the Rhode Island Gent. 3 Whether their Ardor will be cooled down by Monday is to me yet un certain. The Committee on the Vermont affair have met this day for the second time, but cannot even conjecture what will be the result of their deliberation. I believe however a report of some sort will be made, but a final decision, I have no reason to expect, if I may be al lowed to Judge from the completion of many Members of Congress. Could you think Dear Sir that amidst all the greatness in which I am involved, that I should forget my Friends; surely if you had recollected


[Page 674]
638 May 22, 1784 that I had for some years past been “surrounded with the Wise and Great” such a thought could not have arisen in your Mind, I love my Friends more than high places, the latter is become insipid to me, and more so, since I have had the High Honor of treading on the dirty floor of Congress. However I believe it is my duty to be content, and therefore it gives me no great pain that I am thus confined. I have written to you some days agoe, when I enclosed an extract of a letter of Mr. Franklin advising that Mr. Jay would sail for America in April last, which I trust you have received. I have desired Mr. Remsen to col lect some materials of information of foreign affairs to send you, which if he gets ready to send by the Post on Tuesday next you may expect an enclosure herewith. Mr. Stephens 4 arrived here two days agoe; if we adjourn on the 3d day of June next he will have but a short participation of the pleasures of Congress, in the City of Annapolis. Perhaps he may think it long enough. I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate Friend & Humble servt. Ch. D. Witt RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s draft of this letter is also in the Livingston Papers, NHi. 2 See Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson, May 19, note 2. 3 That is, John Francis Mercer and David Howell. 4 That is, Newjersey delegate John Stevens, Livingston’s father-in-law. David Howell to Jabez Bowen Dear Sir, Annapolis 22, May 1784. Yours of the 10th Instant came to hand this moment. I doubt not of your perseverance in your good office to procure as early payment on our bills as may consist with the State of our Treasury. I was sorry to make so large a draft at the time; but I fear we are to be detained here ’till it will be insufficient. I have lived in as oeconomical a Stile as pos sible: but expences run high in this place. The business of Mr. Greens accounts, 1 with, which you have charged us, will have our most careful & persevering attention. We know the man & the distresses of the family. You observe that no body has been ordered on to relieve us—as you expect an adjournment this month. The adjournment was ordered to take place on the 3d of June next, & a committee of the States to be left during the recess. We have as yet reed no Letters announcing our reelection. Our old credentials for the last election have been called in question & the whole business of the nation suspended the last six days in canvassing the Subject notwithstanding an adjourment is so nigh at hand & so much business of importance calls for our attention. 2


[Page 683]
May 29,1784 647 Jacob Read’s Proposed Committee Report [May 29, 1784] i The Committee consisting of Mr Read, Mr Sherman, Mr Ellery, Mr Hardy and Mr Partridge to whom was referred the representation of the Delegates from the State of New York respecting the New Hamp shire Grants 2 made in pursuance of Express Instructions from the Legislature of the said State with sundry Affidavits and papers accom panying the Same Report that they have carefully examined into the papers referred to them, and in order to make themselves fully acquainted with the Sub ject on which the representation is founded have also examined into the files and proceedings of Congress relative to the District called the New Hampshire Grants which they find has been depending before Congress in a Variety of Situation [s] from the 30th June 1777. Your Committee find that the United States in Congress assembled on the 7th day of August 1781 By an act Reciting that “Whereas the States of New Hampshire and New York have submitted to Congress &ca (proceedings at large Mutatis Mutandis) 3 Your Committee find that in pursuance of the said recited Act on the 8th day of the said Month of August 1781 a Committee was ac cordingly appointed who afterwards had a Conference with Jonas Fay, Ira Allen and Bezaleel Woodward Agents appointed by Authority of the people Inhabiting the said Territory called the New Hampshire Grants to repair to Congress & to propose & receive from them Terms of an Union with the United States. 4 Your Committee find that the said Committee so as aforesaid ap pointed having made their report, Congress on the 20th day of Au gust 1781 took the same into Consideration & thereupon Came to the following resolution—“It being &c 5 Whereby it is Contended a Virtual acknowledgement was made of the Independency of the district Commonly called the New Hamp shire Grants now Claiming to be the State of Vermont. It further appears to your Committee that the representative body of the people residing in the said District did by their proceedings from the 16th to the 19 day of October 1781 reject the said resolution & preliminary propositions Contained in the Act of the 20th August 1781, 6 But that Afterwards, to wit on the 22nd day of February 1782, the said resolution of the 20th August 1781 being Unaltered & Unre pealed the Representative body aforesaid Entered into the following resolution, Vizt, “That the West bank &ca— 7 By which last recited act it is insisted the people of the said District have fully Complied with the Stipulation made & required of them in the resolution of the 20th of August 1781 as preliminary to a recogni tion of their Sovereignty & Independence & Admission into the fed-


[Page 684]
648 May 29, 1784 eral Union of these States & that the Conditional promise & Engage ment of Congress of such recognition & admission is thereby become absolute and think it their Indispensable duty to report to Congress. Your Committee find that Notwithstanding the last recited resolu tion of the Body Stiling itself the general assembly of the State of Ver mont and the said recited resolution of the 20th of August 1781, The people inhabiting the said District have proceeded to grant and Indi viduals to possess themselves of Land far without the lines in the said Resolves & Resolutions Mentioned and also of Islands upon the lakes Clearly without such district. Your Committee are of Opinion that tis of the last Importance to the peace of the Union that Congress shoud immediately decide on the Question of the Independancy of the said district Claiming to be the State of Vermont. That if upon such decision the Sovereignty and Independance of the said district shoud be Acceeded to it will be proper to Appoint a Committee to prepare a Contract & plan of Admission & to Stipulate the Terms on which the same district shall be admitted into the fed eral Union in which plan shall be Introduced all the grounds & prin ciples of the plan of Government lately to wit on 23rd April last pre pared for the Western Territory 8 when the Same shall be purchased of Indian Inhabitants & laid out into Independant States in so far as the same can in any way apply to the said District as having already as sumed a permanent form of Government. Your Committee are of Opinion that Congress will not relinquish the Guarantee Contained in the resolutions of the 7th of August 1781 and that it be immediately & Indispensably required of the Inhabitants of the said district to surcease from Trespassing beyond the bounds Contained in the said act of Congress of the 20th August 1781. Your Committee are further of Opinion that if on the decision of the question relative to the Sovereignty & Independence of the said District Claiming to be a separate state as aforesaid the U S in Con gress Assembled shall decide against such Claim. That in such Case it will be proper for Congress immediately to proceed to appoint a fed eral Court pursuant to the Article of the Act of Confederation & per petual Union to decide the right of Jurisdiction & Soil between the several States claiming the same and that Congress are bound as well by the said Articles of Confederation as by their Act of the 24th day of Sept 1779 9 to Carry into execution & support such decision & deter mination in favour of Which lower of the parties the same may be to the end that permanent Concord & harmony may be established be tween them & all Cause of Uneasiness be removed. And Whereas it Manifestly appears to your Committee that repeated Outrages have been Committed by the people Inhabiting the said dis-


[Page 685]
May 31, 1784 649 trict who Claim to act as a sovereign & Independent State on those who profess allegiance to the state of New York, and that they have ac tually proceeded to raise Troops & to make War on & otherwise to har- rass & distress the Inhabitants of Cumberland County in direct Contra vention of the resolutions of the United States in Congress of 24th of September 1779, 2 June 1780 and of the 5th of Deer 1782, 10 Your Com mittee are of Opinion that a Copy of the several resolves last Men tioned be forwarded to Thos Chittenden Esqr of Bennington in the District aforesaid to be Communicated to the people and that they be required to desist from further outrages. It being the final determina tion of the United States to take Effectual Measures to enforce a Com pliance with the aforesaid several resolutions in Case the same are dis obeyed and to punish all Infractions of the peace of the United States by any body or description of persons in the most exemplary Manner. 11 MS (DLC: Charles Thomson Papers). In the hand of Jacob Read, and endorsed by Thomson: “(Report of Mr Read, Mr Sherman, Mr Ellery, Mr Hardy, Mr Partridge, On represen tation of delegates far New York respedgNew Hampshire grants. Entd., read 29 May 1784} This was a report proposed by Mr Read but not agreed to by the rest of the comee. who de livered in another report.” 1 See endorsement. 2 See New York Delegates to Congress, April 24, 1784. 3 See JCC, 21:836-39. 4 See these Letters, 17:528-30. 5 JCC, 21:886-88. 6 See John C. Williams, ed.. The Public Papers of Governor Thomas Chittenden (Barre, Vt.: Secretary of State, 1969), pp. 552-56. 7 For this resolution of February 23, 1782, see ibid., pp. 577-78. 8 See JCC, 26:274-79. 9 JCC, 15:1095-99. 10 See ibid., and JCC, 17:482-85, 23:765-69. 11 Read’s report, calling upon Congress “to enforce a Compliance" with its previous resolutions, reflected southern hostility toward Vermont and differed significantly from the more tentative report written by Roger Sherman that the remaining members of the committee submitted this day. When the New York delegates attempted to reintro duce Sherman’s report on June 3, however, Congress refused to embroil itself once again in the intractable Vermont question. See JCC, 27:481-84, 532-36. See also Jonathan Blanchard to Josiah Bartlett, June 6; and Hugh Williamson to James Duane, June 8, 1784, note 3. Edward Hand to Congress Annapolis 31st May 1784 To the United States in Congress Assembled, The Memorial of Ed ward Hand late a Major General & formerly Colonel of the 1st Regi ment of Foot in the Army of the United States very respectfully Sheweth.


[Page 686]
650 May 31, 1784 That in consequence of a resolution of Congress of the 12th June 1776 he reed, by his Agent, Mr. James Milligan, 9000 Dollars to pur chase an Uniform for the regiment he then had the Honor to Com mand, as appears by Mr. Milligan’s letter dated 9th August 1776. That, a quantity of Clothing purchased with that money was reed., and distributed to the regiment as appears by Mr. Milligan’s letter of the 22d August 1776, and the regiml. Quarter-Masters Certificate Annexed That, Ten Cases, and Ten Bundles, containing a large and general Assortment of valuable Articles of Clothing &ca. purchased with the same money, and intended for his said regiment, were about the latter end of October 1776 forwarded From Philadelphia to Fort Lee on the Hudson as appears by letters from Mr. Milligan, and his Clerk, Mr. James Heron’s, dated October 29 & 31st 1776 and the General Invoice dated 30th of the same month. That those Ten Cases and ten Bundles unfortunately fell into the hands of the Enemy as appears by a letter from Mr. Heron dated 27th Deer. 1776, one from Mr. Milligan of 4th June 1777, and the Certifi cate of Clement Biddle Esqr. who was acting as Quarter Master Gen eral at the time the said Clothing was lost. Your Memorialist flatters himself, that the papers herein before re ferred to, shew clearly that he did every thing in his power to comply with the intention of the resolution of Congress of the 12 June 1776 in favour of his then Regiment—that in the Choice of an Agent to transact the business, he had in view the good of the Regimt. & that of the service in general (the different important offices which Mr. Milli gan has since held, sufficiently evinceing the sense Congress entertain of his Integrity & Abilities). That the loss of the said clothing, arose from Accidents incident to War, which he could not foresee or guard against. He therefore humbly entreats that, Congress may be pleased to order the Comptroller of the Treasury to pass to the credit of his said late Regiment, the amount of the sums paid for the Clothing so lost, with the necessary expences incurred in purchasing & transporting the same, and your Memorialist will pray &cad Edwd. Hand RC (DNA: PCC, item 41). 1 Hand’s memorial was referred to a committe which recommended on June 2 that he be credited with “the amount of the sums paid for the clothing so lost,” but there is no record in the journals or papers of Congress indicating that any action was taken on the recommendation. For the committee report on the memorial, which is endorsed by Charles Thomson “Report of Mr McHenry, Mr Dana, Mr Read—On letter of Mr Hand respectg Cloathing purchased for his regt & which fell into the hands of the Enemy, read June 2. 1784,” see PCC, item 19, 3:29-31; and JCC, 27:525. See also Hand to Thomas Mifflin, April 19, 1784.


[Page 687]
May 31, 1784 651 David Howell to Jabez Bowen Dear Sir, Annapolis 31 May 1784. Your Letter respecting Mr. Greens accounts came duly to hand. The subject will be laid before Congress. I cannot undertake to predict their decision—but I pray you to inform Col. Flagg that altho I have obtained a report of a Committee that his accounts should be settled by Mr. Chinn, I have not been able to get that report agreed to in Congress. 1 It seems to be adopted as a rule that accounts are to be set tled in the line of the department in which they were contracted. An Ordinance for putting the department of Finance into Commis sion passed in Congress the 28th Instant, a copy whereof is enclosed on paper No. I. 2 Altho’ this object has been steadily pursued by some for a considerable time, there is reason to believe that we should have finally failed of obtaining it, had it not occurred to others as the only remaining expedient of regaining the confidence of the States & ob taining the long expected funds. Should funds be obtained by this means—the board of treasury be abolished, & Congress revert to their former opinion that the funds should be under “the controul of a single Will” what would you think of the manoeuvre? On the 29th Instant Congress passed sundry resolutions defining & establishing the powers to be exercised by a Committee of the States—a copy of which is enclosed on paper No. 2. 3 I freely confess I consented to appoint a Committee only with a view to obtain a recess. If they do no good, their powers are too much restricted to admit of their doing much hurt. Mr. Ellery is chosen a member of this Commit tee for our State; in consequence whereof I have requested him to stay till the sense of the General Assembly could be communicated to him on the Subject—what he will determine finally is with himself. As Con gress has made the concurrence of nine voices necessary in every act there is ample Security against the Committees sitting in Philadel phia—unless infatuated. I have enclosed on paper No. 3 the act of the Legislature of Penn sylvania granting to Congress the power of levying & collecting an Im post of 5 per Cent, on Imposts, &c. 4 This act is complete as to the im post; but very deficient on the supplementary funds—only containing in the 7th Section a general & vague promise to raise & levy on the per sons & estates of the Inhabitants of the State their proportion thereof in such manner as the Legislature may direct—to the full amount of the assump tion they were & are holden by the the 8th of the Articles of the Con federation. If they meant to comply, why did not they point out spe-


[Page 694]
658 May 31, 1784 they have passed the enclosed Resolutions which I transmit to you at the request of the Doctor. 1 On Friday I expect to have the Pleasure of seing Mount Vernon in Company with Mrs. Mifflin and Mr. Lloyds family—But there is a pos sibility that we shall not proceed farther than Alexandria on that day as the setting of Congress on thursday may be so late as to prevent my leaving Annapolis before friday mornings. At every event I have deter mined not to see Philadelphia before I have the Satisfaction of paying a Visit at Mount Vernon. I am with the greatest sincerity and Attachment, Dear Sir, Your Obe dient humble Servant, Thomas Mifflin RC (DLC: Washington Papers). i For the enclosed May 25 resolve signifying Congress’ willingness to grant Dr. William Gordon access to papers “of the late Commander in Chief’ in the files of the secretary, see JCC, 27:427-28. For Gordon’s interest in access to Washington’s papers and to Continental documents in general for the writing of his history of the American Revolution, see Samuel Holten to Gordon, August 7, 1783, note; and Washington, Pa pers, (Abbot), Confederation Series, 1:177-78, 376-77. Edward Hand to Catharine Hand My Dearest Kitty Annapolis 1st. June 1784 When I last wrote you I expected the happiness of seeing you about the Middle of this month, 1 as Congress are to adjourn on the 3d. I am not now altogether so positive as I then was, because, I have since been Elected to serve on the Committee of the States 2 —but I hope that Congress will direct the Committee to meet at Trenton. If they do, I shall have no doubt of seeing you & my dear family soon—in deed at any rate I think it will be the Case. With duty, love & Compliments to all to whom they are due I am my dearest Kitty most affectionately yrs. Edwd. Hand RC (PHi: Hand Papers). 1 In his letter to Kitty of May 25, Hand had reported his expectation that “next week Will take me from this place.” Hand Papers, PHi. 2 For this May 29 action, see JCC, 27:477. James Monroe to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Annapolis June 1. 1784 I have been favor’d with yours of the 25 by the last post with its en closures & will pay due attention to the contents. 1 Two points have been effected since my last, the puting the office of finance into com-


[Page 695]
June 1,1784 659 mission & establishment of the committee of the States & appointmt. of the members. 2 Each State nominated its own member & Congress confirmd the preference. The committee consists of Mr. Blanchard, Dana, Ellery, Sherman, DeWit, Dick, Hand, Chase, Hardy, Spaight & Read; for the States not represented on the floor any member who produces credentials may take his seat. The members also may relieve each other at pleasure. These resolutions were introduc’d by {Mercer}3 & supported by {Read} by wh. the appointment, if this rule continues (longer than the present Congress or rather committee) is taken out of the hands of Congress & vested in the delegation of each State & of course given it to whomever the chance of a popular vote may place at the head of a delegation, for those who pay a delicate at tention to the sense of the State must take that sense from such evi dence as appears to them. The powers of the committee are {con fined} so that no {injury} can be effected. {Sherman} & {Dana} will necessarily {govern} it. {Read} & {Spaight} will be together. {Hardy} will perhaps be of the same society & as the part they will {act} will perhaps be rather an intemperate one, {they} will have no {weight} themselves and throw the indifferent {states} into the other scale. I shall sit out a day or two after the adjournment for Virga. & propose if possible to effect the purchase of the land from Marks & if necessary will go to Albemarle. I intend also to put in execution the plan I had in view of visiting the western country if no difficulties arise upon my arrival in Virga. You will please direct yr. letters for me to Fredericksburg thro’ whomever you think proper here. I shall hurry Mr. Short on if he comes by Annapolis but suspect he hath pass’d by Ba[l]timore before this. I shall write you by the next post after the adjournmt. of Con gress & give you information of our ultimate proceedings. The west ern posts are still before us & will probably receive their final ar- rangmt. tomorrow. The plan is (the two points having pass’d by the vote of 7 States, the whole being consider’d as an ordinance) to send 350 of the troops from W. point immediately to take possession of the posts, & to raise 700 men to supply their places. I think it will pass. 4 The collection of Milita[ry] stores, arrangement &c. will be put under the direction of Genl. Knox. I am sincerely your friend & servt., Jas. Monroe P.S. The inclos’d proceedings of the committee of our Assembly were forwarded to me for you to carry to Europe with you. 5 RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 Not found, but see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:290. 2 See JCC, 27:469-71, 474-77. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Monroe in cipher. 4 For the “two points” raised by Monroe this day, see JCC, 27:499. The overall “plan," however, was severely reduced by Congress, for which see New York Delegates to George Clinton, April 9, note 2.


[Page 697]
June 1,1784 661 vance to Officers & Soldiers in Continental Army—with Interest from time of payment. 9 Delivered Mr Gerry Copy of Resolve of 2d Inst, relative to Contrac tors recommending to the State of Massachusetts to pay them for the hire of Ox Teams &c in the Campaign of 1781. 10 Sent to the Office of Finance the following Copies of resolves &c. n 5th. Delivered the Delegates of Massachusetts—Copies of the reso lutions of of 18 & 19 Augst 1783 directing the Supt Finance to lay be fore Congress an Estimate of foreign & domestic debt—& Account of annual interest on loan Office Certificates. 12 The Resolution March 23rd. 1784 enabling the Comptroller to set tle the Commercial account &c. 13 Resolutions June 2nd & 3rd 1784 for discharging old Troops & rais ing new forces. 14 Notification to Massachusetts & New York and Petition of the for mer to Congress. 15 Delivered to Mr Williamson copy of the powers of the Commee of the States 16 to Mr DeWitt Copy of notification to Massachusetts & New York. June 7th. Deliver’d Mr. Blanchard the following Copies. Resolutions of 2d & 3d Inst, for discharging old Troops & raisins new forces. Notification to the States of Massachusetts & New York—Powers of the Comtee. of the States—Ordinance for putting the Depart, of Fi nance into Commission. 17 Delivered Mr Sherman resolve of 1st. Inst. Hezh. Whitmore’s Ac count to be Credited with 873 Dollars. 18 Sent to Post Master Genl. Copy of resolve of Comtee. of the States of the 4th Inst, directing him to instruct his Deputies to forward all Letters &c directed to the President of Congress to the Chairman of the Comtee. of the States. 19 Sent to the Office of Finance— Copy of Resolve of 1st Inst, relative to the Monument of Genl Mont gomery 20 Ditto ... ditto ... recommending to the State of Virginia to instruct their Auditors appointd. to settle with the line of the Army &c. 21 Instructions to pay master Genl. Hezekiah Whitmores Accot. to be Credited with 873 Dollars—that the several States be Credited in their Accots. with U.S. for specie advanced to Officers & Soldiers of Cont. Army &c. 22 —that the Supt. render to Congress statement of Articles comprized under the head of Contingencies &c. 23 —that he give Or ders for ascertaining the sums due to the Contractors for Ox-teams &c. in the Commonh. of Massachusetts & to draw for payment on said Comwealth. to be deducted from their requisition for 1785. Resolu tion of June 2d & 3d 1784 for discharging old Troops & raising new


[Page 698]
662 June 1,1784 Force. Resolve of June 3d relative to Vouchers furnished by the State of Massachusetts in 1776—directing Commissioner for settling Ac counts of that State to pass the Accots. &c. 24 That Andrew Lytle’s Ac count be Credited with seven hundred & fifty one Dollars. 25 Appointt. of Commissioners of the Board of Treasury— 26 directing Secy, in the War Office to furnish three hundred men directed to be raised by the Act of this day to be in readiness to march when & to what place or places the Commissrs. for negotiating with the Indians may direct 27 — that the Supt. take order for purchasing & transmitting the Articles necessary for the Indian Treaties—Copy of the List of those Articles annexed—that he furnish such additional Articles not exceeding 4000 Dollars as the Commissrs. may direct. 28 To contract with persons for furnishing 60,000 rations. Making any two of the Commissioners being a majority competent to proceed upon the business of the Com mission. 29 Copy of Resolve of June 4t Comtee. of the States relative to Accounts of M. Beaumarchais directing Supert to transmit to Mr. Bar clay Copy of the refusal of Mr Carabasse, Agent for the Sieur Beau marchais to deliver to the Agent of the U. S. certain goods charged to sd. States. 30 Sent to Mr Thomson in Philaa. Thirty printed Copies of the Instruc tions to the Commissioners appointed to settle the Accounts of each State with the United States &c. 31 2 for each State 4 for the Office of Finance Transmitted from the Office 2 Copies of the above to the Pay Mas ter Genl. Sent to the War Office Copy of resolves of the 1st. Inst.— recommending to the State of Virginia to instruct their Auditors ap- pointd. to settle with the line of the Army &c. Instructions to pay mas ter General. Hezh. Whitmore’s Accot to be Credited with 873 Dol lars—that the several States be Credited in their Accts, with U.S. for specie advanced to Officers & Soldiers of Coni. Army. Resolutions of June 2d & 3d for discharging old Troops & raising new Forces—di recting Secretary in the War Office to furnish 300 men directed to be raised by the Act of this day (June 3d) to be in readiness to march when and to what place or places the Commissrs. for negotiating with the Indians may direct. Sent to Mr. Thomson to be forwarded 4 Copies of the Resolution of the 3d Inst for raising new Forces—for Connecticut 1, New York 1, New Jersey 1, Pensylvania 1. Transmitted to the State of South Carolina— Copy of Motion agreed to in Congress June 2d 1784 That a Copy of the Note of the Minister of the United Netherlands requesting said State to make enquiry into the truth of the Facts stated therein & to transmit the result thereof to the Congress at their next meeting. 32


[Page 699]
June 1,1784 663 Sent to the Supreme Executive of Pensylvania Copy of Resolve of Comtee. of the States approving their proceedings in the affair of M Marbois—that it is with singular pleasure they receive this fresh in stance of the entire regard of the President & Council of the State of Pensylvania for the representatives of the Sovereignty of this Union.33 Transmitted the Pay Master Genl— Copy of Resolve of 1st Inst, recommending to State of Virginia to in struct their Auditors appointed to settle with the line of the Army &c.—instructions to him—Hezekiah Whitmore’s Account to be Cred ited with 873 Dollars—That the several States be Credited in their Ac counts with U.S. for specie advanced to Officers & Soldiers of Conti- nenl Army. 9th Delivered Mr. Blanchard an Original Commission to Capt Stag- poole—commandg Privateer & printed Copy of Instructions to Commanders of Privateers &C.34 Deliver’d Mr Hardy two Copies of Resolve of Comtee. of the States of the 4th Inst, recommending to the States of Delaware & Georgia to send on a representation to the Comtee. of the States. 35 MS (DNA: PCC, item 181). In the hand of Benjamin Bankson and John Kilty, Jr. A con tinuation of Thomson’s Memorandum Book, May 3-31, 1784. > See JCC, 27:478-79. 2 Not identified. s The report concerning these papers, accounts ofjosiah Flagg and Josiah Flagg, Jr., is endorsed: “The papers of J. Flagg &c. which were delivered into the Office by Mr. Howell were withdrawn by him June 4th 1784.” See PCC, item 19, 2:289-90; and JCC 26:262, 297. 4 JCC, 27:556. 5 Ibid., p. 420. 6 Ibid., p. 508. 7 See JCC, 27:399. The secretary’s office did not retain copies of “the following pa pers” concerning Dr. Wright and Capt. Thacker when they were withdrawn by Roger Sherman. 8 Not in PCC; but for Congress’ response to Greenwood’s petition, see JCC, 26:4, 14 61-62, 262. 9 JCC, 27:506. 10 This resolve is actually one ofjune 1, for which see ibid., p. 508. 11 At this point Benjamin Bankson wrote “Note next page,” but apparently changed his mind for there is no such note or entry on the following page to complete this entry. 12 JCC, 24:512,514-15. ™JCC, 26:161-62. 14 JCC, 27:524, 530-31. 15 See JCC, 27:547-50; and PCC, item 65, 2:229-32. ’6JCC, 27:561-63. 17 Ibid., pp. 469-71. 18 Ibid., p. 506. 19 Ibid., p. 565. 20 Ibid., pp. 504-5. 21 Ibid., pp. 505-6. 22 See note 9.


[Page 703]
June 4, 1784 667 The Reports of the Grand Committee on the Penobscot Expedi tion, & on the extant Bills of the old Emissions, are contained in the said Paper No 8. 5 The first marked E was passed nemine con, in the Committee; & the last marked F was passed by six States in the Com mittee, Massachusetts being one of the five that voted against it. In deed We think the first paragraph of it, which is intended to annul the Resolution of Congress of March 1780, so far as it authorizes the States to charge the Money brot in to be sunk pursuant to that Re solve, at 40 for 1, to be highly inconsistent with good Faith & Justice, & to require the serious Attention of the Legislature. The Pressure of important Business previous to the Adjour[n]ment put it out of our Power to obtain a Decision of Congress on either of those Reports, or to obtain one from the Grand Committe on the Subject of Bounties—indeed they had this Matter long under their Consideration & appeared to be in Favour of the Proposition con tained in No 10, but disinclined to No 11 & 12. Having thus stated the proceedings of Congress on the Remon strance of the Legislature, We again recur to their Instructions of Oc tober 28th, which pointed to the Abolition of the Office of Superin tendant of Finance. This was an Object very desirable, but difficult to attain. It is however happily accomplished so far, as that the SuperIn tendant of Finance is to be superceded by a Board of Treasury on or before the 10th of November next, as will appear by the Ordnance No 13; 6 No 14 containing the Appointment of the Commissioners. 7 Another object of the honble Legislature in those Instructions, was to prevent the Expenditure of any Part of the publick Money for pur poses different from those to w[hich] it was particularly appropriated. To enable the Legislature to ascertain whether the Appropriations have been punctually complyed with, We obtained the Resolution be forementioned marked C in No 8, & have applied to the Committee of the States for the Copies of the Statement & Expenditures therein mentioned, 8 to be transmitted to the Legislature as soon as the Super Intendant of Finance, shall render them, agreably to his Intentions signified to Congress. A third object of the Instructions, was to obtain the earliest Infor mation from Time to Time, of the proceedings of Congress. To ac complish this, the Journals are constantly printed, & the Secretary in forms us, they are regularly transmitted, so that We presume, no one thing has been transacted of a publick Nature in Congress, without an early Communication thereof to the Legislature. In Consequence of the Removals of Congress, the Journals of the last Year are only printed to some Time in September last & part of those Journals being printed in Philadelphia, & part of them here, both shall be for warded when finished.


[Page 704]
668 June 4, 1784 The Letter of the 18th of February respecting Ox Teams We think requires no other Answer than the Resolution of Congress marked D in No 15: 9 & We flatter ourselves that their proceedings in No 16 & 17 will accomplish the Ends proposed by the Legislature in their Instruc tions of the 18th of March, respecting Vouchers lost & Obstructions in settling the publick Accounts. 10 The Letter of the 27 of May, We received a few Hours before the ad journment of Congress on the 3d Instant, And pressed as they were with a Variety of Concerns, We prevailed on them to consider the Peti tion of the Legislature & to issue the Notification thereon, contained in No 18, the Receipt of which it will be necessary to acknowledge to the Secretary of Congress. 11 Having particularly noticed the Communications received from the Honble Legislature, We have further to inform them, that the Resolution in No 19 contains the Discharge of all the Troops re tained in Service after the Conclusion of the War except 80 Men for guarding publick Stores. 12 We endeavored to obtain an Act for exon erating the States of New Hamshire & Massachusetts from the extra Expence incurred by those States in Consequence of the Detention of part of their Lines after the 3d of November last; but notwithstanding the Justice of the Demand was generally admitted, Congress could not be prevailed on to comply with it, unless We would consent to a peace Establishment. This was repeatedly & strenuously urged, but being principled against it, We in Conjunction with the other N England States gave it a vigorous Opposition for the following, amongst other Reasons. First. We conceived that the Confederation had not expressly given to Congress such powers, & therefore they could not exercise them, con sistently with the 2d Article of the foederal Constitution. Secondly. We were clearly of opinion, that when the Confederation was ratified, the Legislature had no Intention to grant to Congress, the Power of raising a standing Army in Time of Peace: more espe cially as the same Construction which will enable Congress to raise a few Men for a short period may extend their Powers indefinitely, both as to the Number of Men & Term of Inlistment. Thirdly. We veiwed the Measure as being altogether unnecessary, be cause the United States being remote from Nations which have stand ing Armies, may by design [ating] the Militia, the constitutional, & only safe Defence of republican Governments, save the grievous Ex pence of a formidable peace Establishment, which would inevitably ensue, if once a precedent for exercising so dangerous a power by Congress should be admitted. Fourthly. We were fully persuaded, even If it was necessary that Con gress, for guarding Posts & Magazines in Time of Peace should have a Power to raise a few Troops, they ought to be limited by an express Ar-


[Page 705]
June 4, 1784 669 tide of the Confederation. When all the proceedings on this Subject which will be soon printed & transmitted in the Journals are seen, We trust the honble Legislature will express their Sense, either directly to Congress, or by Instructions to their Delegates. We are happy to in form the Legislature that every Attempt for raising Troops by Requisi tions has been thus far defeated, & that in Lieu thereof Congress have adopted the Measures contained in No 20. 13 We submit to the Legislature the Expediency of renewing their Appli cations to Congress, on the Penobscot Expedition, the Redemption of the extant Bills of the old Emissions, the equitable adjustment of the Bounties allowed for raising Men thro the War, & the Extra Expence in curred by the State in Consequence of the Detention of part of their Line after the Discharge of the Army in general in November; last. Mr Partridge, who has fully concurred with us in our proceedings stated in this Letter, would have signed it, had he not been prevented by leaving Annapolis this Morning, to return to Massachusetts. We have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, with perfect Respect, for the Honble Legislature & Yourselves your most humble serts. 14 E Gerry Fra Dana RC (NIC: Irving, Life of Washington, Sage Collection). Written by Gerry and signed by Gerry and Dana. 1 See Massachusetts Delegates to John Hancock, February 1, 1784, note 2. 2 For this June 1 “order," see fCC, 27:506-7. 3 Ibid. 4 Not identified, but for the monies received on the previous $8 million requisition and “the Requisition of the present Year," see JCC, 26:309. 5 See JCC, 27:394-97. 6 For the adoption of this ordinance, which was the product of a motion of the Mas sachusetts delegates, see fCC, 26:356-57, 27:437-43, 465-71. See also Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, March 30, 1784. 7 JCC, 27:546-47. 8 The following letter from Gerry and Dana to the Committee of the States is actually dated June 6th and is in PCC, item 59, 2:239. ‘The Delegates of Massachusetts pursuant to a Resolve of Congress of the First of June in Behalf of that State apply for the Copies of the Statement & Expenditures mentioned in the Resolve [JCC, 27:506-7], as soon as they shall be rendered by the SuperIntendant of Finance.” It is endorsed “read July 14, 1784.” 9 See JCC, 27:507-8; and Committee of Congress to Robert Morris, April 9, 1784, note. 10 See JCC, 27:545-46. 11 The Massachusetts Assembly’s May 27 letter is in PCC, item 65, 2:229-32. For Con gress’June 3 call for the convening of a federal court on the first Monday in December to hear Massachusetts’ claim to lands within New York, see JCC, 27:547-50. See also New York Agents’Journal, December 4-9, 1784. 12 For this June 2 resolve, see JCC, 27:524. 13 For these June 3 resolves, see JCC, 27:538-40. 14 Gerry and Dana also sent a copy of this letter under cover of the following note of June 5th to Gov. John Hancock. “We have the honor to inclose for your information


[Page 706]
670 June 4, 1784 our Letter to the Legislature with sundry papers accompanying the same from No. 1 to 21th inclusive.” Revolutionary War Letterbooks, M-Ar. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Annapolis June 4th. 1784. Yesterday Evening the President of Congress in conformity to the act of the 26th of April pronounced Congress to be adjourned untill the 3rd of November next then to meet at Trentown. As we have ever doubted the Constitutional propriety of this Mea sure, and the right of Congress to invest their President with a power which the Confederation seems to have reserved to the body, we op posed it originally. 1 And when the period arrived at which the Act was to be carryed into execution we declined giving a Constitutional sanc tion to the removal. It was not thought expedient to change the vote of the 26, & for the seven States who originally voted for the President to adjourn Con gress; again to adjourn themselves. The reason of this may be discov ered by a reference to the Journals. The right of Rhode Island to sit & vote in Congress after the 7th of May had but two States in its favour, whilst five States were decided against it. We had not only objected to their Continuance under such Circumstances to sit in Congress, but had actually entered a protest on the Journals.2 Without their vote an adjournment at this day to Trentown could not be procured. And the former vote empowering the President al though made at a time when the Credentials of Rhode Island were in disputable we considered as illegal & void. On this subject we beg leave to add some further Observations. Early this Year it was considered by Congress as an indispensable duty to examine the rights of Members to Seats under their Credentials and the Confederation. Accordingly a Committee of Qualifications had been long since appointed, & in consequence of their report a Delegation from Dellaware were adjudged unauthorized to sit, and re tired from Congress. 3 A question of a similar Nature arose on the Cre dentials of the Members from Rhode Island, and though two States only were in favour of their right, they persevered to continue in Con gress & to act as Members. We were therefore reduced to the alterna tive either of impeding the public business at a Moment rendered crit ical from a variety of important Subjects which lay before Congress & the short interval which was to precede the time fixed for adjourn ment, or of continuing to act with Men whose seats we considered in some Measure usurped, and whose votes we thought it our duty to ob ject to as vitious. Under this embarrasment the Measure which pre sented itself to us as most expedient was to enter our protest against


[Page 721]
June 16,1784 685 I am Sir with Esteem & regard, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman P.S. As you are one of the Petitioners I suppose you will be admitted to appear for the whole without any Special authority from the others. Roger Sherman RC (PWbW: Sherman Papers). 1 Actually June 28 not the 29th. For Congress’ January 23 resolution setting “the 4 Monday in June next” for the appearance of agents to select judges “for determining the private right of soil” in the contested Wyoming Valley territory, see Charles Thom son to John Dickinson and Jonathan Trumbull, January 26, 1784. 2 See Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:400—405. See also Committee of Congress Report January 21, 1784, note. s See JCC, 27:526-27. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Mr Adams Philadelphia 16th June 1784 Here I am after a six Month Session at Annapolis, on my Way to Massachusetts, & altho my Opposition to the same System in America, which You have opposed in Europe, has perhaps rendered me equally obnoxious here to the aristocratic Party, yet I assure You the Pleasure resulting from a Reflection on the Measures adopted by Congress, overballances every trifling Consideration of the Loss of Friendships, which being for the most part ostensible, are generally applied as In centives to our Rewards of Servility, Baseness & Treachery, but rarely if ever of Fidelity, Honor or Patriotism. Your Colleague Mr Jefferson will deliver You the Arrangements of Congress for commercial Negotiations, & I flatter myself You will find in him an able, faithful, & impartial Minister. On You & him We place our Reliance, & if You can preserve the Confidence & Friendship of each other, I am sure your Services will merit the highest approbation of your Country. We have had great Difficulty in compleating this Business, & once had a negative put on the whole, but at length succeeded even to Una nimity: except in the point which I shall presently mention. I believe nothing but our Session at Annapolis could have accomplished these Measures, for the Anti American System was to have no more commer cial Treaties; to amuse the commercial Interest by issuing Commissions & giving Instructions to our Ministers to form projects of such Treaties, to be reversed & altered by Congress, & then, to make such alterations as the other contracting Parties never could agree to; by which Means our Trade would have been confined to one or two Nations & have been generally in an unsetded, confused, & unprofitable state, but now


[Page 722]
686 June 16,1784 our Ministers having not only Power to project, but to sign the Treaties, & to extend them to almost every Nation in Europe. I think our Com merce must soon flourish in an extraordinary Manner, & that We shall have every Market abroad bidding on each other for our produce & un derselling each other to put off their own Commodities. Great Pains were taken to continue Mr F n 1 in office by appointing him Secre tary to the Commission; but this was opposed openly on this principle, that the D r was not only a near relation to the other, but also his best Friend & patron, having written to Congress Letters expressing a Desire that he might even be appointed Minister for Sweden; that it was well known You & the Doctor were not on the most friendly Terms; that the Friendship between him & his nephew would naturally induce the latter to watch every Word & Movement of yours, to view them with a Jealous Eye, & to make such Representations or Misrepresentations as would increase the Uneasiness & have a Tendency to interrupt, if not to defeat the negotiations; & that no such Inconvenience could probably result from the Appointment of the other Gendemen in Nomination. These Arguments finally prevailed & Colo Humphreys was elected. I think Your Friend the D r, when he finds that You are at the Head of the Commission, that his G d Son has not only no Prospect of promotion, but has been actually superseded, & that the Treaties which he himself began to negotiate are now in the Department of the three Commissioners, I say, I think he will have no Reason to Suppose that his Conduct is much approved. Indeed We have not been reserved in Con gress with respect to the Doctor, having declared in so many Words, that so far advanced in Years & so tractable is he, as that it has become a mat ter of Indifference to Us, whether We employ him or the C 1 de V—- —s to negotiate our Concerns at the C——t of V s , 2 We have left a Committee of the States at Annapolis, & Mr Dana is the Delegate from Massachusetts. I have desired him to send the Jour nals of the last Session when printed, which I suppose will be the Case, the beginning of the next Month. This Measure, & the Information You will receive from Mr Jefferson, renders it unnecessary to enter into a Detail of the publick proceedings of Congress. With Respect to the affairs in general of the U States, they are some what embarrassed, as it is reasonable to Suppose, after such a long & Expensive War in the Bowells of the Country; the public accounts, & the publick Debt are the greatest Objects of attention. It is necessary to liquidate the first in Order to do justice to the States as well as to Individuals, & Commissioners are appointed for each State to accom plish this purpose. Indeed they have been obstructed for some Time past, in Consequence of the Occurrence of Cases not provided for by any Resolutions of Congress, that the Matter has been taken up & such Measures have been adopted as I hope will answer the Purpose.


[Page 723]
June 17,1784 687 As to the Debt, the Arrangements of the Treasury Department under the Super Intendance of a single Person has been such an Ob ject of Jealousy & Distrust, as to prevent the Success of Measures for funding the Debt; but after the 10th of Novr next the powers of the Fi nancier are to be executed by a Board of Treasury consisting of Mr Jennifer formerly a Member of Congress from Maryland, Mr Elsworth of Connecticut & Mr Denning of N York: & I flatter myself that the States will take the necessary Steps for funding the Debt: but We have a great prospect of sinking a considerable part of it by the Western Territory, as soon as a Negotiation can take place with the Indians, (for which purpose Commissioners are now appointed) & the Land Office can be opened. A great Alteration must necessarily take Place from the establishment of Funds, in the Confidence of our Creditors both at Home & abroad; & whilst the payment of the Interest will be thus facilitated, & the Debt be constantly reducing by the Sale of Lands, the Burthen of Tax will I hope become still lighter every Day, by the Increase of our Fishery & Agriculture (which have been greatly diminished by the War) & also by the Increase of the Advantages of Commerce, When You shall [have} formed the Treaties—by these We have the prospect of obtaining so much more for our produce & giv ing so much less for Articles imported, that the Ballance of Trade, which being now against Us drains the Continent of Specie, will be then in Favour & render Money plenty, & the Collection of Taxes of Consequence more easy. You will find by the Journals that Upon the petition of Massachusetts a Day is assigned by Congress for the Institution of a federal Court to determine the Claims of that State to the Territory claimed also by N York, within the Charter Boundaries of the State first mentioned. I can only add my warmest Wishes that You may have a happy Inter view with Mrs Adams & such of your Family as may embark with her for Europe, & that with them You may enjoy Health & Happiness & return to Your Friends in America. I remain, my dear Sir, with the sincerest affection & Respect Your Friend & hum serv, E Gerry RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 That is, William Temple Franklin, grandson of Benjamin Franklin. 2 That is, the comte de Vergennes at the Court of Versailles. Francis Dana to Elbridge Gerry My worthy Friend Annapolis June 17th. 1782 [1784] The last post bro’t me your’s of the 11th inst. from Philadelphia. I am glad you had so agreable a journey from hence, and so good an op-


[Page 724]
688 June 17, 1784 portunity of entertaining yourself on the way with reflecting upon the congressional scenes; You have acted one of the principal parts in them, & cannot but derive much solid satisfaction from this reflection, “that what has been done, is pro bono publico, well done." The inter ested views, absurd projects, prejudices, & partialities, of which you speak, are so many irresistable arguments against your conclusion, viz. that your own happiness can never be promoted by partaking in the politics of such an extensive republican government &c. Reflect, my dear Sir, again upon these things, and you will be convinced, that altho a Man shou’d not be able to effect much positive good, in such a het erogeneous a body, yet if he can prevent mischief, ’tis his duty to strug gle hard to do it: And what it is our duty to do, that upon due reflec tion we shall find productive of our happiness. But you are out of your element when you are out of politicks: to talk of making pleasure your business, is to attempt a violence upon your disposition. You have not that levity of mind which is alone fitted for the pursuits of pleasure. Be yourself Man, and you will be happy. When I seem to interdict to you pleasurable pursuits, remember I do not mean to oppose an inkling, or as the French say the penchant, you seem to have to Matrimony. No, quite the contrary, I wou’d encourage it by every means in my power. This is a duty you still owe to God & your Country. “Take unto thyself a wife, & obey the ordinance of God.” But look well to your choice, in that indeed is involv’d much happiness or much misery. I have com municated your advice to P upon this subject, & endeavoured to enforce it upon her. She wonders what we mean, or wou’d affect to be at a loss about it. Tell Mrs. C & Miss Polly that I shou’d certainly have done myself the pleasure of waitg. upon them: but Crosby never told me any thing of them till I had left Philadelphia & I knew not where to find them. I will do as 1 ought to do, upon my return. Pray bear in mind my bank Bills. I shall soon be in want of Cash. Colo. Blanchard & myself have been constantly engaged at our writ ing tables, ever since you left us, & have still many days labour of that sort before us. You may see the fruits of it, when I shall see you again. I have had a letter from Mrs. Dana. It is probable you will not find her at home if you go to Cambridge on Commencement week. She proposes to spend it at Hingham in Genl. Lincoln’s family. Shou’d this be the case, you must favour us with a visit on my return. Which I still flatter myself will be in all July, or the beginning of Augt. There seems to be an apprehension generally prevailg. here, that we shall not make up a Committee of the States. I am very indifferent about it, because I am satisfied the public Interests will receive no prejudice from the circum stance of their not meeting. I shall endeavour shordy after the day of our adjournment, if we have not a sufficient number to proceed to business, to push on an adjournment to Trenton, to sometime in Septr. We can consider the legality of this measure afterwards, whether our


[Page 726]
690 June 17, 1784 April 2 and shall embrace the earliest opportunity of communicating it to the Comee of the States. I beg leave to congratulate you on the re covery of your health. I hope it will continue to mend. I write as an ad venture, having reason to believe from your last that you are now on your passage. Should that be the case I wish you a prosperous voyage & a happy return to yr native country. I have to inform you that on the 7 of last Month Congress elected Mr Jay Secy for foreign Affairs & appointed Mr Jefferson in addition to Mr Adams & Mr Franklin for the purpose of negotiating treaties of com merce with the commercial powers of Europe. Should an accommodat ing spirit take place in the british council an intercourse between the two countries may be established on principles mutually advantageous. But should the contrary prevail, we must submit as you observe to “have a treaty of Commerce by act of Parliament on our part & Acts of Con gress on the other.” In the meanwhile measures are taking by the sev eral legislatures of these states to be prepared for either event and to vest Congress with powers to meet every restriction of the British Parlia ment with similar restrictions on our part. I have the honor to be Sr. Yr. most Obedt & most humble servt C T LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 For this letter, which was read in Congress on May 31, see PCC, item 89, fols. 341-44, item 185, 3:102. A signed duplicate is also in the Thomson Papers, DLC. 2 This letter is in the Thomson Papers, DLC. Jonathan Blanchard to Elbridge Gerry My dear Sir Annapolisjune 18th. 1784. Your letter to my Friend Mr. Dana of the 12th inst. from Philadel phia, came Safe. I am much Obliged for your kind remembrance of me. You will be so good as to Accept in return, my best Wishes for a Continuence of your health. I am not insensible of the vast Fategue you have undergone since the commencement of the War, it however must be a pleasing reflec tion, that the Independce. of our Common Country is Obtained; and that you have been a considerable Spoke in the Political Wheel. From a large Scale, it may not be amiss to view our Selves, on a less, from being at the head of the Federal, so I hope you will very Soon be at the head of a Fathered Governmt., and Whether the institution be natural, or unnatural, I shall not trouble my head to dispute, but that it is convenient, you may rest assured; & the little differences happen ing in the day, are always made up by 10 or 11 at Night, & Matters then TjawgEasy.


[Page 733]
June 24,1784 697 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philadelphia 21 June 1784 1 I am sorry to find there is likely to be any delay in printing the jour nal. I want that work compleated before the meeting of Congress. Mr Dunlap is at present out of town, as soon as he returns I will speak to him on the subject & press him to send down another hand. The Office of finance wants two dozen of the journal of last session from 1 Monday in Novr 1783, and two dozen of the printed resolu tions for settling accounts. Please to send them under cover to me, the last by the return of the post and the former three, four, five or six at a time by every post till the whole are sent on. My Compliments to Mr Remson & Mr Kilty. I am Sr., Your humble Servt. C LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 This day Thomson also sent the following letter to Henry Remsen, the other clerk in the secretary’s office. “I forgot to take your rect. for the money I advanced you. However it is of no great importance. The Superintendt. expects soon to compleat his engagements & to quit the office. I think it will be best to send up with the quarterly account, the beginning of next Month, your Account of contingent expences and apply for a further sum, such as you shall judge necessary for removing the Office & defraying the expences that may arise before the next meeting of Congress. If the account and vouchers are sent to me, I will take care to have them settled.” Ibid. Georgia Delegates to John Houstoun Sir Philadelphia 24th June 1784 We arrived in this place the 12 Inst, and found Congress had ad- journd untill October, and the Committe of the States until the 26th Inst. Of course we are deprived of the Means of procuring Informa tion from the fountain Head. We hear Congress recommend that each State keep up such a representation that there will be no possi bility of a Vote being lost and that the recommendation has already been forwarded to each State. They Still expect the States will grant the Five per Ct. impost. Pennsylvania & Jersey have undertaken to pay of the Interest due on Loan Office Certificates that have been in the possession of their own Citizens at least twelve Months prior to the passing of the Act and no others, not attending to what office the Certificates were Issued from—Jersey to pay of the Interest Issued Thirty Thousand Pounds at the same time layd a Tax of Forty Thousand Pounds. The paper is re ceived in Taxes but no Tender in Law.


[Page 734]
698 June 24, 1784 We are of opinion from the different conversations we had with per sons here and the observations we have made that it would be exceed ingly politic in Georgia to pass an Act to prohibit the export of Live Oak from the State. The reasons are so obvious that we think it unnec essary to enlarge. As Mr Houstoun setts off immediately from this place for Annapolis to be ready to meet the Committee of the States he will be then able to write particularly and from Authority. We are Sir, With all due respect, Your most humble Servants, Wm Gibbons Wm. Houstoun RC (PHi: Dreer Members of Congress Collection). Written by Gibbons and signed by Gibbons and Houstoun. Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison Annapolis 24th. June [17] 84. Sir. I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that a letter from Doctr Franklin of the 31st of March last announces the Arrival of Colo Har- mar with the ratification of the definitive treaty. 1 The exchange had not then taken place; but as the failure on our part arose from a concur rence of Circumstances not to be avoided; our Ministers seem to appre hend no difficulty from its not arriving within the time stipulated. The last dispatches give us no information of the commercial sys tem which Great Britain will probably adopt. It is presumable that their Attention for some time past has been so engrosed by the elec tions which have taken place in Consequence of the dissolution of Parliment that most other business has slept. And after they are over as a considerable time must elapse before the Complexion of the new house is studied, & an Administration formed any opinion at present of the Measures they will pursue can be founded only on Conjecture. It is said that the elections have been much in favour of Government; if this is the case I think it probable that Lord Shelburn & Pitt will be at the head of the Administration & that we may expect some liberal regulations respecting their trade with Amerrica. But however desir able such an event may be, or however well founded the expectation; our situation would be unfortunate indeed if we relyed for it on the Caprice of a British Minister. My hope I confess is placed only in the Wisdom & firmness of our own Councils. And should European Com mercial restrictions have had a tendency to produce something like a system of Counteraction on our part, & to raise a national spirit in our


[Page 735]
June 24, 1784 699 country I shall forever esteem them blessings. It begins to be time for us to act like a Sovereign as well as a free people & by a temperate & steady self respect, to command that of other Nations. Under this im pression I contemplate with a satisfaction not to be expressed, the foundation which I think the Legislature have laid this session for strengthening the foederal Union & making us respectable abroad— For to this & this only do I look for the preservation of that freedom which we have been fortunate enough to establish. I have the pleasure to inform your Excellency that Mr Adams has sent over the sketch of a treaty proposed by the King of Prussia to the Ministers of Amerrica. 2 And that Baron Hemmelin has arrived at Philadelphia from his Swedish Majesty with letters of Credence which he is at liberty to use, provided the United states send a Minister to that Court. 3 Nor can I close my communications without mentioning to your Excellency a subject which you may perhaps think worthy the Attention of the Legislature. You have I doubt not heard of the Assault which was made some time since on the person of Mr Marbois by a Frenchman of the name of Longchamps. A Complaint was made to Congress of the violation of the law of nations, & they immediately passed a resolution directing the Executives of the different states to issue their proclamations for apprehending the Offender. 4 He was taken & committed to the Goal of Phila, & before this time has had his trial though the result I have not yet heard. By a private letter which I have received, I have every reason to believe that the French & Dutch Ministers are much dissatis- fyed that Congress did not recommend it to the states in the most pointed terms to pass laws correspondent with those in Europe for the security of foreign Ministers, & the protection of their persons, Houses & families from violence & insult. The Minister of France has before this taken his departure for Eu rope by the permission of his Sovereign—And Mr Vanberkel & Mr Marbois I am informed threaten to leave the state of Pensylvania unless the decision on Longchamps Case should give them full satisfaction. Should you think this Communication worthy the ear of the Legis lature; and should they anticipate the recommendation of Congress & the wishes of a Court which I confess I look up to with great respect; I shall esteem myself fortunate in having made it. But should it not be the Case I view it as a Subject of some Moment, & under that impres sion it becomes my duty to transmit it to your Excellency. With every sentiment of respect, I have the honour to be, Your Ex- cellencys Most Obedient serv, S Hardy RC (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 1079). 1 See Charles Thomson to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, note 2.


[Page 744]
708 July 2,1784 Ditto of do. directing Supt. of Finance to sell powder at West Point—20 2 Copies on[e] endorsed Jos. Carleton and the other Supt. of Finance. Copy of Commission to Commissioners for negotiating Treaties with the Indians in compliance with his Letters of the 21 July 30th. Sent to Mr. Thomson by this days post— Three Commissions as above with resolution of 3d June last (em powering any two of them being a majority of those present to do the business of the Commission)—subjoined. 22 Copy for each State from New Hampshire to Georgia inclusive of resolutions pass’d the 26th Inst, recommending to the several States to call on their Citizens to make returns forthwith of every Species of property which may be in their possession, to be forwd. to Congress or the Comte, of the States. 23 Motion of Mr. Read referred to the Supt. of Finance to take order & Letter from the Committee of the States to The Charge d’Affaires of the U.S. at the Court of Madrid with Copies of papers referred to in said Letter enclosed—to be forwarded. 24 Sent Mr. Thomson at different times two Doz Copies of the printed Journals of the last session of Congress—for the Office of Finance, agreeably to his directions. & 2 sett for his own use. MS (DNA: PCC, item 181). In the hand of Benjamin Bankson and John Kilty, Jr. A con tinuation of Thomson’s Memorandum Book, June 1-9, 1784. 1 These letters from Robert Morris are in PCC, item 137, 3:561-64, 615-30, 873-76, appendix 361-64. 2 See JCC, 27:552-53. 3 Ibid., pp. 577-78. 4 See PCC, item 56, fols. 113-16. 5 See JCC, 27:581; and PCC, item 78, 6:231-34. sJCC, 27:583. 7 Ibid., pp. 583-84; and PCC, item 42, 7:204-6. sJCC, 27:579-80. 9 See ibid., pp. 585-86; and PCC, item 75, fols. 81-84, item 76, fols. 63-68. 10 PCC, item 76, fols. 71-73. 11 See JCC, 27:589-90; and PCC, item 75, fols. 395-402. 12 See PCC, item 95, 2:328-63. isJCC, 27:593-94. u Ibid., pp. 594-95. >5 Ibid., pp. 592-93. is Ibid., pp. 595-96. 17 Ibid., p. 596. is Ibid., p. 598. < 9 Ibid., pp. 596-97. 20 Ibid., p. 597. 21 See Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson, July 23; and JCC, 26:134-35. 22 JCC, 27:553. 23 Ibid., p. 600. 2 4 Ibid., pp. 601-3, 607.


[Page 745]
July 2, 1784 709 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dr Sir Philajuly2. 1784 I have not had the pleasure of receiving a line from you since that Brought by Mr Patton. In my letter of the 21 June I desired you to send me for the Superint. Office two doz of the Journals of last session and two doz of the printed resolutions for settling accounts. The reso lutions I expected by last post and the journals a few at a time by every post till the whole are sent. Have the committee met? how do they go on? 1 Is there any prospect of their moving soon to the northward? or has Annapolis still such charms that they cannot leave it? What progress is the printer making? I enclose you two of Mr Bradfords papers & three of Claypole’s 2 Bayley has not sent his last nor has Hall sent me one gazzette. 3 My Compliments to Mr Remsen & Mr Kilty. I am Dr Sr yrs. CT LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 Thomson made the same inquiry in a brief letter to North Carolina delegate Richard Dobbs Spaight this day. “I hope you got down safe and found all your friends well & in better humor than when you parted. I am anxious to hear in what temper the comee. has met, whether they are more inclined to accommodation or are still infected with the old leaven and disposed to torment each other by continuing their session at Annapolis. “A vessel is just arrived in six weeks from London. I have not yet heard what news she brings. If there is any thing material I will inform you in my next. I enclose you two or three of the last papers. My compliments to mr Read and all friends.” Ibid. 2 That is, Thomas Bradford’s Pennsylvania Journal and David C. Claypoole’s Pennsylva nia Packet. At the foot of this letterbook entry, Thomson wrote: “Bradford N. 1707, 1708. Claypoole N. 1716, 1717, 1719.” 3 That is, Francis Bailey’s Freeman's Journal and David Hall’s and William Sellers’, Penn sylvania Gazette. Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Dear Sir, Philada July 2. 1785 [i.e., 1784] I should have sent you some account of Longchamps trial, but you will have it better from Mr Wilson & Mr Attorney general 1 who are gone down to meet the committee. I think it will be proper to send a minute detail of this matter to our ministers in Paris to prevent any disagreeable consequences. For this purpose I have requested Mr At torney general to be careful in preserving the correspondence that has passed between him and Mr Marbois on the subject as well as notes relative thereto. When he returns I will call upon him & draw


[Page 746]
710 July 2,1784 up a short account, which I shall have the honor of submitting to your inspection. I have had a slight touch of a disorder which usually at tacks me at this season of the year. It has left me weak but I hope I shall soon recover. Please to make my respects to the Comee. With great esteem & respect I am Sr your most obt & most h Ser, CT P.S. I send you the first 3 numbers of the herald, 2 a paper which has just made its appearance in this City. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 That is, William Bradford, who with James Wilson was representing Pennsylvania in its controversy with Connecticut, which had been scheduled for a hearing on June 28, for which see Edward Hand to Catharine Hand, June 29, note 2. 2 That is, Charles Cist’s American Herald, and General Advertiser. Edward Hand to John Dickinson Sir, Annapolis July 5th 1784. Your Excellency will have been informed by Messieurs Bradford and Wilson that on the 28th ultimo Six States only were represented in the Committee of the States, and that the Persons claiming private Right of Soil within the Territory lately in Controversy between the States of Pennsylvania and Connecticut, by virtue of Grants from the latter did not appear. 1 I have the Honour to acquaint Your Excellency, that Del egates from North Carolina, Georgia and New Jersey have since at tended, the latter this day, and that we are now a Committee capable of doing Business. 2 The States represented, are, Newhampshire, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Car olina and Georgia. I shall esteem myself happy in receiving the Commands of Council from time to time and have the honor in the mean time of keeping them regularly informed of every Thing material which passes in the Committee of the States. With the greatest Respect I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys most obedient and most humble Servant, Edward Hand. Tr (PHarH: RG 27). 1 See Hand to Catharine Hand, June 29, note 2. 2 See JCC, 27:567-69.


[Page 747]
July 5,1784 711 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. 5 July 1784 1 I reed, on Friday last your letter & packet of the 28 June. As soon as the quarterly account passes the forms of Office which I hope will be tomorrow or next day, I shall take care to remit your Salaries. I think with you that it will be best to suspend the sending the journals for the Office of finance until they are compleat and hope you will urge the printer to be as expeditious as possible in compleating them. I thank you for the copy of the entries on Saturday & Monday and shall be much obliged if you will continue to furnish me regularly. I think the entries will read better without the word “having” between “States” & “Met.” You will therefore please to strike it out. My compliments to Mr Remsen & Mr Kilty. I am Sr, Yrs., CT.2 [PS.] I send Claypole’s paper N 1720, 1721, Baileys 167. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 This day Thomson also wrote the following brief letter to Henry Remsen. “On Friday last I received your letter of the 26 June with your Account of contingent expences which I carried next day to the Auditor and hope to have settled to morrow or next day. I presume you have sent your account of Salary to some other as I did not find it inclosed. Should that not be the case, as the Superint[endent] expect, to quit his Office by the first of next Month, 1 think it might be well to send in your account that it may be paid, before he retires. If it is sent to me, I will take the necessary steps for hav ing it paid & remitted agreeably to your Order.” Ibid., fol. 14. 2 Thomson also wrote the following brief letter to Bankson on July 9, with which he enclosed five issues of the Pennsylvania Gazette (“N. 2817-18-19, 21-22”) and one of the Packet (No. 1723). “I have received your letter of the 2d And am sorry to hear the printer goes on slow. I hope you press him. By next post I shall send down the money for your quarters Salary. I had hopes of sending it by this but it was delayed by the other accounts of the civil list not being brought in. I wish to hear what prospect of forming a comee. for my own part I have little hopes.” Ibid., fol. 15. Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Dear Sir, Philada. July 5. 1784 On Friday last I received your favour enclosing a bill of Exchange for 333X dollars on Mr J. J. Bogert which I presentd and got accepted on the same day. As soon as it is paid I will remit you the amount in bank notes. 1 I hope before this a sufficient number of members have assembled to form a Comee. for business In which case I would beg leave to sug-


[Page 758]
July 15, 1784 722 usual Policy to suffer her Essential Interests to be determined on in a Body where she is not represented. 2 North Carolina have by an act of the 4th of June ceded to the U.S. all her right title and Claim to the Territory west of the Apalachian Mountains—passed the Impost act and that allowing congress the power of regulating foreign Trade with some others of inferior import. 3 A young Gent whom I have seen here shews so many traits of the parent as woud have rendered him fairly Cognoscible [as?] Your Acquaintance (I speak for myself) had he not been Announced as your Son. It is not usual to Conclude a P.S. with Compliments far removed from the sweet Enjoyments of Domestic Life. If I who now actually support on my shoulders the Ninth part of the weight of the U.S. can write so degagee and sans Ceremonie what have I a right to expect from You who are safe on Your Little Island nescio quid Meditans Nugarum et totus in illisA Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Original in possession of Charles Mecum, Esq., of Salem, N.J. [co. 1933].” 1 Date conjectured by Burnett, perhaps from Ellery’s August 2 reply, a transcript of which (also from the Mecum Collection) is in the Burnett Collection, DLC. 2 Rhode Island nevertheless did remain unrepresented, as Ellery was the state’s repre sentative on the Committee of the States and did not return to his seat in Congress until November 30, 1784. 3 See the preceding entry, note. 4 “Musing on some trifle or other and wholly intent thereon.” Horace, Satires, Epistles, and Ars Poetica, trans. H. Rushton Fairclough (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1932), Satire 9.2-3. Edward Hand to John Dickinson Sir, Annapolis 15 th July 1784. On the 5th Inst. I had the honor to inform your excellency that nine States were then represented in the Committee of the States & on the 12th to inclose the copy of a resolution of the Committee, on the petition of Robt Shewell, relative to the Amiable Elizabeth. For the information of Council, I have now the Honor to send Copies of the Cessions of territory made by the States of Connecticut and North Carolina to the U.S. 1 That of Connecticut I am pursuaded amuse you. It is a doubt with me whether the U.S. will gain much by that of North Carolina. North Carolina has moreover passed the impost and supplimentary revenue acts, acceeded to the proposed alteration in the 8th Article of the Confederation, Authorized Congress to regulate the trade of that State with foreign Nations, and adopted other recommendations, 2 all of which your Excellency will be more particularly informed, by copies of the several acts, which shall be forwarded so soon as I can obtain,


[Page 759]
July 15, 1784 723 or have time to take them myself. The Act of the Legislature of South Carolina, granting the impost, is also in possession of the Committee of the States, 3 by the next post you will receive a copy of it. You will re ceive the Copy of a letter from Brigadier General Clark, on Indian af- fars, & the answer of the Committee of States thereto. 4 Likewise a Copy of the petition of the Legislature of Massachusetts for a federal Court, to determine a disputed territorial claim between that State and the State of New York. 5 Since the 5th additional members have at tended. With respect I have the Honor to be, &c &c. E. Hand 6 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Connecticut’s January 8, 1784, act of cession, which was read and referred to com mittee May 25, is in PCC, item 75, fols. 81-84. The North Carolina act of June 2, submit ted to Congress July 14 (JCC, 27:586), is in PCC, item 76, fols. 63-68. 2 See JCC, 27:585-86. 3 This South Carolina act was laid before Congress this day. JCC, 27:587-88. 4 See Charles Thomson to the Indian Commissioners, July 16, 1784. 5 See JCC, 27:547-50. 6 On the following page of these Hand transcripts the following note pertaining to this letter appears: “July 19th. Forwarded under cover to the president, copies of the Acts of the N. Carolina, & S. Carolina Legislative refered to in my letter of the 15th, also copies of letters from Messrs. B. Franklin & D Hartley & several acts of the State of Virginia. E.H.” Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis 15th July 1784 I have made several enquiries but have not yet had any Satisfactory Acct, of Mrs. Vaughan, tho I have heard of a person who it is said can give me every necessary information. I expect to see him in a day or two he is now at Baltimore. Our Committee Consists of Nine members Only. We must all say one way to do any thing. North & South Carolina have Acceded to the Impost. North Carolina has also agreed to the Supplementary Revenue, Ceded her territory westward of the Alle- ganey Mountains, with some reservations, consented to the proposed Alteration in the 8th Article of the Confederation, & to allow Con gress to regulate her Trade with Foreign Nations. We have had a series of dry but tolerably cool weather. The Planters of Tobacco & Corn begin to cry out for rain. I spent Saturday Evening & the whole of Sunday last at Mr. Sami. Galloways where I met a very Friendly & po lite reception. Mr. Galloway himself is in a weakly State. I yesterday wrote to Kitty by Robert. 1 I have not had a line from home since I left you. Please present my love to Mrs. Yeates, & the Family. Adieu! Dear Yeates, very Affectionably yours, Edwd. Hand


[Page 763]
July 17,1784 727 Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison Sir, Annapolis 17th July 1784 Your Excellencys favour of the 2nd of July with its enclosures I have received. The Acts of the Virga Assembly I shall have registered on the Journals of Congress, 1 and your request that application be made to the Secretary at War for the Muster Rolls of the Virga troops shall be attended to. 2 A letter from our Ministers in Europe of the 16th of April this Morning came to hand. The only syllable of intelligence it contains is a letter from Mr Hartley informing them he had received Orders to exchange the ratification of the definitive Treaty, & should repair to Paris for that purpose as early as possible. 3 I am with great respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedt. humble ser vant. S Hardy 4 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 The May 3 acts of the Virginia assembly investing Congress with additional but lim ited powers to regulate commerce and authorizing the Virginia delegates to ratify an amendment to the 8th Article of Confederation were received and noted in the jour nals on July 16. See JCC, 27:289; PCC, item 75, fols. 395-96, 401-2, item 185, 3:103-4; and Hening, Statutes, 11:388-89, 401-2. The assembly resolutions of May 19 declaring the state’s intention of supporting Congress in whatever steps were necessary to close the accounts between the United States and individual states in event of the “failure of the proposition for changing the eighth Article” were entered on the journals in full the same day. See JCC, 27:589-91; and PCC, item 75, fols. 397-400. 2 For the Committee of the States’July 21 direction to the secretary in the War Office to furnish Harrison with “authenticated copies” of muster rolls of all Virginia troops that served during the war, see JCC, 27:592-93. 3 For the April 16 letter from Benjamin Franklin and John Jay to Thomas Mifflin en closing a copy of David Hartley’s April 9 letter to them (which had been received July 16 and read July 26), see PCC, item 85, fols. 432-36, item 185, 3:103.4; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:378-79. 4 This day Hardy also wrote the following brief letter to Gov. Alexander Martin of North Carolina: “In conformity to the direction of the Committee of the States, I do myself the honor to acknowledge the receit of you Excellencies favour. The acts of the General assembly of North Carolina are registered on the journals of the Committee and filed among the papers of Congress.” Governors’ Letterbooks, Nc-Ar. For the seven North Carolina assembly acts “registered on the journals,” see Francis Dana to the Mas sachusetts General Court, July 15, note. Jacob Read to George Washington Sir Annapolis 17th, July 1784 The Bearer Mr Prager 1 comes recommended in the Most hand some manner to the Delegates from the state of South Carolina to Congress, by The Honourable Mr Laurens from London.


[Page 764]
728 July 17,1784 Mr Prager also bore Letters from Doctor Franklin and several oth ers of the Principal American Characters in Europe to the Gentlemen of Greatest Weight in Philadelphia. Permit me to Introduce this Gen tleman to your Acquaintance and to request for him that Polite atten tion that all Strangers of Merit ever receive at Mount Vernon. The object of my friend in Visiting Virginia after paying his respects to Yourself is to View with a Correct Mercantile Eye Your Ports, Har bours, Warehouses &ca, as he has established an Extensive Concern in Philada. & may probably form Connexions in some of the Neighbour ing States. As the Cridit of Mr Pragers House is unlimitted and undoubtedly good their Establishment in the United States Cannot but be of the greatest Commercial benefit. I shall offer no appology for the Liberty I take in this Introduction because I am sure it affords you pleasure to see men of Merit & Con sideration arrive & Settle in these States. Do me the favour to present my best respects to Mrs Washington & believe that it will always afford me the greatest pleasure to render you every service in my power in My present and every other situation. I am with the greatest respect & regard, Sir, Your Most obliged & most Obedient Servant, Jacob Read 2 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Mark Prager, a Jewish merchant from England who soon established the firm of Pragers & Co. in Philadelphia. 2 Read also wrote the following brief letter to Robert Morris on July 19. “The Inclosed Extracts of a Letter from my friend Col Nich[ola]s Eveleigh of Charleston So. Carolina to Which I pray your Attention must plead the only appology I have to offer for tres passing to[o] much on your time, Which I know to be at all times precious & fully occu pied. I will only add a request that you will please favour me with An Answer to My friends Queries as soon as Convenient as I Must write him by the first Opportunity.” Mc Cullough Collection, VtU. Edward Hand to John Pierce Sir Annapolis 19 th July 1784 Your two letters of the 11th Instant to the Committee of the States, 1 informing, “That the officers lately deranged at West Point, after they had received the two months pay Voted them by Congress took into their possession and divided among themselves, two Thousand, two hundred & Seventy six dollars & 57/90 which was placed in the hands of the Pay-Master of the American Regiment for the Subsistence of the Regimt. as it became due—that Doctor Heart, over & above his dividend of the Above Sum had refused to deliver to the pay-Master One hundred & forty Seven & an half dollars of the public money he


[Page 767]
July 20,1784 731 Although I can’t entertain you with any of our doings, yet it may be acceptable to you to learn that N. Carolina has granted the Impost, the supplementary Revenues acceeded to the proposed alteration in the 8th article of the Confederation, directed the time of service of the Delegates to commence agreeably to that, vested Congress with a Power to regulate Trade with foreign Nations, and finally ceded all the Territory they claimed West of the Apalachian or Allegany Mountain lying between that their Northern and Southern boundary, and the Mississippi. All this, I think, is well done. South Carolina has granted the Impost, but not the Supplementary Revenue; nor the power to regulate Trade with foreign Nations, but only with the West Indies: this last is an act of some standing, & was intended as a retaliation for the Royal Proclamation. Virginia has granted the Impost, and vested Congress with a power to regulate Trade with foreign Nations, hath acceeded to the proposed alteration of the 8th article of the Confed eration. All these Acts, excepting the Virginia Impost Act, have lately been laid before the Committee of the States, by their respective Dele gates. We have just heard that Rhode Island has rejected the Impost Bill, by a very great Majority. I think this not to their honour. But what can be done with such a People? Must our whole system be over thrown by their ? Fill up this blank according to their demerits. This day we have received a letter from Mr Marbois acquainting us, that upon the application of some of our Merchants, his Majesty had permitted their vessels on their way to the Indies, to stop at the Islands of France and of Bourbon to refresh &c. 4 Not a word yet of the fa mous Culprit, 5 except that he has been convicted. I propose in my way home, to visit the Dutch Minister; and shall be ready to return the visit of Mr. Charge d’Affaires if he shou’d think proper to make me one. I have already spoken of the adjournment of last Saturday. Monday, & this day, we adjourned for want of numbers. Georgia being absent at the call of the House, yesterday, and Virginia, & Georgia today. Thus have we lost three days through meer indolence or inattention. July 23d. 1784. Your letter of the 12th from Providence has just come to hand. I feel vexed & grieved at the doings of the Genl. Assembly of that State. I wish Gentlemen in public Life, wou’d learn to controle their resentments & to be guarded in public measures by a cool judg ment. Let us not dispair yet however of carrying the present system into effect. It is too important to the Union to be suddenly aban- donned. What can be substituted in its place? It must be tried on again, when some Mens passions shall have subsided. We have not yet had any addition to our representation. I shall quit the ground in company with Mr. Blanchard towards the begining of next month, and shall hope for the pleasure of seeing you chez nous as soon after my return as may suit your convenience. You will doubtless have occa-


[Page 769]
July 20,1784 733 the treaties which subsist what regulations we may make that will at least make the advantages arising from our intercourse with those na tions reciprocal. If Spn., for instance, takes off her duties or makes them lighter on any produce of these States, than the other powers with whom we are or may be connected, they refusing us such priv- iledges, can we & is it consistent with the usage of nations to give her reciprocal advantages here, the treaties between us & each power being, as that with France, on the principle of the right of the “most favd. nation.” I make the enquiry more for information of the usage of nations than from any difficulty abt. the usual import of the words. Hath there been any investigation at the instance of any nation, that you can find, of the extent of the sense of these words & of the obliga tions enter’d into under this form? Is our tobo. restrain’d in its sale in the first instance to the farmers genl, alone, & if this is the case is it not contrary to the spirit of the treaty? Shd. not our ministers be in structed to attempt its removal? You will be so kind as give me every information upon these subjects you think necessary, for perhaps my enquiries may not extend to every object upon wh. I shd. be inform’d. I beg of you also to turn my attention to those other great objects to which in yr. opinion it shd. be applied, for a variety of points may arise to you when you look back on our country, in wh. our policy may [no] doubt be much improv’d. The laws prohibiting the executions for re- covry. of Brith. debts are still in force. An address or something of that nature is made to Congress upon that subject, desiring their sense of the propriety of keeping them in force until satisfaction is made for the removal of the negroes from N. York. Of this however Mr. Short will give you further information. The day after tomorrow I sit out upon the rout thro the western country. I have chang’d the direction & shall commence for the westward upon the No. river, by Albany &ca. I shall pass through the lakes, visit the posts, & come down to the Ohio & thence home. This rout will necessarily take me all the time during the recess of Congress, of course I shall not be able to attend the committee of the States agreeably to engagment made between my colleagues, & to accommodate wh. generally, a resolution pass’d authorizing such relief to each other. The first act of the committee was to adjourn to the 26 since wh. I believe they have not met. Mr. Short will inform you of the result of Colo. Harvie’s negotiation for me with Marks for his land. My failure in this instance will not abate my desire to effect a settlement in that county, it will still form one of my capital objects & will put it in execution as soon as possible. I had hopes of recieving a copy of yr. answer to the queries of Mr. Marbois but suspect you fail’d in obtaining yr. desire in Phila. 2 Will you effect it in Paris upon terms agreeable to yr. wishes? I shall certainly be in Trenton on the 30th of October. In the trip I shall take I may perhaps acquire a better knowledge of the posts wh. we shd. occupy, the cause of the delay of the evacuation of the Brith. troops, the temper of the


[Page 770]
734 July 20,1784 Indians towd. us, as well as of the soil, waters & in genl, the natural view of the country. Captn. Denny whom we saw at Annapolis accom panies me. I am sensible of the fatigue I shall undergo but am resolv’d to sustain it. I am with my best wishes for yr. health yr. affectionate friend & servant, Jas. Monroe RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 For codes used previously, see Samuel Hardy to Jefferson, May 21, note 1. 2 For “the queries of Mr. Marbois,” see Jefferson to the Marquis de Chastellux, Jan uary 16, 1784, note 2. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Philad July 20. 1784 I have reed, your letter of the 12 with the papers enclosed which I have forwarded as agreeably to the intention of the hon Comee. I am glad to find the printer has finished the journal of last session. I hope he will now take up and finish what remains of 1783, and that he will use as much industry as possible in compleating it. MrJany 1 has called on me to settle for binding the Journal. He says he delivered 143 Volumes of 1779 to Mr Bond. Please to examine what memoran dum there is of the delivery & send it to me. I am, &c 2 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 That is, Benjamin January. 2 Thomson also noted at the foot of this entry that he had enclosed the following newspapers: “Packet N. 1727, 1728, Pensylvajournal 1713.” Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Sir, Philada 20 July 1784 Mr Lee informs me that the last commission made out for the com missioners to negotiate with the Indians and in which his name is in serted cannot be found. 1 You will therefore send me as speedily as possible a copy thereof, in such form that if the other is not found, the seal may be put to it & it may be executed anew. I am, Sr. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 For Arthur Lee’s election as one of the commissioners to negotiate with the Indians, see Thomas Mifflin to Lee and Benjamin Lincoln, April 26, 1784. Thomson also returned to this subject in the following brief note to Bankson of the 23d. “I have nothing to add to my three last all of the 20 save to press the sending me as speedily as possible a copy of the last Commission (in which Mr Lee’s name is included) to the Commissioners for negotiating with the Indians.” Thomson Letterbook, PHi.


[Page 771]
July 20, 178411 735 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Philadelphia 20st July 1784 I have received your letter of the 16 with the packets & papers therein mentioned. I return you the copy of the journal of the Comee. of the States, and would just observe that I think it unneces sary to insert the credentials of any of the delegates on the Journal. They ought to be entered in the book of Credentials kept for the pur pose, and only a note made of them in the daily journal. And there fore Unless the Comee. are of a different Opinion, I would propose to alter the minute of the 3 July so that it may read as follows ‘The cre dentials produced by Mr Houston the 30th June under the great seal of the State of Georgia were read; whereby it appears that on the 9 Jany & 23 Feby last William Houston, Edward Telfair, Joseph Haber- sheim, William Few and William Gibbons esqrs. were elected to repre sent that state in Congress.” 1 I have written to Mr Hardy respecting what I deem an omission in the Journal, 2 if he and the comee. concur in Opinion with me I pre sume they will order it to be supplied. 3 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 This proposed alteration was added to the journal entry for July 5, with the addition of the name Lachlan McIntosh to the Georgia delegation, which Thomson had omit ted. See JCC, 27:569. 2 See the following entry. 3 Thomson also noted at the foot of this entry that he had enclosed the following newspapers: “Gazette 2824, Freemans Journal 180, Pensylva do 1714.” Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Sir, Philadelphia. July 20. 1784 I have just glanced my eye over the minutes of the of Comittee the States, and see no notice taken of the attendance or nonattendance of the parties, who were, pursuant to the articles of Confederation, cited to appear before Congress or the Committee of the States on the 28 June. I presume the parties did not appear. But as the citation was a solemn act of Congress given in due form and the receipt thereof ac knowledged by the parties and as the nonattendance may be produc tive of consequences which at present are not foreseen, I submit to your consideration, whether it would not be proper that some minute be made of it in the Journal of the Committee of the States. 1 With the most perfect esteem, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and Most humble Servt, Cha Thomson


[Page 775]
July 23, 1784 739 Edward Hand to John Dickinson Sir Annapolis 23d July 1784 I lately had the honor to inform your Excellency that the State of Connecticut had passed an act authorizing Congress to levy a duty of 5 pr. Cent on all goods imported, except on certain enumerated articles, on which particular duties laid. I now enclose a copy of the act itself. 1 You[r] Excellency will also find inclosed copies of letters from Mr. de Marbois, General Muhlenberg, and Governor Chittenden. The two former I presume have already been in substance communicated by the writers of them. The latter I take the liberty to present you with, merely for your amusement. With much respect I have the honor to be &c. &c. &c &c E. H.2 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 No earlier letter from Hand on this subject has been found, but Connecticut’s im post act, adopted during its May 1784 session, is in PCC, item 75, fols. 93-96. 2 Hand also wrote to his wife Catharine on the 25th, introducing Mr. Joseph Galloway of Maryland, and reporting that he was also writing to John Montgomery (not found) “to relieve me about the first of Septr.” Hand Papers, PHi. Richard Dobbs Spaight to Alexander Martin Sir, Annapolis 23d July 1784 Since my last to your Excellency, the Committee have reed, a letter from Mr. de Marbois, Charge des affaires for the Court of France, in forming us that his most Christian Majesty, had opened the Ports of Isle of France & Bourbone to the American Vessels in order to facili tate our Commerce to the East-Indies. He has not reed, the intelli gence officially, but it may be depended on. I have enclosed a copy of his Letter. 1 I formerly mentioned to you that the situation of our Indian affairs in the Northern & middle department were by no means agreeable. To give you some idea of them I send you a Copy of a Letter from General Muhlenburg; he thinks unless a treaty is made with them this fall, we shall be unavoi[d]ably involved in a war. 2 That a treaty will be made this fall is a matter of great doubt with me—it depends intirely on the Commissioners getting a sufficient number of troops for their protection, from the 700 which Congress recommended to the States of Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, & Pensylvania to raise from their Militia for 12 Months. None of the States have as yet ordered them to be raised, their assemblies are called to Deliberate on the Measure, if they should ever comply with the recommendation, I dont


[Page 776]
740 July 23,1784 think the troops can be raised, arranged &c before the Season for holding a treaty would elapse. I enclose your Excellency the Copy of a Letter from Thomas Chit tendon Governor of the Vermonters. 3 The four Eastern states are in favor of making Vermont a free, sovereign, & Independent state as it will not only weaken New York, but throw a fifth vote in their scale. From the language of the latter, it would seem, that they were sensible of this support—if it has no other effect, it has certainly added to their importance. Should the New Yorkers have recourse to arms, as they have informed Congress they would, unless their differences should be determined within a limitted time (which has now expired), I ex pect we shall have a little dust kicked up, during the fall, between them & Vermont. We have reed. Letters from Colo. Harmer & Lieut. Colonel Franks, giving us an acct, of their arrival, the former in France, the latter in England. Mr. Laurens in his last Letter informs us that Mr. Hartley was setting off for Paris to exchange the ratification with our Ministers, prefering that place to London, as he receives a handsome stipend for every journey. I have the honor to be &c, Rich D Spaight Tr (Nc—Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy, July 16, note 1. 2 Gen. Peter Muhlenberg’s July 5 letter to Thomas Mifflin, warning of the great dan ger posed by Virginia settlers who were claiming Indian lands in the Ohio country be fore the Indian commissioners could negotiate a general treaty with the various tribes, had been read July 9 and referred to Jacob Read, Jonathan Blanchard, and Jeremiah Townley Chase who reported August 3 a draft letter to Virginia’s governor which was immediately adopted by the Committee of the States. See JCC, 27:625-26; PCC, item 56, fols. 113-16; and Samuel Hardy to Benjamin Harrison, August 3, 1784. 3 Francis Dana to the Massachusetts General Court, July 22, note 5. 4 Henry Laurens’ April 24 letter to Thomas Mifflin is in PCC, item 89, fols. 349-52; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 6:795-97. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson Sir, Philadelphia July 23. 1784. I have received your note and am sorry, that for want of the Journal from May to Novr. 1783 it is not in my power to give you the informa tion wanted. I recollect perfectly, it was an Object which the delegates of New York had much at heart, that, in the final adjustment of Ac counts for the supplies or contributions of the states respectively to wards the common expences in the course of the war, equitable al lowances should be made in favour of those states which had suffered more than others by the calamities of war, and parts of which had been at different times in possession of the enemy. And therefore they


[Page 777]
July 23,1784 741 made several attempts to obtain a resolution that Congress would, in the application of the rule prescribed by the 8 Article of the Confed eration as declared by the resolution of the 17 Feby. 1783, make such abatements in favour of such states as from a full consideration of cir cumstances should appear to them just and equitable for the time the said parts of such states had been in the possession of the enemy or for the peculiar calamities they might have suffered. 1 But they failed in all their attempts and motions to effect this, previous to the 18 April 1783. And this was the principal reason that induced Mr Hamil ton to give his negative to the act which passed that day. 2 It seems however to me that on a subsequent day they obtained the recommen dation you mention, but for want of the journal I cannot point out the time. 3 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt and Most humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). 1 For Alexander Hamilton’s motion to allow “abatements” to states that had suffered disproportionately from the war, which was offered February 17, 1783, when Congress ordered “a just and true estimate of the value of all lands in each of the United States” preliminary to apportioning quotas for the final settlement of state accounts, see JCC, 24:133-38; and these iMers, 19:729n.5. 2 See JCC, 24:260-61. 3 This recommendation has not been identified, and no subsequent congressional debate on the subject of abatements which Dickinson seems to have raised in his note to Thomson has been discovered. Charles Thomson to Jacob Read Philada 23 July 1784 I acknowledge, my Dear Sir, the beauties & agreeable Situation of Annapolis and will admit that the grace & charms of its nymphs were not excelled by those of the inhabitants of Calypso’s isle. And were you and your associates in pursuit only of love and pleasure, I would allow there is no place where you could more properly fix yr habita tion. But these are not the Objects of the patriot’s pursuit. The dance, the ball and continued round of pleasure are not the means of pro moting the interest of his country, guarding its rights and advancing its happiness and prosperity. I confess therefore I should not be sorry, if some kind Mentor, I care not whether in the shape of a Musqueto or a fever and ague were to drive you from that enchanting place into the walks of politics and force you to turn your attention to the con cerns of this young & rising empire which demands your Care. Ireland is in a ferment, Holland not at ease and by the paper I en close you will see that your native city Charleston is in a state of confu sion. Rhodeisland by her refusal to grant the impost has damped the hopes of the public creditors and sapped the foundation of public


[Page 778]
742 July 23,1784 credit. The Superint. of fin. is hastening to close his accounts & with draw from Office. The seeds of dissention are sowing at Wyoming be tween Connecticut and Pensylvania. New York & Vermont are not in the way of pacification. The business of the Indian Commission pro ceeds slowly, and Virginia by her acts is laying a foundation of national discussion with G. B. Whether the sequestered enchanting scenes of Annapolis is the place for the Watchmen of the U.S. to take their stand in order to foresee and provide against the brewing storm, I submit to your consideration and am with sincere affection, Dear Sir, your &c P.S. Please to make my Compliments to Mr Spaight & Mr Houston & tell them I mean part of this letter for them. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). Jonathan Blanchard to Roger Sherman Sir. Annapolis July 24th 1784 Your letter to the Chairman of our Comtee. came to hand. 1 I did not much expect the pleasure of your Company again. Mr. Bradford the Attorney General of Pennsylva., and a Mr. Wilson, were in Town on the 26th of last Mo., 2 and sent into those of the Com tee. then met, (being only five) a paper purporting, that they were ready to join in the appointment of Comrs., for a Federal Court on the Claim at Wyoming, but no Person appearing on the other side, and the want of Members nothing was, or has since been done on that Subject, Mr. Bradford, & Mr. Wilson withdrew the same evening. We have had Members enough in Town since the 5th inst. to make a Quorum, but thro the non attandance of some, we have Scarcely made a Comtee. half the time since, and I am in hopes that Mr. Dana and my self, will soon be able to prevail, for an adjournment to Trenton—if we cannot carry that, I am apprehensive we shall leave this place by the fore part of August—to spend our time at the rate we have, for a Month past, is hardly worth our while. We have reed, a letter from Mr. Adams with propositions from Prussia for a Treaty of Amity & Com merce. The Comtee. have retrd. an answer, that Congress had already given such instructions as they thot proper, and in wch. his Prussian Majesty was Included, and the Comtee could not interfere. 3 I shall place under my Cover a Copy of a letter receivd from Gover nor Chittenden. 4 Mr. Dana & myself intend, before we leave the Com tee., to place it on the Journal, the letter seems to be well written, & not improper, to be communicated to the States in this way. It would give me particular pleasure, to be able to call on you at New-Haven, but Mr Dana designing to return by Rhode Island, I shall


[Page 780]
744 July 27, 1784 Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. 27 July 1784 I reed, yours of the 19 with the 6 copies of the journal for the office of finance. After the 2 doz are sent up for the Superint I shall be obliged if you will send me 7 doz more. I likewise reed, the copies rela tive to Longchamp; but there is another letter or note from the Minis ter which I should be glad to have & which is not among those sent. As the manuscript Journals which I brought with me does not come lower than Jany 1779, and the Originals are necessary to enable me to compleat the secret and foreign affairs journal as directed, I shall be glad provided Mr Remsen comes in the stage if you will pack up in a box as many of the original manuscript Journals from Jany 1779 as he can conveniendy bring & commit them to his charge. I am Sr, Yrs. 1 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 Thomson also noted at the foot of this entry that he had enclosed the following newspapers: “Packet 1730, 1731, Pen. Journal 1715." Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Sir, Phila July 27 1784 By yesterday’s post I received the Act, which I have the honor to en close, passed by the legislature of Massachusetts pursuant to the rec ommendation of the 30 April last for vesting the United States in Con gress assembled with powers for a limited time “to restrain foreign commerce not founded on principles of equality.” 1 With great respect I have the honor to be Sr Yr LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 Thisjuly 1 Massachusetts act is in PCC, item 74, fols. 209-12. Charles Thomson to Henry Remsen Dear Sir, Philad July 27. 1784 I reed, yours of the 19 by last post, but not till it was too late to send to the bank & get the Money to go by the post. I had no apprehension of your meeting with any difficulty in receiving the amount of the bills sent as they were drawn on Mr Harwood at short sight. I now send you 24% guineas equal to 114 30/90 dollars. If you should come by water


[Page 785]
July 30, 1784 749 sooner than this Letter possibly Can but as the Absence of a Single Member woud dissolve the Committee at this time I am obliged to wait till I may be relieved by my Colleague Mr Pinckney who is at Philadelphia. I shall however hasten to meet my friends when I hope the pleasure of seeing yourself & Lady Well. Your state has once more damped our hopes & thrown things into Confusion, the Consequences will I fear be fatal in Europe. 1 What the public Creditors will do in this Country I cannot forsee but I fear a Scene of Anarchy will take place from which I turn my Eyes with horrour. God bid some Change of Sentiment may take place in Your Councils! Without it we are lost. Do me the honour to present my most respectful Compliments to Mrs Greene. I am with great esteem & regard, Sir Your Most Obedient & most Humb. Servant Jacob Read P.S. By Tuesdays post I wrote to my Brother Master James Bond Read & sent him Orders to proceed immediately from Prince Ton to Rhode Island to see & for a short time Attend his Mamma. I request your Countenance of him & any Assistance he may stand in need of. J Read The present post Carries letters for My Mother addressed to Your Care to which I request your Attention. 2 1 Oclk PM. This days post brot us Letters from our Ministers abroad. The Ratifications of the Definitive Treaty was exchanged at Passy by the respective Plenipotentiaries on 12th May last. RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 A reference to Rhode Island’s rejection of the impost. 2 Not found; but Read also wrote a brief letter to Thomas FitzSimons this day advising him that Robert Morris was to discharge a discounted note due the preceding day, that his mother and sister had sailed for Newport, and that “I mean very shortly to make them a Visit and shall have the honour to pay you my respects as I pass thro Philadel phia.” Gratz Collection, PHi. Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard Sir, Annapolis 30th July 1784 I expected to have been able to Complete some Dispatches with which I have been busied for some time past in time for this days post but have not been able to accomplish my Wish. But as They regard only the proceedings of the late Congress they may not be so material as that the delay of a few days will occasion any


[Page 790]
August 3,1784 754 site on their part for forming a general Treaty of peace with the Indi ans as far Southward as the Cherokees. But if persons under grants from Virginia are permitted to enter upon and settle the Lands westward of the Ohio before the Treaty is compleat and a line of property ascertained between the Indians Vil lages and hunting grounds and the United States, it seems impossible to avoid an immediate War with those people. The paragraph of General Muhlenberg’s Letter respecting “The Gentlemen who received the Illinois Grant of 150,000 Acres &c. ap pears to point to the Land reserved by the State of Virginia out of the Territory Ceded to the United States as a gratuity for General George Rogers Clarke his Officers and Men. It never was the Idea of Congress that such grant should be located on possession of the Land taken till the general arrangements neces sary for concluding a peace and fixing a boundary between the United States and the Indian Nations should have been carried into effect and the public tranquility established. Should an Indian War be brought on in consequence of the steps taken by the Grantees of the Land just mentioned, the Cession of Vir ginia now relied on as a principal fund for redeeming the public secu rities of the United States, would prove an expence and disadvantage to the Union rather than a source from which any pecuniary assis tance could be drawn. The Committee of the States therefore rely that effectual steps will be immediately taken by the State of Virginia to prevent any settle ments being made on Lands not clearly within the former line of property between the State of Virginia and the Indians and to sup press any such as may have been made until the measures now carry ing into effect for obtaining a general Treaty can have their full opera tion— a ] S o that every possible means be used to prevent a rupture with the Indians bordering on the State of Virginia. With perfect esteem and regard, I am, Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient & most huml servt. S. Hardy RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Benjamin Bankson and signed by Hardy. 1 For receipt of Peter Muhlenberg’s July 5 letter and the drafting of this response, see Richard Dobbs Spaight to Alexander Martin, July 23, note 2. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. Aug. 3. 1784 I have received your letter of the 30 as well as that of the 26 of last month with the papers therein mentioned. I am sorry Mr Kilty left the


[Page 791]
August 3, 1784 755 Office at the time business was encreasing. Should you find it neces sary you will please to employ some person to assist you during the continuance of the Office at Annapolis. I think it will be well to pay Mr Kilty out of the contingent Money and to carry the sum paid to the next quarter’s account so that it may be replaced. I need not inform you that the allowance to the person you employ must not exceed the rate of 500 dollars per Annum. I am Dear Sir, Yours affectionately, CT. 1 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). * Thomson also noted at the foot of this entry that he enclosed the following newspa pers: “Pens. Packet 1733, 1734, Pensyl Journal 1717.” Charles Thomson to Samuel Hardy Sir, Philad Aug. 3. 1784. I received by yesterday’s post the enclosed letter of the 28 from Mr Kilty assigning his reasons for quitting the Office. 1 I have directed Mr Bankson in case he find it necessary to employ some person to assist him during the continuance of the Office at Annapolis. With great respect I have the honor to be &c, LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 A copy of the enclosed July 28 letter from John Kilty, Jr., clerk in the Secretary’s Of fice, is in Thomson’s Letterbook, fols. 33-34. Kilty’s resignation was the product of his chagrin over the appointment of Alexander Campbell, “a student of the law... but sev enteen or eighteen” years of age, “to the Office of Secretary to the Commission for In dian treaties with a Salary of 1850 dollars per Annum.” The clerks in Thomson’s office were paid $500 per year. See also Thomson to Benjamin Bankson, August 6. Charles Thomson to Robert Morris Sir Philada Aug. 3. 1784 I have the honor to enclose you a letter from the Comee of the States to Mr Carmichael at the Court of Madrid with the papers therein mentioned, 1 also a motion of Mr Read which is referred to you. 2 As the letter, papers & motion are an answer to yours of the 13 April and they come to me without any particular order I presume it is their intention that the whole should be sent to you that you may for ward the letter & papers to Mr C & write to Mr Pollock on the subject. For that purpose I send them to you as I received them, And am with the greatest respect, Sr, Yr Most Obedt & mo h S. CT


[Page 792]
756 August 3,1784 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 The enclosed letter calling on William Carmichael to protest the arrest of an Ameri can citizen at Havana, Robert Totten, “without having been charged with any crime," was entered on the journals of Congress for July 26. JCC, 27:601-2. Congress was also concerned over a March 16 letter to Morris from the American agent at Havana, Oliver Pollock, reporting an insult at that port to the American flag on board the brig Polly, Capt. William McFaden, and that American merchants were being expelled from Havana at thirty-days notice. For Pollock’s report, which Morris had communicated to Congress on April 13, see PCC, item 50, fols. 425-29, item 137, 3:865-66. For discussion of Spain’s protracted campaign to expel American merchants from Havana at the end of the war and to reinstate its traditional policy of keeping Cuba closed to trade, see James A. Lewis, “Anglo-American Entrepreneurs in Havana: the Background and Signif icance of the Expulsion of 1784-1785,” in The North American Role in the Spanish Imperial Economy, 1760-1819, ed. Jacques A. Barbier and Allan J. Kuethe (Manchester, Eng.: Manchester University Press, 1984), pp. 120-23. 2 See JCC, 27:602-3. 3 At the foot of this page of his letterbook, Thomson added the following note: “NB Same day transmitted to the Exs of the Several States the Act of 26 July.” For the adop tion of the act referred to, calling on the states “to make returns forthwith of every species of public property which may be in their possession,” see JCC, 27:600. Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book [August 4-13, 1784] August 4. Sent Mr. Thomson per Mr Remsen to be forwarded— Copies One for each State of resolution of 27th July last recommend ing to the several States to pass Laws, providing for the speedy and ef fectual recovery from Individuals of Debts due, and effects belonging to the United States. 1 August 9. Sent to the several States by this days Post— A Letter from the Committee of the States of 2d Inst, enclosing in each Copy of the Ratification of the Definitive Treaty on the part of His Britannic Majesty—Exchanged with that on the part of the United States of America the 12 th May 1784—at Passy. 2 Sent to the Executive of Virginia a Letter of the 3d Inst, from the Committee of the States to the Governor of sd. State enclosing a Copy of P. Muhlenberg’s Letter dated July 5th 1784. 3 13th. Sent Mr. Thomson by this days Post— Copy of a Letter sign’d T. Gilfillan dated London Februy. 19th. 1784 and ditto of Inspection roll enclosed—which were directed by a resolution of 22 July last to be transmitted to our Ministers in Europe 4 —the resolution has been forwarded—Vide July 27th last. 5 MS (DNA: PCC, item 181). In the hand of Benjamin Bankson. A continuation of Thom son’s Memorandum Book, July 2-30, 1784. i See JCC, 27:605-7.


[Page 793]
August 6, 1784 757 2 Ibid., pp. 615-24. 3 Ibid., pp. 625-26. 4 Ibid., p. 596. 5 That is, see Thomson’s Memorandum Book, July 2-30, note 17. Edward Hand to Jasper Yeates Dear Yeates Annapolis 6th August 1784 In compliance with a notification from Jacky Ewing I have by last weeks post given you a general state of my title to the lands on Chartiers Creek, claimed by Jno. Perry as far as my memory serve, re ferring to my papers marked landed Papers for authentic & more par ticular documents. I also expect that the Secret[ar]y in the Land-Of fice, to whom I have written, will transmit you Copies of some Affidavits lodged in his Office in consequence of Old Allisons caveat. Since I wrote you last I have found a conveyance to Mrs. Vaughan, & have written to her for your Books. I think it is likely I shall see you earlier than I expected. Our New England Members appear deter mined to prevent the Continuance of the Committee by returning to their homes—altho the Situation of Indian affairs & other Matters particularly referred to the Committee of the States clearly point out the necessity of its existence at this time—the Eastern Gentry opposed the formation of a Commee. very strenuously. Being baffled then, they are now Resolved to render the Institution useless. They Indeed to cover a little their real design propose an Adjournment for 6 weeks & a removal of the Public papers to Trenton but the person must be very blind that cannot see in complying with this proposal a dissolu tion of the Committee, the time between the end of Septr. & the Meeting of Congress being so Short that members, uncertain of being continued in Congress will not think of Assembling. Besides there are at this very time many matters which Should be attended to tho I must confess they are not peculiarly interesting to the Eastern Combination nor altogether conformable to their System of politics. Adieu! dear Yeates, very Affectionably yrs. Edwd. Hand RC (NN: Hand Papers). Jacob Read to George Washington Sir Annapolis 6th August 1784 The Inclosed Copy of a Letter which I do myself the honour to in close to you will perhaps give you some as Curious information as any


[Page 795]
August 6, 1784 759 last at Passi near Paris. A Copy of his Britannic Majesties ratification is inserted in the enclosed news paper. 2 I informed you in my last 3 that I had enclosed to the Superinten dant of finance, a Copy of the Resolutions of the General Assembly, respecting the settlement of accounts & the appointment of a Com missioner 4 —the enclosed is a copy of his answer to me, & will shew you his ideas on that subject. 5 He says the Resolves do not perfectly square with those of Congress. 6 Your Excellency may have it in your power to recommend some per son from the State of Virginia or South Carolina, according to his de sire, & give him information of it. I am Sir, Your Excellency’s &c, Richd. D. Spaight Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 That is, Spaight’s letter to Martin ofjuly 23. 2 Undoubtedly Frederick and Samuel Green’s Maryland Gazette of August 5 in which the ratification had been published by congressional order. See Samuel Hardy to Ben jamin Harrison, July 30, note 1. 3 Not found. 4 For these May 28 resolutions, see N. C. State Records, 19:664-65. 5 Robert Morris’July 27 reply is in the Morris Papers, DLC; and ibid., 17:163. 6 Morris explained the conflict between the North Carolina assembly’s resolutions and the February 20, 1782, resolves of Congress in an August 4 letter to Martin, for which see JCC, 22:82-86; Morris Papers (Ferguson), vol. 8 (forthcoming); and N. C. State Records, 17:165. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Dear Sir, Philada. 6 August 1784 I have reed, yours of the 2 with the motion for adjournmt & the printed 7-sheet. I should be much obliged if you would acknowlege the rect. of mine. Though I have no doubt but my letters go safe yet it would have given me satisfaction to have heard you reed, that of the 27 of last Month, because I sent under your cover a letter to Mr Rem sen in which were enclosed 24^ guineas. I find Mr Kilty was ill in formed respecting the salary of the secretary to the commission for treating with the Indians. Gen. Butler assures me the salary is not fixed and I am well persuaded that if Mr Campbell flatters himself with receiving 1850 dollars per An. he will find himself greatly disap pointed. 1 I thank you for the trouble you took in making out three copies of the commission, they will be all that will be wanted as I have had three more made out. I am Sr. yours affectionately, CT. 2


[Page 803]
August 13, 1784 767 sions of the other[s], but no reward will be offered on his Account as tis not doubted but that as soon as he recollects himself and his duty to the Farm he will return to his business & the place of his Employ ment. Whoever will Apprehend Jonathan and Frank & return them to the New Shop above mentioned at the Sign of the Thirteen Starrs will be entitled to the aforementioned reward. No 9 August 12th, 1784. Printers in all the Farms from No 1 to 13 will do well to insert this advertizement as tis intended for general benefit. RC (DLC: Thomson Papers). 1 Not found. 2 That is, Charles Pinckney. 3 Notwithstanding, James McHenry did relieve Jeremiah Townley Chase on Tuesday and Wednesday, August 10 and 11, for which see JCC, 27:635-36. And he explained the dissolution of the Committee of the States in the following passage from a letter he wrote to Benjamin Franklin on August 24 from Baltimore. “You know I suppose that Congress left a committee of the states; but this committee is in effect at an end without the form of an adjournment. I went down to Annapolis the 10th instant, to relieve Mr. Chase (a delegate from this state) but I might as well have remained at home, for Mr. Dana and Mr. Blanchard had the day before signified their intention to return to their States. There being only nine members present, a mo tion was made by Gen. Hand to fix the dissolution on those gentlemen; which would have been entered on the journals, had not Mr Blanchard withdrawn just as the yeas and nays were about to be polled. This put an end to the committee as he did not chuse to return. Owing to this circumstance we shall have no visible confederal sovereignty be fore the meeting of Congress at Trenton. I dare say our enemies in Europe will con strue this event into a proof of a spirit of disorder and disunion among the States—not distinguishing between the States, and their fluctuating representatives who cannot be always wise—always moderate men. The truth is the Eastern delegates did not think a committee of the States necessary, and went into it merely because without one they could not have obtained the adjournment to Trenton. The passions and sentiments of Congress descending to the committee terminated in its dissolution as might have been foreseen. The States however have been at no time in greater harmony with each other. N. Carolina has adopted the 5 per Ct. impost. Several of them have passed acts to vest Congress with a power to regulate commerce previous to our recommendation on that subject—while Rhode Island alone resist the impost.” Franklin Papers. PPAmP. 4 For these August 3 motions, see JCC, 27:630-33. 5 JCC, 27:634-35. 6 That is, Jonathan Blanchard. 7 At his point in the manuscript Read inserted an asterisk and at the bottom of the page wrote: “NB after a long & warm Conversation the Clerk read the Entry he in tended to make exactly according to our Idea, but in our absence Dana & Blanchard got round him and Intimidated him, so that the Journal remains Blank.” Although Thomson chose not to add Edward Hand’s motion to the journals, he preserved it with the Committee of the States’Journal (PCC, item 10), and it was printed in the modern edition of the journals by Gaillard Hunt, for which see JCC, 27:634—35. For a contrary view of the August 9 proceedings, see Jonathan Blanchard to Elbridge Gerry, August 17, 1784. 8 That is, the state of Maryland. 9 New Hampshire. 10 Massachusetts. 11 Samuel Dick of Newjersey.


[Page 805]
August 13, 1784 769 solves and the Clause of the Confederation restricting the Individual states? 2 The Governor is actually now at Albany for the purpose—such a Step will render all our Endeavours abortive & be Attended with worse Consequences With respect to the Indians than almost any other that state Cou’d take—tis said to be under an Express Law of the state. If this Conduct is to be pursued our Commissioners are ren dered useless. As long as the savages believe there are distinct, Independent & per haps Jealous powers to treat with them they will Certainly avail them selves of the Circumstance Much to the disadvantage of the Union. New York has taken no steps with regard to the Troops required for Garrisoning the N Western frontier. I beg my best respects to your Lady & that you will always believe me to be with the greatest regard & Most perfect Esteem, Sir, Your Excel lency’s Most Obliged & Most Obedient Servant, Jacob Read PS The Committee of the states is broken up, the Members from the Eastern states & from New Jersey having gone off on Wednesday in a most extraordinary manner. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Confederation Series, 2:29-30. 2 In April the New York legislature had authorized Gov. George Clinton and the state’s Indian commissioners to negotiate compacts with the tribes within the state’s borders. For documents associated with meetings held at Loyal Village and Fort Schuyler during the summer of 1784 which include letters from the Continental Indian commissioners, see Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 8:323-25, 327-81. See also Barbara Gray- mont, “New York State Indian Policy After the Revolution,” New York History 57 (Octo ber 1976): 444-52. Charles Thomson to Monsieur Aycard Sir Philadelphia Aug 13. 1784 Congress have received your letter of the 21 Oct. 1783, 1 wherein you mention your having shipped the 10 April 1778 on board the frigate commanded by captain Stubag, a statue of his Most Christian Majesty which you designed as a present for them. I am sorry to inform you that Congress have never received it, nor have they had any advice of the arrival of such a vessel. It does not ap pear from yr letter whether the Adelaid was a king’s frigate or private vessel, for what port she was destined or whether she ever arrived at the place of destination or any port of America. On these matters your situation will enable you to gain full information. With great respect I have the honor to be Sr, Yr, M O & M. h. S. C.T.


[Page 806]
770 August 13, 1784 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). Addressed: “M Aycard Sculpteur a Marseilles, hors la porte de paradis.” 1 See Thomson to Edward Hand, July 16, note. Charles Thomson to Benjamin Bankson Philada. Aug 13. 1784 I have this moment reed, yours without date wherein you say you are authorised to inform me that Mr Blanchard, Mr Dana, Mr Dick and Mr Read will leave Annapolis the Morrow & next day, that the three first would set out the morrow & that as it is probable (you may say certain) that a dissolution of the Comee will follow requesting to know how to proceed. 1 I hope the gentlemen will not take so rash a step without at least giving some directions respecting the removal of the Offices. But should that be the case you will be pleased to consult with Mr Hardy. If the committee is dissolved I think it will be best to have all the papers safely packed up in cases and brought to this city. Let the manuscript Journals that remain be put into the iron chest. I am sorry you did not return the bills I sent you immediately on Mr Harwood refusal to pay them. In that case you would have had the cash sent you. Is there no person in Annapolis who will advance the Money for them or who will lend you the amount of the bills till you can send them up. If any person will take up those bills & send them to me, I will immediately advance the Money. I wait with impatience for farther Intelligence and am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate, Cha Thomson LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). i For the final collapse of the Committee of the States, which was recorded on the journals August 19 by the six delegate remnant that remained to that date, see JCC, 27:636-38. Charles Thomson to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen, Philadelphia 13 Aug. 1784 In pursuance of the Orders of the Committee of the States, I have the honor to transmitt to you the copy of a letter signed T. Gilfillan, dated London the 19 Feby 1784 with a copy of an inspection roll of Negroes taken on board certain vessels at anchor near Staten Island on the 30 of November 1783, to be made use of in any negotiations


[Page 817]
August 19, 1784 781 to order the Offices to be removed? There can be no use in keeping them any longer at Annapolis. If they were here I could have the printing compleated before the meeting of Congress. With great respect I have the honor to be Sr. Yr. most Ob & most h - S - CT. LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 1 See Hardy to Benjamin Harrison, August 13, note 2. Samuel Hardy to Certain States S* r Annapolis 19th August 1784 In Conformity to the Advice of the Members of the Committee of the States: from the States of Pensylvania, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina & Georgia, I do myself the honour to inform Your Ex cellency that the Committee are left without a sufficient Number to proceed to business and the United States Consequently exposed to all the danger that may result from the want of a federal head. Permit me therefore to request that you will Communicate this in telligence to the Members of Congress representing the State over which you preside 1 to the end that one of them may Repair to Philadelphia as early as possible to meet the Committee, the public records being ordered to that place until the Offices Necessary for their Reception are Compleated at Trenton. I have the honour to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt humble Servt., S. Hardy, Chairman RC (PPIn: Independence Park Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of New Hampshire.” 1 For the action taken by the six members of the Committee of the States remaining in attendance this day to advise the seven unrepresented states “of the actual situation of the Committee, and of the present disposition of the papers and records of Con gress, seeJCC, 27:637—38. See also Jacob Read to Charles Thomson, August 16, note 4. Copies of this letter undoubtedly went to the executives of New Hampshire, Mas sachusetts, Rhode Island, Delaware, New Jersey, New York, and Connecticut, although only those to the first four have been located: at MeHi, Fogg Collection (Mas sachusetts); R-Ar, Letters to Governors (Rhode Island); DLC, Nicholas Van Dyke Pa pers (Delaware); and the text for this entry. Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard $ lr Annapolis 19 th August 1784. My last covering several Accounts & other Papers for the Informa tion of your Excellency & the Inspection of the Legislature was trans-


[Page 821]
August 22, 1784 785 whether we shall have any this fall, I cannot tell you. And now for your fears I must leave Time, which is a sovereign disposer or revealer of Events to confirm or remove them. I wonder your queries did not proceed to the Council of Censors. Perhaps you imagined they were going on in the usual way and not doing any thing worth a particular enquery. If you did, you are very much mistaken. They lately appointed a committee to enquire “whether the Constitution has been preserved inviolate in every part and whether the legislative and executive branches of government have performed their duty as guardians of the people or assumed to themselves or exercised other or greater powers than they are entitled to by the Constitution.”2 The committee consisted of Messrs. Bryan, Potter, Read, Smilie, McLene and Finley who have gone into a strict review of the proceedings of the legislative branch and have from their acts and journals quoted near a hundred violations of the Con stitution and bill of Rights, among which are “The Act for erecting Dickinson College at Carlisle” and a resolve of 9 Sept 1778 “that Council place chains across Chesnut Street (a public Highway) in Philadelphia city whilst Congress &c be sitting, to prevent the passing of carriages.” But the Committee are careful to apprize the reader that the violations they have quoted do not comprehend all that were committed. For in several places and under several heads they ex pressly quote them Examples from a multitude.” Let us then sup pose, which is not an unreasonable supposition, that the multitude from whence they are taken compared with the examples selected is as a hundred to one, the whole amount of violations of or deviations from the constitution committed in the course of seven years would he at least eight or nine thousand. What a hopeful set of legislatures! But the Committee have not stopped here. Finding the Constitution not very clearly expressed they have condescended like grammarians to write glosses upon it and in their great wisdom have determined that a certain expression in the 20th Section “ought to be considered as introduced by way of parenthesis,” and in the plenitude of their power have hedged it in from the rest of the section by two crooked strokes ( ). They have also restored a comma, in the 22d section, which they say “candor must allow to be omitted.” But it would be ex ceeding all bounds of a letter to attempt a minute investigation of the report or to give specimens of the profundity of wisdom, depth of judgment, candor and political knowledge therein displayed or of the precision & elegance with which it is expressed. Suffice it to inform you that it is printed by Francis Bailey at Yorick’s head and advertised to be sold for a shilling. A rare pennyworth! that it is now under the consideration of the Council and debated with open doors. As I was reading the next paragraph of your letter Echo seemed to stand by and make the following responses. “How do you feel on


[Page 823]
September 4, 1784 787 Hope of again collecting at that Place a sufficient Quorum of the States to proceed to Business, it was thought more prudent to use the Opportunity of this Recess to remove the Papers & Records of Con gress from Annapolis to this City, ’till proper Offices are prepared for their Reception at Trenton. Measures were also taken to assemble the Delegates from the States not represented on the Floor of the Committee, in order to form the Committee of the States at Philadelphia;' and I entertain a sanguine Hope that that Body will soon be in a State to act. I left Annapolis on the 22d Ulto. & arrived in this City on the 25th to attend the public Business, should the States enable us to proceed with the important Matters committed to us by the United States & that have come under our Cognizance since the Adjournment of Congress. The Arrival of Mr Bull gave me great Pleasure as I assure your Ex- celly. my constant Attendance on Congress & the Committee of the states for so long a Time has rendered a Short Relaxation from Busi ness extremely necessary to my Health, which is much impaired by so sedentary a Life. Mr. Pinckney having been constantly indisposed since his Arrival in this State and obliged to go to the Eastward for his Recovery, was not able to take my seat in the Committee or to give me any Relief: and Colo. Laurens who landed from England in the Begin ning of August found an Impropriety in his doing so ’till he had re ported himself to Congress, in whose service he was for so long a Time & who may have Enquiries to make of him on the subject of his late Mission. As Mr Bull has consented to attend the Committee, I purpose in a day or two setting out for Rhode Island, as well for the re-establish- ment of my Health as to pay a visit to my Mother, whose infirm Health rendered it necessary for her to pass the summer in a more Northern Climate than South Carolina. I shall however return by the Middle of October & be in Readi ness to attend the Congress at the Time of their Meeting pursuant to Adjournment. I hear with great Pleasure that the late Heats & Mobs in Charleston have entirely subsided & that the state throughout is in perfect Har mony & Tranquillity. 2 Those Riots were infinitely exaggerated & ea gerly catched at by designing Persons in this Quarter who used them to shew that we were unequal to the Government of ourselves, restless & discontented under our own Laws. And as the Delegation was en tirely uninformed of the rise & progress of that disgraceful Business, I was placed in an exceedingly awkward & disagreeable situation when Enquiries were made on that subject. I fear these Occurrences will be used to our great disadvantage on the other side the Atlantic. As I find the present Legislature is not expected again to meet, I do not at present forward some Communications intended for their


[Page 825]
September 9, 1784 789 Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard $’ r Philadelphia 9th Septr. 1784. My last was dated at this Place the fourth day of the present Month & forwarded by the Brigantine Charleston packet, Captn. Allibone— since which Nothing very material has occurred. I do not lose sight of the Hope that we shall be able to assemble a Committee of the States at this Place in the Course of Ten days or a Fortnight. Indeed I own to your Excellency that I am exceedingly san guine in this Business, especially when I consider the disadvantageous Point of View the United States must appear in, in the Eyes of Europe. The Observation naturally occurs to every American that has the Welfare & Grandeur of his Country at all at Heart—but my Feelings are particularly wounded when I hear it in the Mouth of every For eigner with whom I converse. The Marquis de la Fayette who is the steady Friend of this Country & has done much to serve it, laments the dispersion of the Committee of the States in Terms expressive of the deepest Concern. He thinks no step since the Peace will more deeply wound our Interests in the Courts of Europe. What do those Men deserve who thus suffer private Engagements or perhaps mere Caprice to endanger the Peace & Glory of their Country! On perusing some late dispatches from our Ministers I thought the Letters whereof I enclose Copies sufficiently interesting to deserve to be laid before your Excellency & the Legislature & have therefore sub mitted them. 1 They furnish an additional Evidence of the ill Blood entertained against us by The Court of Great Britain & our critical situation & shew You what Trifles they can catch at as Cause of dispute. How much on our Guard then ought we to be, & how attentive to the sup porting & rendering firm our internal Governments, as well as our National Credit, every reasoning Mind will readily conceive. I have been delayed here a week longer than I expected by the Fever & Ague which has given me a severe Shake, but as I am at length clear of it shall proceed for Rhode Island in a day or two. My Colleague Mr. Bull will remain on the spot to attend the Committee— Colo. Laurens intends travelling southward by Land in the Course of Ten days or a fortnight. I am with the most perfect Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & Most humble Servant (signed) Jacob Read P.S. The Commissioners appointed by the United States in Congress to form Treaties of Peace &c with the Indians as far South as the Cherokees are proceeding with that Business & will hold their first


[Page 826]
790 September 9,1784 Treaty with the Six Nations & other Northern Tribes about the 20th of the present Month at Fort Stanwix above Albany, on which Occasion a great Concourse of People are expected to assemble. I am told from good Authority that General Haldimand denies hav ing received Orders to surrender the Posts held by the Troops of his Britannic Majesty within the Boundaries of the United States, but as the dispatches from Colo. Hull the Officer sent by Order of Congress to Quebec on that Business did not come to Hand till after the Com mittee of the States were broken up, I have not been able to see the Contents of the Public Letters on that Subject. 2 This Conduct of the British Court & their General is extraordinary & has an exceeding ill Aspect. I remain with Esteem & Respect (signed) J Read Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 Read enclosed the following letters: John Adams to Thomas Mifflin, April 22; David Hartley to Benjamin Franklin, june 1; and Franklin to Hartley, June 2, and to Mifflin, June 16, 1784. See PCC, item 84, 5:285-86, item 100, 2:215-21; Wharton, Diplomatic Cor respondence, 6:811-14; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:453-54. 2 For the purpose of Lt. Col. William Hull’s mission to Quebec, see Thomas Mifflin to Henry Knox, May 15, 1784. For the correspondence between Hull, General Knox, and Sir Frederick Haldimand which was enclosed in Hull’s August 5 and Knox’s August 9 letters to the Committee of the States, see PCC, item 167, fols. 399-442. See also Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson, October 1, note 1. Richard Dobbs Spaight to Charles Thomson Dear Sir, New Bern No. Carolina, 9th Sepr. 1784. As I left Annapolis rather suddenly, I had not time to take a copy of the agreement which the Members of the Committee of the States came to on the 19th of Augt. respecting their advice to you to remove the papers from Annapolis to Philadelphia, untill places were pro vided for them at Trenton. 1 As I wish to lay the affair of the breaking up of the Committee fully before our Assembly, which meets the beginning of next month, my request is that you will forward to me by the return of the post a copy of that paper—by missing a post it may not, perhaps, arrive till after I have set off for Philadelphia, at which place I expect to have the plea sure of seeing you by the last of October. Be pleased to present my Compliments to Mrs. Thomson, and be lieve me to be, With Respect, Your most Obt. Servt., Richd. Dobbs Spaight. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 See JCC, 27:636-38. See also Jacob Read to Charles Thomson, August 16, note 4.


[Page 832]
796 September 27, 1784 Portsmouth we met also with great attention. I assure you the worst sample by far that I have seen of the people of these States has been their Delegates to Congress. In Boston I saw Honest Gorham who pressed me very much to spend a day with him in Charles Town where he lives but I cou’d not. I also saw Higgenson, he came up to me politely and Said he was glad to see me. I saw Osgood who attended us to see King Hancock but as he is Cashier of their Bank and obliged to give close Attendance there I had little of his Company. I met Gerry in the Street. He had before heard of my being in Boston his Black Man told me he had mentioned that Circumstance to him but he Coloured and passed me without any further notice. I several times after saw him. We did not Speak. He is a Malignant white livered rascal—one day crossing to Charles Town I saw in a boat that was putting off as we landed on that side Squinting Frank, he woud not see me. I tried to Catch his Eye but he looked down and I cou’d not till he got fairly off. “1 find Jonathan told a lie when he returned home as an excuse for his Coming away from Annapolis. He went to see Mr. President Ware and told him the reason for his leaving the Committee was that they had Nothing to do. I had the fortune to meet the old President at Home when I called on him and undeceived him on that point. I shall put this into my next advertisement. “Frank has also told several untruths both to Ellery here and in Boston he too shall hear of them again. I hope you made a Committee malgre your ill bodings. I feel more for the Invisible State of the federal Government than I can express at this time too when we know the Eyes of Europe are upon us. ’tis most mortifying to those who have any sense of the Dignity that shou’d be preserved if we ever mean to be respected. One thing I promise those Gentry that dissolved our Committee or rather dispersed it. I’ll stick them in the Journals. You know the whole of the subject and as you are not in such a moving state as I am I wish you’d think of a sett of good Stinging resolves and put them into my hands. I hope to see you by Sunday next Sevenight, shall bring my mother, sister and Cousin back with me. I fear I shall have no Opportunity of seeing any person from Connecticut here the object of saving a little money prevented a Delegate from being sent on either at first or on the Chairman’s Letter. “My old Friend Ellery has been very kind and attentive and Howell meeting me par Hazard in the Streets of Providence flew to my Embraces with all the rapture of a lover—he attended us and offered services as if nothing had ever happened. He tells me John Brown will go forward to Congress. Adieu I fear I have tired you pray write me to New York where I shall stay a few days.” Hugh Williamson to Alexander Martin Sir, Edenton 30th September 1784 By the printed journals of Congress you will observe that a little be fore the adjournment sundry important subjects were agitated & the questions lost on principles which some of us could not have sus pected. It was generally admitted to be essential towards the discharge of the national debt that the lands ceded to Congress by New York & Virginia should be purchased from the Indians; and a military force somewhat respectable is necessary either to holding an advantageous treaty, taking possession of the Western Posts, or keeping the Indians in check. But some of the states would not admit that Congress has any right to make a requisition of troops during peace. The southern and middle states were of the opinion that such a right could not be given up. It is provided in one of the Articles of Confederation that “the United States in Congress assembled shall have the sole power of


[Page 833]
September 30, 1784 797 raising troops.” There are no words by which this power is restrained to the time of War; hence we supposed it to be perpetual; especially when we considered that the existence of such a right may be essen tial; for the very independence or safety of an Empire may depend upon its arming in time of peace to prevent an invasion. The minority however would not recede and we had recourse to a poor expedient, but the only one remaining viz To calling on Certain states for Militia. 1 The inefficacy & expence of this measure may probably give rise to better ones. The enclosed paper No. 1 is an extract of a Letter from the Legislature of Massachusetts. No. 2 is an Act of the general Assembly of Connecticut. These papers have been refered to a grand Committee who have reported on the several articles to which they refer, but I cannot allow myself to believe that Congress will adopt the report without great amendments. 2 For myself I confess that I am not possessed of such information, though I have sought for it with dili gence as to enable me on those questions to determine with any de gree of certainty what is the true Interest of the state. Hence it is that I am to trouble Your Excellency with a few questions, whose solution I cannot otherwise obtain. You will observe that the propositions of Massachusets open a field for extensive charges by that state against the United States. New Hampshire too has claims similar to those of Massachusets for boun ties & old Continental Money. There is a redundance of old money in Rhode Island, & Connecticut has large claims for Militia service. If these several claims are allowed the debt of the United States must be encreased by several Millions of Dollars. Something must doubtless be done on these several heads, but if my calculation is right our state must gain or loose near half a Million of Dollars according to the principles on which the different resolves may be founded. I am aware that since I have had the honor to serve the state some of the same questions that I am going to propose have been stated by the dele gates & no answer returned. However as I conceive the subject very important and as the time approaches when a final settlement must be made of the late military expences of the United States, I flatter myself that more attention will now be paid to those different subjects. The claim of Massachusets that she may be allowed for all the boun ties that were paid for recruiting the Continental Line in the last years of the War is said to be very large, & New Hampshire has a similar claim. We are told that a bounty of 100 dollars per annum was paid by the several classes to the recruits whom they raised for three Years. In support of the claim Massachusets alledges that she has raised more than her quota of the Continental Line & that Congress has promised to indemnify any State for such exertions. I presume this single charge may amount to a Million of Dollars. But it is enquired, has Massachusets done more than her quota or has North Carolina done less than her quota of military service: at present we are not furnished with materials by which we can answer those questions.


[Page 843]
October 1, 1784 807 6 See N.C. State Records, 24:561. 7 See JCC, 27:446-53. Charles Thomson to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia Oct 1. 1784 Though I have nothing agreeable to write, yet I cannot suffer Mr Short to go without a line to give you some information of the present situation of Affairs. Agreeably to your advice, when Congress ad journed, I met the Committee of the States and having opened a book for their journals & made the necessary arrangements, I applied for leave of absence which was readily and unanimously granted and I re turned to Philadelphia. The Committee also gave themselves a short recess by adjournment from the 4 to the 26 of June. Nine States did not meet till the 8 July when they proceeded to busi ness but not with the harmony and good humour that could have been wished. The Deputies from Pensylvania attended on the day as signed for the appointment of a court to decide on the claims respect ing the private right of soil of the Wioming lands between the claimants under Grants from Pensylvania & Connecticut. But as the deputies from Connecticut did not appear and the Committee of the States had not assembled, the business went off without any thing being done and that affair remains in a very disagreeable situation & is like to produce very unhappy Consequences. On the 29 July a mo tion was made for adjourning the Committee of the States to Trenton; but being lost it was again renewed on the 3 August & being then lost, three of the members, viz. Messr. Blanchard, Dana & Dick left the Comee. on the 11 & returned home. The remaining members after waiting till the 19 & seeing no prospect of forming a comee. advised the removal of the papers & records to Philada and wrote to the sev eral states to send on delegates to that place. Five have met here and have caused Notice of their meeting to be sent to the states unrepre sented, with an earnest request to send on delegates. But it does not appear to me that any Committee will be formed before the Meeting of Congress which is to be at Trenton on the 30 of this Month or the first Monday in November. Though this invisibility of a foederal head will have little effect on our affairs here, or on the minds of the citizens of the United States who can easily reconcile themselves to it and who will view it in no other light than the rising or dissolution of their several legislatures to which they have been accustomed, yet I am apprehensive it will have an ill aspect in the eyes of European Nations & give them un favourable impressions, which will require all your address & abilities to remove.


[Page 844]
808 October 1, 1784 The messenger sent to Canada is returned and has brought an an swer from Genl Haldiman of which I enclose a copy, 1 and by which you will see that though he has reed, official information of the ratification of the definitive treaty of peace, yet no orders are sent to evacuate the posts within the United States. And there is a report that the garrisons are relieved & the posts supplied with near 12 months provisions. I leave you to draw conclusions from this Conduct. What steps Congress will take respecting this matter I know not. In the mean while I am sorry to find that R.I. still continues obstinate & refuses to grant the impost, which seems to be the only means of establishing national credit & reputation & giving us weight with foreign nations. H. & E. 2 it is said got home just in time to prevent a change that was like to take place in their public councils & to confirm their former obstinacy. On the 13 August I wrote a long letter to Doct Franklin in which I gave him a full account of the proceedings in the case of Long- champs. Matters still remain in the same situation, and I am appre hensive that the bill which I mentioned to be before the legislature has not been passed, as that Assembly was suddenly broken up, on Tuesday last by the secession of 19 Members on Account of an Alter ation that was about to be made in the test laws. I have not yet heard whether Mr Jay will accept the office of Secy, for foreign Affairs, though I have some faint hopes that he will. Mr L[aurens] arrived in town some weeks ago. I am told that he was hurt at not being received with the same demonstrations of Joy and marks of Attention as were shewn to the Marquis de la Fayette who arrived some days before him. He purposes to wait the meeting of Congress as he has some communications to make respecting their affairs in Europe. I find that Spain is still bent on obtaining the exclusive navigation of the Mississippi. Rendon shewed me this morning a letter from Galvez the Minister for the American department wherein he desires him to inform Congress that the intercourse with New Orleans & with Havannah is shut till the boundaries between the US & S are settled & that the court cannot admit that England had a right to settle the boundaries with the U.S. in that Country which Spain had conquered in 1782 before the provisional treaty. 3 Please to make my Compliments to your Collegues. Mrs. T. joins in respects to you & your daughter. With great respect, I am, Dr Sr. Yours, Cha. Thomson RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 7:431-33. 1 Thomson enclosed copies of Frederick Haldimand’s July 13, 1784, letter to Henry Knox as well as Gov. George Clinton’s March 19 letter to Haldimand and Haldimand’s May 10 response, which were enclosed with his letter to Knox. Knox had sent Lt. Col. William Hull to confer with Haldimand on a time table for the British evacuation of American frontier posts under terms of the treaty of peace, but Haldimand responded that as he had received no orders to evacuate the posts he was unable to discuss the


[Page 845]
October 6, 1784 809 issue. These enclosures, along with copies of Hull’s instructions and June 13 letters from Knox to Hull and to Samuel Hardy concerning Hull’s mission, are in PCC, item 167, fols. 399-442. 2 That is, Rhode Island delegates David Howell and William Ellery. 3 In a June 26, 1784, letter from Jose de Galvez, the Spanish Minister of the Indies, Francisco Rendon, the Spanish agent in Philadelphia, had been instructed to advise Congress that Spain did not recognize Britain’s right to cede to the United States navi gation of the Mississippi River to its mouth through Spanish territory, and that Ameri can vessels which attempted such navigation were subject to confiscation. Rendon com municated this surprising development in a November 16 letter to Congress, which was actually presented via the French charge des affaires, the marquis de Barbe-Marbois. A brief extract of Galvez’s letter and Rendon’s and Marbois’ communications, which were read in Congress and referred to committee December 1, 1784, are in PCC, item 96, fols. 286-96. For the committee’s report and English translations of these documents, see JCC, 27:687-90. See also Samuel Hardy to Patrick Henry, December 5, 1784. For Rendon's work in the United States, especially as the principal Spanish agent in the United States from the death of Juan de Miralles in 1780 until he was superseded by the appointment of Don Diego Gardoqui in May 1785, see Light Townsend Cummins, Span ish Observers and the American Revolution, 1775-1783 (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State Uni versity Press, 1991), pp. 168-95. Charles Thomson to Thomas Stone Dear Sir, Philadelphia Oct. 5. 1784 I am very sorry you were not furnished sooner with the papers relat ing to Carburry. 1 Mr. Kilty’s quitting the Office and the removal of the papers have hitherto prevented it. Yesterday Mr Bankson finished the copies which I now enclose. I hope they wiil reach you in time to an swer your purpose. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, Your most obe dient & Most humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (MdAA: Scharf Papers). 1 For the papers relating to Henry Carbery’s role in the mutiny of the Pennsylvania Line in June 1783, which had originally been forwarded to the Pennsylvania Council for the prosecution of Carbery, see Pennsylvania Delegates to John Dickinson, May 18, 1784. Since receiving a demand for the delivery of Carbery to Pennsylvania, Maryland officials had had second thoughts about their jurisdiction in the case and were balking at handing him over, despite Gov. William Paca’s efforts to cooperate with Pennsylvania. For correspondence related to Carbery’s status and Paca’s views on the subject, see Md. Archives, 48:536-37, 547-48, 550-53. John Francis Mercer to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philadelphia Oct. 6th. [17] 84. Yesterday’s Post brought me yr. Excellency’s favors of the 16th &


[Page 846]
810 October 6,1784 23d Septr. I am happy to find that the line of conduct my judgement suggested to me as most eligible, appear such to you. As my stay in Annapolis without any prospect of being join’d by other Members was at once awkward & coud answer no good purpose I sat out for this place on the 18th but arriv’d here the 22d. Notwith standing I was ever averse to a removal thence & still more so to the unjustifiable measures taken to effect it—Yet now I feel happy, that in coming hither every imputation of neglect of the Confoederal Govern ment in the State of Virginia will be avoided. Only six States have assembled—the Secretary of Congress in pur suance of the Opinion of the Majority of the Members present, has written to the Executives of those States who have no representative here. 1 He has stated the importance of the particular business before the Committee, which conjoin’d with the dishonor of leaving the Union without a head, it was expected woud induce them to send on Members. No good effect has yet arose from this measure, & none I imagine is to be hoped for. If no Committee convenes before the session of Congress, we shall avoid the impropriety suggested in yr. Letter of the 23 & which I was very sensible of. I had indeed determined to proceed to business, had the competent number of members convened—this the critical situa tion of our Affairs demanded of me, & woud have justified me—at least to myself—but not without stating my reasons in writing, which woud have amounted to a protest against a measure so pregnant with fatal consequences being hereafter adduc’d as a precedent. The American Government has sustain’d a rapid declension of Character since the peace, both at home & abroad. (This will be ac celerated by our present situation & indeed I see not where it will end unless the E[astern] S[tates] send us Men more honest & more able.) Encour aged by our weakness Haldimand has refused the N. Western Posts to an Official demand, & the Spaniards commit all manner of depredation & insult. Oliver Pollock who had been sent to Havanna to succeed Mr. R. Smith on his death, in the duty of detecting & preventing Neutral Na tions from advantaging of & disgracing our Flagg, has been stopp’d by an order of the Governor of that place & all his property seized. I am particular in mentioning this as the reputation of the State of Virginia seems to be in some measure interested in the story of this Man. 2 The Warrants issued to him by the State he passed away both to his American & Spanish Creditors. Upon the Act of Legislation which stopped their payment, they were returned on him & his person altho’ protected by a public Character arrested & his property seized. He had sent to this place his Wife & a large family for support—im mediately on her Arrival the American holders of those Warrants seiz’d on all her Baggage, even her Wearing Apparel. Certainly the sit uation of a Man first seperated from his family & then hearing that


[Page 851]
October 25,1784 815 LB (PHi: Thomson Letterbook). 'Jenifer, who had been elected a commissioner of the new board of treasury on June 3, had signified his acceptance of the post but explained that his duties as Maryland in tendant of finance would prevent his attendance at his new office before November 15. He subsequently found that he would be delayed even longer than he expected and consequently offered his resignation on November 10. See JCC, 27:546; and PCC, item 78, 13:297-311. See also Thomson to Jenifer, November 11, 1784. Jacob Read to Benjamin Guerard Sir New York 25th. Octr. 1784 My last which bore date about the Middle of Septr. 1 was from Philadelphia by Captn. Strong of the ship Philadelphia. I trust that dispatch came safe to hand as I am informed by private Letters of the safe Arrival of the ship at Charleston. By that Opportunity I did myself the Honour to make all the Com munications to your Excellency that appeared to me important for your Information or the satisfaction of the Legislature. I have not been favoured with any public Advices from Carolina since the Letter alluded to. Am sorry to inform your Excelly. that I was deceived in the san guine Expectations I had formed of the speedy assembling of the Committee of the states at Philadelphia owing to the Inattention of the Eastern States or their delegates to that Object. I fear this Invisible State of our Government will not redound much to our Credit with Foreigners. They will I fear impute it to other Causes than the private Business of the Members of the Committee & draw Conclusions un favourable to our Interests & highly disadvantageous to the Confeder acy, of the stability & Firmness of which this Measure will create great doubts. I wish I cou’d at this Time assure your Excellency of the success of our Indian Negociations. We know Nothing authentically indeed of the Proceedings of the Commissioners, but Report here says that little more was hoped to be concluded than a Cessation of Hostilities for one Year. Our Commissioners were detained so late from proceeding on the Business from a want of Money, Troops & the other necessary supplies that the Indians had generally returned home after their Ne gociations with the Commissioners from the State of New York. What the Nature of these were will be discovered on the Meeting of Con gress—at present they appear to me to militate directly with the Arti cles of Confederation. Tho’ the People in Power in their state strenu ously deny that any violation of the federal Compact has taken place, Time &-a report from the Commissioners for the United States must decide that Question.


[Page 857]
Index 821 Bailey, Francis, 292, 700, 709, 711, 780, 785 Balloons, hot-air: experiments reported, 280, 363; mentioned, 476, 555, 702 Baltimore, 6th earl of (Frederick Calvert), 221 Baltimore, Md.: wheat exports, 121; mentioned, 169, 224, 516, 732 Bank of England, 399 Bank of Massachusetts, 412 Bank of North America: elects directors, 261; opens new subscription, 343, 355; men tioned, 64 Banking, Paris Caisse d’Escompte failure reported, 398—99 Bankson, Benjamin: letters to, 697, 700, 709, 711, 717, 724, 734, 735, 744, 751, 754, 759, 762, 770, 779; ☆ salary, 711, 717, 762; mentioned, 8, 402, 474, 578, 663, 708, 736, 755, 756, 765, 776, 777, 786, 809 Barbary states, mentioned, 158, 588, 610, 655. See also Sidi Mohammed Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marquis de: letters to, 182, 753; ☆ procures tutor for Thomas Jefferson, 182; opposes U.S. fisheries claims, 192; consular commission registered, 336; appointed French consul general, 386; disparaged, 486; seeks payment of North Carolina debt, 500; appointed charge d’affaires, 563, 626; and Longchamps affair, 656-57, 660, 663, 675, 699, 712, 717, 726; marriage, 693, 704; announces French free ports, 725, 731, 739; relations with Spanish agent, 809; mentioned, 257, 287, 323, 362, 405, 462, 496, 547, 578, 608, 709, 733, 738, 750 Barbeyrac.Jean, 370 Barclay, Robert, 275 Barclay, Thomas: dispatches received, 183, 214, 416, 750; mentioned, 217, 399, 401, 449, 662 Barney, Joshua, 129, 131, 135, 399, 419, 420, 421, 422, 425, 429, 439, 468 Barnwell, John, elected to Congress, xxiv Barr, James, 200 Barrett, Capt., 22 Barry, Dr. D„ 284 Bartlett, Josiah: letters to, 378, 395, 415, 532, 569, 672; elected to Congress, xxi; men tioned, 379 Bayley, Jacob, 337 Bayonne, France, designated free port, 197 Beard, Mr., 392 Beatty, Erkuries: appointed agent for Pennsylvania line, 588; mentioned, 575 Beatty, John: letters from, 301, 346, 364, 388, 413, 420, 475, 480, 490, 621, 623; ☆ at tends Congress, xxi, 258; elected to Congress, xxi; portrait, xxx, 414; seeks readjust ment of New Jersey’s quota, 346-47; on fiscal policy, 475, 621; claims contingent ex penses as commissary of prisoners, 623-25; mentioned, 247, 336, 337, 349, 399, 405, 575 Beatty, Reading: identified, 415; letters to, 413, 475, 621 Beaumarchais, Pierre-Augustin Caron de, accounts, 662, 675-77 Bedford, Gunning, Jr.: letter to, 232; ☆ attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; credentials challenged, 435; mentioned, 210, 242, 361, 373, 714 Beelen-Bertholff, Frederick Eugene Francois, baron de, seeks U.S. trade with Austria, 131-32 Bell, Mr., 491 Bellecour, Jerome Le Brun de, 345 Bells, 556, 599 Benbury, Thomas, 714 Bennett, James, 576 Benson, Egbert, 65, 165 Berckel, Engelbert Francois van, xxvii Berckel, Pieter Johan van: letters to, 105, 113, 118, 223, 461; ☆ portrait, xxvii, 114; ar rival announced, 40, 61; reception plans, 43-44, 48, 79-80, 93—94, 96-97, 99, 105-6, 113-16, 122-25; offended by presidential steward, 95; congressional audience, 120,


[Page 858]
822 Index 127-30, 141, 149; conduct approved, 130; and Longchamps affair, 699; mentioned, 8, 129, 239, 462, 488, 493, 516, 525, 527, 662, 691, 731 Beresford, Richard: letters from, 84, 306, 390, 465, 466; ☆ attends Congress, xxv; elected to Congress, xxv, 435; returns home, 85, 684; health, 253—54; Indian affairs committee, 465; mentioned, 45, 60, 86, 335, 398, 434, 683 Berkeley, George, 97 Berkeley, Norborne, baron de Botetourt, 86 Bible, 228, 721 Biddle, Clement, 650 Billings, Jesse, 482 Bills of credit. See Paper currency Bingham, Mary Stamper, 566 Bingham, William: letter to, 259; ☆ conduct as Continental agent, 50-51; mentioned, 502, 553 Black, John, 480 Blackledge, Richard, 89, 200 Blacks, racial attitudes towards, 260-61. See also Slavery; Slaves Blackstone, William, Commentaries on the Laws of England, 252 Blair, Hugh, Lectures on Rhetoric and Belles Lettres, 365 Blanchard, Jonathan: letters from, 395, 406, 415, 425, 492, 532, 570, 618, 672, 690, 704, 742, 761, 778; ☆ attends Congress, xxi, 395; elected to Congress, xxi, 295; on Lu- sanna appeal, 492; on state imposts, 532; Committee of the States, 659, 673, 719; erotic imagination of, 690-91; lodgings, 715, 730, 732; seeks Committee of the States adjournment, 731, 742, 761, 765-67, 776, 778-80, 782, 812-13; Indian affairs commit tee, 740; ridiculed, 766; returns home, 778—80, 782, 786, 807; mentioned, 304, 339, 379, 392, 398, 402, 418, 473, 569, 574, 577, 621, 661, 663, 688, 706, 707, 758, 770, 796 Bland, Theodorick: letters from, 17, 20; letters to, 26, 239, 263, 386, 495; ☆ attends Congress, xxv, 104; elected to Congress, xxv; delegate attendance, 21; seeks tenant, 21-22; moves acceptance of Virginia cession, 265; mentioned, 48 Biome, Otto, baron von: protests seizure of Danish schooner, 459; mentioned, 400, 774 Blount, John Gray: letters to, 16, 89, 117, 141, 149, 183, 361, 448, 498, 506, 636; men tioned, 200, 281 Blount, Thomas: letters to, 149, 361; mentioned, 117, 183, 281 Blount, William: letters to, 165, 183, 200, 235; mentioned, 361, 448 Board of treasury, commissioners appointed, 665, 667, 671, 673, 681, 687, 815 Bogart, J. J., 7H Boinod, Daniel: and Longchamps affair, 773; mentioned, 370 Bond, George: letter to, 151; ☆ commended as deputy secretary, 86, 151-52; resigna tion, 88; mentioned, 350, 734 Boor, Johann Abraham de: seeks U.S. trade with Germany, 131, 133; mentioned, 17 Boston (Continental frigate), 672 Botetourt, baron de (Norborne Berkeley), 86 Boudinot, Elias: letters from, 3, 4, 9, 10, 89, 93, 95, 105, 113, 115, 118, 119, 122, 123, 124, 125, 126, 129, 130, 131, 133, 134, 136, 147, 157; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; and Richard Stockton estate, 9-10; proposes sale of presidential fur niture, 111; resigns congressional seat, 122, 130; commends British official, 124; Col lege of New Jersey trustee, 137; presidential conduct commended, 145; elected to So ciety of Cincinnati, 147; mentioned, 7, 8, 79, 110, 138, 215, 322 Bourbon (Continental frigate), 56 Bourguignon, Henry J., The First Federal Court. The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the Ameri can Revolution, 1775-1787, 492 Bourne, Mr., 588, 627 Bowdoin, James, 412, 588 Bowen, Jabez: letters to, 347, 427, 453, 507, 513, 530, 536, 638, 651; mentioned, 380, 510


[Page 859]
Index 823 Bowen, Thomas: appointed agent for Pennsylvania line, 588; mentioned, 575 Bowling, Kenneth R., The Creation of Washington, D.C. The Idea and Location of the Ameri can Capital, 88, 172 Bradford, Thomas: identified, 203; letter to, 203; ☆ publishes “North American” essays, 33; mentioned, 199, 700, 709 Bradford, William: and Wyoming Valley dispute, 702-5, 710, 742; and Longchamps af fair, 776; mentioned, 123 Bretigney, marquis de, accounts with North Carolina, 500 Brice, Mrs. (of Annapolis), 715, 779 Bridgen & Waller: submits coinage proposal, 211; mentioned, 335 Briles, Capt., 224 British army, evacuates New York, 157. See also Carleton, Guy British debts: treaty provisions on, 143, 444, 460; mentioned, 439, 733 Brown, Edward V., 577 Brown, Jesse, 19, 213, 482 Brown, John: elected to Congress, xxiv; mentioned, 380, 384, 514, 655, 796 Brown, Nicholas, 639 Brown, RhodaJenckes (Mrs. Nicholas), death, 272 Bruff, James, 45 Brunhouse, Robert L., The Counter-Revolution in Pennsylvania, 1776-1790, 786 Brunswick, N.J., proposed as federal capital, 21 Brutie, Monsr., 223 Bruyn, John: identified, 527; letter to, 526 Bruyn, Margaret DeWitt (Mrs. John), 527 Bryan, George: and Longchamps affair, 695; and council of censors, 785 Buffon, George Louis Leclerc, comte de, 252, 365 Bull, John (1731-1824), reports on frontier mission, 126 Bull, John (1740-1802): elected to Congress, xxv, 442; and Committee of the States, 787, 789; mentioned, 786, 816, 817, 818 Burd, Mr., 519, 571 Burgoyne, John, 204 Burke, Aedanus, attacks Society of the Cincinnati, 178-79, 523-24 Burnett, Edmund C.: ‘The Committee of the States, 1784,” 308; mentioned, 399 Burton, Robert, 448 Butler, Pierce, elected to Congress, xxv, 442 Butler, Richard: letters to, 422, 450; ☆ appointed Indian commissioner, 406-7, 412, 418-19, 422, 428, 439, 450, 458, 463, 483; seeks discretionary power in Indian negoti ations, 763; mentioned, 489, 496, 759, 784 Butler, Zebulon: letter to, 684; ☆ submits Wyoming Valley petition, 299-301, 385, 423, 598, 645, 684; mentioned, 247, 703 Butter, 209 Byers, James, 335 Bynkershoek, Cornelius van, Questionum juris publici libri duo, 370 Caisse d’Escompte, failure reported, 398-99 Caldwell, John, 122, 127 Caldwell, Margaret: letters to, 15, 46, 66, 74, 101, 116, 122, 127, 138, 172, 218, 221; w courtship, 15, 46, 66, 74, 101, 116, 127, 172, 222; mentioned, 322. See also McHenry, Margaret Calicoes, 16 California, 181 Callahan, John, 518 Calvert, Miss, 321, 322 Calvert, Mr., 321 Calvert, Frederick, 6th earl of Baltimore, 221 Calypso, 741


[Page 860]
824 Index Campbell, Alexander, appointed secretary to Indian commissioners, 424, 755, 759 Campbell, John: western land claims, 426-27; mentioned, 510 Campomanes, Pedro Rodriguez, Count of Campomanes, recommended for American Philosophical Society membership, 3-4 Canada, mentioned, 76, 119, 790, 808, 811, 817. See also Nova Scotia Cannon, Mrs., 85 Capitaine du Chesnoy, Michel, xxvii Capital. See Federal capital Carabasse, Monsr., 662 Carbery, Henry: arrest ordered, 538, 555-56; extradition sought, 565, 596, 628, 809; mentioned, 474, 574, 576, 589, 786 Carbery, Mary, 576 Caribou, 555 Carleton, Guy: letter to, 9; evacuation plans, 40, 66, 71, 78, 100, 136, 157; protests loyalists’ treatment, 70-71; mentioned, xxviii, 11, 16, 44 Carleton, Joseph: letters to, 288, 752, 760; ☆ extra compensation for proposed, 293; ac counts, 295; mentioned, 246, 247, 335, 336, 337, 473, 708, 751 Carlisle, Pa., 553, 595 Carmichael, William: recommends Spanish members for American Philosophical Soci ety, 3; on export of naval stores to Spain, 280-81; Spanish reception, 534; instructed on Americans’ treatment at Havana, 755-56; mentioned, 194, 269, 574, 575, 610, 708, 763, 780 Carr, Dabney, 603 Carr, Dabney, Jr., 603 Carr, Martha Jefferson (Mrs. Dabney), 199, 603 Carr, Peter: letter to, 199; mentioned, 396, 603 Carroll, Daniel: letters from, 44, 101, 121, 137, 142, 145, 147; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; proposes adjournment to Annapolis, 83; assesses Maryland grain crop, 121; elected chairman of Congress, 145; mentioned, 8, 48, 96, 98, 116, 156, 321, 322 Carter, John, 65 Caswell, Richard, 714, 798 Catherine II, empress of Russia: issues ultimatum to Turkey, 290-91; mentioned, 208, 211,215,216, 253, 262 Cato (Joseph Addison), quoted, 88 Cavendish, John, 313 Cazeau, Francis, 401, 566 Cervantes. See Don Quixote Chandler, Charles Church, elected to Congress, xvii Channing, Lucy Ellery (Mrs. William), 181 Channing, William, 180, 482 Chaplains, 355 Charles III, king of Spain, receives William Carmichael, 534 Charleston, S.C.: riots reported, 787; mentioned, 51 Charleston (brigantine), 789 Chase, Jeremiah Townley: attends Congress, xix, 255, 434; elected to Congress, xix, 165, 255, 434; proposes ratification by seven states, 238; committee on trade regulation, 344; capital location committee, 378; Indian affairs committee, 465, 740, 763; land or dinance committee, 573; Committee of the States, 659, 701; admiralty appeals com mittee, 700; Prussian treaty committee, 700; committee on paymaster regulations, 729; seeks revival of Committee of the States, 778, 782; mentioned, 373, 459, 537, 715, 748, 765, 779 Chase, Samuel, elected to Congress, xx, 255, 434 Chase, Thomas, accounts, 611 Chastellux, Francois-Jean de Beauvoir, chevalier de: identified, 287; letter to, 286; W


[Page 866]
830 Index Duane, Mary Livingston (Mrs. James), letter to, 22 Dubois, Lewis, 337 DuBois, W.E. Burghardt, The Suppression of the African Slave-Trade to the United States of America, 1638-1870, 266 Du Coudray, Philippe-Charles-Jean-Baptiste Tronson, 161 Dudley, Benjamin, 593 Dueling: Richard Dobbs Spaight-David Howell challenge, 557-58, 562, 639; John Fran cis Mercer-David Howell challenge, 639 Duer, William, 470 Duffield, George, resigns as congressional chaplain, 302 Dumas, Charles W.F.: dispatches received, 93, 183, 212, 214, 249, 416, 420, 592; men tioned, 217 Dunkirk, France, designated free port, 197, 509, 514, 535 Dunlap, John, 112, 697 Du Ponceau, Pierre-Etienne, 195 DuPont, Mr., 254 Duportail, Louis Begue de Presle: appeals foreign officer claims, 256; mentioned, 440 Du Radieu, Monsr.: proposes Philadelphia manufacture of French calicoes, 240-41 Du Simitiere, Pierre Eugene, 363 Duties. See Impost, Continental; Impost, state Dyer, Eliphalet, 385 Earle, Samuel, 579 Eckhardt, Anthony George, develops drainage technology, 643 Eclogues (Virgil), quoted, 180, 279 Eden, Robert: seeks compensation for confiscated estates, 218-19; mentioned, 233, 261 Education, 182, 363 Edwards, Thomas, xxx Elbert, Samuel, elected to Congress, xix Elizabethtown, NJ., proposed as federal capital, 21 Elk, 555 Ellery, Abigail Carey (Mrs. William), 181 Ellery, Mehitabel Redwood, 181 Ellery, William: letters from, 40, 173, 212, 311, 481, 507, 524; letter to, 720; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv, 212; elected to Congress, xxiv; on federal capital location, 83, 86-87; opposes peacetime army, 110-11; on U.S. trade policy, 174; opposes Continental im post, 174-75; fears strengthening Congress, 175; opposes Society of the Cincinnati, 177-79; on knighthood proposal, 180; foreign dispatches committee, 214; delegate expenses, 224, 311, 317, 507; lodgings, 227, 482; opposes ratification by seven states, 239; committee on foreign officer claims, 256; committee on Lusanna appeal, 266; committee on half pay, 282, 554; Wyoming Valley claims committee, 301, 598, 645; recommends state imposts, 312; credentials challenged, 631-33, 689; Vermont com mittee, 647; Committee of the States, 651, 659; fails to attend Committee of the States, 722; mentioned, 81, 215, 228, 349, 471, 472, 793, 796, 809 Ellery, William, Jr., 706, 718 Ellicott, Andrew: appointed boundary commissioner, 511, 678-79; mentioned, 692 Elliot, Andrew: identified, 124; letter to, 124 Ellsworth, Oliver: coinage committee, 451; appointed treasury commissioner, 665, 681, 687 Elmer, Jonathan: letter from, 258; elected to Congress, xxii Eltinge, Mr., 515, 527 Engineers, Continental, 256, 343, 440 Episcopalians, ordination by Roman Catholic bishops proposed, 211—13 Eppes, Francis, letter to, 150 Erotic allusions, of Jonathan Blanchard, 690-91


[Page 873]
Index 837 Hoofnagle, Mr., 620 Hope (Danish brig), 52 Hopkins, Esek, 524 Hopkinson, Francis: letters to, 362, 572; ☆ scientific interests, 362; satirizes building dual capitals, 363; mentioned, 437, 618, 632, 644 Horace, quoted, 722 Horses: price, 167; mentioned, 519, 550, 571, 620 Houdin, Gabriel, 246 House, Mary, 199, 254, 441, 547, 594 Houston, William C., letter to, 752 Houstoun, John: letters to, 371, 459, 465, 469, 535, 587, 657, 675, 697, 753; mentioned, 608 Houstoun, William: letter from, 697; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix, 735; Committee of the States, 698; proposes Live Oak embargo, 698; seeks revival of Committee of the States, 778, 782; mentioned, 742, 779, 793 Howe, Robert, 343 Howell, Mr„ 236 Howell, David: letters from, 40, 91, 208, 224, 271, 314, 317, 340, 347, 380, 427, 453, 513, 530, 536, 562, 638, 651; letter to, 557; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv, 208; elected to Congress, xxiv; on federal capital location, 51, 225; on western settlement, 61; pub lishes secret foreign dispatches, 72, 530; debates return to Philadelphia, 82-84; dele gate expenses, 91, 208-9, 224, 311, 317, 537, 638; committee on access to congres sional documents, 109-10; opposes peacetime army, 110-11; on Robert Morris, 111-12; on fiscal policy, 209-10, 318-19, 651-54; lodgings, 227, 271, 482; decries gambling, 228; opposes ratification by seven states, 239, 257; committee on slave trade petition, 266; opposes Continental impost, 315-16, 531; strict constructionist views, 340-41; urges postal reform, 347; opposition to impost lauded, 348; proposes congressional recess, 348; on Rhode Island College fund-raising, 349; on western land policy, 381, 428, 454; nominates secretary for foreign affairs, 386; committee on Arthur Lee accounts, 425; on Continental impost, 453-54, 514; and Joseph Reed testi monial, 490; on state imposts, 530; land ordinance committee, 547, 573; challenged to duel, 557-58, 562, 639; credentials challenged, 631-33, 643, 689; delegate atten dance, 654-55; mentioned, 7, 57, 84, 212, 247, 335, 336, 361, 399, 401, 405, 471, 473, 510, 578, 660, 725, 793, 795, 796, 809 Howell, Samuel: letter to, 343; subscribes to bank shares, 343 Hubley, Adam, 589 Hubner, Andrew, and Moravian Indian petition, 468 Hudson River, 432 Hull, Joseph, 575 Hull, William: frontier posts mission, 790; mission rebuffed, 808; mentioned, 660 Humphreys, David: letter to, 625; ☆ seeks Continental post, 323, 350; appointed secre tary to commercial commission, 610, 616-17, 625, 686; pay and allowances, 634; men tioned, 345, 575, 577, 627, 774 Humpton, Richard, 576, 577 Hunter, Banks & Co., 506 Hunter, James, 156 Hunter, William, 365 Huntington, Benjamin: letters from, 19, 33; letters to, 212, 481; ☆ attends Congress, xvii; elected to Congress, xvii; lodgings, 482; mentioned, 8, 707 Huntington, Ebenezer: identified, 27; letter to, 27 Huntington, Jedediah, 27 Huntington, Samuel: letters from, 19, 27, 33, 37, 61, 91; ☆ attends Congress, xvii; elected to Congress, xvii; resigns congressional seat, 37; committee on retrenchment, 62; drafts thanksgiving proclamation, 89; committee on German trade, 133; commit tee on diplomatic instructions, 136; capital location committee, 142; studies powers of the Committee of the States, 308; lodgings, 482; mentioned, 484


[Page 875]
Index 839 Izard, Ralph: attends Congress, xxv, 79, 85; elected to Congress, xxv; on federal capital location, 83, 86-87; committee on foreign manufactures, 240; coinage committee, 451; mentioned, 48, 84, 398 Jackson, Jonathan, 193 Jackson, William, 128 Jacob,721 James I, king of England, 784 January, Benjamin, 734 Jay, John: letters to, 119, 134, 262, 280, 283, 285, 693, 746, 760, 792; ☆ dispatches re ceived, 120; signs definitive peace treaty, 128; instructions to, 134; and commercial treaty negotiations, 135, 269, 583; commendsjohn Adams, 148, 162; resignation an ticipated, 161; exposes Marbois’ opposition to U.S. fisheries claims, 191-92; on hot air balloons, 280; visits London, 356, 392; appointed secretary for foreign affairs, 588, 593-94, 596-97, 601, 612, 690, 693-94, 771, 808; returns to America, 589, 592, 597, 614, 746; on Society of the Cincinnati, 609, 615; and ratification exchange, 745; men tioned, 72, 158, 174, 176, 194, 272, 273, 274, 361, 366, 401, 420, 421, 430, 436, 441, 491, 518, 576, 577, 607, 616, 638, 695, 696, 727, 751 Jefferson, Martha: letters to, 230, 363, 441, 479, 524; education of, 156, 182, 363 Jefferson, Thomas: letters from, 150, 152, 156, 181, 182, 198, 200, 205, 217, 229, 248, 249, 252, 286, 289, 290, 303, 305, 309, 362, 365, 374, 391, 396, 403, 412, 421, 430, 435, 437, 441, 453, 468, 478, 493, 501, 502, 520, 521, 545, 550, 555, 564, 572, 580, 590, 592, 593, 600, 606; letters to, 617, 620, 630, 632, 636, 643, 658, 692, 694, 724, 732, 770, 807, 816; notes, 168, 250; draft resolutions, 169, 170, 234, 237, 256, 568; ☆ attends Congress, xxvi, 150; elected to Congress, xxvi; on female fashion, 150-51; on federal capital location, 152-53, 168—70; departs for Annapolis, 156; on congressional juris diction in federal capital, 170; scientific interests, 181, 252-53, 362, 365, 370, 436-37, 555; plans daughter’s education, 182; foreign dispatches committee, 183, 214; lodg ings, 199; ratification committee, 202; correspondence duties, 207-8, 403; drafts con gressional response to Washington, 218; proposes express packet for ratification ex change, 234-35; opposes ratification by seven states, 237-38, 256-57, 366; seeks tutor, 249, 363; on Anglo-American citizenship, 250-52; health, 254, 396; committee on Lu- sanna appeal, 265-66; committee on trade negotiations, 270; committee on Connecti cut land claims, 271; committee on half pay, 281; on America’s future, 286-87; drafts Notes on Virginia, 287; on foreign policy, 291; Wyoming Valley committee, 299-300, 598, 645; on western topography, 305, 493; analyzes powers of Committee of the States, 307-8; committee on 1784 requisition, 309-10; committee on civil establish ment, 310; committee on trade regulation, 344; cipher letters, 366, 396, 435, 546, 564, 593, 636; on Arthur Lee, 366; on fiscal policy, 366, 520, 546; western plans of, 367—69; delegate expenses, 369, 603; shares library, 380; nominates secretary for for eign affairs, 386; cartographic committee, 421; on western development, 431-32; In dian affairs committee, 465; treasury reorganization committee, 467; introduces count Hogendorp, 493; Nathanael Greene accounts committee, 495; coinage propos als, 515, 550-51, 572-73; on Society of the Cincinnati, 521-24; committee on foreign loans, 535; criticizes John Francis Mercer, 546, 548, 593; drafts land ordinance, 547, 572-73; declines boundary commissioner appointment, 562; on commercial policy, 568, 591-92, 600; befriends count Hogendorp, 580; authorized to negotiate commer cial treaties, 588, 593, 597, 601, 603, 612-13, 619, 690; foreign loan committee, 592; plans trip to France, 602; resigns congressional seat, 606; negotiating instructions, 620-21, 632; committee on French minister, 626; pay and allowances, 634; and Longchamps affair, 656, 660; mentioned, 49, 398, 420, 461, 470, 511, 518, 536, 575, 576, 577, 583, 589, 594, 607, 608, 616, 627, 685, 693, 700, 706, 771, 774, 775, 811 Jenifer, Daniel of St. Thomas: letters to, 762, 814; ☆ appointed treasury commissioner, 665, 681, 687; accepts treasury appointment, 814—15; mentioned, 644 Jenings, Edmund: The Candor of Henry Laurens, Esq; Manifested by his Behaviour to Mr. Ed mund Jenings, 113, 519; A Full Manifestation of What Mr. Henry Laurens Falsely Denomi nates Candor in Himself, and Tricks in Mr. Edmund Jenings, 519


[Page 876]
840 Index Jews, 637 Johnson, Gershom, prosecuted for postal offense, 726 Johnson, Joshua, 283 Johnson, Thomas, elected to Congress, xx Johnson, William Samuel, committee on Connecticut cession, 806 Johnston, Francis, 624 Johonnot, Col., 223, 417 Jolibois, Jacques, 472 Jones, Daniel: letter to, 302; ☆ appointed congressional chaplain, 302, 484; mentioned, 400 Jones, John Paul, 134, 173, 696 Jones, Joseph: attends Congress, xxvi; elected to Congress, xxvi; mentioned, 7, 47, 48, 644 Jones, Noble Wimberly, elected to Congress, xix Joseph II, Austrian emperor: seeks U.S. trade, 34, 132; threatens war, 405; averts war, 478; mentioned, 211, 215, 216 Journals of Congress: index prepared, 267; printing delayed, 611, 667, 697, 762; men tioned, 103, 203, 266, 319, 434, 454, 491, 536, 597, 675, 702, 709, 734, 744 Jovellanos y Ramirez, Gaspar Melchor de, recommended for American Philosophical Society membership, 3-4 Juvenal, quoted, 360 Kalb, Johann, baron de, accounts, 657 Kanawha River, 431 Kentucky: petitions for statehood, 335, 367-68, 374—77, 381; mentioned, 42, 318 Kermelin, baron de, U.S. mission, 699-700 Ketcham, Ralph L., “France and American Politics, 1763-1793," 627 Kettell, John, letter to, 36 Kettner, James H., The Development of American Citizenship, 1608-1870, 252, 350 Key, John, 594, 602 Kilham, Daniel, 212 Kilty, John, Jr.: appointed clerk to secretary of Congress, 424; salary, 717; resignation, 754-55, 759; mentioned, 663, 697, 708, 709, 711, 809 King, John, 480 King, Rufus, letter quoted, 212 Knights of Divine Providence: solicit American candidates, 267; mentioned, 179, 524 Knott, Alexander W., “The Longchamps Affair,” 657 Knox, Henry: letters to, 125, 619; ☆ on frontier posts, 620; mentioned, 659, 660, 790 Lafayette, Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de: returns to Amer ica, 764, 768, 808; mentioned, xxvii, 195, 275, 392, 416, 418, 419, 421, 436, 437, 441, 575, 750, 762, 771, 775, 789 La Forest, Antoine-Rene-Charles-Mathurin de: appointed vice consul, 753; mentioned, 707 Lnke Erie 432 La Luzerne, Anne-Cesar, chevalier de: letters to, 118, 223, 275, 333, 534, 625, 656; ☆ in fluence on U.S. policy, 188-90; on French free ports, 196-97; on French loan interest requirements, 310, 535; protests discrimination against French certificate holders, 319; congressional response to memorials of delayed, 333; retirement announced, 386; seeks payment of North Carolina debt, 500; presents royal portraits to Congress, 534; announces return to France, 563; characterizes congressional delegates, 626; re turns to France, 626, 696, 699; and Longchamps affair, 656, 699, 717, 773, 775; men tioned, 109, 111, 117, 274, 316, 323, 335, 336, 355, 362, 366, 462, 493, 496, 509, 513, 547, 577, 644, 693, 704, 743, 744, 750 I’Amiable Elizabeth (brig), 645, 700, 722, 724, 736


[Page 877]
Index 841 Lands, western: Virginia cession conditions, 5, 20, 42, 143, 176, 217, 265, 371, 373-74, 386; encroachment on opposed, 17-18; Massachusetts-New York dispute, 25, 68, 70, 87, 102, 278, 504, 664, 682; settlement of prohibited, 42; temporary government for proposed, 60-61; Oriskany Patent, 65; Indian pacification sought, 139, 143-44 406-7, 412, 418-19, 422, 428; and cession conditions, 154; as revenue source, 177, 209, 225, 272, 341, 383, 398, 428, 446, 454, 514-15, 582, 585, 653, 803; Connecticut western reserve, 236, 800, 806; topographical description of, 305, 605-6; unregulated migration to, 318; for veterans’ bounties, 344; development planned, 352-53, 446; prices, 353; territorial plans for, 367-68, 381-83, 427, 524; garrisons for requested, 387; defense of, 394, 458; Virginia cession completed, 398, 403—4, 406-7, 418-19; In diana Company claims, 426, 487, 606; commercial development of, 431-32; Moravian Indian reservation sought, 468, 496; Pennsylvania land office opened, 514; territorial government ordinance, 545, 563, 571-72; additional cessions sought, 558, 587; North Carolina cession, 719, 722-23, 731, 805-6; Connecticut cession, 723; bounty grants on Indian reserves, 754; mentioned, 505 Langbourne, William, 471 Langdon, John: letter to, 10; elected to Congress, xxi Langdon, Woodbury, 11 Langle, chevalier de, 473 Lansing, John, Jr.: elected to Congress, xxii, 627; mentioned, 517 La Rouerie. SeeArmand-Tuffin, Charles, marquis de la Rouerie Latimer, Henry, elected to Congress, xviii Laurance, John, letter to, 208 Laurens, Henry: letters to, 134, 262, 689; ☆ elected to Congress, xxv, 442; dispute with Edmund Jenings, 113; dispatches received, 120, 134, 144, 183, 214, 689; relations with John Adams, 193; returns to America, 764, 768, 808; mentioned, 192, 211, 274, 420, 421, 436, 441, 604, 683, 696, 727, 740, 758, 780, 787, 789, 795,816, 818 Laurens, Henry, Mr. Laurens's True State of the Case, 519 Law, Richard, elected to Congress, xviii Lawrence, Thomas, 81, 113 League of Armed Neutrality, U.S. avoidance of, 136 Lean, Col., 516 Lebanon Company, and Dismal Swamp lands, 455-57 Le Brun. See Bellecour, Jerome Le Brun de Lee, Arthur: letters from, 17, 38, 62, 92, 128, 138, 199, 239, 257, 272, 303, 374, 377, 386, 425, 453, 489, 494, 495, 607, 791; letters to, 55, 551; ☆ attends Congress, xxvi; elected to Congress, xxvi; investigates Silas Deane accounts, 17, 38; committee on address to the states, 45; proposes Williamsburg as federal capital, 57; disparages Philadelphia’s Continental contributions, 62-65; committee on German trade, 133; committee on diplomatic instructions, 136; lodgings, 156; correspondence duties, 207-8, 403; pro poses ratification by seven states, 238, 365; Francophobe views, 257; committee on Lu- sanna appeal, 266; committee on slave trade petition, 266; committee on Connecticut claims, 271; on diplomatic establishment, 272; committee on half pay, 281, 554; Wyoming Valley claims committee, 300; studies powers of the Committee of the States, 308; committee on trade regulation, 344; sponsors ball, 362, 366; courtship, 366; feuds with Virginia delegates, 366; secretary for foreign affairs candidate, 366; capital location committee, 378, 636, 680; appointed Indian commissioner, 422, 526, 551, 613, 734; seeks compensation as Continental agent, 425; Indian affairs commit tee, 468; and Joseph Reed testimonial, 490; returns home, 519; foreign loan commit tee, 592; seeks discretionary power in Indian negotiations, 763; mentioned, 7, 26, 48, 51, 148, 198, 202, 235, 289, 349, 400, 418, 474, 492, 538, 545, 564, 571, 577, 611, 671, 706, 707, 736, 764, 784 Lee, Richard Henry: letters to, 202, 393, 791; ☆ elected to Congress, xxvi; mentioned, 780,811,817 Lee, Thomas Sim, elected to Congress, xx Le Sage. See Gil Blas


[Page 878]
842 Index Letombe, Philippe-Andre-Joseph de, consular commission registered, 336 Levan, Daniel, 576 Lewis, James A., “Anglo-American Entrepreneurs in Havana,” 756 Lewis, Morgan, letter to, 208 L’Hommedieu, Ezra: letters from, 38, 65, 68, 100; letters to, 292, 504; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; returns home, 100; delegate attendance, 101 Liebert, Philip, 337 Lincoln, Benjamin: letters to, 115, 121, 551; ☆ on William Malcom’s claim, 85; and Van Berckel reception, 115; seeks grain production data, 121; accounts, 240; resigns as secretary at war, 390; appointed Indian commissioner, 422, 526, 551, 611, 613; men tioned, 54, 58, 126, 187, 452, 474, 494, 571, 688 Linen, 16 Linguister, exemptions granted, 196 Linn, William: Dickinson College trustee, 480; mentioned, 553 Lint, Gregg L., ‘The American Revolution and the Law of Nations, 1776-1789,” 136 Lisbon, 816 Live Oak, embargo of proposed, 698 Livingston, Robert Cambridge, 23, 95 Livingston, Robert R.: letters to, 93, 466, 507, 603, 637, 639; ☆ resignation, 130; French influence on lamented, 187; and Dana mission to Russia, 194, 263; mentioned, 15, 77, 79, 127, 131, 144, 176, 191, 193, 246, 258, 269, 279, 281, 333, 386, 452, 549, 750, 760 Livingston, Walter: letters to, 627, 794; ☆ elected to Congress, xxii, 627; urged to at tend Committee of the States, 794 Livingston, William: letters to, 10, 89, 126, 155, 162, 222, 230, 258, 268, 287, 301, 346, 364, 371, 388, 420, 459, 469, 490, 535, 587, 589, 657, 753, 781, 794; ☆ land interests, 65; investigates mail thefts, 268; mentioned, 715 Lloyd, Edward: attends Congress, xx, 255; elected to Congress, xx, 165, 255, 434; dele gate attendance, 373; health, 433; mentioned, 658 Lloyd, Elizabeth Tayloe (Mrs. Edward), 167 Loan office. See Continental loan office Loans, foreign: congressional opposition to, 20, 97; French interest deferred, 34; U.S. credit threatened, 71-72, 466-67, 469-70, 592; Dutch, 72, 672-73, 677, 683; French interest requirements, 310, 535; French, 334; and 1784 estimates, 477 London Gazette, 758 Longchamps, Charles Julien, chevalier de: and Marbois affair, 656-57, 675, 694-95, 699, 701, 712, 717, 726, 773, 775; conviction, 704, 706; mentioned, 709, 731,744, 808 Loomis, Mr., 581 Loomis, Jonathan, 500 L’Orient, France, designated free port, 197, 509, 514, 535 Lotbiniere, Louis, 284 Louis XVI, king of France: defers U.S. loan interest, 316, 319; designates free ports, 509, 514, 535, 725, 731, 739, 743; gives portrait to Congress, 534; and Society of the Cincinnati, 609; statue of, 725, 769; mentioned, 34, 118, 189, 197, 334, 473, 632 Lovell, James, 729 Lowell, John, Massachusetts land claim agent, 747 Loyalists: in peace treaty, 15, 18, 69, 71, 163-64, 201, 208, 430, 444; evacuation of, 40; treatment protested, 70-71; seek restitution of confiscated property, 357-60; men tioned, 44, 78 Lukens, John, appointed boundary commissioner, 511 Lusanna (brig), 234, 265, 288, 304, 338, 406, 492, 664 Lytle, Andrew, 472, 662 McCauly, Mr., 519 McClary (privateer), 664


[Page 880]
844 Index Martin, Joseph, 679 Martinique, 500 Maryland: drafts on Continental treasury, 63; grain crop assessed, 121; claims share in western lands, 143; and federal capital location, 153, 170; assumes interest on Conti nental certificates, 210, 228, 315; authorizes congressional regulation of trade, 242, 429; retaliates against British trade, 244-45, 315, 429; unrepresented, 253, 255, 371-73, 387, 397, 415, 427, 433, 436, 438, 459; adopts Continental impost, 281, 348, 378; confiscates loyalist property, 357; quota payments, 404; fiscal quota, 470; opposes Henry Carbery’s extradition, 809. See also Paca, William Maryland Assembly: letters to, 142, 145; ☆ debates public creditor demands, 184; retali ates against British trade, 312 Maryland Council, on extradition of Henry Carbery, 556 Maryland delegates: letters from, 44, 101, 137, 142, 145, 147; delegate attendance, 537 Maryland Gazette, 748, 759 Maryland State House: engraving of, xxviii; described, 166-67 Mason, George, 92, 199 Mason-Dixon Line, extension authorized, 511, 562 Massachusetts: opposes commutation of half pay, 4—7, 216, 416; seeks credit for retire ment of old emissions, 6, 240, 319-20, 666, 803; drafts on Continental treasury, 63; adopts Continental impost, 129, 141, 154, 174, 225, 297, 315, 360; and federal capital location, 153; and Nova Scotia boundary dispute, 292, 308; urges retrenchment of Continental expenditures, 319-20, 666; confiscates loyalist property, 357; quota pay ments, 404; seeks credit for Penobscot expenditures, 467; fiscal quota, 470; seeks to assume Continental debts, 501-2; recruitment policy, 673; authorizes congressional regulation of trade, 744; Continental claims, 797. See also Hancock, John; Mas sachusetts-New York land dispute Massachusetts admiralty court, and Providentia appeal, 459 Massachusetts Assembly: letters to, 67, 102, 665, 677, 718, 737; ☆ opposes Continental impost, 24-26; debates Continental impost, 52-54; debates commutation of half pay, 53-54; investigates suppression of congressional delegate letter, 216; retaliates against British trade, 244 Massachusetts Bank, 412 Massachusetts corresponding committee: letter to, 4; mentioned, 486, 530, 533 Massachusetts delegates: letters from, 4, 67, 102, 319, 665; ☆ on origins of the Ameri can union, 6; letters suppressed, 216, 530, 533; on Continental impost, 531; oppose standing army, 668 Massachusetts-New York land dispute: hearings sought, 664, 669, 682, 723; Mas sachusetts agents appointed, 747; mentioned, 25, 68, 70, 87, 102, 278, 504, 630, 800 Massachusetts Senate, receives Stephen Higginson report, 23 Matlack, Timothy, 643 Mauritius, designated free port, 725, 731, 739, 743 Maury, Walker, 199, 435, 602 Mazzei, Philip: opposes Benjamin Franklin, 435; mentioned, 397 Mease, John, letter to, 184 Medicine, 611 Mentges, Francis, 471, 472, 561 Mercer, Hugh, 474 Mercer, John Francis: letters from, 17, 27, 128, 138, 145, 154, 155, 196, 292, 453, 511, 670, 791, 792, 809; letters to, 716, 788; ☆ attends Congress, xxvi; elected to Congress, xxvi; analyzes U.S foreign relations, 27-33; extolls American union, 33; writes “North American” essays, 33, 141; proposes Williamsburg as federal capital, 57; debates fed eral capital location, 84; on judicial appeals, 155-56; departs for Annapolis, 156; on Franco-American trade, 196; correspondence duties, 207-8, 290, 479; attacks Ben jamin Harrison, 511-12, 536; conduct criticized, 546, 548, 593; feuds with David How ell, 557-58, 562; challenges David Howell, 631, 637, 639, 643, 689; Committee of the


[Page 883]
Index 847 impost, 533; submits enumeration, 618; recruitment policy, 673; Continental claims, 797. See also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire delegates: letters from, 406, 425; delegate expenses, 234; lodgings, 271 New Hampshire Grants. See Vermont New Haven, Conn.: elects mayor, 481; mentioned, 609 New Haven merchants committee: letter to, 597; requests congressional regulation of trade, 597 New Jersey: drafts on Continental treasury, 63; and federal capital location, 153; unrep resented, 213, 222, 230, 233, 253, 258, 302, 312, 318, 364, 371-72; adopts Continental impost, 281, 378, 453, 514; assumes interest on Continental certificates, 302, 622, 697; quota readjustment sought, 346-47; quota payments, 404; paper currency emission, 415; challenges Virginia’s western claims, 426, 487, 606; fiscal quota, 439, 470, 622-23; authorizes congressional regulation of trade, 453; revenue plan, 453; opens ports to free trade, 514. See also Livingston, William New Jersey Assembly, letter to, 122 New Jersey delegates, lodgings, 271 New London, Conn., 467, 497 New Orleans, 808 New York: land dispute with Massachusetts, 25, 68, 70, 87, 102, 278, 630; drafts on Con tinental treasury, 63; and federal capital location, 153; unrepresented, 165, 213, 222, 231, 233, 285, 312, 318, 371-72, 387, 397, 415, 427, 436, 438, 459, 677; confiscates loy alist property, 208; seeks frontier garrisons, 387, 503, 556, 640; quota payments, 404; fiscal quota, 470; western claims challenged, 504; protests Vermont’s rejection of con gressional settlement, 539-43, 554, 557, 567, 585, 640-41, 644, 647-49, 738; threatens Vermont with force, 542; and Massachusetts land claim hearings, 664, 682; negotiates with Six Nations, 768-69. See also Clinton, George; Massachusetts-New York land dis pute New York, N.Y.: evacuation anticipated, 16, 61, 66, 71, 78, 100, 136, 150; evacuated, 157; slave evacuation, 513; seeks restitution of bells, 556, 599 New York Assembly, recommends strengthening Congress, 175 New York delegates: letters from, 68, 503; ☆ delegate attendance, 65, 627; petition Congress, 539, 557 Newark, NJ., proposed as federal capital, 21 Newfoundland, 645, 724 Newport, R.I.: adjournment to proposed, 526, 531; mentioned, 748 Nicholas, Wilson Cary: identified, 250; letter to, 249; mentioned, 811 Nichols, William, 576 Nisbet, Thomas, 480, 595 Norfolk, Va., 169 Norris, Charles, 532 Norris, Isaac, 532, 693, 695, 746, 775 Norris, Joseph, 817 North, Frederick (Lord): trade policy, 75; mentioned, 392, 405, 418, 419, 420, 421, 436, 437, 441,607 North, William, 472 “North American” essays, 27-33, 141 North Carolina: and tobacco trade, 16; drafts on Continental treasury, 63; and federal capital location, 153; and export of naval stores, 281; opens land office, 352; unrepre sented, 371—73, 701; fiscal quota, 388, 470, 559; quota payments, 404; and Dismal Swamp navigation, 456; cedes western claims, 465, 653, 719, 722-23, 731, 805; fails to service foreign debt, 500; adopts Continental impost, 719, 722-23, 731; authorizes congressional regulation of trade, 719, 722-23, 731; accounts regulations challenged, 759; Continental claims, 798-802. See also Martin, Alexander North Carolina delegates: letters from, 74, 106; ☆ on federal capital location, 107-8; credentials expire, 615 mentioned, 630 Northwest posts. See Frontier posts Nourse, Joseph, prepares tax report, 154 Nova Scotia: and Massachusetts boundary dispute, 292, 308; mentioned, 40, 44, 76, 223


[Page 884]
848 Index Oak, embargo of proposed, 698 O’Brien, Michael Morgan, marriage, 566 Observations on Some Parts of the Answer of Earl Cornwallis to Sir Henry Clinton’s Narrative (Henry Clinton), 204 Ogden, Matthias, announces definitive treaty, 120, 128-29, 135, 137, 145 Ohio River, 432 Okely.John, 527 Olden, Joseph: and postal investigation, 491-92; mentioned, 471 Olivier, Laurens, 337 Olney, Jeremiah, 524 Onions, 209 Osborn, Adlai, elected to Congress, xxiii Osgood, Samuel: letters from, 102, 184, 214, 276, 319, 323, 357, 485; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; defends expense of two capitals, 103; on con gressional politics, 184-88, 323-33; francophobe views of, 187-95, 486; on foreign policy, 188—95; delegate attendance, 214; committee on foreign officer claims, 256; committee on slave trade petition, 266; on fiscal policy, 277, 327-33; committee on half pay, 282, 554; studies powers of the Committee of the States, 308; on treatment of loyalists, 357-59; on trade with Britain, 358-59; cartographic committee, 421; cre dentials challenged, 435; coinage committee, 451; Indian affairs committee, 468; re turns home, 485, 519; on states’ rights, 487; mentioned, 24, 26, 52, 54, 68, 148, 321, 336, 339, 396, 399, 471, 533, 588, 611, 628, 796 Oswald, Richard, 18, 39, 69, 78, 359, 430, 448 Paca, William: letters to, 10, 44, 89, 101, 126, 137, 147, 155, 163, 255, 287, 371, 433, 459, 469, 535, 587, 657, 753; ☆ entertains congressional delegates, 228, 232, 691, 715; sub scribes to bank shares, 343; seeks Henry Carbery’s extradition, 809; mentioned, 538 Page, John, appointed boundary commissioner, 511 Paine, Ephraim: letters from, 503, 504, 556, 639; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 165; elected to Congress, xxii, 627; on Continental impost, 531; relations with Charles DeWitt, 557, 604; on congressional proceedings, 640; on Vermont independence, 641; men tioned, 459, 471, 478, 539, 548, 574, 599, 660, 664 Paine, Robert Treat, letter to, 357 Palfrey, William, 561 Pamphili, Prince Doria. See Papal nuncio Papal nuncio: correspondence with American commissioners, 211-13; mentioned, 260 Paper currency: retirement of old emissions, 6, 240, 320, 359, 388, 467, 546, 601, 667, 803; depreciation, 183; New Jersey emission, 415; mentioned, 333 Paris, Treaty of. See Treaty of Paris Parker, Daniel, 56, 66, 71 Parker, Joseph, and mail theft investigation, 268 Parliamentary Register, 204 Parsons, Capt., 85 Partout, Monsr., 618 Partridge, Calvin, 335 Partridge, George: letters from, 319, 628; if attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; Vermont committee, 543; returns home, 669; mentioned, 24, 55, 335, 401, 487, 660 Passamaquody Indians, 308 Patterson, Alexander, 464 Patterson, Robert, letter to, 641 Patton, Mr., 519, 571 Patton, Robert, 473, 709, 717 Peabody, Nathaniel, letters to, 396, 418, 570 Peace: armistice date clarification sought, 10, 20, 69; collapse of feared, 206-7, 229-30; European threats to, 249, 253. See also Treaty of Paris


[Page 885]
Index 849 Peace commissioners: letters to, 119, 135, 262, 276, 283; ☆ explain preliminary articles, 11, 15, 18, 20, 77; dispatches received, 33, 109, 119-20, 183, 205, 214; explain peace treaty, 39-40, 69, 359, 430; sign definitive peace treaty, 128; instructed to avoid League of Armed Neutrality, 135-36; on British debts, 143, 316; and franking privi lege, 148; resignations anticipated, 161; dissension among, 175; instructions, 188-92; seek commercial treaties, 201, 205-6; warned of ratification delay, 262; mentioned, 19, 229 Peace terms: and confiscation of loyalist property, 15, 18; French influence on, 189-91; mentioned, 11 Peale, Charles Willson, xxvii, xxviii Pendleton, Edmund: letters to, 200, 290, 391, 479; mentioned, 420 Pendleton, William S., xxx Penet & Gruel, 17 Pennsylvania: endorses quota amendment, 20; drafts on Continental treasury, 63; elec tion results, 97-98; proposes purchase of Indian lands, 104, 140; and federal capital location, 153; adopts Continental impost, 281, 378, 651; opposes challenge to Tren ton decree, 299-300, 565; and Wyoming Valley claims, 306-7, 423, 464, 479, 646; as sumes public debt, 319, 697; quota payments, 404; and promotion of science, 437; fis cal quota, 470; authorizes Mason-Dixon line survey, 510-11; opens land office, 514; and Longchamps affair, 656-57, 663, 695, 699, 712, 717, 726, 774-76; unrepresented, 677; and setdement of accounts, 762-63 Pennsylvania Assembly: urges setdement of Continental accounts, 226, 271; proposes es tablishment of a mint, 344; recommends congressional regulation of trade, 344, 448 Pennsylvania Council: letters to, 244, 726; commends George Washington, 239; in structs delegates on treaty ratification, 244; proposes rewarding General Washington, 244, 565; suggests division of Continental arms, 269; and Henry Carbery extradition, 628, 809. See also Dickinson, John Pennsylvania Council of Censors, studies constitutional violations, 785 Pennsylvania delegates: letters from, 14, 108, 243, 244, 268, 295, 343, 479, 565, 587, 596, 628, 645; ☆ delegate expenses, 164; seek instructions on treaty ratification, 243 Pennsylvania Gazette, 98, 709, 711, 724 Pennsylvania Journal, 33, 98, 141, 199, 203, 515, 709, 724 Pennsylvania Packet, Ti, 98, 141, 167, 371, 573, 724 Penobscot, Mass., evacuation of, 40 Penobscot expedition, 467, 498, 667, 669, 713 Penobscot Indians, 308 Penton, Mr., 714 Perit, Peter, 575 Perry, John, 757 Person, Thomas, elected to Congress, xxiii Peters, Richard: letters from, 14, 108, 163; letters to, 96, 141, 293; ☆ attends Congress, xxiv, 105; elected to Congress, xxiv, 295; on congressional economy, 111; taunts El bridge Gerry, 112; capital location committee, 142; resigns congressional seat, 295, 355; studies powers of the Committee of the States, 308; mentioned, 8, 82 Peters, Sarah Robinson (Mrs. Richard), 73 Petty, William. See Shelburne, 2d earl of Philadelphia: proposed as federal capital, 21, 49; return to opposed, 44-48, 62, 66, 98, 225; influence of lamented, 49-50, 55, 185; Continental contributions disparaged, 62-65; return to debated, 73, 79, 82-84; public creditor demands, 293, 313-14; ad journment to debated, 545; Committee of the States adjourn to, 781, 789, 794; Conti nental offices plan return to, 784, 790-91, 807, 814; mentioned, 59, 180, 367, 485, 651,671,683, 687,691,697 Philadelphia (ship), 815 Phillips, Howard J., ‘The U.S. Diplomatic Establishment in the Confederation Period, 1783-1789,” 548 Phillips, Richard: offends Dutch minister, 95; mentioned, 106


[Page 896]
860 Index Wren, Thomas: letter to, 136; ☆ benevolence to American prisoners commended, 136-37; awarded honary degree, 137; mentioned, 132 Wright, Dr., 660 Wynkoop, Derek, 517 Wyoming Valley dispute: Connecticut claims, 271, 289; hearings for right of soil or dered, 299-300, 306-7, 385, 423, 464, 479, 684; right of soil hearings opposed, 565; hearings delayed, 702—5, 710, 735, 742, 807; mentioned, 598, 646, 761, 776 Yard, Sarah, 46 Yeates, Jasper: letters to, 241, 270, 519, 571, 589, 705, 723, 757; mentioned, 301, 526, 550, 595 Youghiogheny River, 431 Zane, Isaac: identified, 437; letters to, 151, 437 Ziegler, David, 301


[Page 897]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden* James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd* Editor of Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield* Editor in Chief Emeritus o/The Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Jack P. Greene Professor of History, University of California at Iruine Merrill Jensen* Editor o/The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon* Charles N. Clark Professor of Government Emeritus, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor Emeritus, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History Emeritus, Yale Unversity Richard B. Morris* Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia University George C. Rogers, Jr. Caroline McKissick Dial Professor of American History, University of South Carolina ’Deceased 861 U.S. Government Printing Office: 1994-332-194


[Page 902]
I
