Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 4, May 16, 1776 to August 15, 1776
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_04/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 10]
vi Editorial Method and Apparatus CtNIHi New London Historical Society, New London, Conn. CtW Wesleyan University, Middletown, Conn. CtY Yale University, New Haven, Conn. DLC Library of Congress DNA National Archives and Records Service DeHi Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington ICHi Chicago Historical Society InU Indiana University, Bloomington M-Ar Massachusetts Archives, Boston MB Boston Public Library, Boston, Mass. MBNEH New England Historic Genealogical Society, Boston, Mass. MH Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass. MHi Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston MWA American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. MdAA Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis MdHi Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore MeHi Maine Historical Society, Portland MnHi Minnesota Historical Society, St. Paul N New York State Library, Albany NHi New-York Historical Society, New York NN New York Public Library, New York NNC Columbia University, New York NNPM Pierpont Morgan Library, New York Nc-Ar North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh NcD Duke University, Durham, N.C. Nh New Hampshire State Library, Concord NhHi New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord NjHi New Jersey Historical Society, Newark NjP Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. NjR Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. PCarlD Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa. PHC Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. PHarH Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg, Pa. PHi Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PP Free Library of Philadelphia PPAmP American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PPL Library Company of Philadelphia PPRF Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia PWW Washington and Jefferson College, Washington, Pa. R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence RPJCB J°hn Carter Brown Library, Providence ScU University of South Carolina, Columbia


[Page 14]
Acknowledgments To the Library of Congress, the Congress of the United States, and the Ford Foundation this edition owes its existence. It is fitting, there fore, that we take this opportunity to acknowledge the foresight of the Library’s administration in planning a timely and comprehensive observation of the American Revolution Bicentennial, of the Con gress in funding a Bicentennial Office in the Library, and of the Ford Foundation in making a generous grant in support of this project as a scholarly contribution to the celebration of the Bicentennial era. It is with the most profound gratitude that the editors acknowledge their appreciation to all those who bore responsibility for the de cisions that made possible these contributions. Our appreciation is also extended to the innumerable persons who have contributed to enriching the holdings of the Library of Congress to make it the premier institution for conducting research on the American Revo lution. The photocopies of the more than 20,000 documents that have been collected for this project have been assembled through the cooperation of several hundred institutions and private persons de voted to preserving the documentary record upon which the history and traditions of the American people rest, and it is to their work that a documentary publication of this nature should ultimately be dedicated. Unfortunately, the many individual contributors to this collecting effort cannot be adequately recognized, but for permission to print documents appearing in the present volume, we are espe cially grateful to the following institutions: the American Antiquar ian Society, American Philosophical Society, Boston Public Library, John Carter Brown Library, Chicago Historical Society, Colonial Williamsburg, Inc., Columbia University, Connecticut Historical Society, Connecticut State Library, Historical Society of Delaware, Dickinson College, Duke University, Harvard University, Haverford College, Henry E. Huntington Library, Indiana University, Maine Historical Society, Maryland Hall of Records, Maryland Historical Society, Massachusetts Archives, Massachusetts Historical Society, Pierpont Morgan Library, National Archives and Records Service, New England Historic Genealogical Society, New Hampshire His torical Society, New Hampshire State Library, New Haven Colony Historical Society, New Jersey Historical Society, New London His torical Society, New-York Historical Society, New York Public Li brary, New York State Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commis- x


[Page 18]
xiv Chronology of Congress July 20 Commends commanders of the American victory at Charleston. July 22 Adopts procedures for negotiating prisoner exchange; authorizes emission of additional $5 million in bills of credit; opens debate on articles of confederation. July 24 Broadens regulations for confiscating British goods on the high seas. July 26 Orders publication of an account of a conference be tween General Washington and a representative of Lord Howe. July 30 Recommends southern expedition against Cherokees; adopts sundry resolves in response to report on the miscarriages in Canada. August 2 Delegates sign engrossed Declaration of Independence; Congress authorizes employment of the Stockbridge Indians. August 6 Proposes general prisoner-of-war exchange. August 8 Orders General Lee to return to Philadelphia from Charleston; concludes three-week debate on articles of confederation. August 12 Holds inquiry into conduct of Commodore Esek Hop kins. August 13 Opens debate on revision of articles of war. August 14 Adopts plan for encouraging desertion of foreign mercenaries. August 15 Rebukes Commodore Esek Hopkins.


[Page 19]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the in clusive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertain able from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of information derived from the journals of Congress or extrapo lated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in such cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, especially of delegates from New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylvania living within easy access of Philadelphia. For occasional references to such periods of intermit tent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller in formation is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate at tendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, l:xli-lxvi, 2:xxxix-lxxiii, for additional in formation on conjectural dates of attendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Di rectory of the American Congress, 1774-1971, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Titus Hosmer Elected: October 12, 1775 Did not attend in 1776 Samuel Huntington Elected: October 12, 1775 Attended: May 16-24?; June 26? to August 15, 1776 Roger Sherman Elected: October 12, 1775 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 William Williams Elected: October 12, 1775 Attended: July 28? to August 15, 1776 Oliver Wolcott Elected: October 12, 1775 Attended: May 16 to June 27? 1776 xv


[Page 20]
xvi List of Delegates to Congress DELAWARE Thomas McKean Elected: October 21, 1775 Attended: May 16 to June 8?; June 16 to July 11? 1776 George Read Elected: October 21, 1775 Attended: June 26? to August 15, 1776 Caesar Rodney Elected: October 21, 1775 Attended: May 16 to June 8?; July 2 to August 15, 1776 GEORGIA Archibald Bulloch Elected: February 2, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 Button Gwinnett Elected: February 2, 1776 Attended: May 20 to August 2? 1776 Lyman Hall Elected: February 2, 1776 Attended: May 20 to August 15, 1776 John Houstoun Elected: February 2, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 George Walton Elected: February 2, 1776 Attended: June 29? to August 15, 1776 MARYLAND Robert Alexander Elected: January 15; May 21; July 4, 1776 Did not attend after May 15, 1776 Charles Carroll of Carrollton Elected: July 4, 1776 Attended: July 17 to August 10? 1776 Samuel Chase Elected: January 15; May 21; July 4, 1776 Attended: (on mission to Canada to June 11) June 11-14; July 17 to August 9, 1776 Robert Goldsborough Elected: January 15; May 21, 1776 Did not attend after May 15, 1776


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress xvii Thomas Johnson Elected: January 15; May 21; July 4, 1776 Did not attend May 16 to August 15, 1776 William Paca Elected: January 15; May 21; July 4, 1776 Attended: June 15 to August 10? 1776 John Rogers Elected: January 15; May 21, 1776 Attended: (temporarily withdrawn May 16-23) May 24 to July 14, 1776 Thomas Stone Elected: January 15; May 21; July 4, 1776 Attended: (temporarily withdrawn May 16-23) May 24 to August 15, 1776 Matthew Tilghman Elected: January 15; May 21; July 4, 1776 Attended: (temporarily withdrawn May 16-23) May 24 to June 14, 1776 MASSACHUSETTS John Adams Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Samuel Adams Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 12, 1776 Elbridge Gerry Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: May 16 to July 16, 1776 John Hancock Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Robert Treat Paine Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 NEW HAMPSHIRE Josiah Bartlett Elected: January 23, 1776 Attended: May 18 to August 15, 1776 John Langdon Elected: January 23, 1776 Did not attend after January 1776


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress William Whipple Elected: January 23, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 12, 1776 new jersey Abraham Clark Elected: June 21, 1776 Attended: July 1?—11; July 29? to August 15, 1776 John Cooper Elected: February 14, 1776 Did not attend Congress John DeHart Elected: February 14, 1776 Attended: May 16 to ante June 13, 1776 John Hart Elected: June 21, 1776 Attended: July ? to August ? 1776 Francis Hopkinson Elected: June 21, 1776 Attended: June 28 to August 15, 1776 William Livingston Elected: February 14, 1776 Attended: May 16 to June ? 1776 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant Elected: February 14, 1776 Attended: May 16 to June 6? 1776 Richard Smith Elected: February 14, 1776 Did not attend after March 1776 Richard Stockton Elected: June 21, 1776 Attended: July 1 to August 15, 1776 John Witherspoon Elected: June 21, 1776 Attended: July 1? to August 15, 1776 NEW YORK John Alsop Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: June 3? to July 15? 1776 George Clinton Elected: April 21, 1775 Attended: June 24? to July 5? 1776


[Page 25]
List of Delegates to Congress SOUTH CAROLINA Thomas Heyward Elected: February 16, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Thomas Lynch, Sr. Elected: February 16, 1776 Probably did not attend after suffering a stroke in February 1776 Thomas Lynch, Jr. Elected: March 23, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Arthur Middleton Elected: February 16, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Edward Rutledge Elected: February 16, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 John Rutledge Elected: February 16, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 VIRGINIA Carter Braxton Elected: December 15, 1775 Attended: May 16 to August 2? 1776 Benjamin Harrison Elected: August 11, 1775 Attended: May 16 to August 10, 1776 Thomas Jefferson Elected: August 11, 1775; June 20, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Francis Lightfoot Lee Elected: August 15, 1775; June 20, 1776 Attended: May 16 to August 15, 1776 Richard Henry Lee Elected: August 11, 1775; June 20, 1776 Attended: May 16 to June 13, 1776 Thomas Nelson Elected: August 11, 1775; June 20, 1776 Attended: June 9? to August 15, 1776 George Wythe Elected: August 11, 1775; June 20, 1776 Attended: May 16 to June 13, 1776


[Page 26]
Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers "An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.’’ This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jefferys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jefferys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That Part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). George Washington 10 Washington, who had been a delegate to Congress in September- October 1774 and May-June 1775, returned to Philadelphia at the end of May 1776 to confer with his former colleagues on the forth coming campaign. Taking advantage of this rare opportunity, John Hancock personally commissioned Charles Willson Peale to do por traits of the general and his wife, and during the course of his visit Washington spent a few hours sitting for Peale. “Rarely can a portrait be read so clearly as an historical document. Here is Washington at the end of his first campaign, and on the eve of that succession of humiliating defeats from which he and his army were to emerge in the next winter’s cold, tempered, beaten into a new and steely strength. . . . There is a candid quality about this portrait, too. It was painted in two sittings, probably short ones, with no time for a studied, formal likeness. The smile, the eyes, the tilt of the head, are uncertain, unwilling, slightly embarrassed. Washing ton not only hated to sit for a painter, but he did not like Hancock very well. The shade of awkwardness is unfortunately accentuated by the awkwardness with which the figure is painted—a final work undoubtedly done after the subject’s departure.” For both the citation to this appraisal of the painting by Charles Coleman Sellers and additional information on the circumstances pertaining to the commissioning of it, see note 3 to Hancock’s letter to Washington of May 16, 1776. Oil on canvas by Charles Willson Peale, 1776. Courtesy of the Brooklyn Museum, Dick S. Ramsay Fund. xxii


[Page 28]
xxiv Illustrations Thomas Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, 159 June 7-August 1, 1776 According to the leading authority on Jefferson’s writings, “Jeffer son’s extraordinary graphic account of the debates and proceedings in Congress during two critical months in the summer of 1776 is perhaps the best single source of information concerning the move ment toward independence and the formation of the Articles of Confederation.” They were composed for his friend James Madison, to whom they were sent in June 1783, and represent the only known attempt by a participant in the proceedings to recount systematically the steps by which Congress reached its momentous decisions on these subjects. Because the date of their composition is not known, controversy has long surrounded some specific statements contained in them, but the detection of errors in Jefferson’s account has not detracted significantly from the value of his testimony. Analyzed afresh in this volume, the notes retain their unique luster despite the discovery of new evidence challenging a few previously unques tioned Jefferson assertions. James Madison Papers, Library of Congress. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant 225 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, a New Jersey lawyer, served two terms in Congress in 1776-77. During his first term Sergeant aligned himself with the more advanced supporters of American indepen dence like John Adams, and in June 1776 he returned to New Jersey in order to mobilize support for independence. As General Howe prepared to attack New York, Sergeant sent Adams a proposal to augment the New Jersey militia by raising a battalion of slaves, who would eventually be emancipated, but the “heretical” plan was never seriously considered. After the burning of his Princeton home by Hessians in December 1776, Sergeant moved to Philadelphia, where he joined the radical party and, after the end of his second term in Congress, served as attorney general of Pennsylvania from 1777 to 1780. Following his resignation from that office, Sergeant returned to the private practice of law, but he remained a proponent of change and later became a staunch advocate of the French Revo lution. After Sergeant fell victim to the yellow fever epidemic that struck Philadelphia in 1793, John Adams, who abhorred Sergeant’s enthusiasm for the revolution in France, declared that his death “saved the United States from a fatal revolution of Government”—a far cry from his assessment of Sergeant at the time of the First Congress as “a cordial Friend to American Liberty.” Oil on canvas by Charles Willson Peale. Princeton University.


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii break a tie in the Delaware delegation and permitted a unanimous vote on Richard Henry Lee’s independence resolution. With George Read opposed to the resolution and Thomas McKean supporting it, Rodney’s presence was necessary to ensure that every vote cast on the question was affirmative. The New York delegates, awaiting further instructions from their constituents, did not cast their state’s vote on the issue, and it was not until July 15 that New York’s concurrence —voted unanimously in the convention at White Plains on July 9— was recorded in the journals. Rodney, a Kent County planter and lawyer, who had been attend ing Congress intermittently since September 1774, continued to serve until October. Although thrice later reelected a delegate he never returned to Congress after 1776. He was long active in Delaware politics and was the state’s president from 1778 to 1781, during which time he played a crucial role in her war effort. Property of the Estelle Doheny Collection of Rare Books and Art Objects of the Edward Laurence Doheny Memorial Library, St. John’s Seminary, Camarillo, Calif. John Alsop 467 John Alsop, a New York merchant and delegate to Congress since 1774, looked forward to a “reconcilliation” with Great Britain “free from Taxation.’’ He was willing to support vigorous measures in order to oppose British tyranny, but not to the point of breaking up the British Empire. Accordingly, he resigned his seat in Congress after the New York Convention authorized the New York delegates to approve the Declaration of Independence. Unwilling to sever all ties with Great Britain, Alsop was equally reluctant to take an active part against his erstwhile colleagues in the revolutionary movement. Therefore he spent the remainder of the war living in comparative tranquillity in Middletown, Conn. In retrospect this was a wise decision, for it enabled him, upon the conclusion of peace, to return to his native state, where he eventually became president of the New York City Chamber of Commerce and an honored member of the Federalist party. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress. Congress’ July 19 Response to 488 Lord Howe’s Peace “Declaration” For months before Congress declared independence, moderates both in and out of Congress had opposed taking this momentous step on the ground that it would be more prudent to await the arrival of British peace commissioners. When Lord Howe failed to reach America with authority to negotiate peace before Congress had approved the Declaration, some Americans thought the delay had


[Page 35]
John Adams to Joseph Palmer May 16. 1776 We have Spent a Number of Days in considering the State of Boston and the Massachusetts, and after all I dont know whether you will think We have done enough. The five Ba[tta]llions now there, were ordered to be recruited to their full Compliment, and three additional Battailions are ordered to be raised. You have raised one—that may be put upon continental Pay, as one of the three. The other two must be raised as you can. I am fearfull that drained as New England is, you will meet with Difficulty to raise more Men. Yet I should hope, that Stimulated by so urgent a Motive as that of defending Boston and its Harbour, two more Battailions might be raised. In What Proportions they are to be raised in Mass. Bay, Connecticutt & New Hampshire is not determined. Whether this Point will be determined here, or not, I cant Say. The Story of Such formidable Numbers of foreign Mercenaries, I conjecture to be chiefly Puff, but yet there may be Some Truth in it. If you should be invaded, the Militia will do their Duty. If an Impression should be made, and the Enemy make a Lodgment again with you, Congress will maintain a Standing Army, if it can be raised to op pose them, but the Continental Expences are so enormous as to raise the most alarming Apprehensions in the Minds of all, and Gentlemen are very reluctant to raising Forces where there is not an actual Enemy to oppose. A Major General and a Brigadier General are ordered to take the Command, in Boston. 1 Can nothing be done to drive the Men of War from Nantaskett Road? A few Row Gallies here have attacked two formidable ships and driven them down to the Mouth of the River, where the Gallies cannot live. Would not a few of these, with some fire ships and Fire Rafts be very wholesome, to clear the Harbour of those Vermine. I never shall be happy untill I hear, they are driven out to sea. Yesterday the Gordian Knot was cutt asunder. Congress passed a Resolve in these Words as nearly as I can recollect them by my Memory. 2 “Whereas his Britanic Majesty, in Conjunction with his Lords and Commons, has, by a late Act of Parliament, excluded the In habitants of these united Colonies, from the Protection of his Crown, and Whereas no answer whatever, to the humble Petitions of the Colonies for Redress of their Grivances, and Reconciliation with Great Britain, has been, or is likely to be given: But the whole Force of that Kingdom, aided by foreign Mercenaries, is to be exerted for our Destruction, “And Whereas it is irreconcileable to Reason and good Conscience for the People of these Colonies, to take the oaths and affirmations 3


[Page 39]
May 16, 1776 7 John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Gentlemen, Philadelphia May 16th. 1776 By the best Intelligence from Europe it appears, That the British Nation have proceeded to the last Extremity, and have actually taken into Pay a Number of foreign Troops; who, in all Probability, are on their Passage to America at this very Time. The Transactions of the Ministry are so much hid from View, that we are left to wander in the Field of Conjecture; and it is entirely to accident we are in debted, for any little Information we may receive with Regard to their Designs against us. This Uncertainty however, I hope, will have the proper Effect. It should stimulate the Colonies to greater Dilligence & Vigour in preparing to ward off the Blow, as our Enemies may, for any Thing we know, be at our very Door. In this Situation of our Affairs, it is highly necessary, that the Town of Boston should receive a Reinforcement, to prevent it from falling again into the Hands of such Miscreants, as have just been driven out of it. The Congress therefore considering the small Num ber of Troops in that Place, and the Impossibility of detaching any from the Continental Army which has lately been much weakened by the two Brigades consisting of ten Regiments ordered into Can ada, have come to the enclosed Resolutions, which I am commanded to transmit you, being fully assured, that you will do every Thing in your Power to carry the same into Effect as speedily as possible. 1 I enclose to you also blank Commissions for the Captains and Subalterns of the two Regiments to be raised in Massachusetts Colony, to be filled up with the Names of the Persons you may please to appoint. With Respect to the Field Officers, I have it in Command to request, you will please to recommend to Congress as early as possible the Names of Persons you judge proper for those Offices, in Order that they may be appointed & commissioned by the Congress. As soon as I have the Honour to receive your Recommen dations, I will lay them before Congress, and immediately upon their Determination transmit you the Commissions filled up ac cordingly. 2 I have the Honour to be with every respectful sentiment, and much Esteem, Gentlemen, your most obed. hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] The Congress have been pleased to appoint Horatio Gates Esqr to be a Major General and Thomas Mifflin Esqr to be a Brigadier General in the Continental Army. I have wrote to Genl. Washington to request him, if agreeable, that those Gentlemen may take the command at Boston. I am prevented inclosing a Resolve by means of the Secy with the Journals being out of Town. It is a Resolution for the liberation


[Page 46]
14 May 16, 1776 by submitting to the committee a draft Virginia constitution he composed while in Philadelphia. The use made of this draft cannot be precisely determined, but the editor of Jefferson’s papers has examined the issue in great detail and assessed Jefferson’s influence on the committee and its chairman, George Mason. Two of Jefferson’s colleagues in Congress, George Wythe and Richard Henry Lee, did return to Virginia in June, and Wythe carried with him to the convention a draft consti tution used by Mason. Indeed, Jefferson is known to have made three drafts of the document before Wythe left Philadelphia on June 13. He was probably at work on the first of them at the time he was writing this letter to Nelson, since it is apparent from internal evidence that this initial draft was completed sometime before May 27, when he received resolutions from the Virginia Convention con taining provisions subsequently incorporated into his second and third drafts. Although these drafts only indirectly relate to Jefferson’s work in Congress, they are products of the pen of one of the principal participants in its deliberations during a highly significant period in its history and clearly reflect his most funda mental political and constitutional views. Furthermore, it is now known that Jefferson incorporated passages from them into the Declaration of Independence when he drafted it during the last weeks of June. For a critical analysis and the printed texts of these drafts, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:329-65. See also the letters written to Jefferson during this period by the president of the Virginia Convention, Edmund Pendleton, in response to several letters from Jefferson that do not survive, ibid., pp. 296-98, 471-72, 479-80, 484-85, 488-91, 507-8. 4 “Our old lodgings,’’ which Jefferson and Nelson shared when they had been in Philadelphia simultaneously during the autumn of 1775, is a reference to the house of Benjamin Randolph on Chestnut Street between Third and Fourth. A few days after writing this letter, Jefferson took lodging in the house of Jacob Graff, which subsequently became celebrated as the house in which he wrote the Declaration of Independence. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:293. Documentation on the residences of the delegates while they were in Phila delphia attending Congress is generally meager, but John Adams compiled an interesting, fragmentary list of most of those in attendance in late April 1776 containing notations on the residences of approximately half of them. See Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:237-38. “That is, James McClurg. See Jefferson to John Page, May 17, 1776, note 2. “For the Virginia Convention’s instructions, see Richard Henry Lee to Edmund Pendleton, May 12, 1776, note 3. ’A draft of another letter written at about this time, dealing chiefly with the affairs of Jefferson’s mother’s relatives and apparently intended for his uncle William Randolph in Bristol, England, is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:408-10. 8 For the continuation of this letter, see Jefferson to Nelson, May 19, 1776. Massachusetts Delegates to George Washington Sir Philadelphia May 16. 1776 Congress yesterday appointed General Gates a Major General and Mr Mifflin a Brigadier General, in the Continental Army, and or dered the Five Battallions in the Massachusetts Bay to be com- pleated to their full Compliments and those Additional Battallions to be raised forthwith, in the Eastern Department, and further have requested your Excellency to send a Major General and Brigadier General to take the Command, in that Department. We presume not to judge of the Exigencies of the public service,


[Page 47]
May 16, 1776 so far as to suggest any Plan of ours, for your Consideration, any further than to assure your Excellency that no officers in the service would be more agreable to Us, and We have Reason to believe to our Constituents, to take the Command in that Department, than the Generals Gates and Mifflin. 1 We are, sir, with great Esteem and Respect, your Excellencies Friends and most obedient humble servants, John Hancock John Adams Samuel Adams R. T. Paine Elbridge Gerry RC (PHi). Written by John Adams and signed by John Adams, Samuel Adams, Gerry, Hancock, and Paine. ’See also Samuel Adams to George Washington, May 15, 1776. Artemas Ward continued in command at Boston, while Gates was given the Canadian command by Congress on June 17, 1776. JCC, 5:448; and John Hancock to Artemas Ward, April 26, 1776, note 1. Secret Committee to George Washington Sir Philada. May 16th. 1776 The enclosed letters will discover to your Excellency that the Con gress have ordered Two hundred & Forty four Muskets to be for warded from Rhode Island to New York for the Continental Service and as it is probable you may think proper to give some directions about the mode of getting them safe down we trouble you with these open letters that you may have an opportunity of forwarding them & of adding thereto what you may think Necessary. 1 We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Obedt hble servts. By order of the Secret Committee, Robt Morris, ChairMan RC (DLC). Written and signed by Morris. ’See JCC, 4:357. For Washington’s May 20 response, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:63-64. One of the enclosed letters, written by Morris on the 16th on behalf of the committee to Nicholas Brown and John Brown, directed “fourteen Muskets in your hands belonging to the Continent to be forwarded immediately to his Excellency Genl. Washington at New York.” Brown Papers, RPJCB. Nicholas Brown’s May 27 letter to Washington, explaining why only four muskets were sent, is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:768. William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia 16th May 1776 I have the pleasure to inclose you a Resolution of Congress for raising a Battn in New Hampshire. The design is that they are to be


[Page 48]
16 May 16, 1776 station’d at Portsmth, subject, however, to the Officer commanding in the Eastern department. 1 Its the wish of Congress that the men may be inlisted for three Years, but if they cannot be prevailed on to engage for a longer time they may be inlisted for one Year, the Battalion to consist of 728 men including officers. Please to observe they are not to be in pay ’till arm’d & accoutred. The five Battalions that are at Boston are to be recruited to their full Compliment 8c three new ones rais’d, two Battalions are also station’d for the Present at Road Island, in all Eleven Battalions in the Eastern de partment [and] two Genl Officers will be sent there. 2 Britain will no doubt use Her utmost efforts this summer to effect the Infernal designs of the King 8c his Ministry. It is therefore neces sary that we shod exert ourselves to frustrate their plans which with divine assistance no doubt we shall be able to accomplish. If any men can be spar’d besides the Battalion before mention’d, I hope all proper incouragement will be given to the recruiting officers for filling up those in Boston. Inclosed is recommendation to the Col onies to assume all the powers of Government which I hope will meet your approbation. 3 I am with great Respect, Your Most Obt Sevt, Wm Whipple RC (DLC). ^JCC, 4:357. For further information on the original New Hampshire request for a Continental battalion, see Whipple to Weare, March 2, 1776. 2 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, May 12, 1776, note 2. ‘JCC, 4:342, 357-58. See also John Adams to James Warren, May 15, 1776. Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philidelpa. 16 May 1776 Your Letter of the 4t instant came safe, there was not the least Occasion of an Excuse on Acco. of the length of your Letters, you may be assured that I read them with great Pleasure. I suppose this tho’t might occur to you, as I sometimes Write you Letters the whole of which is on the outside. This you might charitably suppose was owing to the Want of Time, and that you would learn the News from the Letter inclosed if any. I hope you will not fail of Writing and Write as long as you please. You Acco. of the Cherokee is what might have been expected from a Man of his extreme ill nature. The News is inclosed. A Revolution in Government, you will perceive is about to take Effect. May God grant a happy establish ment of it, and security to the Rights of the People. If this Recom mendation takes Effect, which undouptedly it will, There will be an instance Real not implyed or Ideal, of a Government founded in


[Page 52]
20 May 17, 1776 to determine the fate 8c fortunes of Millions who have placed the most implicit Confidence in us. That a Seperation will take place seems almost evident. But in my Judgment there are a number of Precautions which should precede it. A Naval Alliance to protect our trade must be requisite, yet this is not obtained, nor do we know what friends we can procure. Our own Fleet is trifling as yet & before it will increase I fear some of them will fall into the Enemys Hands, as they are every where sought after 8c if seen will be taken. A Continental League was surely indespensable, 8c so was a Union of the Colonies. Justice has long since called forth for equal Representation here that the Wealth of the great Colonies might not be disposed of by Men who represent scarcely any Colony at all 8c who with all the pedantic Impudence will harangue us for Hours upon their Importance. These with a variety of other things seemed absolutely necessary to me. As I had long foreseen the Necessity of taking up Governt. in our Colony particularly, I had thrown my thoughts together on that Subject for yr Convention a Pamphlett containing which I send you 8c beg your opinion of it. 5 As it is the first Essay of a poor Genius unassisted by a good Education you will shew it all the Indulgence in yr Power 8c allow much for the Zeal of the Author, who wishes nothing so ardently as to see his Country happy 8c flourishing. We have no certain Accts, from Canada, nor any of the arrival of Troops to the Northward tho daily expected. I fear you will say that tho you meant to get a Letter now 8c then from me you did not expect to have your patience tryed by such long Letters. Therefore I will appologize for this 8c be done when I have asured you of my regard for yr Family 8c my desire that you will make it known to them 8c that with all respect I am Sir, your affece Nephew, Carter Braxton [P.S.] Mrs. Braxton begs me to add her Respects to you 8c Family. RC (MeHi). 1 See Braxton to Landon Carter, April 14, 1776. Braxton’s letter to Robert Wormeley Carter has not been found. 2 See JCC, 4:342, 357-58; and John Adams to James Warren, May 15, 1776. 3 The only other surviving contemporary testimony on this vote is contained in the May 15, 1776, diary entry of James Allen, a Philadelphia lawyer who was not a delegate, in which he reported that the preamble carried by a vote of 7 to 4. If Braxton’s recollection is correct, the alignment of the colonies on the motion was probably: New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, Vir ginia, and South Carolina in favor; New York, New Jersey, Delaware, and North Carolina opposed; and Pennsylvania and Maryland abstaining. If, however, Allen can be relied upon, the motion was probably supported by the six colonies listed above plus North Carolina (Joseph Hewes), with Pennsylvania voting in opposi tion. Georgia delegates Button Gwinnett and Lyman Hall did not attend until May 20. See JCC, 4:367; and “Diary of James Allen, Esq., of Philadelphia,


[Page 53]
May 17, 1776 21 Counsellor-at-Law, 1770—1778,” PMHB 9 (July 1885): 187. For additional infor mation on Hewes’ position on this issue, suggesting that he supported men of Richard Henry Lee’s persuasion in behalf of more vigorous measures leading in the direction of independence, see Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Ludwell Lee, May 28, 1776, note 4. 4 For additional information on the reaction of the Maryland delegates to the congressional resolutions of May 10 and 15 advising reorganization of provincial governments, see Thomas Stone to James Hollyday?, May 20, 1776. See also the Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, June 11, 1776, for their response to Richard Henry Lee’s proposed resolutions of June 7, which confronted them with a similar dilemma and led them to call upon the council of safety to reconvene the Maryland Convention at once. 5 Carter Braxton, An Address to the Convention of the Colony and Ancient Dominion of Virginia; on the Subject of Government in General, and Recommend ing a Particular Form to their Confederation (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1776). Samuel Chase to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir. Montreal, May 17. 1776 I thank You for your Letter of the 3rd of April which Mcfinie delivered Me last Tuesday. 1 Our Letters to Congress will give You all the Information in our Power relative to our Affairs in this Colony. I am at a Loss to express my Astonishmt. at the Conduct of Congress. Almost two Months ago they voted 4 Battalions, and since 6 more Battalions for this Country, without the least provisions for their Support. We have now 4,000 Troops in Canada &: not a Mouthful of food. Pork is not to be procured. Wheat may be bought for Specie, but we have none. Necessity has compelled Us to take provisions. Will this contribute to regain the Affections of this people? I entirely agree with You as to the Importance of fortifying the pass at De Chambault. On the Day after We arrived, it was determined to possess that post and Jacques Cartier—but how can it be done? On Tuesday Colo. Maxwell was at Jacques Cartier with a small force, and Genl. Thomas was at De Chambault with 900 Men. They have none or very little provisions. They have no Cannon or a few pieces without Carriages (the greater part of the Carriages fell into the Enemies Hands) and they have but little powder. Eight Tons came with Us, We lost one, but can get no certain account of the rest. Nothing is wanting but a Wind for the Enemies frigates to pass the falls of Richlieu, &: then all Communication by water will be cut off. General Arnolds Letter will give You all we know of our affairs below. I beg You would seriously attend to our Letters to Congress. Our affairs here are almost desperate. Unless immediate attention is given to this Country it will not only be lost to Us, but


[Page 56]
24 May 17, 1776 informed by two Indians that a body of Savages about 100 headed by some English Soldiers number unknown, were come within 9 miles of his Post with an intention to attack it, brought this intelli gence himself to town and left his garrison consistg. of 300 effective Men. It is true according to his Accot. they were badly provided to receive the enemy & had been 4 days without any other provisions than bread; this Intelligence we conceive might have been communi cated to the Commanding Officer here, by any other person, as well as Colonel Bedel. Col. Paterson who now commands in Montreal, immediately ordered a detachment from his Regt, of 150 Men to reinforce the Cedars. A fresh Supply of provisions & Amunition was sent with the detachment. We apprehend the report to be altogether groundless or occasioned by some very triffling circumstance. The importance of this Colony will be made known to you by Doer. Franklin, it is a fine Wheat Country, it produced in 1771 for exportation 4 hundred &: 60 thousand bushels of Wheat. The Indian Trade is an object already sufficient to engage the attention of the Colonies & growing yearly of more importance. The inclinations of the common people are sd to be in general with us, but they are timorous &: unsteady, no assistance can be expected from them unless they find themselves supported by an army able to cope with the English Forces. Should we be driven out of the Country, we make no doubt considerable numbers of them, would be prevailed on thro’ fear to join the British Troops. We refer you for intelligence relating to the State of our Army below to Genl. Arnolds letters above men tioned which we make no doubt Genl. Schuyler has forwarded to Congress. Necessity has compelled Us to desire a Mr. Wm. McCarty to exe cute the Office of Deputy Quarter Master Genl, and we hope Congress will send that Gentleman a Commission of this Date. 1 Our Generals here exercise the power of Appointing Officers but we have not nor do we remember that they have any such powers. We flatter Our selves Congress will excuse our Exceeding our Commission in such Instances where the public Good requires it. In the present situation of our Affairs it will not be possible for us to carry into execution the great Object of our instructions, as the possession of this country must finally be decided by the Sword; we think our stay here no longer of service to the public. We are however willing to sacrifice our time, labour, and even our lives for the good of our Country and we wait with Impatience the further orders of Congress and are with great respect, for yourself & Congress, Sir, Your most Obedt., humble Servants, Samuel Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (DNA: PCC, item 166). In a clerical hand and signed by Carroll and Chase.


[Page 58]
26 May 17, 1776 John Hancock to Thomas Cushing My Dear Sir Philada. 17th May 1776 I wait with the greatest Impatience to hear from you on the Sub ject of my late Letters, surely they must have got to hand. The Bills I wrote you I was to pay as soon as you Advis’d me of their being honour’d, you have never wrote me the fate of, & I in honour have been oblig’d to pay them, if to my own Loss I can’t help it. Pray let me regularly hear from you. I paid Mr Barrell as you Desir’d for the Flour, & have also paid your Bill for 700 Dolls. I shall Send you some more money next Week. For News Refer you to my Publick Letter to the Assembly. 1 I hope Gates & Mifflin will soon be in Boston to Command, the former is made Major Genl., the latter Brigr. Inclos’d is the paper which [will] afford you a Resolve, that will at least afford some Conversation, If it is not Independence, it looks a good deal like it, we must Come to it. Remember me to all friends. Dont forget my Military Department in the Province. I am exceeding fond of it, & will if honor’d with that Command exert myself to the utmost, pray let it be Settled soon, I long to be improv’d in that way. Let me know the particulars of the Elections when they take place. I have no receipt for the last Money. Adieu. I am greatly Distress’d on the Melancholy Event of the Death of my Dear Aunt, she died very suddenly at Fairfield. How shall I Conduct as to her will, I do not Chuse to Send it down for fear of Accidents, will it do to Send it hereafter, do Advise me about it. My & Mrs Hancocks best Respects to Mrs Cushing, Miss Peggy, Mr & Mrs Avery & yourself & Connections. I am truly, your Real Friend & very hum John Hancock [P.S.] I have Remov’d into a noble House in an Airy open place, in Arch Street corner of Fourth Street, where I shall be Glad to See you. I have a Bed for you. I have wrote by order of Congress to Genl Washington for him to Come to this City for a few days to Consult. 2 RC (MHi: Society for the Preservation of New England Antiquities deposit). 1 See John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly, May 16, 1776. 2 For a discussion of Hancock’s invitation to General Washington, see Hancock to Washington, May 16, 1776, note 3. Joseph Hewes to James Iredell Dear Sir Philadelphia 17th May 1776 This being a day of humiliation, fasting and prayer (or in Vulgar


[Page 60]
28 May 17, 1776 have been so long out of the political world that I am almost a new man in it. You will have heard before this reaches you of the naval engagement in the Delaware. There are letters in town it is said from General Sullivan which inform that the lower town of Quebec is taken and a breach made in the wall of the upper; but I do not know myself that there are such letters; and if there be, whether Sullivan mentions his intelligence as authentic, as he could not then have reached Quebec himself. As to the articles of salt, blankets &c. every colony I beleive will be to shift for itself, as I see nothing but the measure of a foreign alliance which can promise a prospect of import ing either, and for that measure several colonies, and some of them weighty, are not yet quite ripe. I hope ours is and that they will tell us so. But as to salt it is a shame we should say a word about it; the means of supplying the world with it is so much in our power, that nothing but the indolence of Southern constitutions could suffer themselves to be in danger of want. Mr. Innis tells me Gwatkin’s books are left with Molly Digges for sale. I should be much obliged to you if you could procure and send me here a catalogue of them; and in the mean time purchase two of them which I recollect he had and have long wished to get; Histoire des Celtes de Pelloutier. 2. vols. 12mo. and Observations on Gardening printed by Payne, London. 8vo. For their cost I will get you to apply to Colo. Nelson to whom I can refund it here. This office will perhaps remind you of a box of books you have of mine which I am in hope some of the military or commissary’s waggons will furnish you with an opportunity of sending to Albemarle, to Richmond, or to Mr. Eppes’s in Charles City. Adieu. May. 19. 1776. For the melancholy reverse of the Quebec news received yesterday I must refer you to Nelson. 1 For our disappoint ment in the office of director to the hospital, to Innis who will be with you soon, and will give yourself and Mc.lurgh a full account in what manner we were surprised out of it. 2 RC (NN). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:293-94. ’See Jefferson to Thomas Nelson, May 19, 1776. 2 Letters of John Page and James McClurg to Jefferson, dated April 6, 1776, and asking Jefferson to use his influence to secure McClurg’s appointment as "Physician to the Continental Forces in Virginia,” are in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:286-87. Although William Rickman was appointed director and chief physician of the hospital in Virginia on May 18, McClurg did become surgeon general of Virginia state troops in 1777. See JCC, 4:364. Robert R. Livingston to John Jay Dear John Philadelphia 17th May 1776. I was so unfortunate as to miss the last post by which means I was


[Page 61]
May 17, 1776 29 prevented from letting you hear what I had done about geting you lodgings at Bristol, & the important business that had been transacted here before I arrived. I could not find a tolerable house in Bristol, the rooms that were unoccupied were all too small &: hot for invalids, & there was no house that could furnish more than two so that we could not have been together, tho’ had the rooms been tolerable we might have made out by taking two adjoyning houses had not one of the landlady’s nose placed such an obstruction in my way as my regard for Your future posterity rendered it impossible for me to get over. However I have provided three Bed rooms & a large parlour in a retired country house, about two miles from Bristol upon the banks of the Shamony where we shall have plentiful provision for our horses, good fishing before the door, a tavern about a 14 of a mile from us to lodge our friends, & in short every thing that we can wish to render our situation agreeable. The lodgings are to be en tered upon next Wednesday, by which time I hope to see you & Mrs. Jay there. It is absolutely necessary you slid, come to settle the ar rangement of our family And (what is much more important) to set tle another arrangement which I most heartily wish we could unite in making. Mr. Duane tells me he has enclosed you a copy of the resolution of the 15th. 1 I make no observations on it in this place for fear of accidents. It had occationed a great alarm here, & the anxtious folk are very fearful of its being attended with many ill consequences next week when the Assembly are to meet. Some points of the last importance are to be agitated (as we imagine) very early, I wish to God you could be here. If you do not get this length meet me at least at Bristol next week from whence you may return in a few days & send some of our delegates as the province will otherwise be often unrepresented, since I find it inconsistent with my health to be close in my attendance in Congress. You have by this time sounded our people, I hope they are satisfied of the necessity of assuming a new form of Government. Let me hear (if you dont come yourself) in what channel it will probably run. Let me know the mode in which new powers (for the old are insufficient) are to be obtained. If by a dissolution it will be necessary to go home. Let me also know in what sphere you yourself chuse to move. You are so necessary here, that I will consent to no law which will make the honours I wish you to possess inconsistent with your attendance on Congress. I have a thought which if carried into execution might render ours the favourite colony, &: dispute the absurd claims of our neighbours, which may hereafter be very troublesome, but it requires much con sideration, &: may perhaps be impracticable. I will reserve it (with other of my reveries) till one of those happy hours in which I permit myself to think aloud in your hearing. If you should see Benson it would not be amiss to let him know that I am a little hurt at his conduct, it may induce him to alter it


[Page 62]
30 May 17, 1776 without my coming to an explanation which might possibly occasion a coolness which I wish to avoid. Farewell, may heaven bless you, & put an end to these devils which break in so cruelly upon our domestick enjoyments, & ever render our reflection on past pleasures, the most agreeable part of our present friendship. Your friend &c., R R Livingston RC (NNC). Addressed: “To Coll. John Jay, New York.” 1 See James Duane to John Jay, May 16, 1776, note. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir Philadelphia May 17th 1776 Inclosed I have Sent you the printed Copy of the Resolution of Congress mentioned in my last. 1 Most of those here who are Termed the Cool Considerate Men think it amounts to a declaration of In dependance. It Certainly Savour’s of it, but you will See and Judge for Your Self. In the Evening-Post of Yesterday there is the following Paragraph under the New-York head, dated May the 15th 1776— “An Express Arrived here on Munday Evening from the Nothern Army, who brought Letters from Generals Schuyler & Sullivan Which Mention that our people had possessed and destroyed part of the Lower Town of Quebec, and made a breach in the Walls of the Upper Town.” 2 Yesterday, for the first time since I came to Town, I Was Confined to my Room all day by fit of the Astma, but now bravely again am Yours &c Caesar Rodney P.S. I have inclosed and directed to you one Copy of the Resolution for your Self, one for Coll. Haslet, one for Doctr. Tilton and one for Doctr. McCall. C. R. RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1972). y JCC, 4:342, 357-58. 2 For the reception of contrary news, see Rodney to Thomas Rodney, May 18, 1776. William Whipple to Meschech Weare Sir, Philadelphia 17th May 1776 The inclos’d Resolution of Congress 1 shod, have gone yesterday, but I had sent off my letter before I discoverd the Omission. Congress have reservd to themselves the appointment of Field Officers, but they are nominated by the Assembly, Convention, or Committee of the Colony where the Regiments are rais’d, it will therefore be necessary


[Page 63]
May 18, 1776 31 that the names of the field officers shod, be transmitted here in order that the Commissions may be fill’d up, the President will forward to you the Blank Commissions for the other officers. 2 When I think of the number of men &: Arms gone from the Eastern Colonies, I cannot help feeling for their scituation if a powerful attack shod be made there, but doubt not proper steps are taken to furnish arms, I think every Person who can do any thing towards making Arms shod, be employed in that Business. Britain will no doubt exert her utmost efforts for our destruction, but if they are repulsed in the manner I expect this Campaign, I am very confident they never will atempt another. This Summer will in all probability be the warmest America ever saw. May the Supreme Governour of the Universe Protect, & Defend us, Guide our Councils &: Prosper our Arms. I am with Great Respect, Your Most Obt. Servt, Wm Whipple May 18. Coll Bartlett arrivd last Evening very much Fatigued. RC (PPRF). 1 See JCC, 4:357. 2 On June 12 the New Hampshire Assembly nominated James Hackett, Thomas Tash, and David Copp as field officers for the battalion. N.H. State Papers, 8:141. John Adams to James Warren My dear sir May 18. 1776 Yours of 8 May reed this Morning, 1 and am as I ever have been much of your opinion that the Enemy would return to the Massa chusetts if possible. They will probably land at Hingham or Brain tree, or somewhere to the Northward of Boston, not make a direct Attempt upon Boston it self, the next Time. I hope no Pains, no Labour or expence will be neglected to fortify the Harbour of Boston however. Your Militia you say is in a broken state, but dont explain what you mean. I was in hopes that the late Militia Law had put them in a Good Condition. You must depend upon them chiefly. We have been labouring here to procure you Some assistance, and have obtaind a Vote, that the 5 Battailions now with you be filled up, and three Additional ones raised, two in Mass., one in Connecticutt. A Major General and Brigadier are to go to Boston. You must not hesi tate at any Thing for your own Defence. New York and Canada will take an infinite Expence. We did our best, but could procure no more at present. If an Impression should be made on you, the Conti nent will interpose, but they never will believe it untill it takes Place. This Day has brought us the Dismals from Canada. 2 Defeated most


[Page 65]
May 18, 1776 33 can never be retrieved without it. Pray let me know if any sum can be had in our Province. I shall inclose you a News Paper, which when you have read send along to Braintree. I am and have been these twelve Months, fully of your opinion that We have nothing to depend upon for our Preservation from Destruction, but the kind Assistance of Heaven to our own Union and vigorous Exertions. I was ripe therefore for as explicit Declara tions as Language could express Twelve Months ago. But the Colo nies seperately have neglected their Duty, as much as the Congress, and We cannot march faster than our Constituents will follow us. We dont always go quick enough to keep out of their Way. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. ’Warren’s May 8 letter to Adams is in Warren-Adams Letters, 1:339-41. 2 See Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock, May 10, 1776, which reached Congress this day; and JCC, 4:362. Adams’ colleague Robert Treat Paine made the following entry in his diary this day: “Rainy. By Express heard a Reinforcement had arrived at Quebec of 2 Men of Warr & 2 Frigates, & that our Army had retired. Dined at Mr Hancocks.” MHi. ’That is, as a justice of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear Philadelphia May 18th 1776 Yesterday afternoon I arrived here in good health, after a very fatigueing Journey. The weather has been, this week, uncommonly hot and Coming so suddenly after the Cold weather made it very uncomfortable both to horse & man. I wrote you by Col Gale which no Doubt you have Reed. After I left him I went by Norwich & New London to New Haven; went to meeting Sunday afternoon at Brandford, and rode after meeting to New Haven; on Monday rode from New Haven to Horseneck Tuesday morning. I understood the Eastern post was to Call there that morning & Breakfast, which I thought was a good opportunity to write to you, but while I was in another room writing & sealing a Letter he Came, left his papers and was gone. So I was Disappointed of Sending it at last. When I got to New York on Tuesday I found that General Sullivan and all the New Hampshire Regiments were Marched off for Canada, the two last Regiments had been gone about a fortnight. The account of the Roebuck & Liverpool men of war Coming up Deleware within 30 miles of this City & the Engagement of the Philadelphia Gondalos with them you will no Doubt See in the news papers. 1 The Gondalos had much the advantage of the men of war & obliged them to Sheer off; when the men of war were Coming up the people here were much frighted & many of them Sent out their goods into the Country.


[Page 66]
34 May 18, 1776 The Congress have Sent out a General Recommendation to all the Colonies to take up a new form of Government. You Desired me to write you how much forwarder the Spring was this way than with us; the people all the way as I Came Com plain of the Backwardness of the Spring till this week. At the South part of Connecticut last Monday the apple trees were in full Blossom, peach trees & Cherry trees out of the Blossom: from New York to this City the trees all out of the Blossom & Cherries of Some Bigness, the winter Rye Eared out to its full heighth. However the people all the way were planting Indian Corn. I want to hear from you & in particular from Lieut Pearson. Hope one or more of your letters are on the road here. I shall now Constantly write to you Every week and at present Direct them to be left at Newbury Port. Tell Mrs Burbank that the Regiment her son is in was Encamped at Some Distance from New York so that I could not See him, but I Saw a Captain that Belonged to the Same Encampment and I Gave him the letter & he promised me to find him out & give him the letter. The Company where Mr. Flagg’s Son is was Stationed at Stratton [Staten] Island four or five miles from New York but I took the best Care to Convey it to him. I am, yours &c, Josiah Bartlett RC (NhHi). ’See Marine Committee to John Barry, May 8, 1776. James Duane to John Jay Philad 18 May 1776 I wrote you, my dear Sir, a hasty Scrawl by the post on a most im portant Subject. 1 You know the Maryland Instructions and those of Pennsylvania. I am greatly in doubt whether either of their Assemblies or Conventions will listen to a Recommendation the preamble of which so openly avows Independance & Seperation. The lower Counties will probably adhere to Pensylvania. New Jersey you can form a good Judgment of from the Reception this important Resolution has met with. The orators of Virginia with Col. Henry at their Head are against a Change of Government. The Body of the People, Col. Nelson, on whose Authority you Hint, thinks are for it. The late Election of Deputies for the Convention of New York sufficiently proves that those who assumed clandestine power & gave Laws even to the Convention & Committees were unsupported by the people. There seems therefore no Reason that our Colony shou’d be too precipitate in changing the present mode of Government. I woud wish first to be well assured of the Opinion of the Inhabitants at large. Let them be rather followed than driven on an Occasion of such momentuous Concern. But, above all, let us see the Conduct


[Page 80]
May 20, 1776 Thomas Stone


[Page 81]
May 20, 1776 49 of Independency 8c new Establishments, and will break the Union or rather not enter into one for these Ends, either of which are dangerous Extremes. But in whatever is determined it will be wise and prudent to have the Concurrence of the People. I wish much to be with you & to remain with you to share in all your perplexities, Difficulties 8c Dangers be they what they may. But I am denied the only Comfort I could have in the present Situation of affairs by the particular Circumstances of my family. I am distressed beyond the Bearing of a Man who has much more Philosophy than ever I was blessed with, by contemplating probable Events in this Coun try. And this mortifying Speculation is not the greatest uneasiness I suffer at present. The Illness of a wife I esteem most dearly preys most severely on my Spirits, she is I thank God something better this afternoon, and this Intermission of her Disorder affords me Time to write to you. The Doctr. thinks she is in a fair way of being well in a few days. I wish I thought so. The People of this Province are thrown into the most violent Convulsions by the resolve of Congress sent you, the result of which it is impossible to foresee. 6 A considerable number of People met this morning in Consequence of an hand Bill for that purpose, 8c determined that Government ought to be assumed, the Assembly suppressed, the Instructions to the Delegates rescinded 8c a Convention called for the purpose of judging of the Propriety of forming a new Government, 8c to form the same. This Meeting as I am informed consisted of the people only who are of one side, 8c that all their Determinations were very unanimous. The County Committee I hear met yesterday and determined by a great majority only two dissenting, to support the assembly under the present form of Government. We have not heard from the out counties. The assembly was to have met this day, but I believe there were not members enough to make an House. We shall know in a few days whether they will maintain their Ground. Our affairs in Canada are ruined as you will see by the Papers. I wish we may make a tolerable stand on any Ground the other side the Lake. I hear Chase has wrote to a friend of his in this city, that he could not be of any further service in Canada and was determined to sit out the day after he wrote, to leave the County, should this resolution be taken by our Commissioners there, which however I hope for their Credit & our Safety will not be the Case, the Soldiers will probably follow & will not even hazard a Stay at Saint Johns or the Isle au Noix to raise fortifications, should this be the case 8c the Enemy take the advantage of this consterna tion and regain the Lakes, assemble the Canadians who are very generally irritated against us 8c the Indians who will join the Party to appearance victorious, a most bloody 8c distructive war upon the Frontiers of N York 8c N England will ensue, and how far it’s Con sequences may extend, cannot be foretold. On the contrary should


[Page 93]
May 22, 1776 61 Alass poor Imagination! how faintly and imperfectly do you supply the Want of original and Reality! But instead of these pleasing Scaenes of domestic Life, I hope you will not be disturbed with the Alarms of War. I hope yet I fear. RC (MHi). Adams. Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:412-13. 1 John Adams was appointed on May 23 to a committee to confer with Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin "upon the most speedy and effectual means for supporting the American cause in Canada.” Its report was submitted and acted upon on May 24, and on the following day Adams was named to the committee to confer with Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin to “concert a plan of mili tary operations for the ensuing campaign.” See JCC, 4:383-84, 387-89, 391. See also Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:390-91. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philadelphia May 22d 1776 I,find by your letter of the 19th Instant, 1 my Last letters to you, with which I inclosed you the Resolution of Congress to which is a Long preamble leading you to the design of the Resolution, had not then Come to hand. I sent them by Mr. William Gray who I believe did not leave this town Till Sunday Morning last. You don’t say whether you had seen Collo. Haslet’s letter to which I had Refered you. 2 By the next post Shall be glad to hear your opinion on the mode best to be adopted for Effecting the Change. 3 The people in this City I think have Acted rather unwisely. They have Called a Town Meeting—by which they have determined to apply to the Committees of Inspection of the Several Counties throughout the province, to depute a Certain number of each of those Committees to meet together at Philadelphia, And there agree on, and order What number of Members Shall be Elected by the people in Each County within the province, to meet in Convention at Philadelphia, The Whole number for the Province to be One hundred. 4 This Con vention is to be Chose for the Special purpose of Laying the plan of Government—and when that is Done, and an Assembly Chose and Returned agreable to Such plan the Convention is to be disolved. This mode for Establishing a Government appears to be, and really is verry fair. Yet I think they are unwise, Because we are Certain that a verry powerfull force is Expected from England against us, some are Come, the rest will undoubtedly Arrive before Midsummer. We shall be Oblidged to Exert every Nerve, at every point, and we well know how necessary Regular Government is to this End—and by their Mode it will be impossible for them to have any Government for three months to Come, and during that time much Confusion. If the present Assembly Should take Order in the Matter, the work


[Page 94]
62 May 22, 1776 would be done in one Quarter of the time. However many of the Citizens seem to have little or no Confidence in the Assembly. With us below I hardly know what Step will be best. In our County a New Choice Could not mend the Ticket, but might make it worse. In the Other Counties there is verry little probability of an Alteration for the better. I want to have the opinion of your Set Concerning it, by next Post. You say you sent by Mr. Parke fifty pounds to be paid to some person in Town and that Parke let you know he had left the Money with me. That you now mention it because I had not wrote to you about it. I Assure you it is the first time I ever heard of the fifty pounds. Parke never paid, or even ever talked of paying that, or any other Sum of money to me, nor did he ever tell me of your giving him any money for me on any one Else. As my Wheat is like to lie in the Granary for want of Such a price as I Can afforde to take, It will be necessary to have it fre quently Turned to prevent the Weavell getting in it. Therefore hope you will not Neglect to see it done. One of our Riflemen that travelled across the Country with Arnold, and taken prisoner while on Gentry at Quebec, Was Sent to England. A few days after he landed, he was sent to London and put in Bride well in Irons. Sawbridge (the Lord Mayor) went to him, Examined him and had him immediately discharged Sc sent down to Bristol, Where a number [o/] Gentn. procured him a passage to Hallifax. He left Bristol the 24th of March, Arrived in this City the day before Yesterday, And tho Searched at Hallifax two or three times, brought undiscovered a Number of Letters and Newspapers to the Congress, by which we are possessed of all their plans for the destruction of America. 6 No Commissioners. Captn. Craige who was appointed to make the Exchange of prisoners with the Roebuck, has returned to Chester with Captn. Budden, Lt. Ball and all the rest of them. They Say (for I have seen Budden 8c Craige) that the men of War are gone off to Sea, that they Stood after them 12 Leagues without the Capes, then lost sight of them and Returned. I am Yrs. Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney, May 19, 1776, which contained information on a conversation that he had recently had with John Dickinson in Dover. “I mentioned to him the Resolution of Congress [of May 10 and the preamble of May 15]; and he answer’d it was made before he Left there; upon which I ob served to him many advantages that would follow our assuming Government to which he agreed & observed many others ‘And that it would not prevent but per haps promote a more speedy reconciliation, because the longer they let Govern ment exist before they offer Terms the more firm that Government would be, & therefore the more difficult to effect a reconciliation.’ I should apprehend from the above sentiments that Mr. D has some glimmering hopes of reconciliation yet, or that he ment thereby, to flater those who have such hopes, to acquiese in the


[Page 95]
May 23, 1776 63 resolution of Congress—Peace, and reconciliation will henceforth be my ardent wish but never to mix our Government with Britains any more. It is known here that the resolution is published—but the news only arrived last night; Torism is dum, and many suspected persons give it there approbation, I believe it will meet with no opposition in this County.” Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 82. 2 Caesar Rodney to John Haslet, May 14, 1776. 3 For Thomas Rodney’s recommendation on the best means to change the gov ernment of Delaware, see his May 26 letter to Caesar in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 83-84. 4 The proceedings of this meeting are printed in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:517-23. “See Josiah Bartlet to John Langdon, May 21, 1776, note 2. John Hancock to Susannah Connolly Madam, Philada. May 23d. 1776. I laid before Congress your Application for a Passport to proceed to Pittsburgh; and am now to acquaint you, that under the present Situation of Affairs they could not comply with your Request, and further they have judged it necessary, that you should, for the present, remain in this City, and agreeably to their Order I am to inform you, that they expect that you do not depart this City without the Permission of Congress. You will therefore abide here, until you hear further from me. 1 I am, Madam, your very hble Sert. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 4:366. Susannah Connolly was the wife of Dr. John Connolly, who had been under arrest in Philadelphia since December 1775 as a result of his efforts to stir up Indian and loyalist opposition to the American cause. Mrs. Con nolly’s “Application” may have been turned down because Congress was currently considering a plan for an expedition against Detroit. Also Congress was probably still uneasy over the May 7 escape from a Philadelphia jail of Moses Kirkland, an active British supporter who had been apprehended in December 1775. See JCC, 4:337, 346; Md. Archives, 11:424-25; Pennsylvania Evening Post, May 8; Virginia Gazette (Purdie), May 17, 1776; and Richard Henry Lee to Charles Lee, May 21, 1776, note 3. Not until September 1776 did a committee of Congress report that Mrs. Connolly “may be enlarged with Safety to these States, and suffered to go to her family in Cumberland County, in the State of Pennsylvania.” JCC, 5:748n.l. For her fate in Philadelphia until then, see her letters of June 10 to Hancock and of July 8 and September 9 to Congress. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:784, 5th ser. 2:254; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:782-83. See also JCC, 5:429, 525-26, 545; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1296. John Hancock to Abraham Livingston Sir, Philada. May 23d. 1776. The Congress having been pleased to accept your Resignation of


[Page 96]
64 May 23, 1776 the Contract for supplying the Forces in the Colony of New York, I am extremely happy in conveying to you the Sense they entertain of your Conduct on the Occasion. 1 In thus 'voluntarily resigning so profitable a Contract, it is their Opinion which I am commanded to signify to you, That you have exhibited an Example of Public Spirit. The generous & disinterested Virtue you have shewn, will un doubtedly entitle you hereafter to the Notice of Congress. Should any Appointment worthy of your Acceptance come before them, I shall do all in my Power to have it bestowed on a Gentleman, who has reflected the highest Honour upon himself, by an unsolicited Sacrifice of private Interest, to public Order & CEconomy. I have the Honour to be, with great Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. J. H. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 For a detailed account of this incident, see James Duane to the New York Provincial Convention, March 21, 1776, note 2. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [May 23, 1776] Fair. 8 o’clock Sett out 1 with Mr. Clement Biddle, 2 rode to Hendersons Tavern, Sign 7 Starrs up Reading Road 12m., thence to Pawling Ferry over Schuylkill 10m, thence to the Continental Powder Mill on French Creek 5m, 3 din’d, view’d the Mill, thence to Warwick Furnace owned by Potts, 12m, rough Country, lodged. Genl. Wash ington arrived at Philada. MS (MHi). 1 Undoubtedly as an outgrowth of his work on several committees concerned with the production and purchase of powder and arms for the Continental Army, Paine set out this day on an inspection trip to various Pennsylvania powder mills, saltpetre works, iron furnaces, and cannon foundries that took him to more than a dozen such manufactories in seven days. See JCC, 2:86, 4:55, 169, 171. The out line of his trip—in the course of which he recorded stops at Reading, Miers Town, Lebanon, Manheim Town, Ledits, Lancaster, and White Horse before he arrived back in Philadelphia and returned to Congress on May 29—is preserved in his diary entries for May 23-29, 1776. MHi. “Clement Biddle (1740-1814), Philadelphia merchant, was appointed on July 8 deputy quartermaster general for the forces "ordered to rendezvous at Trenton” and served as commissary general of forage, 1777-80. DAB. “For further information on the “Continental Powder Mill on French Creek” and other gunpowder mills in Pennsylvania, see David L. Salay, "The Production of Gunpowder in Pennsylvania during the American Revolution,” PMHB 94 (October 1975): 422-42.


[Page 97]
May 24, 1776 65 Elbridge Gerry to Richard Devens Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia May 24th 1776 I reed your Favour of the 7th Instant & in Consequence of your Desire have employed Mr. Wm. Barrel to procure the Cloth for 1000 Tents Sc have them made in this Place. As the making is @ 8/ lawf[ul] here 8c 10/ or 10/3 in Massachusetts, I should have preferred his sending the Cloth—that the Tradesmen in our own Colony might have had the advantage but Mr. Barrel thinks he can deliver the Tents nearly as soon as the Canvas & hopes to be able to deliver them by the latter End of next Month. If the Quantity is too great You are to signify it to him by the first oppertunity, & furnish the Money for purchasing what is wanted. Mr Barrel informs me that there remains abt. 15000 Dollars of the Money sent by the Committee of the Court for purchasing 10,000 bbs flour, which he will convert to this Use if an order is obtained on the President for this purpose. He has purchased but 6061 bbs not having had Vessels for shipping a larger Quantity, & as the Risque is so exceedingly increased it is probable the Comee. will not think it proper to order the Residue, but purchase it elsewhere. Mr. Commissary Trumbul is here 8c informs me that he can de liver what is wanted at Cambridge for 20/ law[ful] Pennsylvania] Cfurrency] which you may mention to the Committee (if necessary) that this very necessary article may be procured in Time. Possibly it may be procured still more reasonably. The Committee of this City are collecting all the Window Weights of Lead in the same 8c replacing them with Iron, I hope a Committee will be appointed upon your application, by the hona House to apply to the Inhabitants of Boston for their leadn. Weights 8c Spouts, 8c that the price for effective Fire Arms manufactured in the Colony will be enhanced as they are greatly needed. I wish you Success in procuring all Necessaries 8c remain sir your Friend 8c hum sev, Elb Gerry P.S. I shall be glad of further Information relative to your Success on the Salt petre manufactory. The price of Ticklinburg is enhanced to 4/ Phila Currency per Ell. RC (M-Ar). 1 Richard Devens (1721-1807), Charlestown, Mass., merchant, was appointed commissary general of the Massachusetts militia in 1776 and held that post until 1782. L. Kinvin Wroth et al., eds.. Province in Rebellion: A Documentary History of the Founding of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 1774-1775, 4 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1975), 4:2847-48.


[Page 98]
66 May 24, 1776 John Hancock to the Commissioners to Canada Gentlemen, Philada. May 24th. 1776. By the enclosed Resolves of Congress which I do myself the Honour of transmitting, you will perceive that every Step has been taken to procure hard Money that could be devised. 1 I have forwarded to Genl. Schuyler by this Conveyance the Sum of sixteen Hundred & sixty two Pounds one Shilling &: three Pence in hard Money, which was all that was in the Treasury. Genl Washington arrived here yesterday Afternoon in good Health, the Congress having requested his Attendance in order to consult him on the Operation of the approaching Campaign, and such other Matters as should be necessary. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obedt. and very hble Sert. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 These resolutions were passed by Congress on May 22, partly in response to the commissioners’ letters to Hancock of May 1, 6, and 8. See JCC, 4:358, 362, 375-78. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. May 24th. 1776 In Obedience to a Resolve of Congress 1 I herewith transmit the Sum of Sixteen Hundred and sixty two Pounds, one Shilling & three pence in three Bags, which I have committed to the Charge of Captn. Graydon of the Pennsylvania Forces in the Continental Service. This is all the hard Money that was in the Treasury. Enclosed you have the Resolves of Congress with regard to our Affairs in Canada. 2 At present I am so extremely hurried, that I have only Time to add that, the Money voted by Congress to be sent to you shall be forwarded in a few Days. Genl. Washington arrived here yesterday in good Health, the Congress having requested his Attendance to consult him on the operations of the approaching Campaign. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Passed on May 18. ]CC, 4:366. 2 These resolves, passed by Congress on May 22, were mainly directions to Schuyler and the Canadian commissioners for arresting the collapse of the Ameri can position in Canada, prompted by the reception of alarming intelligence from there on May 16 and 18. On the 16th Congress appointed John Adams, Thomas


[Page 100]
68 May 24, 1776 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 These resolves, the most important of which declared that “the commanding officer in Canada, be informed, that the Congress are fully convinced of the ab solute necessity of keeping possession of that country,” were based upon the report of a committee appointed by Congress on May 23 to confer with Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin “upon the most speedy and effectual means for supporting the American cause in Canada.” JCC, 4:383-84, 388. John Hancock to John Thomas Sir, Philada. May 24th 1776. You will perceive by the enclosed Resolutions of Congress which I do myself the Honour of transmitting, and to which I beg Leave to refer your attention that Canada, in their opinion is an object of the last Importance to the Welfare of the United Colonies. 1 Should our Troops retire before the Enemy and entirely evacuate that Province, it is not in Human Wisdom to foretel the Conse quences. In this Case, the Loss of Canada will not be all. The whole Frontiers of the New England & New York Governments will be exposed not only to the Ravages of the Indians, but also of the British Forces, not less savage & barbarous in the Prosecution of the present War. In this View of the Matter it is needless to employ Arguments to excite you to the greatest Vigour & Dilligence on this Occasion. The Congress having tried every Method to collect hard Money for the Army in Canada, without Success, are determined not to relinquish the Expedition or give it up. They have therefore resolved to supply our Troops there with Provisions & Cloathing from the other Colonies if they cannot be had in that Country; of which Resolution, I sent this Morning an Account to Genl. Schuyler ac companied with several other Resolutions, with regard to the Situa tion of Affairs in that Quarter. Upon the whole, it seems from the latest Intelligence that Nothing but the greatest Exertions of Capacity and Vigour will ever retrieve our Misfortunes in Canada. The Eyes of the Continent are upon you. Display therefore, I entreat you for your own Honour, and the Good of your Country, those military Qualities, which you certainly possess. There are still Laurels to be acquired in Canada, which I have the most pleasing Hopes are reserved for you, as the Command of the Expedition is now given to you. I have Nothing further to add, but that I am commanded by Congress to direct you will carry the enclosed Resolves into Execu tion as speedily as possible. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Serv. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 4:388.


[Page 101]
May 25, 1776 69 Commissioners to Canada to David Wooster Sir, Montreal 25th May 1776 The inclosed 1 We desire You to forward by the Express to Saint Johns, which We presume You will send off in Consequence of our Letter of this Date. 2 Unless immediate Steps are taken to procure provisions for the Army, the Soldiers must starve or plunder the Inhabitants. It is a Duty incumbent on our Generals to prevent such a dreadful Scene by every Means in their power. We are, Sir, Your Most Obedt. Servants, Sami. Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (PHi). Written by Chase and signed by Chase and Carroll. 1 Not found. Apparently a letter to James Price and William McCarty pertaining to the procurement of flour. See Commissioners to Canada to John Thomas, May 26, 1776. 2 The commissioners wrote another brief letter to Wooster this day. “We think it would be proper for you to issue an order to the town Major to wait on the Merchants or others having provisions or merchandize for Sale and request a delivery of what our troops are in immediate want of, offering to give a receipt expressing the quantity delivered and engaging the faith of the United Colonies for payment, and on refusal we think our necessity requires that force should be used to compel a delivery.” Burr MSS, MWA. James Duane to John Jay Philad 25 May 1776 I conclude, my dear Sir, that the late Resolution of Congress recommending the Assumption of Government will induce you to give your Attendance for a few days at our own Convention. 1 If this shoud be the Case it will [5e] of advantage to you to be informed of the Temper and proceedings of the neighbouring Colonies on this great Revolution. You recollect the Maryland Instruction which, upon any Measure of Congress to this Effect, requird the Delegates of that Colony to repair to their provincial Convention. These Gent, accordingly declard that they shoud consider their Colony as unrepresented untill they receivd the directions of their principals who were then sitting at Annapolis. Yesterday the Sense of that Convention was made publick; they approve of the Conduct of their Delegates in Dissenting from the preamble & the Resolution—they repeat & enforce their former Instructions—declare that they have not lost


[Page 102]
70 May 25, 1776 sight of a Reconciliation with Great Britain; & that they will adhere to the Common Cause & support it on the principles of the Union as explaind at the time of entering on the War. So much for Mary land. 2 The General Assembly of Pensylvania is averse to any Change. The people of this Town assembled last Monday in the State house yard & agreed to a set of Resolutions in favour of a Change. Another body are signing a Remonstrance against the Acts of that Meeting and in Support of the Assembly. The Committee for the County of Philadelphia have unanimously Supported the Assembly & protested against any Change. It is supposed the other Counties will follow the Example & take a part in the dispute. Is it not to be feared that this spirit of Dissention will spread itself into the adjoining Colonies? But I intend to make no Reflections. The facts I have hinted at will be published—what relates to this City & the County of Phila. already are—and the Maryland Delegates have express directions to submit their Acts to the publick View. It may be Some days before they come to your Knowledge thro’ the Channel of the Press. I coud say a great deal to you on this interesting Sub ject; but you are master of my sentiments which are not altered since you left me here. I expect Mr Alsop this Evening & shall in that Case set out on Monday to visit my Family. 3 It is more than 9 months since I have seen my Children; 8c I have spent but about ten days in that time with Mrs. Duane. I am my dear Sir, with the greatest Regard, Your affectionate 8c most Obed Servt, Jas Duane RC (NNC). 1 In his reply to Duane written from New York on May 29, 1776, Jay observed: “So great are the Inconveniences resulting from the present Mode of Government, that I believe our Convention will almost unanimously agree to institute a better, to continue till a Peace with Great Britain shall render it unnecessary.” Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 269-70. Jay’s draft of this reply, located in the Jay Papers, NNC, contains the following paragraph about John Alsop and Francis Lewis, which is crossed out in the draft and does not appear at all in the RC: "Messrs. Alsop and Lewis start for Congress on Saturday next. The former of them has committed a piece of Imprudence or mercantile Finesse which I suspect will destroy the Confidence the People fixed on him. They say he asked six Shillings per pound for his Tea by the Quantity, on which the Retailor, not being able to make any Proffit if sold agreable to the Resolve of Congress, ob jected to taking it. To remove this objection, it is said, Mr. Alsop advised him to put it up in paper Parcels and by an extra Charge for Paper, obtain a reason able Proffit. This Affair has made much Noise, and I believe will make more.” 2 See Carter Braxton to Landon Carter, May 17; and Thomas Stone to James Hollyday?, May 20, 1776. “Duane left Congress on May 31, 1776, and did not return until April of the following year. Edward P. Alexander, A Revolutionary Conservative: James Duane of New York (New York: Columbia University Press, 1938), pp. 119, 124.


[Page 103]
May 25, 1776 71 John Hancock to the Commanding Officer in Philadelphia Sir, Philada. May 25th 1776 As the Congress have desired the Battalions of Associators in & near the City & Liberties to have their Battalions drawn out as early as they can on Monday Morning, & propose with the Generals now in Town to attend the Review at 9 O’Clock, I have it in Com mand to order you to draw out such of the Continental Troops as have Arms, & form them in Battalion with the Associators aforesaid. 1 I am Sir you most obed. Sert, J. H. Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To the Commanding officer of the Con tinental Troops in Philada.” 1 See JCC, 4:392-93. The next day Hancock sent the following additional in struction: “To prevent any mistake ... I am to inform you that the Battalions of Associators are to form distinct from your Corps, and to be solely Commanded by their own officers. This you will please to Notice, and Post your Troops in the Field in such order as not to Interfere with the Disposition of the City Troops.” PCC, item 12A; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:577. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 25th. [1776] Issued an order in favor of Jonathan Hudson of Baltimore on the Treasurers for 1333 1/3 dlls in part of his account of charges 8c demurrage on ship Molly, Isaac Hudson Master, as per contract with this Come, for which he is to be accountable. 1 Order on Robt. Towers for 75 lb powder in favor of J. Wilson 8c Peter Chevalier, who are accountable for the same. Order on R. Towers in favor of Come, of safety Philadelphia, for half ton of powder for which they are to be accountable. MS (MH). 1 On August 6 the committee paid Jonathan Hudson an additional S800 "in part for damage &c on his ship Molly,” which had been seized by Lord Dun more’s fleet and was later retaken by the Continental brig Andrew Doria. Journal of the Secret Committee, fol. 90, MH; Clark, Naval Documents, 5:341, 6:895. See also Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, March 14 and September 20, 1776. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelphia 25 May 1776 By Oliver’s Letter by D’Lucence I was glad to be informed that


[Page 104]
May 25, 1776 you was well. 1 hope to have the Pleasure of seeing my Family this Summer. Mr. Huntington is now gone Home. He will Return in about a Forthnight. Mrs. Sherman is here and Mr. Sherman intends to go home with her as soon as Mr. Huntington comes back. 1 I do with less regret Submit to live here till the heat of Summer, as it will be then uncomfortable And tho it will [5e] tedious travelling yet I had rather submit to that than live here in that Season. In about Two Months I may probably Return but which I may Vary upon Circumstances. Mr. Baldwin the Tutor is in Town who tells Me he will take Care and provide a good Place for Oliver. Perhaps he will take him into his own Rooms, however he says he will see that he Shall be well provided for. Mr. Pierpoints is a Very good Place but its Seems Oliver must remove from thence. Capt Mix is a Virtuous Family. His Son Oliver’s Classmate it seems is but an Ordinary Lad. If he is to live with him I shall be averse to it and as he is his Classmate Should preferr that he would not live in the same House. The Lad is not that I know of Vicious but indolent and triffling and has a Town Acquaintance which it is not any advantage to a Child to be led into. But this must be left to yr Prudence. Mr. Baldwin I believe will Very cheerfully Assist him in any Things and he mentioned as tho he perhaps might live with Mr. Buksminster. I care not whether he lives in the Colledge or not, but let him have good company and such advantages as may be Necessary. It seems he maintains a good Character, and I hope he will keep it. If the Matter is not So fixd, with Regard to his living with Capt Mix, Oliver need but Wait upon Mr. Baldwin and he will tell him of his Lodgings—such as I do not doupt will be Very proper for him. I wrote to you the 16t, lit, and 4t instant. I shall Write to you once in a Week or ten Days while I am here. For News referr you to the Papers. G. Britain mean or rather the King of it to exert his utmost force agt. this Country and has infamously hired Merce naries to Subdue us but I trust in God he will be defeated. I have No Apprehension that more than 30,000 at most including those already here will be employed in the Land Service. By the blessing of God I am Well. My Love to my Children and Friends. I am with the greatest Affection, yrs, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 Samuel Huntington returned to Philadelphia soon after June 25 and Wolcott apparently left for home about June 28. See Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, June 25, 1776. John Adams to James Sullivan Dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia May 26. 1776 Your Favours of May 9th and 17th are now before me; 2 and I


[Page 112]
80 May 27, 1776 Yet I will not shrink from this Danger or this Toil. While my Health shall be such that I can discharge in any tolerable manner, the Duties of this important Post, I will not desert it. Am pleased to hear that the superiour Court is to sit, at Ipswich in June. This will contribute to give Stability to the Government, I hope, in all its Branches . . . . 2 But I presume other Steps will be taken for this Purpose. A Governor and Lt. Governor, I hope will be chosen, and the Constitution a little more fixed. I hope too that the Councill will this year be more full and augmented by the Ad dition of good Men. I hope Mr. Bowdoin will be Governor, if his Health will permit, and Dr. Winthrop Lt. Governor. These are wise, learned, and prudent Men. The first has a great Fortune, and wealthy Connec tions, the other has the Advantage of a Name and Family which is much reverenced, besides his Personal Abilities and Virtues, which are very great. Our Friend, 3 I sincerely hope, will not refuse his Appointment, for although I have ever thought that Bench should be fill’d from the Bar, and once laboured successfully to effect it, yet as the Gentle men have seen fit to decline, I know of no Gentleman, who would do more Honour to the Station than my Friend. None would be so agreable to me, whether I am to sit by him, or before him. I suppose it must be disagreable to him and his Lady, because he loves to be upon his Farm, and they both love to be together. But you must tell them of a Couple of their Friends who are as fond of living together, who are obliged to sacrifice their rural Amuse ments and domestic Happiness to the Requisitions of the public. The Generals Washington, Gates, and Mifflin are all here, and We shall derive Spirit, Unanimity, and Vigour from their Presence and Advice. I hope you will have some General Officers at Boston soon. I am, with constant Wishes and Prayers for your Health, and Prosperity, forever yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:419-21. 1 Abigail had correctly surmised that John had written the recently published pamphlet Thoughts on Government. See ibid., p. 404. “Suspension points in MS. ’James Warren. Commissioners to Canada to John Hancock Sir Montreal May 27. 1776. We refer you to the inclosed letter from Genl. Thomas of the 20th instant for the reasons which induced him to order Colo. Maxwell to retreat from 3 Rivers to Sorel. 1 He has since given orders, as we are informed by Genl. Thompson’s letter of the 20th


[Page 113]
May 27, 1776 81 to remove all the Artillery & Artillery Stores from the mouth of Sorel without the least consultation with the Genl. Officers. We have reason to beleive that there is not that good understanding & free communication of sentiments between the General Officers, which we think essential for the good of the service. General Thomas is now at Chambly under the Small pox; being taken with that dis order, he left the Camp at Sorel, & wrote to General Wooster to come and take the Command. When the interest of our Country, and the safety of your Army is at Stake we think it a very improper time to conceal our sentiments either with respect to persons or things. General Wooster is in our opinion unfit, totally unfit, to Command your Army & conduct the war; we have hitherto pre vailed on him to remain in Montreal, his stay in this Colony is un necessary &: even prejudicial to our Affairs, we would therefore humbly advise his recall. In our last we informed you of the deplorable state of the Army. Matters have not mended since we went to the Mouth of Sorel last week, where we found all things in confusion, there is little or no discipline among your Troops nor can any be kept up, while the practice of Enlisting for a twelve Month continues. The General Officers are all of this Opinion. Your Army is badly paid and so exhausted is your Credit, that even a Cart cannot be procured without ready Money or force. We will give you an instance of the lowness of your Credit. 3 barrels of gunpowder were ordered from Chambly to Montreal. This powder was brought from Chambly to a ferry about 3 Miles off, where it would have remained, had we not luckily passed by, and seeing the distress of the Officer, under taken to pay ready and hard money for the hire of a cart to convey it to Longueul. The Army is in a distressed condition, and in want of the most Necessary articles. Meat, Bread, tents, Shoes, Stockings, Shirts &c. The greatest part of those who fled from Quebec left all their baggage behind them, or it was plundered by those whose times were out, & have since left Canada. We are informed by Colo. Allen that the Men, who from pretended indisposition had been excused from doing duty, were the foremost in the flight, and carried off such burthens on their backs as hearty & stout Men would labour under. With difficulty 3 hundred tents and about 2 hundred Camp kettles were procured here, & sent to the Sorel for the use of the Army, and were delivered, as we are informed, to one Major Fuller, who acted in the room of Mr Campbell D.Q.M.G., who had joined the Army at the Sorel, but a day or two before our arrival there. Among other instances of mismanagement we give the following, Colo. Nicholson’s regiment consisting only of one Hundred Men received 30 tents and 31 camp kettles, Colo. Porters Regt, not ex ceeding that number rec’d 56 Tents &: 33 kettles. Your Army in Canada does not exceed 4000. Above 400 are sick


[Page 114]
82 May 27, 1776 with different disorders. 3/4ths of the Army have not had the small Pox. The greater part of Greatons, Bonds, & Burrels Regts, have been lately innoculated. There are about Eight Tons of Gunpowder in the Colony. To evince the great distress we are reduced to for want of bread, we must inform you, that we were obliged to buy 30 Loaves of bread of our baker, to feed Colo. De Haas detachment, which entered this town Friday Night on their way to join General Arnold at La Chine and who could not be supplied by the Com missary; Such is our extreme want of flour, that we were yesterday obliged to seize by force 15 bbs to supply this garrison with bread; previous to this seizure a general order was issued to the town Major to wait on the Merchants or others having provisions or Merchandize for Sale, requesting a delivery of what our Troops are in immediate want of &: requiring him to give a receipt expressing the quantity delivered, for the payment of which, the faith of the United Colonies is pledged by your Commissioners. Nothing but the most urgent necessity can justify such harsh measures, but men with arms in their hands will not starve, where provisions can be obtained by force: to prevent a general plunder which might end in the Massacre of your Troops & of many of the Inhabitants we have been con strained to advise the General to take this Step. We cannot conceal our concern that Six Thousand Men should be ordered to Canada without taking care to have Magazines formed for their Subsistance, cash to pay them, or to pay the Inhabitants for their Labour, in transporting the baggage, Stores, and provisions of the Army. We cannot find words strong enough to describe our Miserable Situation, you will have a faint Idea of it if you figure to yourself an Army broken and disheartned, half of it under innoculation or under other diseases, Soldiers without pay, without discipline and altogether reduced to live from hand to mouth, depending on the scanty & precarious Supplies of a few half Starved cattle & triffling quantities of flour which have hitherto been picked up in different parts of the Country. Your Soldiers grumble for their pay; if they receive it, they will not be benefitted as it will not procure them the necessaries they stand in need of. Your Military chest contains but eleven thousand paper Dollars. You are indebted to your Troops treble that sum and to the Inhabitants above 15000 dollars. You have no adjutant General, a most important Officer, General Thomas appointed a Man totally unfit for the Office, as we are informed by General Thompson & Colo. Sinclair. On General Arnolds recommendation Colo. Antil now does that duty & We gave him Expectation of being paid. We are by no means proper judges of his abilities & fitness for that Station but we are informed, that it requires a Gentleman of great activity and abilities. You have no muster master, We have Authority only to fill up such Vacancys as may happen during our


[Page 115]
May 27, 1776 83 Continuance in Canada. We met Mr. Flemming appointed by Con gress Deputy Adjutant for this Colony, in [New York?], and Captn. Rensselaer the Deputy Muster Master passed Us on the Lake. In some few Instances it may be necessary to make new appointments. E.G. more Deputy Commissaries and Deputy, or Assistant Quarter Masters. Your Generals here have hitherto exercised that power. The Detachment of 150 Men mentioned in our last to have been sent to the relief of the Cedars under the Command of Major Sher burne were intercepted; we were some time before we could learn the fate of both parties. General Arnold upon his arrival from Sorel set off with a party of 100 Men & took post and Entrenched at La Chine about 9 Miles from this City; Captn Young with a Small Detachment posted at Fort St. Ann on the end of this Island evacuted his post and retreated back leaving the provisions & Stores, on a report that some Indians were landed on the Island. His post might have been defended some days until relief could be sent. General Arnold was soon reinforced by part of Greatons Regt. & some other Troops. Colo. De Haas with 110 Riffle Men & 300 Mus- queteers was despatched immediately from Sorel. By the best In telligence we can get, the enemy are about Six hundred, abt 40 or 50 Regulars, 300 Inds. & 250 Canadians. They have the two pieces of Cannon taken from Colo. Bedels party and were Yesterday within three Miles of General Arnolds Camp, but finding he had been reinforced made a precipitate retreat. Colo. De Haas set off at Six oClock yesterday Morning to endeavour to cut off their retreat, & General Arnold was to follow in a few Minutes in persuit of them. We hope hourly to hear that our prisoners are liberated, & the Enemy routed. The Canadians being threatened to have their habi tations destroyed by the Savages, thro’ fear are induced to join the Savages. We have also a party of Canadians. We enclose You Copies of Letters from Genls Thomas, Arnold & Thompson 2 and are, Sir, with great Respect to yourself & the Congress, Yr. Most Obedt. Servants, Samuel Chase Ch. Carroll of Carrollton May 28. 1776 Tuesday General Arnold arrived on Sunday Evening with the Troops, at St. Anns just in time to see the Savages carrying off from an Island the last boat Load of our unhappy prisoners. 3 He had no Boats to follow them. He sent a Caghnawaga Chief to the Savages to inform them if they injured any of our Prisoners that he would destroy their Villages & follow them to the end of the Earth. They replied if he attempted to cross over or attack them that they would im mediately kill all their prisoners & for that purpose had collected them together. A Council of war notwithstanding determined to attack them, & the Kings Troops in the morning. Lieut. Park was


[Page 116]
84 May 27, 1776 sent by Captn. Forster to inform Genl. Arnold that the Savages were determined to kill their prisoners if attacked, that he could not control them 8c therefore from the Dictates of Humanity, he would propose to release all our prisoners, on Condition that they should not bear Arms agt. the King during the War, 8c that an equal number of his Majesties Troops of the same Rank should be returned in Exchange. This proposal was rejected by Genl. Arnold. The inclosed is a Copy of the agreement entered into. This hypro- critical, insidious, base 8c wicked Conduct of a British Officer needs few Comments. The Governors, Agents 8c Officers of a British King incite the Savages to join them in a war against these Colonies without the least provocation or Injury. No cause of Quarrel Sub sists between the Savages 8c the Colonies. If by the Chance of War any of our Troops are made prisoners they are delivered by the King’s Officers into the Murderous hands of those Cruel 8c barbarous savages; contrary to the practice 8c usage of every civilized Nation in the World; the British Troops secure their safety by Threats from the Savages to murder the Prisoners if attacked. Captn. Forster alledged he had it not in his power to controul the Savages from an act, which he declares to be opposite, 8c contrary to the humane Disposition of the British Govt. 8c to all civilized Nations. If the Commander of British forces cannot controul the Savages from Committing acts of Cruelty 8c Barbarity, why do they incite them to Arm agt. Us or act in Conjunction with Barbarians whose Savage Customs they condemned? This same Conduct in the French during the last War, was censured and execrated by the British Nation. Captn. Forster had sufficient Influence over the Savages to induce them to deliver up their prisoners (tho’ our Troops surrendered to him) in order to procure an Exchange of so many of the Kings Troops now our prisoners, he could controul their will for the Advantage of the British Nation, but had not the least Influence over them to prevent the Murdering our people in Cold Blood. The fear of the Indians of being attacked by our forces was only a pretext, for Captn. Forster appears desirous of Commencing Hos tilities before the Expiration of the time limited. Five or Six of our prisoners were murdered by the Indians, in the most cruel manner after the Surrender, The whole were Stripped, contrary to the Terms of Capitulation, and drove in a Neck of Land: during a very stormy 8c tempestuous Night. Colo. Reads 8c [Starks?] Regts, arrived at St Johns Saturday Evening. The Letter from Genl. Thomas to Genl. Wooster of which the enclosed is Copy, this Minute came to hand. RC (DNA: PCC, item 166). In a clerical hand and signed by Carroll and Chase. Received and read in Congress on June 6, 1776. JCC, 5:420. ’See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:592. 2 See ibid., pp. 588-97; and JCC, 5:420.


[Page 117]
May 27, 1776 85 ’For an account of this entire affair, see Justin H. Smith, Our Struggle for the Fourteenth Colony: Canada and the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1907), 2:367-80. See also Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:595-600. Benjamin Franklin to the Commissioners to Canada Dear Friends, N York May 27. 1776 We arrived here safe yesterday Evening, having left Mrs Walker with her Husband at Albany, from whence we came down by Land. We pass’d him on Lake Champlain; but he returning overtook us at Saratoga, where they both gave themselves such Liberties in taunting at our Conduct in Canada, that it came almost to a Quarrel. We continu’d our Care of her, however, and landed her safe in Albany, with her three Waggon Loads of Baggage, brought thither without putting her to any Expence, and parted civilly tho coldly. I think they both have excellent Talents at making them selves Enemies, and I believe, live where they will, they will never be long without them. We met yesterday two Officers from Philadelphia with a Letter from the Congress to the Commissioners, & a Sum of hard Money. 1 I opened the Letter &: seal’d it again, directing them to carry it forward to you. I congratulate you on the great Prize carry’d into Boston. Seventy-five Tons of Gunpowder is an excellent Supply; and the 1000 Carbines with Bayonets, another fine Article. The German Auxiliaries are certainly coming. It is our Business to pre vent their Returning. The Congress have advis’d the erecting new Governments, which has ocasion’d some Dissension at Philada.; but I hope it will soon be compos’d. I shall be glad to hear of your Welfare. As to my self, I find I grow daily more feeble, and think I could hardly have got along so far, but for Mr Carroll’s friendly Assistance & tender Care of me. Some Symptoms of the Gout now appear, which makes me think my Indisposition has been a smother’d Fit of that Disorder, which my Constitution wanted Strength to form completely. I have had several Fits of it formerly. God bless you & prosper your Councils; and bring you safe again to your Friends & Families. With the greatest Esteem & Respect, I am, Your most obedt humble Servant, 2 B Franklin RC (NN). ’See John Hancock to the Commissioners to Canada, May 24, 1776. ’Franklin also wrote to General Schuyler this date relating an account of his journey and thanking the general and his wife for their assistance during his trip southward. Miscellaneous MSS, N.


[Page 125]
May 28, 1776 93 As to your questions about the bath waters I hardly know how to answer them since I have been so much confined here as to have given them but little chance—however Philadelphia agrees very well with me which is much the same thing. I suppose you know that our little family is settled about two miles from Bristol. I visit it on Saturday & leave it on Monday. I am very happy that Peggy & Polly have an agreeable neighbourhood who are attentive to them in my absence. You do wrong to tell me of the beauties of the Manor at a time when the remembrance of them only makes me regret my absence. As I am a farmer you should have said some thing of my domain— but I am unreasonable. I should rather thank you for what you have said than blame what you have not said. I am glad Janet is gone to Albany since it may tend to her amusement, but sorry that Angelica has left you, since it increases your solitude. By the pathetic appella tion of poor Ann I fear she has not recovered her health, for which I should be extreamly sorrey since the goodness of her heart entitles her to every blessing. If Gittys laziness is not invincible I may hope to hear from her: however I have little faith in modern miraclles. As for John I shall pass him by in silence—but of Dolly I have some hopes. I know Hannah means well, & I am affraid that from her according to the adage I must acceppt the will for the deed. Give my love to mama, she is three letters in my debt. May heaven bless you all & grant us a happy meeting. N. B. I would have my wheat ground immediately and let my people eat the cornel for which there will be no vent. From your Aff. Brother, Robt. R Livingston RC (CtW). 1 Livingston's sister, Catharine (1752-1849). New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Sir, Philadelphia 28th May 1776 We have obtain’d an order for 10500 Dols, for defraying the expences of raising & advancing a months pay to the Regiment to be station’d at Portsmouth which we only wait for an opportunity to send forward. 1 Flour & salt Provisions may be supplied from Boston where a much larger Quantity was left by the Commisary Genl, than will be wanted by the troops station’d there. We are extreamly sorry that the Colony we have the Honour to Represent which has had so high a place in the esteem of the whole Continent, for its for wardness, & great exertions, in the Glorious Contest, in which we are now engag’d, shod, be lessen’d by the delay of the Regiment


[Page 126]
94 May 28, 1776 order’d last winter into Canada. Our misfortune in that Country is imputed to tardiness of that & two other N. England Regiments, if that Regiment had March’d at the time we expected, & frequently asserted, the evil might have been averted; we hope (for the Honor of the Colony) there will be a strict inquiry made and the cause of the delay fully investigated, that the Officers (if they are faulty) may be brought to justice. The Convention of Virginia have instructed their delegates to use their endeavors that Congress sho’d declare the United Colonies a Free independent state, North Carolina have signified the same desires. 2 S. Carolina & Georgia will readily Acceed. The Proprietary Govts will be the last to agree to this necessary step, the disafected in them are now exerting themselves but their exertions are no more then the last strugles of expiring factions. We hope in a few months Civil Governments will be establish’d in all the United Colonies on a firm & permanent Basis. We shod be glad to know the sentiment of our Colony on the important subject of a total seperation from Great Britain. Let our own opinions be what they may, we think ourselves in duty bound, to act agreeable to the sentiments of our constituents. 3 We are with great Respect, Your Most Obt Serts, Josiah Bartlett Wm. Whipple RC (DLC). Written by Whipple and signed by Whipple and Bartlett. ’Although the resolution was passed on May 22, two weeks elapsed before the money w r as sent to New Hampshire. See JCC, 4:380; and Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, June 14, 1776. 2 These instructions were read in Congress on May 27. JCC, 4:397. •On June 15, the New Hampshire Assembly instructed its delegates in Congress “to join with the other Colonies in Declaring The Thirteen United Colonies, A Free ir Independent State." N.H. State Papers, 8:149-50. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 28th May 1776 Your two favors of 11th and 12th current came duly to hand. 1 I rejoice to find your ship the most forward of any except those at Providence, but I very much fear you’ll still wait for guns if they are not to be had at Providence as I mentioned in my last. I have still kept off the appointment of an Agent in hopes of fixing the appointmt to your mind. 2 I have nominated the Captain who is unanimously accepted by the Committee, but the Sanction of Con gress is still wanting which I think there is no doubt of. The atten tion of Congress has been taken up some days in conference with General Washington, as the plan of operations for this campaign.


[Page 129]
May 29, 1776 97 I wish I could be at Home, at this important Period. But you will remember that all the other Colonies have Constitutions to frame— and what is of infinitely great Delicacy, Intricacy, and Importance, the Continent has a Constitution to form. If I could be of some little use at home, I may be of more here at present. You kindly and politely express a Concern for my Health, and if you have any Regard for me it is not without Reason. I have been here four Months, during which Time I have never once been on Horseback, and have found but little Time to walk. Such un- interupted Attention to Cares and Perplexities of various Kinds, is enough to destroy a more robust Body than mine. But I cannot excuse myself from these Duties, and I must march forward untill it comes to my Turn to fall. Indeed if a few Things more were fully accomplished, I should think it my duty to ask Leave of my Con stituents to return home to my Garden. The Moment I can see every Colony in Possession and actual Exercise of all the Powers of Government, and a Confederation well settled for all the Colonies under a Congress with Powers clearly defined and limited; and Sufficient Preparation and Provisions made for Defence against the Force which is coming against Us; that Moment I shall return to my family; from which I have been too long divorced. But whether my Constitution will hold out so long must be left to him that made it, to whose wisdom and goodness I chearfully Submit. N.B. The Petition from the independent Corps, in Boston gave me great Pleasure and is much to their Honour. I did my Endeavour to get the Prayer granted, but it is at last left to the General. 4 LB (MHi). 1 Benjamin Hichborn (1746-1817), a Boston lawyer, was the ill-fated carrier of John Adams’ controversial letters of July 24, 1775, to Abigail Adams and James Warren that were captured and published by the British. After escaping from the British, Hichborn returned to his legal practice and subsequently was one of the organizers of the Boston Independent Corps. His May 20 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:36-44. 2 Adams marked this part of the letter in parenthesis “a Mistake not copied.” “The Massachusetts General Court in May 1776 made representation in that body dependent on the number of qualified voters in a town. Under provincial law each town of 120 qualified voters had elected a maximum of two representa tives with the sole exception of Boston, which elected four. Under the new law a town could send two representatives for its first 120 qualified voters and an additional representative for each additional 100 qualified voters. Under the new system Boston elected 12 representatives in the May 29 election. Western and rural towns immediately expressed their fears that this maneuver would lodge control of the government in the populous, eastern, commercial region. For further discussion of the impact of enlarged representation in the Massachu setts House of Representatives, see Stephen Patterson, Political Parties in Revolu tionary Massachusetts (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1973), pp. 153-70; and Robert J. Taylor, Western Massachusetts in the Revolution (Providence: Brown University Press, 1954), pp. 35-36, 101, 140n.39.


[Page 131]
May 29, 1776 99 Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philadelphia May the 29th 1776 You tell me you are proceeding on the Recommendation of Con gress by way of Instruction to the members of the House for that county, 1 I fully approve the methods and hope You will proceed in the business Deliberately, Coolly and persuasively, but diligently. I don’t doubt the Assembly will Act prudently. If otherwise, it will then be time Enough for the people to take the Matter up in an other way. The Recommendation of Congress was certainly Meant to go to the Assemblies, Where there were such who had Authority to Set; and the people of this province haveing taken the matter up upon other Grounds have occationed verry great disturbance, Such as I would not wish to see in our Government. The Colonies of North-Carolina and Virginia have both by their Conventions for Independence by a Unanimus Vote, and have Instructed their mem bers to move and Vote for it in Congress reserving to Each Colony the exclusive right to frame government for it’s Self. The Conven tion of North-Carolina has appointed a Committee (of its own Body) to draw up and Report to them a plan of Government. South- Carolina and all the New-England Colonies have declared off some time Since. When these things are known to the people they will no doubt have great weight with them. I have not seen this day’s paper yet, but imagine you’l have the doings of one or more of those Colonies published there. However Whether in the paper or not, You may depend on the whole of the above relation to be matter of fact. Coll. Dickinson’s, Coll. Robertdoe’s, Coll. Cadwallader’s, Coll. Mckean’s and Coll. MatLock’s Battallions, three companies of Artillery & the Light-horse of the Militia; and Coll. Shee’s and Coll. Magaw’s Battalion’s of the Continental Troops Were all Reviewed the day before Yesterday, on the Common, by the Congress, Generals Washington, Gates and Mifflin accompanied by a great number of other officers, most of the Assembly, the Presbiterian Clergey who were here at the Sinod—and 21 Indians of the Six Nations who gave the Congress a War-dance Yesterday. I Shall put on board John Morris Who is to leave town this day, two barrells of Rum, One of West-India, the other Philadelphia, one barrel of Muscavado Sugar, One hundred Weight of Loaf Sugar and twelve pounds of Bohea Tea. I Shall Send you a Bill of the Articles, hope they will Get safe down and that you will have Care taken of them. They are most abominable high. But having an Eye to havest as well as present Use, Could not do without them. Mr. Ball the Lieutt. is now fixed at Germantown. Since the return of the Liverpool into our Capes there has been another Attempt of the Committee of Safety here, to have Ball Exchanged for Captn. Budden, but Totally rejected by Congress. 2 Misses. Minchel just


[Page 132]
100 May 29, 1776 now told me that Mr. Mark McCall’s mother in Law is dying and that she was with her last night. I have Made further Enquiry about your fifty pounds Sent by Parke, and Mr. Redwood Lets me know that he has not Reed or heard of it. That he has not reed a Letter from you any time within four Months past. Therefore it will be Expedient that You secure yourself in the best, and Quickest way you Can. I think his long Stay in Virginia is Something Suspecious. With Respect to the twenty pounds you Reed of Rymear Williams, keep it till I Come home—perhaps I may be able to get down from our Assembly which Sets next Munday Week. Would doctr. Tilton Think himself obliged, by an Appointment (in his Way) of forty dollars per month, in Virginia, or toward Canada? These things have frequently happened of late, and wou’d probably be in the power of a friend to Serve him. Mr. Jourdan informs me, that McLean has lost the Letter I sent by him to Coll. Haslet. 3 I don’t Recollect any thing verry Material in it—But that Evans the Contractor, had an application made to Congress to have the Troops Quartered at Some two places in the Government that he might the more Conveniently provide for them, otherwise he must decline the Contract—Which Congress absolutely Refused, for that it would be interfering with the business of the Coll., that they never will interfer with his duty but when it shall Evidently appear to them for the greater security and protection of the Government. I took the Liberty to tell Coll. Haslet that I did not doubt he would Study Mr. Evans Convenience (Especially as his providing for them wou’d be a Saving to the public) whenever he should think the safety of the Government wou’d not be En dangered by it. I also mentioned to him (as my opinion) That if he Should Send all the Troops out of Kent, the Committee of Safety there, would Call upon him for the Arms lent, and put them into the hands of the Militia for the imediate protection of that County. I am Asstonished that McLean Should have Lost the Letter—but if it Should Contain any Matter of politic’s (which I do not recollect it did) Shall be verry Angry, and Even Suspect some unfair play. As I have now got to the End of my paper, Must Conclude, Yours &c, Caesar Rodney RC (PHi). 1 See Thomas Rodney to Caesar Rodney, May 26, 1776, in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), p. 84. 2 On this day Congress offered to exchange William Budden for John Draper. JCC, 4:398-99. See also JCC, 4:340, 345, 357; and John Hancock to Walter Stewart, May 9, 1776, note. 3 Probably Rodney’s May 23 letter to John Haslet, which has not been found, but see Haslet’s undated response to it in Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 86-87.


[Page 133]
May 30, 1776 101 John Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear sir May 30th. 1776 Yours of the 20th was handed me by the last Post. 1 I congratulate you upon the first modern Election, on the last Wednesday in May, of Councillers as at the first. I could not avoid indulging myself yesterday, in Imagination with my Friends in Boston, upon an oc casion so joyfull. I presume you must have had a very solemn and ceremonious Election, and wish that no Interruption may ever hereafter take Place, like that of the last year. You have given me great Pleasure by your account of the Spirit and Activity of our People, their Skill and success in fortifying the Town and Harbour: But there are several Things still wanting, in my Judgment. I never shall be happy, untill every unfriendly Flagg is driven out of sight, and the Light House Island, Georges and Lovells Islands, and the East End of Long Island are secured. Fire Ships and Rafts will be of no service without Something to cover and protect them from the Boats of the Men of War. Gallies are the best Engines in the World for this Purpose. Coll Quincy has the best Idea of these Gallies, of any Man I know. I believe he has a perfect Idea of the Turkish, and Venetian Gallies. Some of these are large as British Men of War, but some are small. (I Sincerely wish, that at this Time he was a Member of one or the other House, because his knowledge and Zeal would be usefull. This however is none of my Concern. But his Knowledge in naval and marine affairs is not exceeded by any Man I know.) 2 Gallies might be built and armed with heavy Cannon, 36 or 42 Pounders, which would drive away a Ship of almost any Size, Number of Guns or Weight of Metal. The Dexterity of our People in Sea Matters must produce great Things, if it had any Person to guide it, and stimulate it. A Kind of dodging Indian Fight might be maintained, among the Islands in our Har bour, between such Gallies and the Men of War. Whether you have any Person, Sufficiently acquainted with the Composition of those Combustibles, which are usually put into Fire Ships and Rafts I don’t know. If you have not, it would be worth while to send some one here to inquire and learn. At least let me know it, and altho I have a demand upon me for an Hour, when I have a Minute to Spare, yet I will be at the Pains, tho I neglect other Things of informing my self as well as I can here, and send you what I learn. We are making the best Provision we can, for the Defence of America. I believe We shall make Provision for 70,000 Men in the three Departments the Northern, including Canada, the middle, and the southern. The Die is cast. We must all be soldiers and fight pro Aris et Focis. I hope there is not a Gentleman in the Massachusetts Bay, not even in the Town of Boston, who thinks himself too good


[Page 134]
102 May 30, 1776 to take his Firelock and his Spade. Such imminent Dangers level all Distinctions. You must before now, have seen Some important Resolutions of this Congress, 3 as well as of Seperate Colonies. Before many Weeks you will see more. Remember me with every sentiment of Friendship and Respect to all who deserve well of their Country. These are all my Friends, and I have, and will have no other. I am &c. P.S. Gallies to be used mainly in Boston Harbour, the less they are the better provided they are large and strong enough to sustain the Weight of the Guns and the Shock of the Explosion. The Gallies first built in Delaware River, were too large to be handy and too small, to live and work in a Sea. We are building two of different Construction. 4 They are to carry two large Guns in the Stern and two in front—and five or six 3 Pounders on each side besides swivalls. They are built to put to sea, live and fight in a swell or a storm. They are narrow but almost 100 feet long. LB (MHi). 1 Cooper’s May 20 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “Adams marked this portion of the letter in parenthesis “not sent.” 3 Undoubtedly a reference to Congress’ May 10 resolution and its May 15 pre amble advising the colonies on instituting new governments. JCC, 4:342, 357-58. 4 Congress had authorized the construction of two gallies on April 13, 1776. JCC, 4:280. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 30th. 1776. At a meetg. of the Come. Present Morris, McKean, Hewes, Lee & Bartlett. The followg. Letr. was wrote to the Captains, Osman, Harvey &: Collins, whose vessels are now loaded on Acct, of the Continent. Sir, Philada. May 30th. 1776. We are informed the men of war have left our Capes. You are therefore to proceed to sea fast as possible, &: we have sent to the Hornet & Wasp to keep a good lookout & give you timely notice to return if the Enemy comes back before you get out. 1 MS (MH). 1 Two days later Robert Morris asked the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety to grant "a pass & Pilot” for the sloop Peggy, Capt. Thomas Patton, which was also “loaden for Acct of the Continent.” Robert Morris to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, June 1, 1776. Clark, Naval Documents, 5:339. The Peggy was captured by the Kingfisher on July 3 off Cape Henlopen. Ibid., p. 901.


[Page 135]
May 30, 1776 103 Secret Committee to William Hodge Sir Philadelphia 30th May 1776 As you are now bound on a voyage to Europe 1 with a view of procuring sundry articles that are wanted here and have expectations that your friend Mr Jean Wanderwoordt will supply such as we may desire provided he is assured of being duly paid the Cost with In terest for the Time he remains in advance, We the subscribers being a Quorum of the Secret Committee appointed by the Honble the Continental Congress and Authorized to procure from foreign Countries Supplies of Arms, ammunition and other Articles on the best terms we can being Sensible of your deserving Character and knowing that your attachment to the liberties of your Native Coun try intitle you to our confidence have concluded to Authorize and empower you to contract with any Person or persons in Europe for Ten thousand Stands of good Soldiers Muskets well fitted with good double bridled Gun Locks, and good Bayonets, 200,000 Gun Flints, One thousand Barrels of the best Pistol Powder, One thousand Barrels of the best Cannon Powder and for two fast sailing well armed Cutters such as you may think best calculated for a good and safe passage to this Country and for making good Cruizers on this Coast afterwards. You are to make your Contracts in writing, stipu late the prices not to exceed the Current rates for each Article, and make it your business to be well informed in this point. We are sensible that it is dificult to extract arms, and ammunition from many parts of Europe and that penalties are inflicted on such as are detected in doing it, consequently a premium beyond the first cost & Common Commissions must be allowed to those that undertake it, and in this respect we are rather at a loss how to limit you, being willing to allow what might be a reasonable compensation but un willing to submit to extortion. However as it is not in our power to judge of this point with precision, we exhort you to make the best bargin you can for the Continent, and we conclude to allow you a Commission of 2 1 /2 per Cent on the amount of the Invoice of the goods and on the cost and outfit of the Cutters, but you’l observe this Commission is the whole of what we are to pay you being the only compensation you are to expect for transacting this business, and expect and hope it will afford you a very handsome reward for your Services. Our design is to pay for those Goods & Cutters by remitting to the Consignation of those that supply them Cargoes of this Country Produce such as Tobacco, Rice, Indigo, Skins, Furrs, Wheat, flour, Lumber, Iron See, and we hereby pledge the Thirteen United Colonies for the punctual discharge of the debt or debts you may Contract in virtue of and in conformity with these orders, we agree


[Page 144]
112 May 1776 ment of these two committees, although Wythe was a member of only the second. Worthington C. Ford, the editor of the Journals of the Continental Congress, published Wythe’s address “to the inhabitants of the . . . colonies” in a footnote to the journal entry for May 29, but he mistakenly associated the address “to the foreign mercenaries” with a committee appointed in August to stimulate desertions among the "Hessians” after they had arrived. See JCC, 4:369, 401-2, 5:707-9. The present entry, which seems clearly related to the assignment given to the committee appointed on May 21, is reprinted here in order to place it in the con text of the events that inspired it. Although Wythe was not a member of this committee, it seems likely that he drafted it at Jefferson’s request, perhaps when the two men were collaborating on the address being prepared by the second committee, a conjecture that would account for the presence of both documents in Jefferson’s papers. In any event, since Wythe left Philadelphia for Virginia in mid-June and did not return until September, he could not have been involved in preparing the address to the “Hessians” drafted by Jefferson which Congress adopted on August 27. Finally, the wording of the present address so directly reflects the conditions Congress faced at the end of May it seems highly improbable that Wythe could have drafted it for any purpose other than as a response to Congress’ resolution of May 21. John Adams to Isaac Smith, Sr. Dear sir Philadelphia June 1. 1776 Your favours of May 14 and 22d are now before me. 1 The first I shewed to Mr. Morris, as soon as I received it. The last contains In telligence, from Hallifax of the Streights to which our Enemies are reduced, which I was very glad to learn. I am very happy to learn from you and some other of my Friends that Boston is securely fortified; but still I cannot be fully satisfied untill I hear that every unfriendly Flagg is chased out of that Har bour. Cape Ann, I am sensible is a most important Post, and if the Enemy should possess themselves of it, they might distress the Trade of the Colony to a great Degree. For which Reason I am determined to do every Thing in my Power to get it fortified at the Continental Expence. I cant be confident that I shall succeed but it shall not be my Fault if I dont.' 2 I am very glad you gave me your Opinion of the Utility of that Harbour and of the Practicability of making it secure, because I was not enough acquainted with it before to speak with Precision about it. Your Observations upon the oppressive severity of the Old Regu lations of Trade in subjecting Ships and Cargoes to Confiscation for the Indiscretion of a Master or Mariner, and upon the Artifice and Corruption which was introduced respecting Hospital Money, are very just: But if you consider the Resolution of Congress, and that of Virginia of the 15th of May, the Resolutions of the two Carolinas


[Page 145]
June 1, 1776 113 and Georgia, each of which Colonies, are instituting new Govern ments, under the Authority of the People; if you consider what is doing at New York, New Jersey, Pensilvania, and even in Maryland, which are all gradually forming themselves into order to follow the Colonies to the Northward and Southward, together with the Treaties with Hesse, Brunswick and Waldeck and the Answer to the Mayor &c. of London; I believe you will be convinced that there is little Probability of our ever again coming under the Yoke of British Regulations of Trade. The Cords which connected the two Countries are cutt asunder, and it will not be easy to splice them again, to gether. I agree with you, in sentiment, that there will be little Difficulty in Trading with France and Spain, a great deal in dealing with Portu gal, and some with Holland. Yet by very good Intelligence I am convinced, that there are great Merchants in the United Provinces and even in Amsterdam, who will contract to supply you with any Thing you want, whether Merchandize or military Stores by the Way of Nieuport and Ostend, two Towns which are subject to the Empress of Austria, who has never taken any public Notice of the Dispute between Britain and Us, and has never prohibited her Subjects from supplying us with any Thing. There is a Gentleman, now in this City, a Native of it, and a very worthy Man who has been lately in those Towns as well as Amster dam, who informs me that he had many Conversations there, with Merchants of figure, and that they assured him they should be glad to contract to furnish us with any Supplies, even upon Credit, for an Interest of four Per Cent. Other Intelligence to the same Purpose, with Additions of more Importance, has been sent here. But the Particulars may not be mentioned. Europe seems to be in a great Commotion; altho the Appearance of a perfect Calm is affected, I think this American Contest will light up a general War. What it will end in, God alone knows, to whose wise and righteous Providence I chearfully submit, and • am with great Esteem and Respect for the Family, your Friend & servant. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:1-2. 1 Isaac Smith’s letters of May 14 and 22 are in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 1:409, 413-14. In his letter of May 22, Smith refers to the reception of letters from Adams dated April 29 and May 6, 1776, neither of which has been found. 2 On March 23 Adams had been appointed to the committee to supervise the fortification of ports. JCC, 4:233. Subsequently the committee asked Washington to appoint engineers to inspect the ports of Cape Ann, Mass., and New London, Conn. See Committee on Fortifying Ports to George Washington, April 14; and Washington’s letters to the committee of April 22 and June 8, 1776, in Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 4:504, 5:109-10.


[Page 146]
114 June 1, 1776 Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelpa 1 June 1776 I Wrote to you the 25 and 16 last which I hope you have reed. 1 It is now a long time which I have been here, and I do most sincerely Wish to return to the Pleasures of a domestick rural Life, such a Life as Poets and Wise men have always with so much Propriety praised. Here I see but little except human Faces which I know not, and numerous Pyles of Building, which have long since Satiated the Sight, and the street rumble is farr from being musical. But as I was not sent here to please myself, I shall cheerfully yeild to my Duty, convinced of this Truth, that the Noise and Bustle of this World are the best Lessons to teach a man how few are it’s Injoyments. You See by the Papers that our inverterate Foes threaten us with a large Armament this Summer, tho I rather think their Land Forces will not probably be more than about Thirty Thousand. These may be principally employed in Canada, N York and that Provence. These exertions of our Enemies will call for the like on our part. A Considerable Augmentation therefore will likely be made to our Army for the Canada and other Services and the Troops will be raised at the eastward. The Disadvantage which the Enemy are under in carrying on a War at such a Vast Distance is Very great and if they fail of any considerable success this summer, it may go near to put an End to the Controversy. I think We have no Reason to be discouraged. Our Cause is just. We may therefore Hope God will as he has done appear to Vindicate it. Our Resources are Numerous. By Olivers Letter by Delucence I learn that you was well and the Family, which was a great Satisfaction to Me to hear. My Freinds at Litchfeild Write to Me but seldom, so that I know but little about them. I mentioned to you in my last that I hoped to Visit my Family the latter End of the Next Month, which I still purpose. It will be more agreable to my Colleuges to go home then than earlier; and as it will give me an Opportunity of being out of this City in the hottest Season Shall Submit to it. By the Blessing of God I Still injoy Health. May the best of Heavens Blessings be your Portion. My Love to my Children and be assured that I am yours Affectionately, Oliver Wolcott P.S. Since I Wrote my Letter reed. Letters from Dr. Smith, Mr. Champion, Mr. Lyman. I am glad to hear that you and Family are well but as the Post goes out immediately I shall not be able to Write further, but shall Send againe by the next Post. RC (CtHi). 1 See Wolcott’s letters to Samuel Lyman, May 16, note, and to Laura Wolcott, May 25, 1776.


[Page 151]
June 2, 1776 119 But he should consider the claim of France on America which was mostly taken from her. Now the case was different as to Holland. But he seems to hint we dont want any internal assistance but only as to trade &c. If we dont, I hold no argumt. At least I see, tho he does not [c]are to own it. He agrees that our independance is by compulsion. If that is granted I hold no argumt there neither. All that I urged was that the Pure British Constitution was not to be so repro bated as Common Sense had done it.” 2 William Franklin’s May 30 proclamation calling for the general assembly to meet on June 20 was cited by the New Jersey Provincial Convention as justification for their June 14 order for his arrest. See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:626, 967-68; Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant to John Adams, June 15, note; and John Hancock to John Witherspoon, June 19, 1776. 8 The March 22 “Address and Petition of the Lord Mayor, Aidermen, and Com mons of the City of London" and the king’s reply are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:462-63. William Whipple to Joshua Brackett My Dear Sir Philadelphia, 2nd June, 1776 I am much obliged by your favor of the 21st ult. I must confess that I something wonder that people should move their families and effects into town just at this time, when Britain is collecting her whole strength, aided by every possible Foreign power, she can en gage and determined to push the war with the utmost fury. I by no means think she will be able to execute her plans, but still I think it would be prudent for people who move there effects into the country to secure them from danger, to let them remain while the danger continues. My greatest objection to these movings is, that if there should be an alarm, people will be engaged about their goods when they should have arms in their hands to oppose the enemy. As every thing depends on this summer’s campaign, every nerve should be exerted and if we are successful, which by divine assistance I am in no doubt of, our enemies will not be able to support the war another year. The terms on which Britain has taken troops of the German States will undoubtedly render her contemptible in the eyes of all Europe. 1 Tr (MH). 1 In addition to this fragment of Whipple’s letter, the following extract and sum mary of additional subjects Whipple discussed was printed in a 1967 auction catalog describing the letter. “ ‘You want to know when another name is to be adopted instead of the United Colonies; the free Independent States of America is the common toast in this City fe I hope ere long will be established by Con gress. . . .’ Mentions his brother’s problems, naval action on the Delaware river, and vessals arriving from the West Indies with ammunition and supplies.” Parke- Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 2569 (May 16, 1967), item 66.


[Page 153]
June 3, 1776 121 The Agent is not yet appointed. I still intend to insist on my first proposal. My regards to your friends and accept the best wishes of, your assured friend, Wm Whipple FC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973); endorsed: “J. Langdon June 2d, sent off 4th.” Tr (DLC). FC incomplete; last paragraph and signature taken from Tr. ’John Langdon’s May 20 letter to Whipple is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:159-60. 2 See Whipple to Langdon, May 7, 1776. “See Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon, June 3, 1776. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia June 3. 1776 1 The last Evening, Mess. Adams, P[aine] and Gferry] and my self, by Agreement waited on the P[resident] at his House, in order to accompany him to the Generals, to request that Gates and Mifflin might be sent immediately, to take the Command at Boston. 2 The P. we found very ill of a violent fitt of the Gout, unable to go abroad. At our Disire, he sent a Card to the G. requesting his Company, who soon afterwards came. This Conversation would make a Figure in History. It turned upon the general State of Affairs in the military Departments, and the Characters of the principal Officers in the Army. I dont think it prudent to commit to Writing the Particulars. But a few Reflections that occurred, may be safely written. One is this. There is so much of Accident in the Appointment of Officers, even where they are chosen by the People or their Representatives, and their Characters are of such vast Importance, after they are ap pointed, and in Times like these when there are so many Jealousies, Envys, and Distrusts abroad from whence so many Calumnies arise, that it is absolutely necessary to support the Characters of Officers whenever you can, to be silent when you cannot, untill you are furnished with sufficient Evidence of their Faults and Guilt, and then censure, and punish. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:5-6. 1 There is no evidence that a copy of this letter was ever sent; and it was not enumerated in a list of letters that John later provided Abigail. See Adams to Abigail Adams, June 26, 1776. 2 On this point, see Massachusetts Delegates to George Washington, May 16; and Samuel Adams to Horatio Gates, June 10, 1776.


[Page 154]
122 June 3, 1776 John Adams to Patrick Henry My dear Sir. Philadelphia June 3. 1776 I had this Morning the Pleasure of yours of 20 May. 1 The little Pamphlet you mention is nullius Fidius, and if I should be obliged to maintain it, the World will not expect that I should own it. My Motive for inclosing it to you, was not the value of the Present, but as a Token of Friendship—and more for the Sake of inviting your Attention to the subject, than because there was any Thing in it worthy your Perusal. The Subject is of infinite Moment, and perhaps more than Adequate to the Abilities of any Man, in America. I know of none so competent, to the Task as the author of the first Virginia Resolutions against the Stamp Act, who will have the Glory with Posterity, of beginning and concluding this great Revolution. Happy Virginia, whose Constitution is to be framed by so masterly a Builder. Whether the Plan of the Pamphlet, is not too popular, whether the Elections are not too frequent, for your Colony I know not. The Usages and Genius and Manners of the People, must be consulted. And if annual Elections of the Representatives of the People, are sacredly preserved, these Elections by Ballott, and none permitted to be chosen but Inhabitants, Residents, as well as qualified Freeholders of the City, County, Parish, Town, or Burrough for which they are to serve three essential Prerequisites of a free Government, the Council or middle Branch of the Legislature may be triennial, or even Septennial, with out much Inconvenience. I esteem it an Honour and an Happiness, that my opinion so often co-incides with yours. It has ever appeared to me, that the natural Course and order of Things, was this—for every Colony to institute a Government—for all the Colonies to confederate, and define the Limits of the Continental Constitution—then to declare the Colonies a sovereign State, or a Number of confederated Sovereign States—and last of all to form Treaties with foreign Powers. But I fear We cannot proceed Systematically, and that We shall be obliged to declare ourselves independent States before We confederate, and indeed before all the Colonies have established their Governments. It is now pretty clear, that all these Measures will follow one another in a rapid Sucession, and it may not perhaps be of much Importance, which is done first. The Importance of an immediate application to the French Court is clear, and I am very much obliged to you for your Hint of the Rout by the Mississippi. 2 Your Intimation that the session of your Representative Body would be long gave me great Pleasure, because We all look up to Virginia for Examples and in the present Perplexities, Dangers and Distresses of our Country it is necessary that the Supream Councils of the Colonies should be almost constantly sitting. Some Colonies


[Page 155]
June 3, 1776 123 are not sensible of this and they will certainly Suffer for their Indiscretion. Events of such magnitude as those which present them selves now in such quick succession, require constant Attention and mature Deliberation. The little Pamphlet you mention which was published here as an Antidote to the Thoughts on Government and which is whispered to have been the joint Production of one Native of Virginia and two Natives of New York, I know not how truly, will make no Fortune in the World. It is too absurd to be considered twice. It is contrived to involve a Colony in eternal War. The Dons, the Bashaws, the Grandees, the Patricians, the Sachems, the Nabobs, call them by what Name you please, Sigh, and groan, and frett, and sometimes Stamp, and foam, and curse—but all in vain. The Decree is gone forth, and it cannot be recalled, that a more equal Liberty, than has prevailed in other Parts of the Earth, must be established in America. That Exuberance of Pride, which has produced an insolent Domination, in a few, a very few oppulent, monopolizing Families, will be brought down nearer to the Confines of Reason and Moderation, than they have been used. This is all the Evil, which they themselves will endure. It will do them good in this World and every other. For Pride was not made for Men only as a Tormentor. I shall ever be happy in receiving your Advice, by Letter, untill I can be more compleatly so in seeing you here in Person, which I hope will be soon. I am with Sincere Affection and Esteem, dear sir, your Friend and very humble servant. LB (MHi). 1 Henry’s May 20 letter is in Adams, Works (Adams), 4:201-2. 2 Henry had suggested that the Mississippi River might provide the best route for American ambassadors to reach French officials in the West Indies. Ibid., p. 201. Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett My Dear, Philadelphia June 3rd. 1776 Last Saturday I reed your 2nd letter Dated 17th May and am very thankful to hear that you and my family are well and that my friend Lieut Pearson is Recovering his health again. I hope this will find you and yours well as it leaves me and that we may all retain our health till by the leave of Providence we meet again in Safety. This is the 4th letter I have wrote you from this place, beside the one I wrote by Col. Gale, the Dates are May 18th, 21st & 28th, 1 all which I hope are come safe to hand, that of the 21st I sent by the way of Portsmouth, the other two directed to be left at Newbury


[Page 156]
124 June 3, 1776 Port. I want much to know whether those sent to Newbury come Seasonably to you. The post takes your letters from Newbury some times on Tuesday & the next Saturday week they arrive here. The weather here pleasant and Seasonable tho, two nights last week so cold I am told there was a white frost here. All last week there was plenty of green peas in the market here— Strawberries and Cherries just begin to be brought in. We have reed, certain intelligence that Brittain is Determined to use her utmost endeavors this year to Subdue us. The Congress have Determined to oppose them with all their power and have agreed to send 8 Regiments of Militia of 750 men each to joyn our army in Canada: one of the Regiments is to be raised in the western parts of our Province, four in Massachusetts, 2 in Connecticut, Sc one in N.Y.— and 25 thousand men more are to be raised between New Hampshire Sc Maryland viz in Mass, Conn, N.Y., N.J., Penn Sc Maryland for the Defense of the Sea Coasts. 2 As to the Enemy attacking this place I am in no fear of it, Nay I rather wish it for the Difficulties will be so great that I am almost sure they must be Defeated. It is said that Canada Sc New York will be their principal objects, tho it is likely they will make attacks on some other places. I hope the Americans will play the man for their country Sc for their all, and that kind Providence will give us success Sc victory that the wickedness and villany of our Enemies will fall on their own heads, and that America may be forever seperated from the Tyranny of Brittain. French vessels frequently arrive here. Two came up to this city yesterday their loading chiefly Cotton, molasses, sugar, coffee, Can vass See. Last Saturday an American vessel arrived from the French West Indies with 7400 lb. of powder, 149 stand of arms, beside a large quantity of other articles. I hope you wont fail to write to me every week for receiving letters from you is next to seeing you. Tell Polly Sc Lois I reed, their’s and am glad to hear they are well. Remember my love to them Sc to all the children. Give my regards to Mr. Thayer, Lieut Pearson, Capt Calef, James Procter and All my friends. I am yours See, Josiah Bartlett P.S. I shall for the present write to you by Tuesdays post which will convey them to Newbury the next Friday week. This goes off this Day the 4th Sc I expect will get to Newbury the 14th 8c to you the 15th. The same day I expect to Receive yours which will leave New bury to Day or tomorrow morning. I am now well. J. B. Tr (Mrs. Rodney M. Wilson, Kingston, N.H., 1975). 1 Only Bartlett’s May 18 letter has been found. 2 For the resolutions raising troops for the coming campaign, see JCC, 4:410-13.


[Page 165]
June 3, 1776 133 Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philadelphia June 3d 1776 We received your Favour of the 10th May with the Inclosures, 1 & having communicated such a part thereof as was necessary to Congress, beg Leave thro You to inform the honorable Assembly that the Sum of 30,000 Dollars is ordered to be sent them for the purpose of exchanging it for Specie. We inclose a Copy of the Resolve by which It will appear how the latter is to be disposed of, 2 & think it will be necessary to place to the account of the united Colonies the Sum mentioned in your Letter as delivered to Colo. Porter, & any other Sums of Money that may be delivered in Conse quence of the Resolve aforsd, since the Colony is charged with the Sums advanced it by Congress. We find in an Account sent by the General Court to General Washington & by him transmitted to Congress a Charge of 3000 lbs of Powder delivered by Governor Trumbull on Account of the Colony more than is contained in the Account You inclosed Us; And as the General is now here & informs Us that he shall write to General Ward Directions to deliver to the Colony the whole of the Powder which is due from the Continent, We inclose the last men tioned Account & Vouchers to be adjusted accordingly. We shall send forward the Money mentioned above & 21000 Dol lars granted by Congress for raising the two Battalions lately ordered to be raised in Massachusetts Bay 3 8c are sir with great Respect for yourself & the honorable Assembly, your most huml servants. At the Desire 8c in behalf of the Delegs, of Massachusts. Signed, John Hancock RC (M-Ar). Written by Elbridge Gerry and signed by John Hancock. Addressed: “To The Honorable The President of the Council of Massachusetts Bay To be Communicated to the Honorable Assembly, Watertown.” 'James Otis, Sr., had informed the Massachusetts delegates of efforts to collect specie for the army in Canada and had enclosed an account of powder "delivered out of the Colony Magazine” to the Continental Army while it was at Cam bridge. Otis to the Massachusetts Delegates, May 10, 1776, PCC, item 65, 1:85-86; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:419. 2 See JCC, 4:318-19, 397. 8 See JCC, 4:380. Willing, Morris & Co. to William Bingham Sir Philada. June 3d. 1776 You will find enclosed herein a Copy of our letter to Mr. Sami. Beall 1 respectg the Adventure in Powder under his management in


[Page 166]
134 June 3, 1776 which we have interested you to the Amount of Five hundred pounds Sterlg & as it is most likely he will come out with his Goods Via Martinico we hope You will have the pleasure of seeing him there. If he comes out to St Eustatia lodge orders for you to be informed of it & as you will have frequent intelligence from us & the best opportunitys for Shipping Goods We hope this adventure may be brought to a happy Conclusion for us all. If you think proper to write to Mr Beall address him under Cover to Messrs. Delap at Bourdeaux & if you hear any thing of him do not fail to advise us. As you are likely to remain sometime in the West Indies it may probably fall in Your way to make Connections with some good Houses that will Ship West India Produce this way & have in return the produce of these Colonies, we shall be ready to transact such business & will Credit you half the Coms, on the Sale of their Goods that is on any parcells you procure to our address. You may probably have it in your Power to purchase some Linnens or other European Manufactures on a Credit untill we can have time to remit You produce to pay for them. If so we agree to be half Concerned with you in such Adventures and you may Ship back by the Hornet some Packages of such Goods to the Arnot of £1000, or Fifteen hundred pounds this Cury Value Consigning the same to us. We will sell them to the best advantage free of Coms., you charging no Coms, on the purchase nor on the Sale of the returns which we shall ship to you directly in this Country produce, and in this way we will keep up a Constant intercourse with You. If you cannot get goods on Credit We must furnish You with Effects to make such purchases &: for this & other purposes Youl keep us constantly informed of what is passing in the mercantile line. Wishing You a pleasant & successfull Voyage, We are, Sir, Your obedt hble servts, Willing, Morris & Co. RC (DLC). Written by Robert Morris. 1 Probably Willing, Morris & Co.’s letter to Samuel Beall of March 6, 1776. See Clark, Naval Documents, 4:199-201. John Adams to Hugh Hughes Sir Philadelphia June 4. 1776 Yours of May 29 came safe to Hand, and am much pleased to find that your Citizens have behaved with so much Wisdom, Unanimity, and Spirit. 1 Yet I was disappointed that you did not inclose their Votes. I am very glad Mr J 2 is with you, and hope he will be of great Service there but will he not be for making your Governor and Councillors for Life or during good Behaviour? I should dread such


[Page 167]
June 4, 1776 135 a Constitution in these perilous Times, because however wise and brave and virtuous these Rulers may be at their first appointment, their Tempers, and Designs will be very apt to change, and then they may have it in their Power to betray the People, who will have no Means of Redress. The People ought to have frequently the opportunity, especially in these dangerous Times, of considering the conduct of their Leaders, and of approving or disapproving. You will have no safety without it. The Province of Pensilvania is in a good Way, and will soon be come an important Branch of the Confederation. The large Body of the People will be possessed of more Power and Importance, and a proud Junto of less: and yet Justice will I hope be done to all. I wish you Happiness, Promotion, and Reputation in the service, and am, with much Respect, your servant LB (MHi). 1 Hughes had informed Adams that New York citizens had met and instructed the provincial convention "on that most important of all sublunary affairs, in order that application may be made to your honorable House.” Hughes to Adams, May 29, 1776, Adams Papers, MHi. On May 29 the “General Committee of Mechanicks in union, of the City and County of New York” had sent a peti tion to the New York Provincial Convention urging them to instruct the New York delegates in Congress "to use their utmost endeavours in that august as sembly to cause these United Colonies to become independent of Great Britain.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:614-15. 2 Probably John Jay. John Adams to Richard Lee Sir 1 Philadelphia June 4. 1776 Your Favour of 18 May, 2 inclosing the momentous Resolution of your wise and patriotic Convention, 3 together with the American Crisis came duely to Hand, and yesterday, I had the Pleasure of receiving the Proceedings of the House of Burgesses. I thank you, sir, for both these esteemed Favours. Is it not a little remarkable that this Congress and your Conven tion should come to Resolutions so nearly Similar, on the Same day, and that even the Convention of Maryland should, in that critical Moment, have proceded so far as to abolish the oaths of allegiance, notwithstanding that Some of their other Resolves are a little excentric? Your Resolution is consistent and decisive, it is grounded on true Principles which are fairly and clearly stated, and in my humble opinion the Proviso which reserves to yourselves the Institution of your own Government is fit and right, this being a Matter of which the Colonies are the best Judges, and a Priviledge which each Colony


[Page 168]
136 June 4, 1776 ought to reserve to it self. Yet after all I believe there will be much more Uniformity in the Governments which all of them will adopt than could have been expected a few Months ago. The Joy and Exultation which was expressed upon that great occasion did Honour to their good sense and public Virtue. It was an important Event at a critical Time, in which the Interest and Happiness of themselves and their Posterity, was much concerned. Hopkins’s Fleet has been very unfortunate: a dreadful sickness had raged among his Men, and disabled him from putting more than two of his Vessells to sea. To what Place they are gone I know not—Perhaps to cruise for Transports. I am, sir, with great respect, your most humble servant LB (MHi). 'Richard Lee (1726—95), Virginia planter, served several terms as a burgess from Westmoreland County before 1775, was a member of the Virginia Conven tion in 1775-76, and subsequently was elected several times to the House of Delegates. Edmund Jennings Lee, ed., Lee of Virginia, 1642-1892 . . . (Philadel phia: Privately printed, 1895), pp. 287-90. ’This letter is printed as Richard Henry Lee to John Adams, May 18, 1776, in Adams, Works (Adams), 9:374. ’The Virginia Convention’s May 15 resolution on independence. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1524. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philada. June 4th. 1776. Our Affairs are hastening fast to a Crisis; and the approaching Campaign will in all Probability determine for ever the Fate of America. Such is the unrelenting Spirit which possesses the Tyrant of Britain and his Parliament, that they have left no Measure un essayed, that had a Tendency to accomplish our Destruction. Not satisfied with having lined our Coasts with Ships of War to starve us into a Surrender of our Liberties, and to prevent us from being supplied with Arms & Ammunition, they are now about to pour in a Number of foreign Troops; who from their Want of Connections and those Feelings of Sympathy which frequently bind together the different Parts of the same Empire, will be more likely to do the Business of their Masters without Remorse or Compunction. By the best Intelligence from Canada it appears, that our Affairs in that Quarter wear a melancholy Aspect. Should the Canadians & Indians take up Arms agt. us (which there is too much Reason to fear) we shall then have the whole Force of that Country to contend with, joined to that of Great Britain, & all her foreign auxiliaries. In this Situation what Steps must we pursue? Our Continental


[Page 169]
June 4, 1776 137 Troops alone are unable to stem the Torrent; nor is it possible at this Day to raise & discipline Men ready to take the Field by the Time they will be wanted. From the Secrecy with which the Ministry carry on their Machina tions, we neither know their Views, or how near our Enemies may be. Perhaps at this Moment they are landing on some Part of our Country. In this difficult & trying Situation of our Affairs, the Congress have come to the enclosed Resolves, which I have it in Command to transmit you by Express, containing Matters of the greatest Im portance, and to which I beg Leave to request your Attention. You will there find, the Congress have judged it necessary to call upon the Militia at this alarming Crisis. 1 Should the united Colonies be able to keep their Ground this Campaign, I am under no Apprehensions on Acct, of any future one. We have many Disadvantages at present to struggle with, which Time and Progress in the Art of War, will remove. But this Cir cumstance should rouse us to superior Exertions on the Occasion. The Militia of the United Colonies are a Body of Troops that may be depended upon. To their Virtue their Delegates in Congress, now make the most solemn Appeal. They are called upon to say, whether they will live Slaves, or die Freemen. They are requested to step forth in Defence of their Wives, their Children, their Liberty, and every Thing they hold dear. The Cause is certainly a most glorious one and I trust every Man in the Colony of New Hampshire, 2 is determined to see it gloriously ended, or to perish in the Ruins of it. In short on your Exertions at this Critical Period, together with those of the other Colonies, in the Common Cause, the Salvation of America now evidently depends. Your Colony, I am persuaded, will not be behind hand. Exert therefore every Nerve to distinguish yourselves. Quicken your Preparations, and stimulate the good Peo ple of your Govt.—and there is no Danger, notwithstanding the mighty Armament with which we are threatened, but you will be able to lead them to Victory, to Liberty & to Happiness. I have the Honour to be Gent., your most obedt & very hble Serv. J. H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “The Honble Convention of New Hamp shire. The Honble Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. The Honble Govr. Trumbull. Honble Convention of New York. Honble Convention of New Jersey. Honble Assembly of the Govt, of New Castle, Kent & Sussex on Delaware. Honble Con vention of Maryland.” 1 See JCC, 4:410-15. This day Hancock also wrote a letter to Paymaster General William Palfrey, commending to his attention “Col. [Daniel] Roberdeau of this City ... a Gentleman distinguished for his Benevolence towards all Men . . . a zealous American, and a Friend of mine.” Palfrey Papers, MH. 2 Or any one of the other six provinces to which a copy of this letter was directed.


[Page 177]
June 5, 1776 145 officer in the Connecticut militia from 1775 until the end of the war and was later a probate judge and a member of the Connecticut legislature. Henry R. Stiles, The History and Genealogies of Ancient Windsor, Connecticut, 2 vols. (Hartford: Case, Lockwood, and Brainard Co., 1892), 2:520. 2 On May 21 Congress approved a series of resolutions concerning the treat ment of prisoners. See JCC, 4:370-73. 3 For further information about Roger Enos, as well as Smith’s oration, see Wolcott to Laura Wolcott, March 19, 1776, note 2. ‘ See JCC, 4:410. 3 See JCC, 4:412-13. 3 Anticipating the difficulties the colonies might experience in meeting the latest call for militia support, Congress resolved on May 29 “that an animated address be published to impress the minds of the people with the necessity of their now stepping forward to save their country, their freedom and property.’’ Although there is no evidence that such an address was ever approved or pub lished, a fragment in George Wythe’s hand, which was probably a committee draft, is in the Thomas Jefferson Papers, DLC, and is printed in JCC, 4:401-2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 5th. 1776. The Congress having this Day made several Promotions in the Army of the United Colonies, and established some Rules for the future Direction of the Deputy Commissaries general, Deputy Quarter Master General &c I do myself the Pleasure to enclose you a Copy of the same. 1 I delivered Col. Reed his Commission, & have sent Mr. Whitcomb, Mr. Mercer & Mr Moyland theirs. 2 Should you stand in Need of any more blank Commissions, they shall be immediately forwarded, on your letting me know it. I entirely forgot to make Enquiry into the Matter while you was in this City. Having Nothing further in Charge from Congress at this Time, I beg Leave to assure you that I am, with the greatest Respect and Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Sevt. John Hancock Presidt June 6. P.S. This Morning two small Privateers arrived here after a very successful Cruise, having taken three West India Ships with 22,420 Dollars on Board, 1052 Hhds & Trs. [Tierces] of sugar, 70 Pipes best Madeira Wine, and a Variety of other Articles. The Captain and Owner this Moment called to acquaint me, the Money is now in this City, and have generously made an offer of it to the Congress. I have this Morning advanced thirty Dollars to Fessenden in Part of his Account, which you will please to deduct on Settlement. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:418-20.


[Page 179]
June 5, 1776 147 New Governments in every Colony and in Conclusion a declaration of Independancy by Congress. I see this step is inevitable and you may depend it will soon take place. Great Britain may thank herself for this Event, for whatever might have been the original designs of some Men in promoting the present Contest I am sure that America in general never set out with any View or desire of establishing an Independant Empire. They have been drove into it step by step with a reluctance on their part that has been manifested in all their proceedings, & yet I dare say our Enemies will assert that it was planned from the first movements. The Dogs of Warr are now fairly let loose upon us. We are not dismayed but expect to give a good Account of the Numerous hosts of Foes that are coming to Slaughter us, especially your Hessians, Hanoverians, Waldeckers 8cc. Our Cli mates will most probably handle them pretty severely before they get seasoned and our Troops are pretty well prepared for their reception but the Fortune of Warr being ever uncertain God only knows what may be the Event. Our affairs in Canada have been badly managed by Your Country man Genl Worster but I hope Genl. Thomas & your Friend Arnold will invigorate them. However I dont think we have any occasion to hold that Country, if we maintain the passes on the Lakes it is sufficient for our purposes and the Garrison that defend those passes will always be ready to rush into Canada if the Enemy quit it, so that a good Force well posted for this purpose may keep Mr. Bur goyne with his 10,000 men uselessly employed the whole year with out any expence of ammunition or loss of Men on our side unless they attack exceedingly to their own disadvantage. Genl. Washing ton has taken post at New York. He has lately been here attended by Genl. Gates & Genl. Mifflin and the plan of operations has been fully settled in several Conferences between them 8c a Committee of Congress appointed for that purpose 8c in Consequence of the ar rangements made we shall have not less than 30,000 men ready to take the Field, so divided 8c posted as to oppose the Enemys attacks wherever made. Genl. Lee commands to the Southward and I fancy that depart ment will be well defended. We are to have a flying Camp of 10,000 men here the Commander of which is not yet named. Genl. Wash ington at New York, Gates at Boston, Thomas in Canada & each of these are well supported by able General officers and we hope a Sufficient number of Troops. We are better supplyd with Powder than formerly; our Mills make it fast 8c some of the Colonies have had great success in making Salt Petre. Arms we are most in Want of, but our manufactorys of them improve 8c increase daily. In short it appears to me We shall be able to baffle all attempts of our Enemy, if we do but preserve Union amongst ourselves. I dont mean the Union of the Colonies, but union in each Colony. The former is


[Page 181]
June 5, 1776 149 RC (CtHi). Endorsed: "Reed, the 19 & forwarded the 21 Sepr. 1776 by Yr most obt Hble Svts., S. fe J.H. D[elap].” 1 For Deane’s letter of April 26, see NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 134n. His May 3 letter is in the Robert Morris Papers, DLC. 2 Morris’ lengthy extract, containing Deane’s description of conditions at Ber muda and recommending that Congress outfit privateers there and utilize the island as a base for disrupting Britain’s West India trade, is in PCC, item 58, fols. 353-56. It was referred on May 30 to the committee “appointed to consider of the fortifying . . . ports on the American coast . . . for the protection of our cruizers, and the reception of their prizes,” which submitted a report on June 6. Although the report was ordered “to lie on the table,” its substance was apparently incorporated into a resolution of the same day instructing the Secret Committee to send two supply ships to Bermuda and the Marine Com mittee “to take such measures as they may think proper for purchasing, manning, arming and fitting at the said islands two sloops of war for the service of the United Colonies.” The decision to combine instructions to two separate committees in a single resolution was probably a result of the fact that at about the same time the report on Deane’s letter was completed, another letter pertaining to Bermuda was received from the Committee of Cumberland County, New Jersey. Little else seems to have come from Deane’s recommendations, for on August 2 Congress passed a resolution having the effect of rescinding the June 6 in structions to the two committees. See JCC, 4:233, 406, 5:417, 421, 423-24, 626. 8 Blank in MS. 4 See JCC, 4:392, 396-97, 410, 412, 5:421,430-31. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philadelphia June 5th 1776. I am glad you are so well Secured as to Parke. Tho you and David Gordon have been to View the place, Do Suppose it will hardly be Necessary to Confirm the Bargain before you See me at Newcastle on Tuesday, which is the day of the Assembly’s Meeting. The Petition of the Lord, Mayor and City of London to the King, and his Answer will Convince those people (Who have opposed the Resolution of Congress) of their Error; if they be open to Convic tion it certainly will—You will have it in this day’s paper. Remember me to all at home. As I Expect to see you in a few days, Shall say no more than that I am, Yrs. Caesar Rodney RC (MWA). William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 5th June 1776. This goes by express early tomorrow morning. It is determined in Committee this evening to urge the appointment of the Captain for your ship tomorrow. There is no doubt but what Thompson will be


[Page 182]
150 June 5, 1776 the man. 1 If you and he will talk with Such persons as you think proper for Lieuts and marine officers and let me know who will accept, I will have them commissioned. It’s idle to have the Com missions filled up before we know whether they will be accepted or not. You may engage the master and all warrant and petty officers that you think necessary as soon as you please. I know of no objec tion to the men being shipped, only the uncertainty when the guns will be ready. Just received advice that two small privateers belong ing to this place have taken three Jamaica men with very valuable cargoes, 24000 dollars in specie. 2 The money is arrived at Egg Harbor but the ships are sent to the Eastward. I fear they will fall into the hands of the enemy—now is the time to pick up homeward bound West India men. It’s now 12 o’clock; high bed time. Good night, W Whipple Tr (DLC). ’See JCC, 5:422. a See lohn Hancock to Philip Moore and James Craig, June 13, 1776. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear sir Philada. June 6 1776 I have for some time past been expecting to visit my Friends in New England, which has made me the less sollicitous of writing to them, but Business of the most interesting Importance has hitherto detained me here. Our Affairs in Canada have of late worn a dis pleasing Aspect, 1 but Measures have been adopted which I trust will repair Misfortunes and set Matters right in that Quarter. This will, in my opinion, be an important Summer, productive of great Events which we must be prepard to meet. If America is virtuous, she will vanquish her Enemies and establish her Liberty. You know my Temper—Perhaps I may be too impatient. I have long wishd for the Determination of some momentous Questions. If Delay shall prove mischeivous, I shall have no Reason to reflect upon my self. Every one here knows what my Sentiments have been. However, tomorrow a Motion will be made, 2 and a Question, I hope, decided, the most important that was ever agitated in America. I have no Doubt but it will be decided to your satisfaction. This being done, Things will go on in the right Channel and our Country will be saved. The Bearer waits. Adieu, S A [P.S.] Let me intreat you, my Friend, to exert your Influence to prevent unnecessary Questions in the Assembly which may cause Contention. Now if ever Union is necessary. Innovations may well enough be put off, till publick Safety is secured.


[Page 186]
154 June 6, 1776 Robert Morris to Silas Deane Dear Sir, Philada June 6th. 1776 I have already wrote you a Political letter 1 & intend this as Commercial. Since you left us the Men of Warr have given us an opportunity of trying the use of our Galleys or Gondolas. The Roe buck of 44 Guns & Liverpool of 26 Guns came up the River oppo site to Wilmington Creek for fresh Water, our little fleet attacked them there but not knowing their own Strength or not having sufficient Confidence in it, they kept at too great a distance the first day, but the second they begun to know themselves a little better and attacked them again very Smartly. They drove the Roebuck inshoar 8c with good management might have taken her, however they greatly damaged that Ship 8c obliged both her & the Liverpool to push back again to the Capes 8c from there to Sea leaving behind them a Transport Brigts which our People took from them. All this youl think has little to do with Commerce but thats a mistake for in Consequence of this Action all the Fleet of Merchantmen have got safe out to sea, several vessels have got safe in and we have some trade revived 8c Consequently a better prospect of making remit tances to you than at the time you Sailed. Our Cruizers are also got out and I expect will be very serviceable and continue increasing their number 8c shall Constantly go on making additions to our Navy but we want our Seamen home again. The Congress has Voted a Bounty of Eight Dollars to be paid to the Owners of every Vessell, for each Seaman they bring in over 8c above the proper Number that navigates the Vessell which youl make known all over Europe if you can 8c Seamens wages in the Merchants Service here is now at 16 Dollars per Month. 2 The Polly, Capt McFadden, has been long detained 8c the Rascall of a Captn left her and persuaded the Sea men to do the same. She is now Commanded by Capt Philip Lacey and I hope is got out to Sea before this date. The Contractors for Indn Goods will Continue making remittances in the best manner they can and I will by a future Conveyance furnish you a full State of what has been done but at present I really have not time. The Scarcity of Goods all over this Continent affords a fine opportunity to private adventurers, but the difficulty at present is how to Con tinue remittances during the Summer. You know it is farr more difficult than it will be during Winter. I therefore propose that you Shou’d engage Messrs Delap or some other good House of reputa tion 8c Capital to ship any quantity of Woolens 8c Linens, Pins, needles, 8cc 8cc suited for the Consumption of this Country that you Can possibly prevail on them to send either on your 8c our Account in halves, or on your, their 8c our Acct. In Thirds. Let the Goods be shipped immediately in French Ships as French property to Martinico 8c Consigned to the Friend or Correspondent of those that


[Page 197]
June 8, 1776 165 a.m., and that they conducted a great deal of important business later during the day, no critical analysis of this passage has been made. It is clear now, however, from the evidence of the July 4 letters of Abraham Clark and of the committee appointed that day to confer on the defense of New Jersey and Pennsylvania, that the Declaration was approved in the morning, rather than in the evening as Jefferson implies. See Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton, July 4; and Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators, July 4, 1776. Considering, then, those passages reviewed here that conflict with what is known about the events leading to adoption of the Declaration, it seems clear that Jeffer son’s notes—like all noncontemporary evidence—ought to be used with caution. Although undoubtedly based upon an earlier set of notes, they were surely put into their present form long after the proceedings reviewed actually occurred, at a time when some of the details of the events were no longer sharply etched in Jefferson’s mind. For a discussion of another passage from Jefferson’s notes pertaining to their general credibility—suggesting that in one particular instance Jefferson rather than his critics was probably correct—see Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 1-4, 1776, note 5. “For the continuation of these notes, see Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 1-4, 1776. John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress [June 8-10? 1776] 1 Two Points recommended & enjoined by our Constituents. 1st. Defence. 2. Reconciliation. On this Footing & with this View they have engaged in this Contest. I shall consider the proposition in 3 Lights. 1st. As establishing an independent & seperate State & govt. 2d. As to the Right We have to take such a Step. 3d. As to the Policy of it—Bargain Difficult, already our Interest to support G.B. As to the first, I would ask if such a Declaration does not necessarily involve in it an Assurance to foreign States, that during the Course of such a War We will maintain the Rights of Neutrality according to the well known Laws of Nations & consequently the free & equal admission of the ships &: vessels of the belligerent Powers? If it does involve such an Assurance, does it not also involve in it necessarily an Engagement of Protection to the ships of such foreign Powers? If it does, can it be denied, that We assume a Sovereignty inde pendent on & Separate from that of the Crown of G.B.? Is not this plainly to go beyond the Limits of the present War, and to make an Establishment for a Time of Peace with G.B. totally repugnant to our former Connection with her? Is not this to wound her vitally even in the Time of Peace, by totally rescinding her Authority to regulate our Commercial Intercourse with foreign Powers? An Au-


[Page 198]
166 June 8, 1776 thority which We have repeatedly declared was necessarily lodged in her? In order to avoid these Conclusions will Gentlemen say—they do not mean such acts of Sovereignty. Let Us then honestly say so—& not give foreign Powers Reason to complain of our having deceived them. How then will our Proposal to them stand? That after our Reconciliation with G.B. which may perhaps be in a Year or two, We will not join our Armies or Fleets to G.B. so that we hold out the precarious profit of a few Months Trade as a Temptation to foreign Powers to come in a War with the first maritime Power in the world. But in such a Case, how are We to prevent the Crown from procuring seamen or Soldiers who are Inhabitants of the Colonies? Shall We [withstand?] Attempts in Consequence of our Declaration? This would be an Act of Sovereignty in direct opposition to the Sovereign with whom We are reconciled. But taking the proposition in the most limited Sense, without allowing the before mentioned to be fairly deduced from it, do We not [become?] an independent & separate State in the plainest Man ner? The Power of declaring Peace or War is one of the highest Powers of Sovereignty. There cannot be a Sovereignty without it—if not lodged in the Crown or King of G.B. the Sovereignty is not vested in him; it is vested in Us. 2d. Point. Our Right. Even those Delegates who are not restrained by In structions have no Right to establish an independent seperate Government for a Time of Peace. Inter arma silent Leges. Our Business is defence. Celebrated Writers deny a Power to change a Government without a full 8c free Consent of the People plainly exprest. The Sense of America as exprest is for Reconciliation. What Evidence have We of a contrary Sense? Reason 8c Justice deny our Right—of such vast Importance to present 8c succeeding [gen erations?]. It is in vain to say all Ties are dissolv’d. It is begging the Question. We are now acting on a Principle of the English Constitu tion in resisting the assumption or Usurpation of an unjust power. We are now acting under that Constitution. Does that Circumstance prove its Dissolution? But granting the present oppression to be a Dissolution, the Choice of [setting?], a Restoring it, or forming a new one is vested in our Constituents, not in Us. They have not given it to Us. We may pursue Measures that will force them into it. But that implies not a Right so to force them. Should We be justified as to our Constituents at this Time to make a Declaration of Independence at this Time? Why then to take a step that inevitably leads to it? The first would be most becoming as being most candid.


[Page 199]
June 8, 1776 167 3d. Point. Policy. 2 It is Politic not to engage the Faith or Honor of a Nation farther than it may be their Interest to perform. G.B. is now our Enemy, but if France or the House of Bourbon attack her, em barrassed in her Contest with Us, it may become our true Interest to support her. Case of Holland with regard to Spain. Where is the Necessity of such a Declaration? We appear strong enough to resist our Enemies this Campaign. Boston. North Caro lina. It is a favorite Maxim with some, that our Commerce is so valuable, it will protect itself. 3 Let Us see whether We overrate it. At least do not let Us undervalue it, & go a begging round the World with it, to coax States into a War for it. We have opened our Ports. Let Us act with a dignified Reserve. Let us keep ourselves Masters of our own Conduct—& reserve our Favor for the friendly state that shall most deserve it. Otherwise We throw in our Neutrality with as much Indifference as the Statuary did the Statue of [Mer cury?] to the purchaser of [Jupiter?]. By such a Conduct We shall not only act imprudently with Re gard to foreign States, but with Respect to G.B. Commissioners coming over. Many Friends there—a Clog upon Administration. We united—they divided. This measure will divide Us & unite them. Not a Man of the least Understanding there, but will be convinced from its Nature & Time that We take this step to render Reconciliation impracticable. As much so as a full Declara tion of an seperate Commonwealth. Then We shall be pushed by the united & reanimated Exertions of the whole Kingdom. If We mean Independence, it is our Business to conceal our Mean ing. Keep up the useful Opinion. England, Holland & the Empire acknowledged the Duke of Anjou King of Spain while arming to dethrone him. What Mortal can tell with Certainty that it will not be our best Interest to be reconciled to G.B.? It will depend on the Terms We can obtain. They are yet unknown. We may perhaps get such as will render Us as independent, as wise & good Men would wish for—Our Internal Commerce—such a share of foreign [commerce]—Removal of Troops—Annual Assem blies—Councillors for Life—&c. Do not let Us turn our Backs on Reconciliation till We find it a Monster too dreadful to approach. It will [foe] a bargain—to procure the aid & naval protection of G.B. We may purchase it perhaps at a reasonable price—&: in such Case would We be so unreasonable as to reject it? We are seeking now for the protection of France &c. We must pay some price I suppose for that. Dont let Us make our Case desperate & have only one Bidder for our Friendship. A Man generally sells his Goods to the most profits when there are two or three Chapmen


[Page 200]
168 June 8, 1776 that bid for it. This procedure would be the more extraordinary at this time, as We are actually sounding the Disposition of a very great Power—looks like an Insult not to wait for his Decision. The Friendship of G.B. has many Circumstances to recommend it. We shall have a limited Monarchy the easiest the World ever knew. A form approv’d by the greatest Geniuses that ever wrote on the subject. Tacitus. [Limitations?] of Religion, Blood, Manners, Customs, [....] The first Naval Power in the World. States of Barbary, Spain, Portugal. Stoppage of an immense 8c consuming Expense. On the other Hand, Novelty of Government, Connections, Trade, Expense, Every Thing. Commonwealth a Government the most subject to Convulsion. Rome, Greece, Holland. Switzerland preserved by its Neighbors. The first political Wish of my Soul is for the Liberty of America. The next is for a constitutional Reconciliation with G.B. If We cannot obtain the first without relinquishing the second, Let us seek a new Establishment as the Pious Aeneas did. Attolens humeris famam 8c fata Nepotum. 4 MS (PHi). In the hand of lohn Dickinson. These notes are strikingly cryptic and are strewn with abbreviations which have been expanded without brackets in this text. 1 At least two passages in these notes suggest that Dickinson wrote them at the beginning rather than near the conclusion of the debate on independence. First, in developing his “2d. Point,” Dickinson refers to "those Delegates who are not restrained by Instructions.” The passage implies that many delegates were still so restrained, suggesting the situation that existed in early lune before the instruc tions of the Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland delegates were changed. Second, in discussing “the Necessity of such a Declaration” under his “3d Point,” Dickinson argues that “We appear strong enough to resist our Enemies this Campaign,” an argument that he would have been less likely to employ after mid June when the dismal facts concerning the rout of the American army from Canada became better known. Finally, although the evidence is only suggestive, the arguments developed in these notes better coincide with Jefferson’s account of the debates of June 8 and 10 than those of July 1 and 2, the four days on which the principal debates on independence took place. See Thomas Jefferson’s Notes of Debate, June 7-28 and July 1-4, 1776. For a comparison of the arguments developed in the present entry with those he articulated at the beginning of July, see John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, July 1? 1776. 3 At this point in the margin Dickinson penned the following cryptic remarks. “Committee of Supplies. Papers to be published in Canada. Papers to be sent to Europe. A [. . .] Address to People of Pennsylvania. Ordinance against Officers.” 3 At this point in the margin Dickinson wrote: “Amount of Money emitted in several Colonies.” ‘“Bearing aloft on his shoulders the fame and fortune of his descendants.” Virgil Aeneid 8.731. Dickinson employed the same phrase again in 1782 when he wrote a “Vindication” of his conduct during 1776. The “Vindication,” which was originally printed by Francis Bailey in his Freeman’s Journal, or the North- American Intelligencer, January 1, 1783, appears as Appendix V in Charles J.


[Page 202]
170 June 8, 1776 be saved but the Vessel lost. I hope she is insured. This happened at the Mouth of the Run. RC (MHi). 1 Not found. 2 For further information on the fate of the snow Champion, see Henry Fisher to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, June 7, 1776, in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:414-15. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir, Philadelphia 8th June 1776 Since You left this Place You have probably reed a Confirmation of the unwelcome News which then arrived from Canada, since which Mr. Moylan is appointed Quarter Master General & Colo Reed Ad jutant General, General Whitcomb of Massa. & Colo Mercer of Connecticut Brigadiers, & the Appointment of Majir Generals are suspended for the present. General Worcester is also ordered to Head Quarters. I beleive We should have executed our Design of pro moting You to Quarter Masr. General if it can be called a promo tion, had not Congress been doubtful whether the place of so faithful a Servant could be immediately supplyed & had it not been urged (with what real Grounds You can best judge) that his Excelly. the General had mentioned the Gentleman who is appointed for this office while Dependance was placed on You in the other more im portant One. For my own part I could Wish the Alteration had taken Place as was proposed, but am doubtful whether Mr Living ston would not have obtained your Birth had You been appointed QM General which I should have considered as an Unfortunate Exchange. With Respect to Rank there will probably be no Opposi tion made to your having that of Colonel Whenever proposed & I shall be glad to know your Sentiments on the same. 1 You have doubtless heard of the Success of two small Privateers of this City in taking three homeward bound Jamaica Men with 1100 hhds Sugar, 140 puncheon Rum, 70 pipes Madeira Wine, 24000 Mexico Dollars &c &c &c. Half of the Money is on the Road from Egg Harbour &: one of the prizes arrived here last Evening. I am glad to inform You that the General is now authorized to establish Magizines of provissions & Military Stores as he shall judge expedient, &: hope it will not be too late to retreive our affair in Canada. Lord Dunmore We hear with his Regiment of Royal Africans is landed in an Island in the Susquehanna River, having been obliged to leave his former post from the fatal Sickness which prevailed in Camp, where were found 350 fresh Graves.


[Page 205]
June 8, 1776 173 terrupted, We wish might be resumed. Mr. Hopkins gave the earliest Notice, by Express, that our Brigade was put under continental Es tablishment, 1 and John Collins Esqr. informed the Assembly of the Determination of Congress respecting the Cannon which were landed at Newport by the Commander in Chief of the Continental Navy. 2 Since that the Congress have order’d Six thousand of the Militia to reinforce the army in Canada and keep up a Communication with that Province. Massachusetts are requested to furnish of their Militia for that Purpose 3000 . . Connecticut 1500 . . N. Hampshire 750 . . N. York 750 . .. 4 Battails. 2 ditto. 1 . 1 Thirteen thousand eight Hundred Militia are order’d to reinforce the Army at N. York. Massachusetts are requested to furnish thereof 2000 Connecticutt 5500 N. York 3000 N. Jersey 3300 A flying Camp is ordered to be formed to consist of Ten Thousand Militia, and to be furnished as follows, from Pennsylvania 6000 Maryland 3400 Delaware Government 600 The Congress have also empowerd Genl. Washington to employ in Canada Indians 2000 John Hopkins and Samuel Tompkins are appointed to the Com mand of the Two Ships built in Providence; but which of the Ships they are respectively to command is not yet determined. When it is We shall give you Notice thereof as well as of every thing of Impor tance which passes the Congress. Please to desire the Committee appointed to build the Ships in Providence, to transmit to the Marine Committee of Congress, the Names of the Lieutenants and other Officers they have appointed in Order that they may receive their Commissions. 3 By Letters from Canada to Congress it appears that our Affairs there are in a bad Situation. Genl. Arnold in a Letter of the 27th of May last informs that 500 of our Troops were taken Prisoners at a Place above Montreal called the Cedars, by 50 Regulars, 300 Canadians and 250 Indians. We lost only 10 Privates and not one Officer. Genl. Arnold writes that as soon as he had Intelligence of


[Page 212]
180 June 9, 1776 [P.S.] The News Papers inclosed, when you have read them, please to send them to the Foot of Penns Hill. 2 RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Presumably a copy of a five-page treatise, bearing the heading “To prepare a Fireship,” which Adams copied in his letterbook immediately preceding this letter to Warren. Adams Papers, MHi. 2 That is, to Abigail Adams. Samuel Adams to Horatio Gates My dear sir Philade June 10 1776 Your Favor of the 8th Instant was brought to me by Express. 1 I am exceedingly concernd that a General officer is not yet fixed upon to take the Command of the Troops in Boston. Ever since the Enemy abandond that place I have been apprehensive that a re newed Attack would probably be made on some part of Massachu setts Bay. Your Reasons clearly show that it will be the Interest of the Enemy to make a grand push there if they are not properly- provided for a Defence. Congress judgd it necessary that a Major & Brig Genl should be sent to Boston or they would not have orderd it three Weeks ago. The wish of the Colony with regard to particu lar Gentlemen has been repeatedly urgd, and I thought that an ap pointment which has been made since you left us would have given a favorable Issue to our request. The Necessity of your taking the Command in the Eastern District immediately has been in my mind most pressing since I have been informd by your Letter that your Intelligence in respect to the attack on the Massachusetts is direct & positive. 2 It will be a great Disappointment to me if General Mifflin does not go with you to Boston. I believe that to prevent the apparent necessity for this, Genl Whitcomb was thrown into View. He is in deed in many respects a good Man, but to the other I think the pref erence must be given. The Hint you gave me when I last saw you respecting the Ene mies offers to treat, I have revolved in my Mind. It is my opinion that no such offers will be made but with a Design to take advan tage by the Delay they may occasion. We know how easily our peo ple, too many of them, are still amusd with vain hopes of Reconciliation. Such Ideas will, no doubt, be thrown out to them, to embarrass the Army as others have been; but I conceive that the General in Whose Wisdom & Valor I confide, will, without Hesita tion employ all his Force to annoy & conquer immediately upon the Enemies Approach. We want our most stable Counsellors here. To send Gentlemen of indecisive Judgments to assist as field Deputies


[Page 213]
June 10, 1776 181 would answer a very ill purpose. The sole Design of the Enemy is to subjugate America, I have therefore no Conception that any terms can be offerd but such as must be manifestly affrontive. Should those of a different Complexion be proposd, under the hand of their Commanding officer, the General will have the oppty. of giving them in to Congress in the space of a Day. This 1 imagine he will think it prudent to do. At the same time, I am very sure, he will give no Advantage to the Enemy, and that he will conduct our affairs in so critical a Moment in a Manner worthy of himself. I am affectionately yours, S A FC (NN). 1 Gates' letter to Adams of June 8, 1776, is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. “Despite Adams’ hopes. Congress decided on June 17 to appoint Gates to command the army in Canada. Artemas Ward remained in command of the Con tinental forces in Massachusetts. See JCC, 5:448; John Hancock to Artemas Ward, April 26, note 2; and Massachusetts Delegates to George Washington, May 16, 1776. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 10th 1776. Your’s of the 27th ulto is come to hand and am glad to hear you have had so good luck in building and launching the ship; 1 I hope she will prove as good a ship as any of her bigness in the British Navy. Capt Thompson is appointed to the command of her, the other officers are not yet appointed. I hope the Captain will set about raising the men and that she will be fitted for sea as soon as possible. I think with you that the brave Capt Mugford and the men on board the privateers at Boston fought gallantly and did honor to the country; but what shall we think of 500 of our men in Canada surrendering themselves prisoners to about the same number of the enemy. The accounts are very vague but thus much I believe is cer tain that almost the whole of Col Bedel’s regt and 100 men with Major Sherburne of Rhode Island are prisoners to the enemy and by what at present appears surprising surrendered without much resistance, when so large an army of our men were so near to assist them. It seems as if our men in Canada were struck with a panic. What else could be the reason of their running away from Quebec and leaving their cannon and sick and every thing behind without firing one musket. In short, I could never have believed that our men would be guilty of such conduct; however I hope and believe that when our army come to get settled and the officers and men reflect on what has passed, they will act with more spirit and retrieve their


[Page 214]
182 June 10, 1776 credit; the small pox among them is very frequent and very dis couraging for which we must make proper allowance, but the con duct of the hardy sons of New Hampshire is truly mysterious. You have no doubt heard of the two privateers from this place taking 3 large Jamaica ships very richly loaded. One of them is ar rived here, the other two are said to be gone for New England. The cash amounting to 22400 dollars and the plate weighting 180 lb as near as I remember was taken on board the privateers and is safe arrived here. The Liverpool, man of war, lays at the Capes of Dele- ware and has taken 2, or 3 vessels lately—one with dry goods. I want much to have our ships fitted to drive her off or take her. I shall enclose you a paper containing the Bill of Rights drawn up by Virginia. 2 You have seen the Virginia Resolves concerning Independence. I wish our Colony would give us Instructions on that head, 3 for whatever may be our private opinions, instructions from the Colony either requiring, or only authorizing us to vote in favor of it, if we should think it for the best would carry great weight with it. The Congress has been so taken up with very important business that the affair of Agency has not been mentioned since my arrival. When it does shall not be wanting in seconding Col Whipple. By one of the enclosed papers you will see that the Assembly of this Province have given new Instructions to their Delegates. 4 11th. By a letter just rec’d from Canada 6 it appears that our men had neither provision nor ammunition and that was the cause of their surrendering. I am Sir, your most humble servant and what is more, Your sin cere friend, 6 Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s May 27 letter to Bartlett is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:265. See also William Whipple to Langdon, this date. ’A draft of the Virginia declaration of rights, as reported in the Virginia As sembly on May 27, 1776, was printed in the Pennsylvania Evening Post, June 6, 1776. ’See New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare, May 28, 1776, note 3. * The revised instructions to the Pennsylvania delegates were approved by the Pennsylvania Assembly on June 8 and were printed in the Pennsylvania Evening Post the same day. ’Probably the June 1 letter of Gen. John Sullivan, which was delivered to Con gress on June 11 by Samuel Chase upon his arrival from Canada. See JCC, 5:431; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:679-80. 6 On June 10 Bartlett also wrote a brief personal letter to his wife: “Yours of the 23d of May I Reed the 8th inst. and am glad to hear you are all well, that tho Sally has been unwell She is better, that Lieut Bearson is better. May Kind Providence preserve you all in health & safety till my return to you. I have had a very Severe Cold the latter End of last week but am now much better. This is the Sixth letter I have wrote you from this City Since my arrival; my last


[Page 215]
June 10, 1776 183 was the 6th Inst, by Express to Exeter. I want to know how soon my letters by Newbury port get to you. I am Glad you find an oppertunity to send me a letter Every week; your letters leave Newbury Tuesday afternoon & I Receive them the next Saturday week. “Last Thursday after Congress, I with 5 or 6 other Delegates walked about a mile & half out of the City to See the Proprietors Gardens. There are a great many Curious trees, Bushes, Plants &c. Among the rest the alois Plant is I think the most Curious. I Cannot Describe it as it is not like any thing I Ever Saw before. There are a number of Sweat & Sower orange trees, Lemmon trees, lime trees & Citron trees; the Same tree had some flowers, some small & some ripe fruit at the same time; the trees are about 8 or ten feet high Set in Boxes of Sand so that they can be removed in Cold weather into a hot house, so that they grow & bear fruit all the year round. “I Remember my Love to you all & Remain yours &c.” Josiah Bartlett to Mary Bartlett, June 10, 1776. Mr. Francis W. Bartlett, Kansas City, Mo. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 11th [t.e. 10th] 1776 1 I am honoured with your Letters of 7th, 8th and 9th Instant. The two first I have read in Congress. 2 We have been two Days in a Com mittee of the Whole deliberating on three Capital Matters, the most important in their Nature of any that have yet been before us; &: have sat till 7 O’Clock in the Evening each Day. That not being finished I judged best to return the Express. I shall press Congress as soon as possible to determine upon the several Matters you wish to be ascertained, and immediately transmit you the Result. The Congress have agreed to settle the Mode of paying the Troops in the Eastern Department this Morning, and to proceed to the Appointment of a Deputy Paymaster General. 3 The particular Mode of establishing Expresses is now under the Consideration of a Committee, and as soon as agreed, you shall know the Issue. Altho Congress have not acted upon your Queries respecting the Indians, yet I will venture to give my opinion that Congress in tended the Resolution of 25 May should be general and extend to the several Departments, and that the Resolution of 3d June goes only to the Number which the General shall be empowered to em ploy in Canada. 4 But I hope soon to give you a full Answer to all your Queries; and in future I will exert myself in Congress that your Applications may be considered as soon as received, and you punctually and regularly informed of the Result. Inclosed you have a Resolve, whereby you will see, that all the Troops in the Middle Department are put upon the same Pay 6 2/3 Dollars as the Troops in the Eastern Department. 5


[Page 224]
192 June 11, 1776 his Health that [he] will Proceede in the Sloop as Soon as their is any Probability of Getting out.” Clark, Naval Documents, 5:625-26; and JCC, 4:301. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen. Phila. June 11th. 1776. Tuesday. We have received your Letter by Mr Steward, 1 Also that by the Post of the 7th of this month. 2 We have confered with Mr Steward, assisted him in Changing his provincial Money for Continental and procured a recommendation from Mr Morris to those who have been concerned in fitting out the Gallies here to give him all the Informa tion in their power respecting them. We shall make Application for the Arms lent the Congress but We do not see any probability of obtaining them, none having been made or having arrived but what were immediately disposed of among the Continental Troops. It seems to be taken for granted that our Province will not be attacked, and upon this Supposition We presume it will be thought unneces sary to strengthen Us even by returning the Warlike Stores which we lent when the Scheme for marching the Militia was agitated. We in formed Congress of the Circumstances of our Province and of the Impossibility of marching the Militia out of the Province without their Consent; however our Quota for the flying Camp was struck at 3,400 as you will see by the resolve inclosed by the President, but it was not understood that the Militia were to be drafted or compelled to march. 3 And it is left altogether at large how they are to be col lected. Some additions to the Resolutions on that Subject are talked of but not formally proposed. We are astonished at the ungenerous and malevolent Turn given to the Proceedings of our convention by that of Virginia—And hope they will be as unsuccessfull in their nefarious Attempt to stir up the People of Maryland against their representatives as they have hitherto been in their Endeavours to render the Councils of that Province suspected. We are excedingly sorry to observe this unfriendly Disposition in a Neighbouring Sister Colony, but hope there will be found spirit enough in the Convention of Maryland to resent this most nefarious Treatment in the Manner it deserves. The Proposition from the Delegates of Virginia to declare the Colonies independent was yesterday after much Debate postponed for three Weeks, then to be resumed, and a Committee is appointed to draw up a Declaration to prevent Loss of time in Case the Congress should agree to the Proposition at the day fixed for resuming it. This postpone was made to give an Oppertunity to the Delegates from those Colonies, which had not as yet given Authority to adopt


[Page 225]
June 11,1776 193 this decisive Measure, to consult their Constituents; it will be neces sary that the Convention of Maryland should meet as soon as possible to give the explicit Sense of the Province on this Point. And we hope you will accordingly exercise your Power of convening them at such Time as you think the members can be brought together. 4 We wish to have the fair and uninfluenced Sense of the People we have the Honour to represent in this most important and interesting Affair And think it would be well if the Delegates to Convention were desired to endeavour to collect the opinion of the people at large in some Manner or other previous to the Meeting of Convention. We shall attend the Convention whenever it meets if it is thought proper we should do so. The approaching Harvest will perhaps render it very inconvenient to many Gentlemen to attend the Con vention; This however must not be regarded when matters of such momentous Concern demand their deliberation. We beg you will in form Us as soon as may be of the Time you fix for the Convention to meet, and We should also be very glad to receive the Proceedings of the last session. We see with the deepest Concern the Attempts from various Quarters to throw the Province into a State of Confu sion, Division Sc Disorder but trust the Exertions of those who are the true friends of Virtue 8c the American Cause will be adequate to the surrounding Difficulties 8c Dangers. From every Account and Appearance the King and his Ministers seem determined to hazard every thing upon the Success of the Sword; with out offering any Terms to America which she ought to accept. That Peace 8c Security which every virtuous man in this Country has so earnestly desired seems not attainable in the present disposition of the ruling powers of Britain. We wish we had any reason to suppose there was any foundation for what Mr Smith reports to have been told him by Capt Hammond 8c Ld Dunmore, but all Circumstances strongly op pose the Supposition of Commissioners, as Messengers of Peace. However we know not more of this matter than you 8c the publick do and it is impossible to speak certainly upon this or any other Subject without more full Information than we have. We will send the Gun Carriage, Instruments 8c paper by Mr Steward who informs us he has sundry Articles for the Province to be sent from hence. We begg to be informed frequently of the State of the Province and of your Proceedings: And assure you of our readiness to attend your Commands. Our hurry and necessary Attendance in Congress must apologize for this Scrawl. The Question for postponing the Declara tion of Independence was carried by seven Colonies against five. We are with great Respect, Gent., Yr most Obt Sevts. Mat. Tilghman T. Stone J. Rogers


[Page 231]
June 12, 1776 199 Evil on Earth or under it than the War that is made upon Us. And We have a Right, and it is our Duty to defend our selves, by such Means as We have. There are such Preparations of Vesseaux de Frizes, Fire Ships, Fire Rafts, floating Batteries and Row Gallies in Delaware River, that they would Spread Destruction through any British Fleet, that should attempt to come up here. I wish that Similar Preparations were made in every Seaport in the Mass. Bay. After you have done every Thing that is necessary for the Defence of the Colony, and her Sisters, I presume you will turn your Thoughts to the Establishment of a permanent Constitution of civil Government. The Board is so unwieldy a Body to conduct the Ex ecutive Part of Government, productive of so much Delay, and un necessary Trouble, that you will no doubt, choose a Governor. Will you give him a Negative upon your Laws, or only make him Primus inter Pares, at the Board? I suppose the high, free Spirit of our People will demand the latter. But, I must conclude my Letter, by requesting the Favour of your Correspondence, and assuring you that I am with great Esteem, your Friend and humble Servant LB (MHi). 1 David Sewall (1735-1825), a York, Mass., lawyer, sat in the Massachusetts Council, 1776-78, and on the bench of the Massachusetts Superior Court of Judicature, 1777-89. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:638^5. 2 See John Adams to James Warren, June 9, 1776, note. Josiah Bartlett’s Notes on the Plan of Confederation [June 12-July 12? 1776] 1 United Provinces proportion of 100000 Guilders viz. Gelderland Holland Zealand Friesland Overyssel Utrecht Groningen s d 3612— 5: 0 58309— 1:10 9183—14: 2 11661—15:10 3571— 8: 4 5830—17:11 5930—17:11 Each province sends as many Deputies as they please but however many Deputies sent such province has but one vote. The Deputies chosen for Different periods, some anually, some for life.


[Page 234]
202 June 13, 1776 Room for Exertion and Laurels are still to be reaped in Canada. You will have a respectable Army and every Measure, We can sug gest, is taking to supply them with Necessaries. I cannot but recommend to You the most unreserved and un limited Confidence in General Schuyler. Be assured of his Integrity, Diligence, Abilities and Address. I know him well, and will be answerable for that Gentleman as for Myself. I know he is injured, basely traduced. If You have not a constant & friendly Intercourse with General Schuyler, You will fail in Canada. In a Word, inform him of every Doubt or Suspicion. He will show You his Conduct, evidenced by his Letters and Orders. You may show him this Letter and say it was my Request to You as his and your Friend, and as one of those in whom America reposes some Trust. Be attentive to this advice. More depends on it than I can explain in a Letter. You will have the assistance of many able Officers in Canada. You are acquainted with General Sullivane. General Arnold is brave, active & well acquainted in that Country. He is acquainted with Men and Things. Desire him to shew You my Letter relative to Point Au Fer, and another, of my Suspicions of some people now in our Service. Be extreamly cautious who you trust. General Thomp son has Sense to conceive and Spirit to execute. You may safely repose a Confidence in him. Colonel Sinclair [St. Clair] will be of great Service. He has prudence, bravery and a Knowledge of the Country. If he would accept I beleive he is the most proper person in Canada to be your adjutant General. Colonel Maxwell bears a high Character. Colo. Allen I know. His Vivacity & Spirit will be useful if properly directed. He will never turn his back on the Enemy. Colo. Dehaas is said to be an experienced officer. Colo. Drayton & Patterson have the Appearance of good officers. Colo nels Wayne &: Irvin are Gentlemen. There are many other Gentle men in the Army there but I am not acquainted with them, or can not at present recollect them. Mr. McCartey acts as Quarter Master. I rely on his integrity. He is a Man of Business, intimately ac- quanted with the Country and Language. Mr. Bonfield may be recommended to Mr. Trumbell as Deputy Commissary if he will accept. If Mr. Wells, who lived with Us and was acquainted with all affairs & acted as our Secretary should return to Canada, I beg Leave to mention him to your attention and Consideration. I left him in Albany. I beg to hear from you as often as possible. Remember Me to all the Gentlemen I have before mentioned. Present my most respect ful Compliments to Lord Sterling. Assure General Washington I entertain every Sentiment of Respect and Regard for him. Com mend Me to your Lady, beg her to accept, with you, my warmest wishes & beleive Me to be in all the Vicissitudes of Life, Your Affec tionate & Obedt. Servt. 2 Sami. Chase


[Page 235]
June 13, 1776 203 RC (MH). 1 Chase and Charles Carroll of Carrollton attended Congress on June 11 to give an oral account of their mission to Canada, and on the following day they sub mitted a written report which was immediately taken into consideration in the committee of the whole. On June 17 Congress resolved “that an experienced general be immediately sent into Canada” and instructed General Washington to send Gates to take command of the forces there. See JCC, 5:431, 436, 448. 2 The following day Charles Carroll of Carrollton, although not a delegate to Congress, sent a letter to Gates informing him that he would “probably be ap pointed to the chief command in Canada” and thereupon took the liberty to offer several suggestions pertaining to the Canadian command. Carroll’s letter is printed in Kate Mason Rowland, The Life of Charles Carroll of Carrollton, 1737-1832, with His Correspondence and Public Papers, 2 vols. (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1898), 1:174-76. John Hancock to the Cumberland County Committee Gentlemen, Philada. June 13th 1776 Your favour of June 8th Inclosing a resolution respecting the Powder stopt by you came safe to hand, and was Communicated to the Congress, in Consequence of which I have it in charge to Acquaint you that the two Parcels of Powder you Mention to have Stopd were Design’d for the use of the Inhabitants at Pittsburgh and our Friend Indians, and sent for that Purpose by Mr. Morris to Mr. Morgan the Agent, by Order of Congress. I am now to Request you upon receipt of this, that youl Please to Direct the said Powder to be forwarded with all Possible Dispatch to Mr. Morgan for the Purposes aforesaid, & I beg you will Direct the Waggoners to be as Expeditious as Possible. 1 I am with Respect, Gentlemen, your very Hble. Servt. John Hancock Presidt. Tr (PWW). 1 See JCC, 5:437; and Lewis Morris to Ephraim Blaine, May 14, 1776. The Cumberland County Committee’s letter and proceedings with respect to the seizure of the gunpowder are in PCC, item 69, 1:133-35; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:756. John Hancock to Ebenezer Hancock Dear Brother Philadelphia June 13th. 1776 I have the pleasure to Acquaint you that the Congress have been pleased to Appoint you Deputy Pay Master General to the Conti nental Troops in the Eastern Department, 1 with a Sallary of Fifty Dollars a Month, which I hope will prove agreeable to you, and I


[Page 236]
204 June 13, 1776 most earnestly Recommend to you a very close and strict Attention to the Business of your office. The Departmt. to which your Office extends, takes in the Colony of Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, & Connect., the Continental Troops in all those places fall under your Care. I inclose you several Resolves of Congress respecting your office, 2 which I must direct that you closely Adhere to, and you are to obey all orders from General Washington, or the Commander in Chief for the time being in the Eastern Department. You will apply to the Commanding officer at Boston for a Centinel to be plac’d at the Door of your office by Night & Day. Be carefull to make your Monthly Returns regularly to me. By next Post I shall transmit you the Pay list. Inclos’d you have your Commissn. 3 I wish you happy, and am, Your huml Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] Inform the Comandg officer in Boston of your appointt. The 150,000 Dollars mention’d in the Resolve is on its way under the Care of my Mr Sprigs, who will deliver it to you. Send me a Rect. for the money. RC (MB). 'See JCC, 5:432. 2 Passed by Congress on lune 5. JCC, 5:418. 2 Located at MB, with signature by Hancock and attestation by Charles Thomson. John Hancock to Thomas McKean Sir Philada. 13 June 1776 Your favr. rec’d this morng. 8c have only time to Tell you that the Powder 8c Lead is order’d under Guard of a Company of Troops, 8c that a Battaln. of Associators is order’d down to your assistance. I wish success. I have it in Command to Request that your Assembly would please to order the Commandg Officer to disarm all the disaf fected in your Colony, which please to Communicate to the As sembly. 1 Excuse me, as I am hurried, Steal time to write, 8c am most Respectfully, Your very huml svt, John Hancock Prt. RC (MH). Addressed: "To the Honl Thomas McKean Esqr. at New Castle.” 1 See JCC, 5:436-37. This day McKean wrote two letters to Hancock. The first, written at two in the morning, reported that 1,000 armed tories had gathered in Sussex County to join with the British in an assault on three companies of Continental soldiers at Lewes. The second, written at seven in the evening, reported that the “insurgents" in Sussex had already dispersed but had denied that they were in league with the British or inimical to the American cause.


[Page 237]
June 13, 1776 205 although the assembly had failed to discover why they had gathered together in the first instance. PCC, item 78, 15:57-60; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:833. John Hancock to Philip Moore and James Craig Gentlemen, Philada. June 13th. 1776. I am directed by Congress to inform you, that the offer which the Owners made of the hard Money taken on Board their Prizes is ac cepted—and that you will please to apply to the Men for the Moiety belonging to them. The public Service calls for the Money as soon as it can possibly be had. 1 Should the Men consent to let Congress have their Share, I will immediately give Draughts on the Treasury for the Amount. It is the Request of Col. Roberdeau that the Money remain at Capt. Craig’s until further Orders. I beg Leave to thank you, and the Rest of the Owners for the Example of public Spirit, which you have, in the most unsolicited Manner, shewn upon this Occasion. I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, your most obedient & very hble Sert. J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Messrs. Moore & Craig, Agents &c.” 1 On June 12 Congress had accepted the offer of the owners of the Pennsylvania privateers Chance and Congress to exchange their “moiety” of the $22,000 in hard money taken by their vessels from the Juno, Lady Juliana, and Reynolds for the like amount in "continental dollars.” JCC, 5:432. Accounts of the capture of these three ships by the Chance and Congress are in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:154, 379, 448. Philip Moore was one of the owners of the Chance and Congress when they were commissioned as privateers in April 1776. James Craig subsequently acquired part ownership of the Chance. Ibid., 4:774-75, 5:882. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Assembly Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 13th June, 1776. The Congress have just received Advice, that a Number of Dis affected Persons have got together in Sussex County, in Delaware Government; that there is Reason to apprehend those deluded Peo ple are supplied with Arms and Ammunition from the Men of War of our Enemies, and mean to act in Concert with them. As it is of the utmost Importance, that such Insurrections be immediately quelled and totally suppressed, the Congress have come to the fol lowing Resolution: That it be recommended to the Assembly of Pennsylvania, immed iately to order a Battalion of the Provincial Rifle-Men, now at


[Page 238]
206 June 13, 1776 Chester, to march to the Assistance of the Militia in Delaware Government. 1 I doubt not you will see the Necessity of an immediate Com pliance. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, Your obedient humble Servant, John Hancock, President MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 8th ser. 8:7541. 1 See JCC, 5:436. John Hancock to Charles Preston Sir Philada. 13th June 1776 Your Letter of 3d Inst. I duly Rec’d, 8c immediately Sent to Capt Crawford the one you Inclos’d open for him. Capt Crawford will deliver you this, he agreeable to the Resolve of Congress proceeds to Reading to furnish the officers & Men with Money 8c to Determine the Rations to Mr Franks. 1 I dare Say a strict attention to the Parole in other instances will be observ’d by Capt Crawford, my Knowledge of 8c Reliance on your honour is such that I am Confident you will not suffer any Circumstances to take place that shall in the least Degree occasion an Alteration in the present Determination with re spect to the Gentlemen who are prisoners. In any thing wherein I can promote the Ease 8c happiness of the Gentlemen consistant with my Scituation depend I will with pleasure do it, 8c you will please at any time to Communicate any Occurrencies to me. I am, Sir, Your most Obedt sevt, John Hancock Prt. RC (PHi). Addressed: “To the Honl. Major Preston, Reading.” 'The letter from Maj. Charles Preston—commander of the British garrison at St. Johns that surrendered to the Americans on November 2, 1775—requesting permission for Capt. John Crawford, “Paymaster to the Twenty; Sixth Regiment," to visit British prisoners at Reading, Pa., is in PCC, item 78, 18:61, and Am. Archives, 6:691. The “Resolve of Congress” referred to is in JCC, 4:371. David S. Franks had been granted permission by Congress on February 7, 1776, to victual the prisoners at Reading. JCC, 4:116. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 13th June 1776 I am informed that a certain Mr. Eustace, now in New York, but some time ago with Lord Dunmore, is acquainted with a practise that prevailed of taking letters out of the Post Office in Virginia and carrying them to Dunmore for his perusal and then returning them


[Page 239]
June 13, 1776 207 to the Office again. As it is of the greatest consequence that this nefarious practise be stopt immediately, I shall be exceedingly obliged to you Sir for getting Mr. Eustace to give in writing all that he knows about this business, and inclose the same to me at Williamsburg. I wish to know particularly, what Post Offices the letters were taken from, by whom, and who carried them to Lord Dunmore. This day I sett off for Virginia, 1 where, if I can be of any service to you, it will oblige to command me. It is more than probable that Congress will order our friend Gates to Canada. His great abilities and virtue will be absolutely necessary to restore things there, and his recommen dations will always be readily complied with. You will find that great powers are given to the Commander in that distant depart ment. The system for Canada, adopted since the arrival of the Com missioners here, will I hope be of essential service to our affairs. All good Men pray most heartily for your health, happiness, and suc cess, and none more than dear Sir Your affectionate friend and obe dient Servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). 1 Lee apparently carried with him a letter from John Rogers to Thomas Sim Lee, which was to be delivered to the latter at his Mellwood estate. Rogers’ letter was chiefly personal in nature, but it contains the following comments on public affairs. "The Canada Commissioners are returned, our affairs there are not in a very promissing scituation, but I am in great Hopes of their being very speedily put in a better state. The inclosed paper (if it comes to Hand before the Public Post) will inform of all the late intelligence in circulation of any consequence. If the Article respecting the King of France is to be relied upon I am inclined to think it will have a very considerable effect upon the Political World in general and upon America in particular.” John Rogers to Thomas Sim Lee, June 12, 1776. Dreer Collection, PHi. George Wythe probably left Philadelphia with Richard Henry Lee. In a June 17 letter to Robert Carter of Nomini Hall, Wythe reported that “Col. Lee is so obliging as to take with him the stocking-Loom-needles, with some wire, which I brought for you from Philadelphia to Hooe’s ferry, where I now am.” Signers Collection, InU. Wythe’s account with Virginia lists “Wages from 5 September, 1775, to 12 June, 1776, 281 days at 45s” for his services in Congress and indicates that he attended the Virginia convention “from Wednesday 27 June to the end of the session.” Jefferson Papers, MHi. Secret Committee Minutes of Procedings June 13. 1776. At a meetg of the Come. Present Morris, Alsop, Hewes, Lewis, Bartlett. The papers relative to the seizure of the Brige. Cornelia by the Syren Man of war being produce! &c considerd, Agreed that the follg. Acct, of the owners of sd. Brigantine be paid. 1 The Honble Cont. Congress to King & Harper, Drs.


[Page 241]
June 14, 1776 209 John Adams to Samuel Chase Dear Sir Philadelphia June 14. 1776 Mr Bedford put into my Hand this Moment a Card from you, 1 containing a Reprehension for the past, and a Requisition for the Time to come. For the past I kiss the Rod: but from complying with the Requisi[ti]on, at least one Part of it, I must be excused. I have no objection to writing you Facts, but I would not meddle with Characters, for the World. A burn’d Child dreads the Fire. I have Smarted to[o] severely, for a few crude Expressions, written in a Pet, to a bosom Friend, to venture on such Boldnesses again. Besides if I were to tell you all that I think of all Characters, I should appear so ill natured and censorious, that I should detest my self. By my soul, I think very heinously, I cant think of a better Word, of some Peo ple. They think as badly of me, I suppose, and neither of us care a farthing for that. So the Account is ballanced and perhaps after all both sides may be deceived, both may be very honest Men. But of all the Animals on Earth, that ever fell in my Way, your Trimmers, your double tongued and double minded Men, your dis guised Folk, I detest most. The Devil I think has a better Title to those, by half, than he has to those who err openly, and are bare faced Villains. Mr Adams ever was and ever will be glad to see Mr Chase, but Mr Chase never was nor will be more welcome than, if he should come next Monday or Tuesday fortnight, with the Voice of Maryland in Favour of Independence, and a foreign Alliance. I have never had the Honour of knowing many People from Maryland, but by what I have learnt of them and seen of their Delegates they are an open, sincere and united People—a little obstinate to be sure, but that is very pardonable when accompanied with frankness, from all which I conclude, that when they shall be convinced of the Necessity of those Measures, they will all be convinced at once, and afterwards be as active and forward as any, perhaps more so than most. I have one Bone to pick with your Colony. I suspect they levelled one of their Instructions at my Head. 2 This is a distinction of which you may suppose I am not very ambitious. One of your Colleagues moved a Resolution that No Member of Congress should hold any Office under any of the new Governments and produced an In struction to make him feel strong. I seconded the Motion with a trifling amendment that the Resolution should be that no Member of Congress should hold any office civil or military, in the Army or in the Militia under any Government old or new. This struck through the assembly like an Electric shock, for every Member was a Gover nor, or General, or Judge, or some mighty Thing or other in the


[Page 245]
June 14, 1776 213 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Esek Hopkins Esqr commanding the Continental Ships at Newport, or elsewhere.” 1 For additional details on the sources of congressional discontent with Com modore Hopkins, culminating in his censure in Angust 1776, see Thomas Jeffer son’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Conduct, August 12, 1776. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Honorable Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 14th. 1776. Your Letter from the Honble President of the Council was duely received. The Delegates of Massachusetts Bay, you may depend, will pay all the Regard and Attention in their Power, to the Instruc tions you are pleased to honour them with. 1 In my Letter of the 4th of June, which I hope came safe to Hand, I enclosed you sundry Resolves of Congress, relative to supplying a Part of your Militia for the Defence of the Common Cause in the present critical State of our Affairs. On the 11th Inst., in Obedience to the Commands of Congress, I sent a second Express to the several Colonies that were to furnish Troops for the Defence of New York. This last was sent in Consequence of alarming Intelligence from Genl. Washington of an intended Attack on that City by Genl. Howe with all his Forces. To the Motives suggested in my Letters on the Occasion, I can only repeat, that it is the only Measure that can possibly save us from Destruction. 2 I am extremely sorry to observe that our Affairs in Canada are on so bad a Footing. In Order however to retrieve our Misfortunes in that Quarter, a most important Step will be, to supply our Troops there with as much Gold and Silver as we can collect. You will therefore be pleased to send by Express, immediately on Receipt of this, all the hard Money in your Possession, to Genl. Schuyler, or to the Paymaster in Canada, Mr. Jona. Trumbull. I do myself the Pleasure to transmit herewith the Sum of thirty Thousand Dollars in a small Box marked and numbered, which, you will please to use your best Endeavours, to have exchanged for Specie; and also, the Sum of twenty one Thousand Dollars, in a small Box marked and numbered, for the Use of the two Battalions to be raised in our Province, which you will please to improve accordingly. There are in this Box Massachusetts Bills equal in Value to 2725 3/4 Dollars, as per List enclosed. 3 You will also be pleased to procure hard Money to the Amount of one Hundred Thousand Dollars if possible. For any Sum above the thirty Thousand Dollars now sent, which you may collect in Specie, your Bills on me, shall be duely honored. Or should you he so fortunate as to collect even more than one Hundred Thousand


[Page 247]
June 14, 1776 215 fifty Thousand Dollars for the Use of the Troops in that Depart ment. It is my opinion, you had better hire a Clerk immediately, and run the Risque of Congress making an Allowance for him. It is scarcely possible at this Time to get them to determine the Matter for you. A thousand Objects, infinitely more important, press on them, and demand an immediate Attention and Decision. Thus much you may depend upon, I will do all in my Power to prevail with them to make an adequate Allowance for a Clerk if you choose to employ one. Should you incline to adopt my opinion in this Matter, Mr. Wyn- throp, whom I expect every Hour, will be as fit a Person as you can find, or you shall do as you please. I am, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] I will Venture from the urgency of the case to Authorize you to Employ a proper person as Clerk, let him be on as easy terms as possible. RC (MH). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 Paymaster General William Palfrey’s latest extant letter to Hancock is dated June 3 and forwards a state of his accounts to the end of May. See Am. Archives, 4 th ser. 6:692. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gentlemen, Philad’a, June 14, 1776. You will receive herewith from the commanding officer of the troops in the barracks, Mr. M'Lean, a prisoner who was sent hither by General Putnam in irons, for refusing to give his parole and for other misbehavior, the letter respecting him was referred to the com mittee appointed by Congress on prisoners, 8c the prisoner was com mitted to the charge of the Commanding officer in the barracks ’till the committee should report on his conduct, but as the troops are ordered from the barracks, I have it in command to request you to take charge of him, 8c have him safely kept agreeable to former res olutions of Congress, until the Congress shall take order concerning him. 1 I am, Gentlemen, Your obedt humble servt, John Hancock, Presidt. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:773. 1 See ]CC, 5:440. Gen. Israel Putnam’s June 2 letter to Hancock about Lt. Neil McLean is in PCC, item 159, fol. 20; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:683. McLean’s


[Page 250]
218 June 14, 1776 mittee will be ready in a few days to enter upon the Execution of their Duty. You will see the Outlines of this Office in the enclosed Resolves. Some further Regulations, it is more than probable, will be necessary in the Course of Time. The Congress have only laid a Foundation at present. It still remains, in a great Measure, to erect a System of Rules and Laws that will enable us to carry on our mili tary operations with more Knowledge, Certainty, and Dispatch. I have paid Capt Grier the 600 Dollars agreeably to the Order of Congress, which you will please to direct the Paymaster to deduct on Settlement. 3 The shameful Inactivity of our Fleet for some Time past, the fre quent Neglect or Disobedience of Orders in Commodore Hopkins, the numberless Complaints exhibited to the Marine Committee agt. him, and also against Captains Saltonstal and Whipple, have induced the Congress, in Consequence of a Representation from the Marine Committee, to order them to repair immediately to this City to answer for their Conduct. I have accordingly wrote them to set out on the Receipt of my Letters, and to repair here by Land as fast as possible. I hope soon to have our Ships on a more respectable Footing. No Efforts of mine shall be wanting to accomplish so desireable an Event. I have sent the Resolves to the Convention of New York, which relate to them. The Prohibition on salted Beef and Pork, I have given Orders to be printed in all the Papers to the Eastward. The Resolves respecting the Indians, I must ask the Favour of you to forward to Genl. Schuyler, with such Directions as you shall judge necessary. I am to inform you that the Congress have appointed Ebenezer Hancock Esqr. Deputy Paymaster General for the Eastern Depart ment. A Carriage with one Hundred and fifty Thousand Dollars for the Pay of the Troops in that Department, will set out tomorrow. June 16th. A Waggon with about twenty two Thousand Dollars in Silver, and a Quantity of Continental Money, will set out tomor row Morning for Canada. I have given Directions to call on you at New York, and must request you will order a Guard to proceed with it as fast as possible, the Rest of the Way. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sevt. John Hancock, Presidt [P.S.] I Request the favr. you will please to give the necessary or ders to the Commanding officer in the Eastern Departmt. & to my Brother respecting the Payment of the Troops. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 These resolves, which were passed by Congress June 12, 13, and 14, dealt with rifle regiments, the creation of the Board of War, the investigation of Commodore


[Page 251]
June 15, 1776 219 Hopkins, nonintercourse with the British, restraints on the exportation of beef and pork, and Canadian military operations. See JCC, 5:432, 434-35, 441^12. ’See JCC, 5:432. 3 See JCC, 5:438. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 14th June 1776 This accompanies the 10,000 dollars for the naval service men tioned in a former letter; I have put it in a box with some other money directed to Col Weare and wish it safe to hand; 1 am sorry it was not in my power to send it sooner but hope the service will not suffer. We have no news here, except from Canada which I suppose has reached you ere now. The Commissioners are returned from that country; it is expected that Genl Thomas is dead before this. If so the command devolves on Sullivan, but there will be another Gen eral Officer sent there—believe Gates will be the man. 2 In haste, Yours, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, this date. 2 On June 17 Congress directed Washington to send Gates “to take command of the forces” in Canada. JCC, 5:448. John Adams to Peter Boylston Adams My dear Brother Philadelphia June 15. 1776 I have an Account of the Politicks of the Town of Braintree; but it is an imperfect one. I wish you would write me, a clear, and dis tinct one. . . J I am told there was a Tie, between your Hon. Briga dier General and You, and that, in order to get a Decision in his Favour he was obliged to declare that he would leave the Board for the Sake of serving the Town. 2 I should be glad to learn a little of Motives and Politicks upon this Occasion. How is it? You leave me in the dark: you dont tell me whether I have the Honour to be a select Man, or not, or who are select Men, nor any Thing about Town Affairs. . . . Do you think that, because I am half a thousand miles off, I never think about you and that I dont want to know this, and that and the other? I do, indeed. You may at any Time send a Letter to the Post Office in Boston, it will be brought to me free of Expence, to you, or me. ... I am greatly at a Loss to account for the Conduct of your Hon. Councillor and


[Page 254]
222 June 15, 1776 RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1972). Recipient identified from James Warren’s July 7, 1776, letter to Gerry in Gerry Papers, DLC. 1 Gerry’s concern was that proposed remedies might do more harm than good, as in the case alluded to in the Aeneid where the patient worsened under the doctor’s care. Virgil, Aeneid, 12.46. •On June 24 Congress appointed a committee “to enquire into the cause of the miscarriages in Canada." JCC, 5:474. 3 The Continental Loan Office was not approved by Congress until October 3, 1776. Each state was authorized to appoint the commissioner for the state’s loan office. JCC, 5:845-46, 4 Adams. Robert R. Livingston to John R. Livingston Dear John Philadelphia 15th June 1776. Mr. Wisener will bring you a letter from the chairman of the secret Committee of Congress 1 remanding 20 tons of salt petre which was directed to be sent to Mr. Wiseners Mill & which by some mistake is gone to yours. I am sorrey for this disappointment but hope you will make no difficulty in complying. Mr. Morris prom isses me that he will when you inform him that your stock is nearly worked up endeavour to procure you an additional supply tho in the meanwhile more will probably arrive at New York. I wish you would converse very freely with Mr. Wisener on the subject of re fining your salt petre 8c the manufacture of powder since he con fessedly understands it well, 2 &: Mr. Eves’s powder is in very bad repute. 3 [He will tell?] you of the person at New York that will [cast] brasses for you at 8s apiece. I hope to be home in 20 days so that I shall not think it necessary to enlarge. My health is much mended tho I begin to find that the warm wheather & a close atten tion to business will be no advantage to [me], I shall therefore follow your advise & take a journey to the manor &: back again. I am much of Dr. Lathams opinion with respect to inoculation. If I can think of it when the house is not too much engaged I will try & get something done in that matter. I know you are entitled to a longer letter but you can not conceive how reluctently one takes up the pen after the fatigue of body & mind which a whole days confine ment to the Congress Chamber occasions. This must plead my ex cuse. Give my love to all the family 8c believe me to be, Your Aff. Brother, R R Livingston RC (DLC). 1 Not found. 2 See Henry Wisner to Benjamin Towne, December 21, 1775. ’On June 7 Livingston, Robert Treat Paine, and Henry Wisner were ap pointed as a committee to investigate a “complaint . . . made with respect to the powder manufactured at Mr. O[swell] Eve’s mill.” No report about Eve’s


[Page 255]
June 15, 1776 223 powder mill at Frankford, Pa., has been found. However, on August 28 and September 2 Congress did pass resolutions governing the inspection of domestic and imported gunpowder. The August 28 resolutions, which dealt only with gunpowder manufactured in America, were also printed in broadside form. See JCC, 5:425, 440, 634, 713-14, 729, 6:1125. See also David L. Salay, “The Produc tion of Gunpowder in Pennsylvania during the American Revolution,” PMHB 99 (October 1975): 422-42. Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentn. Phila. June 15. 1776. Yours of the 10th Inst, was delivered to Us yesterday. It has hap pened very well that you have called a Convention on the 20th tho for the purpose of complying with the resolve of Congress We think your own powers are fully adequate. 1 It never was intended that any part of the militia was compellable to march out of the Provinces; nor do We know of any Power in ours, even tho the Convention was sitting to order the Militia upon Service out of the Province. It was intended that the flying Camp should be formed by voluntary Inlistments of the Militia and it was supposed that the People of the respective Provinces would readily and voluntarily march to the head Quarters of this flying Camp, which was ordered principally to defend the Middle Colonies. It will be necessary however to appoint officers, and give Directions to the body of militia when raised and this may be done by your Council or the Convention. We wrote you a few days ago requesting a Call of the Convention to deliberate upon Matters of the last Importance, and We are glad that an earlier Meeting than we expected will afford an Opportunity to our Constituents to communicate to us the Sense of the Province upon the very interest ing subjects mentioned in our Letter. The Session will be a very important one and We wish to attend, tho we know not whether it will be agreable to our Constituents to leave the Province unrep resented in Congress, it being a Matter of much Consequence to keep up the representation at this and all other times. We shall wait to hear from You and them upon this head, indeed we can’t quit the Congress without Leave which will not be given here unless our Attendance in Convention is desired. 2 Mr. Tilghman left us yester day, Mr Paca is here. We have nothing new since we last had the Honour of Addressing You. The Continental Proof of Cannon is two thirds of the Weight of the Ball, of Powder and two Balls, tho this is said to be less powder than is used for the purpose in Eng land. We are Gent., with much Respect, Yr most obt Sevts, T. Stone J. Rogers


[Page 256]
224 June 15, 1776 [P.S.] We have sent by the Stage 4 Reams paper, a Box Instruments, 8c a Gun Carriage. RC (MdAA). Written by Stone and signed by Stone and Rogers. 'See Md. Archives, 11:474-75; and Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, June 11, 1776. ’The Maryland Convention responded to this explanation by resolving on June 21 that the delegates “move Congress for permission to attend here, but that they do not leave the Congress without such permission, and with out first having obtained an order that the consideration of the questions of Indepen dence, foreign alliance, and a further Confederation of the Colonies, shall be postponed until Deputies from this Province can attend Congress.” Am. Ar chives, 4th ser. 6:1485. Nevertheless, only delegates Samuel Chase, Robert Goldsborough, Thomas Johnson, and Matthew Tilghman, all of whom were already in Maryland, attended the convention. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant to John Adams Dear Sir Burl[ingto]n 15 June 1776. Jacta est Aiea. We are passing the Rubicon & our Delegates in Congress on the first of July will vote plump. 1 The Bearer is a staunch Whigg & will answer any Questions You may need to ask. We have been very busy here 8c have stole a Minute from Business to write this. In haste, Yours, Jona D Sergeant RC (MHi). 1 Sergeant’s use of Caesar’s exclamation upon crossing the Rubicon was ap parently in response to the New Jersey Provincial Congress’ June 14 resolution denouncing Gov. William Franklin’s call, “in the name of the King of Great Britain,” for a meeting of the provincial assembly on June 20. Sergeant, who was attending the provincial congress in Burlington, evidently interpreted this resolution as a strong indication of that body’s willingness to support a declara tion of independence, but not until June 22 did it actually authorize the New Jersey delegates in Congress to vote for independence. See Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1620-22, 1628-29. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear Philidelpa 15 June 1776 I Wrote you the lit by Capt Sheldon who I expected would have gone out of Town before now, but he has been detained by Reason of the Stage Boat’s going off sooner than was expected. I therefore improve the oppertunity of Writing by the Post. The few Articles which you mentioned to Me I have not yet procured, perhaps I shall do it before Capt. Sheldon goes away. Linnens of the ordinary kind are 12/ per yard, the better sort 15/ and 20/. Capt. Sheldon prom-


[Page 257]
June 15, 1776 225 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant


[Page 258]
226 June 15, 1776 ised me to get a piece for you last Winter at N York but it seems he has failed of doing it. Every Thing here is sold at an extraordinary Price. Nothing more so than Linnens and indeed scarcly any could be had for several Months past. A few Dutch Linnens are lately bro’t in and sold at 12/ per yard, which nothing but necessity could induce any one to purchase. Nothing Very particular has Occured since my last. We have not heard of any late Arrivals of Troops. Those lying at Cape Fear N Carolina it is said are sickly, and have atcheived nothing of con sequence. Col Allyn is there on Board of Parkers Fleet with 31 Men of his. 1 One Peter Noble of Norfolk a Soldier taken with Allyn is now in this City. He swam from the Fleet the 3d. May last. We seem at present to be in the Midst of a great Revolution, which will probably be Attended with most important consequences. Every Thing is leading to the lasting Independancy of these Colonies. I hope to Return by the Time I mentioned in my former Letters. By the Blessing of God I have injoyed more Health than I had Reason to expect since I have been here, considering the confined Life which I am oblidged to lead. I Wrote you the It. inst which I hope you have reed. My Love to my Children and My Freinds. And be assured that I am with the sincerest Affection yours, Oliver Wolcott RC (CtHi). 1 Ethan Allen was a prisoner on board H.M.S. Mercury. See Clark, Naval Documents, 5:175-76, 430, 673-75. John Adams to Abigail Adams June 16. 1776 Yesterday was to me a lucky Day, as it brought me two Letters from you, one dated May 27 and the other June 3d. Dont be concerned, about me, if it happens now and then that you dont hear from me, for some Weeks together. If any Thing should injure my Health materially, you will soon hear of it. But I thank God I am in much better Health than I expected to be. But this cannot last long, under the Load that I carry. When it becomes too great for my Strength I shall ask leave to lay it down and come home. But I will hold it out a good while yet, if I can. I am willing to take the Woodland Sister mentions, and the Watch and the sword. As to the Lighter, it cost more than five hundred Dollars in hard Cash. I wish our Uncle 1 had as much Ambition, as he has Virtue and Ability. A Deficiency of Ambition is as criminal and injurious as an Excess of it. Tell him I say so. How shall We contrive to make so wise and good a Man ambitious? Is it not a sin to be so modest. Ask


[Page 259]
June 16,1776 227 him how he can answer it? So! then it seems the Brigadier 2 was obliged to step down Stairs in order to keep my Brother, out of the lower Room. . . . 3 I am sorry for it. Thanks for your Quotation from Sully. It is extreamly appropos. I am very glad you are so well provided with Help. Give my Re spects to Mr. Belcher, and his Family. Tell him, I am obliged to him for his Kind Care of the Farm. I wish I could go out with him, and see the Business go on, but I cant. Thank your Father, and my Mother, for their kind Remembrance of me. Return my Duty to both. Charles’s young Heroism charms me. Kiss him. Poor Mugford. Yet glorious Mugford. How beautifull and sublime it is to die for ones Country. What a fragrant Memory remains! The Rumour you heard of General Gates, will prove premature. I endeavoured both here and with the General, to have it so, and should have succeeded, if it had not been for the Loss of General Thomas. Cruel small Pox! worse than the sword! But now I fear We must part with Gates for the sake of Canada. 4 Mrs. Montgomery is a Lady like all the Family, of refined Senti ments and elegant Accomplishments. Her Letter, as you quote it, is very pathetic. Do you mean that our Plymouth Friends are in Trouble for a dis ordered son! If so, I am grieved to the Heart. God grant them Support under so severe an Affliction. But this World is a scene of Afflic tions. 5 Rejoice to hear that the Enemy has not fortified. Hope they will not be suffered to attempt it. Dont think about my Cloaths. I do well enough in that Respect. As to your House at Boston, do with it, as you please. Sell it, if you will, but not for a farthing less than it cost me. Let it, if you please, but take Care who your Tenant is—both of his Prudence to preserve the House, and his Ability to pay the Rent. Your Brother,® I hope will be promoted. He is fit for it, and has deserved it. If his Name comes recommended from the General Court, he will have a Commission for a Field Officer, and I will recommend him to the General for his Notice. My Pupil, if he pleases, will do Honour to his Preceptor, and im portant service to his Country. I hope his Zeal and Fidelity will be found equal to his Abilities. 7 I will endeavour to relieve your Head Ach if I can. I send you all the News, in the Papers. Great Things are on the Tapis. These Throws will usher in the Birth of a fine Boy. We have no Thoughts of removing from hence—there is no occasion for it. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:12-13. 1 Norton Quincy.


[Page 262]
230 June 16, 1776 order for what Provisions you may want to be taken from the Com missary’s Store. Your several favrs. to 6th June I have Rec’d, the last Inclosing my Commission as Major General, I beg you will make my Acknowl edgments to the Gentlemen for the honour they have done me, & Assure them I will Endeavour to answer their Expectations. In my last I Sent you a List of the Captains with the Names of the Ships as far as we had then proceeded, since which the following Appointments have been made, 2 Vizt. Israel Turner—1st Lieutt. "J For the Ship Hancock Com- Joseph Doble—2d do. ► manded by Capt. Manly. Mark Desmitt—3d do. Hector McNeil Captain "I For the Ship Boston. John Brown 1st. Lieut J Thomas Grenell to the Command of the Frigate Montgomery at N York. You will please to Send me a Rect. for the Money. Do Send me the Names of the other Lieuts. McNeil & Brown are both here & will proceed down to you in a day or two. Dr. Sir, I must beg of you in your own way to impress the Assembly with the importance of Answering Letters from Congress, we are in the Dark whether matters are Carried into Execution, pray let us hear constantly. If you can propose anything that I can serve young Mr. Avery in, I will with much pleasure endeavour to answer his & your wish. 3 I am exceedingly hurried. Remember me to all Friends. I am very truly, Dr. Sir, Your faithfull friend & Sevt, John Hancock [P.S.] I have inclos’d in my Letter to the Assembly a Resolve, which I beg may be inserted in all the News papers immediately. One Frederick Beck who guards the money, will have some de mand, either you pay or 1.1 kept him here a few days. We have wrote to the assembly to order us some money, be so good as to attend to it, & let us have some soon. Mr Gill I find prints a News paper, please to ask him to Enter me for a paper 8c to Send it [fo] me regularly here every week. RC (MHi). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Meshech Weare, June 14, 1776. 2 See JCC, 5:423, 444. a On June 4 the Massachusetts General Court had appointed a "standing Committee of Correspondence” to communicate regularly with the Massachusetts delegates. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:267. For a lengthy extract from Cushing’s June 24 reply to Hancock’s letter, see Clark, Naval Documents, 5:706.


[Page 263]
June 16, 1776 231 John Hancock to Daniel Roberdeau Dear Sir Philada 16th June 1776 The Continental Troops having left this City for New York, I am laid under the necessity to Request you will be so obliging as to order a Guard of Six Men with an officer of your Battalion of asso- ciators in whom you can confide to attend a Waggon of money from hence to New York on its way to Canada, your Guard to be Re liev’d at New York by a Guard which General Washington will appoint immediately on their Arrival at New York. I should be Glad the Guard might be at my house by 9 oClock tomorrow morng. 1 I am with much Esteem, Sir, Your very huml sevt, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 On the following day Hancock wrote a letter to Capt. William Bradford, Jr., who had been appointed by Roberdeau to command the escort for the money ordered to General Schuyler, delivering “to your Charge Six Boxes of Money for the use of the Army in Canada” and urging him to “proceed with the Guard under your Command, & the Waggon of Money, with all possible Dispatch to the City of New York, & wait upon General Washington to whom you will De liver your Charge, or Take his order respecting it.” Hancock to William Brad ford, Jr., June 17, 1776, Society Collection, PHi. Congress awarded Bradford “88 57/90 dollars” on July 23, 1776, for this mission, JCC, 5:603.


[Page 266]
234 June 17, 1776 to it self the Sole and Exclusive regulation & Government of its Internal Police (in all (articles) [matters] that shall not interfere with the articles (agreed upon by) [of] this Confederation). to itself the sole and exclusive regulation and Government of its internal Police, in all Mat ters that shall not interfere with the Articles {agreed upon by) of this Confederation. Art. [4], 3 No person in any Colony living peaceably under the Civil Government, shall be molested or prejudiced in his or her person or Estate for his or her religious persuasion, Profes sion or practice, nor be com pelled to frequent or maintain or contribute to maintain any religious Worship, Place of Wor ship, or Ministry, contrary to his or her Mind, by any Law or ordinance hereafter to be made in any Colony different from the usual Laws & Customs sub sisting at the Commencement of this War—provided, that such person frequents regularly some Place of religious Worship on the Sabbath; &: no religious Per suasion or practise for the Pro fession or Exercise of which, persons are not disqualified by the present Laws of the said Colonies respectively, from holding any offices Civil or mili tary, shall by any Law or Ordi nance hereafter to be made in any Colony, be rendered a Dis qualification of any persons pro fessing or exercising the same from holding any such offices, as fully as they might have done heretofore: Nor shall any fur ther Tests or Qualifications con cerning religious persuasion, Profession or Practise, than such as have been usually adminis tered in the said Colonies re-


[Page 271]
June 17, 1776 239 tants] shall be triennially taken & transmitted to (Congress) [the Assembly of the United States]. The taxes for paying that pro portion shall be laid & Levied by the authority & Direction of the Legislature of the (respec tive) [several] Colonys [within the Time agreed upon by the United States assembled.] 7 Art (11th) [XIII], No Colony or Colonies shall Engage in any war without the [previous] Con sent of the (union) [United States assembled,] unless such Colony or Colonies (shall) be actually invaded by Enemies, or shall have Received Certain ad vice of a Resolution being formed by some nation of In dians to invade Such Colony or Colonies and the Danger is so imminent as not to admit of a Delay till the other Colonies Can be Consulted. 9 Art (12th) [XIV]. A perpetual laid and levied by the Authority & Direction of the Legislature of the respective Colonies. 6 Art. [13], Every Colony shall abide by the Determinations of the Union in general Congress, concerning the Losses, or Ex- pences of (any Contributions of Men or Money) every Colony in the general Cause, and no Col ony or Colonies shall in any Case whatever endeavour by Force to procure Redress of any Injury or Injustice supposed to be done by the Union to such Colony or Colonies in not granting to such Colony or Colonies such Indem nifications, Compensations, Ret ributions, Exemptions or Bene fits of any kind, as such Colony or Colonies may think just or reasonable. Art. [14]. No Colony or Col onies shall engage in any War (with any Nation of Indians) without the Consent of the Union, 8 unless such Colony or Colonies be actually invaded by Enemies, or shall have received certain Advice of a Resolution being formed by some Nation of Indians to invade such Colony or Colonies, and the Danger is so imminent as not to admit of a Delay, till the other Colonies can be consulted. Art. [15]. A perpetual Alliance


[Page 272]
240 June 17, 1776 alliance offensive & Defensive is to be Entered into by the (whole union) [United States assem bled] as soon as may be with the Six nations & all other [neigh bouring] nations of Indians, their Limits [to] be ascertained, their lands to be Secured to them and not Encroached on, no purchases [of Lands, hereafter to be made of the Indians] by Colonies or private persons (hereafter to be made of them) before the Limits of the Colonies are ascertained to be (held Good) [valid:] all (Contracts for) [Purchases of] Lands not In cluded within those Limits where ascertained, to be made [by Contracts] between the (whole Union in General Con gress met, and the Great Coun cil of Indians for the General Benefit 8c advantage of all the united Colonies, persons to be appointed by the union to re side among the Indians in proper Districts who shall take Care to prevent injustice in the trade with them and shall be Enabled at the Common Ex pence of the united Colonies by occasional supplies to relieve their personal wants 8c Dis tresses) [United States assembled, or by Persons for that Purpose authorized by them, and the great Councils of the Indians, for the general Benefit of all the United Colonies.] Art (13) [XV]. (The union shall in a short time ascertain the Boundaries between Colony 8c Colony, where they Cannot agree among themselves Either in General Congress or by Erect- offensive 8c defensive, is to be entered into by the Union as soon as may be with the Six Nations and all other Nations of Indians; 10 their Limits to be ascertained; their Lands to be secured to them, and not en croached on; 11 no Purchases by Colonies, or private persons here after to be made of them before the Limits of the Colonies are ascertained, to be held good; all Contracts for Lands not included within those Limits where ascer tained, to be made between the whole Union in General Con gress met, and the Great Council of Indians, for the general Bene fit 8c Advantage of all the united Colonies. (Persons to be ap pointed by the Union to reside among the Indians in proper Districts, who shall take Care to prevent Injustice in the Trade with them and shall be enabled at the Common Expence of the united Colonies by occasional Supplies to relieve their personal Wants ir Distresses.} Art. [16]. {The [...] of the Union shall in a short Time ascertain the Boundaries between Colony ir Colony, where they cannot agree among themselves either in General Congress or by


[Page 274]
242 June 17, 1776 [Art XVIII]. The (Congress) [United States assembled shall] have the sole & Exclusive power & right of Determining on [Peace and] war Except in the Cases mentioned in the (Uth) [thir teenth] article (8c peace 8c) [— Of] Establishing rules for De ciding in all Cases, what Cap tures by land or water shall be Legal, (and) in what manner prizes taken by (ships of war) [land or naval Forces] in the service of the (union) [United States] shall be Divided (8c ap portioned) [or appropriated] Granting (Commissions to the Commanders of ships or vessels of war 8c) letters of marque & reprisal [in Times of Peace—] (and authorising the supreme Legislative power in Each Col ony to grant the same, under such Regulation as shall be made by the union, Establishing & regulating) [Appointing] Courts for the trial of all Crimes, frauds & piracies Committed on the high Seas (and) [or on any navigable River, not within the Body of a County or Parish— Establishing Courts] for Receiv ing & Determining finally ap peals in all (maritime Causes to be assembled before the Day appointed, the Colony that gave the Intelligence may summon a Congress and appoint the Day & Place of Meeting.) Each Col ony shall support its own Dele gates in Congress, 13 and while acting as Members of the Cofun ci]! of State. Art. [18]. 14 Each Colony shall have one Vote in Congress. Art. [19], The Congress shall have the sole and exclusive Power & Right of determining on War, (except in the Cases mentioned in the Article 15 —see pa. 5 & first Art in this Copy) and Peace, 16 establishing Rules for deciding what Captures by Land or Water shall be legal {in Time of War) and in what Man ner Prizes shall be divided 8c appropriated; granting Commis sions to the Commanders of Ships or Vessels of War, 8c Let ters of Marque and Reprizal; establishing 8c regulating Courts for the Trial of all Crimes, Frauds 8c piracies committed on the high Seas, 8c for receiving 8c determining finally Appeals in all maritime Causes, sending and receiving Embassadors under any Character; entring into Treaties 8c Alliances; settling all Disputes and Differences now subsisting or that hereafter may arise between two or more Colonies concerning Boundaries, Jurisdic tions, or any other Cause what ever; establishing a sameness of Weights 8c Measures throughout all the united Colonies; coining Money and regulating the Value thereof; superintending all In-


[Page 282]
250 June 17, 1776 Art [XX]. (Any & every other of the Brittish Colonies on this Continent) [Canada] acceeding to this confederation &: entirely joyning in the measures of the united colonies shall be ad mitted [into] and Entituled to all the advantages (& priviledges) of this union. [But no other Colony shall be admitted into the same, unless such Admission be agreed to by the Delegates of nine Colonies.] (Art) These articles shall be proposed to the Legislatures of all the united Colonies to be by them Considered and if ap proved by them, they are advised to authorise their Delegates to ratify the same in (Congress) [the Assembly of the United States,] which being done (the union so agreed to to be per petual) [the Articles of this Confederation shall inviolably be observed by every Colony, and the Union is to be perpet ual: Nor shall any Alteration be at any Time hereafter made in these Articles or any of them, unless such Alteration be agreed to in an Assembly of the United States, and be afterwards con firmed by the Legislatures of every Colony]. Art. [21]. (Any & every other of the British Colonies on this Continent, acceding to this Con federation and entirely joining in the Measures of the united Colonies, shall be admitted & entitled to all the Advantages ir Priviledges of this Union.) 38 Canada acceding to this Confed eration and entirely joining in the Measures of the United Col onies, shall be admitted into &: entitled to all the Advantages of this Union. But no other Col ony on this Continent shall be admitted into the same, unless such admission be agreed to by the Delegates of nine Colonies. Art. [22] . 39 These Articles shall be proposed to the Legislatures of all the united Colonies to be by them considered, and if ap proved by them they are advised to authorize their Delegates to ratify the same in Congress, which being done, the (Confed eration and Union so agreed to is to be perpetual) (the forego ing) Articles of this Confedera tion shall be inviolably observed by every Colony, and the Union is to be perpetual. 40


[Page 283]
June 17, 1776 251 MS (Nh). In the hand of Josiah Bartlett. MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. 1 Pursuant to Richard Henry Lee’s motion of June 7 “that a plan of confedera tion be prepared and transmitted to the respective Colonies for their consideration and approbation,” Congress resolved on June 11 to appoint a committee to draft such a plan and selected one delegate from each colony for this purpose the following day. (Since New Jersey was then unrepresented, however, the 13th member of the committee was not actually appointed until Francis Hopkinson arrived on June 28.) The members undoubtedly set to work almost at once on their assigned task, but very little evidence survives to reconstruct the story of how the Articles took form. Only committee members Josiah Bartlett, John Dickin son, and Edward Rutledge have left contemporary testimony pertaining to the committee’s work, and their references to the subject are confined to a few points. Bartlett, for example, reported on June 17 that “The affair of voting, whether by Colonies as at present, or otherwise, is not decided, and causes some warm dis putes”; and on July 1 he observed that after working on the plan “for about a fortnight at all oppertunities,” including all day Saturday, June 29, "this Day after Congress we are to meet again when I Believe it will be fitted to lay before Congress.” Rutledge, in a letter of June 29, explained that he had “been much engaged lately upon a plan of a Confederation which Dickenson has drawn,” denouncing Dickinson for “the Vice of Refining too much” and for “the Idea of destroying all Provincial Distinctions and making every thing of the most minute kind bend to what they call the good of the whole.” And Dickinson, in a July 1 speech before Congress opposing independence, mentioned the committee in a passage arguing that the step was unwise because no form of government had been agreed upon that would provide stability once independence was declared: “The Committee on Confederation dispute almost every Article—some of Us totally despair of any reasonable Terms of Confederation.” See Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon, June 17, and to Nathaniel Folsom, July 1; Edward Rutledge to John Jay, June 29; and John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, July 1, 1776. Of the various papers produced by the committee in the course of their delibera tions between June 12 and July 1, little more survives than the two documents printed here and the committee’s draft in Dickinson’s hand given to Secretary Thomson and reported to Congress on July 12. A few notes in Bartlett’s hand pertaining to representation have been printed above under the date June 12, and two pages of Dickinson’s notes incorporating revisions in his draft printed here are discussed in note 16 below. From the two documents analyzed here, however, much of significance can be learned of the evolution of the Articles through committee. Dickinson obviously played the dominant role in creating the Articles, for his draft is heavily inter lined and contains numerous deletions and marginalia. Photographs of pages one and three of the document can be examined in A Rising People, the Founding of the United States, 1765-1789 (Philadelphia: American Philosophical Society, 1976), p. 234. It also appears that this document was Dickinson’s second draft, and it was probably penned about the time Bartlett remarked to Langdon on June 17 that the committee had been disputing on “the affair of voting.” As originally drafted, it included no article on voting; the numerous additions and deletions contained in it were obviously made over a period of several days. Dickinson’s 18th article— “Each Colony shall have one Vote in Congress”—appears in the margin of the document; blanks left in the draft initially were undoubtedly filled in at a later date; and the last two paragraphs of the 19th article were certainly added later in direct response to a “Quaere” Dickinson wrote but subsequently lined out in the margin. In sum, it seems highly likely that this document was the basic draft Dickinson employed in committee from about June 17 to July 1, and from which he copied the committee draft reported to Congress. Although the latter was not


[Page 284]
252 June 17, 1776 submitted to Congress until July 12, it seems unlikely that much time was devoted to it after the first. At that time the independence debate preempted the attention of Congress, and immediately thereafter the call for the Pennsylvania militia to meet the British military threat to New York and New Jersey dominated Dickin son’s activities. It is not known when he gave the committee draft to Thomson, but he probably did not attend Congress after July 4, and he was already at Elizabethtown, N.J., at the head of his battalion, when it was reported and read in Congress. There is no evidence to indicate that Bartlett’s manuscript is anything more than a clean copy of one of Dickinson’s drafts. It is strikingly similar to the draft printed here, as Dickinson originally penned it and before making additions or deletions. The absence of both the fourth and thirteenth of Dickinson’s articles suggests that Bartlett copied it from an earlier draft, probably at about the same time Dickinson made the draft printed here. The double column format has been adopted here to facilitate examination of the alterations made in Dickinson’s draft during the committee’s deliberations. The document is also heavily annotated, and every attempt has been made to identify deletions made in committee through the conventional use of angle brackets and italic type. Deletions made in the ordinary course of composition have been ignored, except in a few cases in which the deleted words are revealing of Dickinson’s thought. Dickinson did not number his articles, but numerals have been supplied in brackets to minimize confusion. In the Bartlett draft, angle brackets and regular brackets have been employed unconventionally to facilitate identification of variations between the manuscript and the committee draft re ported to Congress on July 12. Thus, words appearing in Bartlett’s manuscript but omitted from the committee draft are placed in angle brackets, and words substituted in or added to the latter appear in this text in regular brackets, with both in roman rather than italic type. For further discussion of some of the textual variations between these two documents, see Elwin L. Page, “Josiah Bart lett and the Federation,” Historical New Hampshire (October 1947), pp. 1-6. The committee draft is in PCC, item 47, fols. 9-20, and JCC, 5:546-54. Analyses of the Articles undertaken heretofore have of necessity focused on the evolution of the committee’s plan through Congress after July 12 and on the struggle for ratification. Although only briefly concerned with the drafting of the Articles, the most thorough treatment of the committee’s work is still Merrill Jensen, The Articles of Confederation, an Interpretation of the Social-Constitutional History of the American Revolution, 1114-1181 (Madison: University of Wisconsin Press, 1940), chaps. 4 and 5. See especially pp. 130-39 for Jensen’s analysis of the apportionment of powers and duties between the states and Congress that contains useful insights into the most difficult problem raised by the issue Of confederation. It is apparent from the two documents printed here (see articles 19 and 20 of Dickinson’s draft) that the allocation of powers was the most troublesome and time-consuming subject debated in the committee, and it was undoubtedly never resolved to the members’ satisfaction before the pressure of events required sub mission of a draft plan of confederation to Congress. Finally, there can be no doubt that the members of the committee began their work with a copy of Benjamin Franklin’s proposed Articles of Confederation be fore them, for which see JCC, 2:195-99. Several passages from Franklin’s plan can be found verbatim in the Bartlett and Dickinson drafts, and many others survive with only slight variations. Indeed, only the 4th, 7th, 8th, and 12th of Franklin’s 13 articles are not conspicuously incorporated into the committee’s work. See also Benjamin Franklin’s Proposed Articles of Confederation, July 21, 1775. 2 At this point in the margin Dickinson penned the following "Quaere.” "The Power of Congress interf[erin]g in any Change of the Const[ituti]on? Also the Pro priety of garranteeing the respective Constitutions & Frames of Government.”


[Page 285]
June 17, 1776 253 “In the margin: “All this Article rejected.” This rejected article provides striking evidence of the radical nature of Dickinson’s efforts to vest substantial authority in Congress and impose explicit restrictions upon the states. Since the rights of persons were generally believed to be a local matter unrelated to the problem of constructing a confederation between independent states, it is not surprising that the article was rejected out of hand. No suggestion that this issue was germane to the work of the committee has been found in the writing of any other delegate, but Dickinson’s continued concern for religious liberty can also be seen in the first query he appended to the committee’s draft of the Articles reported to Con gress: “Should not the first Article provide for a Toleration and agt. Establish ments hereafter to be made?” See JCC, 5:547n.l. 4 In the margin Dickinson penned two paragraphs whose relationship to this article and to one another is not clear. Only the second—which has been printed in italic type in angle brackets—has been crossed out, but both were obviously super seded by the 11th article printed here. The first reads as follows. “When Troops are to be raised in any of the Colonies for the Common Defence, the Resolutions of the Union in General Congress for raising them, shall be executed by the Legislature of each Colony respectively where such Forces are to be raised, or by such persons as the said Legislatures shall authorize for that purpose, unless it be agreed by the Delegates of nine Colonies, that the Troops shall be raised immedi ately by. the Union, without the Aid of the said Legislatures; and even in that Case, the Officers proper (front below).” “One line left blank in both the Bartlett and Dickinson drafts. In the committee draft submitted to Congress, Dickinson also left a large blank space when he initially penned this article but inserted the following words at a later time, and probably with a different pen: “Inhabitants of every Age, Sex and Quality, except Indians paying Taxes.” See PCC, item 47, fol. 12; and JCC, 5:548. “Following this article Dickinson left a query in the margin: "The propriety of raising Troops in each Colony in due proportion to its share of Taxes, and the Number of Troops to be raised, and allowing Colonies to raise & pay Troops in Lieu of Taxes.” 7 In the committee draft this paragraph is followed by a 12th article which differs only slightly from the 13th article of the Dickinson draft. See JCC, 5:548^19. 8 In the margin: “Q. How far the Expence of any War is to be defrayed by the Union?” 8 The committee draft here includes a section restricting the issuance of letters of marque, part of which appears in Bartlett’s article 14. See JCC, 5:549. 10 In the margin: “Q. How far any Colony may interfere in Indian Affairs?” 11 In the committee draft, Dickinson wrote “Art. 14th” in the margin at this point instead of at "A perpetual Alliance,” the point at which the new article begins in both drafts printed here. The JCC text nevertheless actually follows the format of these earlier drafts, as Worthington C. Ford apparently decided to correct silently what he must have considered a slip of the pen by the author. Cf. PCC, item 47, fol. 13; and JCC, 5:549. 12 In the margin: “Q. How Representation in Congress to be regulated? How many shall make a Quorum, save in the [Executive?]. . . . “The Oath of every Delegate. What Points shall be determined by a Majority of the Colonies present, what by a Majority of all, or of two Thirds? “If any Delegate may be allowed to vote by Proxy given to one of his Colleagues, or a Delegate of another Colony—if he is sick or absent?" 18 From the appearance of the MS it is obvious that Dickinson added the re mainder of this sentence at a later date. This conclusion is also confirmed by Dickinson’s use here of the term “Council of State,” a term that was agreed upon relatively late in the committee’s deliberations to replace “Council of Safety.” After he originally wrote this article, Dickinson placed two queries in the margin


[Page 286]
254 June 17, 1776 which he subsequently lined out, both o£ which employed the latter term. “If not supplied by Council of Safety?’’ and "If each Colony shall support its own Dele gates while meeting as Members of the Council of Safety?’’ 11 The placement of this article in the margin of the MS indicates that the pro vision was agreed to after Dickinson had penned this draft and that he used this copy of the document to incorporate changes later agreed to in committee. “A reference to the 14th article of this draft. “Although this Dickinson draft consists of 12 MS pages, two additional pages are located with the document. These 13th and 14th pages are actually two sep arate work sheets used by Dickinson in the course of composition, and they contain approximately two-thirds of the remainder of this article, much of which appears in the margin of Dickinson’s draft. Apparently the document became too crowded to bear further interlineation, and he therefore resorted to additional sheets of paper in his efforts to improve the document. 17 Seven clauses follow at this point in the committee draft, many of which appear later in this article in Bartlett’s draft. See JCC, 5:551. The numerous varia tions in this article between Bartlett’s draft and the Dickinson and committee drafts indicate that the attempt to specify the powers of Congress gave the committee great difficulty and consumed much of their time in the later stages of their deliberations. “In the margin: "Q. To direct the Marches, Cruises & Operations of such Forces.’’ “ In the margin: "Q. An Oath to be admd. to every Offr. in the Land & naval Forces & to every Soldier & Mariner to obey Congress & not to violate the laws or Rights & Liberties of any Colony? "Q. The Power of Congress to erect Forts? establish Garrs, for the Genl. Wellfare & to call out the militia. "Q. The Power of laying Embargos? "Q. The Power of arresting, securing & trying persons in the service of the united Colonies?” 20 Dickinson inserted regular brackets around this clause, apparently sometime later during the committee’s deliberations. 21 In the committee draft this sentence concludes: "Forces—To agree upon the Number of Land Forces to be raised, and to make Requisitions from the Legis lature of each Colony, or the Persons therein authorized by the Legislature to execute such Requisitions, for the Quota of each Colony, which is to be in Pro portion to the Number of white Inhabitants in that Colony, which Requisitions shall be binding, and thereupon the Legislature of each Colony or the Persons authorized as aforesaid, shall appoint the Regimental Officers, raise the Men, and arm and equip them in a soldier-like Manner; and the Officers and Men so armed and equipped, shall march to the Place appointed, and within the Time agreed on by the United States assembled.” The committee draft also contains two addi tional paragraphs, on quotas for raising troops in the colonies and on “Weights and Measures,” before continuing with the subject of taxes. See JCC, 5:551. 22 In the margin: “Q. Powers of the Chamber of Accounts, Off. of Treasury, & Board of War and Admiralty. Need they be defined, as they are to act under the Congress & in their Recess under the Council of Safety? "Q. Commrs. for Indian Affairs? “Q. Need any of those be mentioned?” 23 In the margin: “Q. If Congress may be allowed to impose any Duties for the Regulation of Trade or raising a Revenue for the general Benefit, provided they are equal & common to all the Colonies?” 24 At this point Bartlett’s draft contains a “Quere” in parenthesis: “whether or not on the Indians trade &c.” 25 The remainder of this sentence appears at the conclusion of article 20 of the committee draft.


[Page 292]
260 June 17, 1776 New-Hampshire Troops who have ever before been high on the list of fame. In order to make you easey about the Manifesto as you call it, I just whisper you that a Committee are appointed to prepare a Declaration to be laid before the House on the 1st of July which no doubt will pass & I believe will meet with your approbation. You may expect it in abot a month from this time. I suppose its a matter of indifference to you whether Mr. McCleur is settled or not, as I understand you have a Chaplain of your own. I hope your Gostly Father will so prepare your for your journey, that there will be no necessity of your stopping at the half way house. I have no news to tell you; perhaps another week may produce some. Yours sincerely, Wm Whipple RC (MH). 1 For further information on the appointment of officers for the New Hampshire battalion, see Whipple to Meshech Weare, May 17, 1776. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17th June 1776 The money mentioned in a former letter is gone forward to Boston. Mr Hancock has desired Mr Cushing to send it to New Hampshire. It is in a box directed to Col Weare. 1 I am glad you intend for Providence and heartily wish you may succeed in getting the guns there; if not, I don’t know when you will have them but fear it will be a long time, for though two furnaces in this Province are employed making guns for the ships there are no more than two 12 pounders yet brought to town and but very few of the other sizes and if they were here I think there will be great difficulty in getting them to you. I sometime ago mentioned to the Chairman of the Secret Committee, what you propose respecting powder and am in no doubt, but you’ll be supplied in season with that article; in short I am not concerned about any thing but guns and men. The Committee decline giving orders for shipping men, while the pro spect of getting guns is at such a distance. I find there is no possibility of getting you appointed Agent while you have a seat in Congress and if you are not appointed I am apprehensive the present Acting Agent will be confirmed. 2 I have already told many of the members that you intended to resign your seat here. It’s Col Bartlett’s opinion, that you should come here; I don’t know but it would be right for you to come. I should be exceeding glad to be at home for a few months; if this plan is agreeable to you. I shall like to set out about the middle of July, but as there will be time enough for you to answer this before I shall set out shall let it rest entirely on your


[Page 293]
June 18, 1776 261 determination. If you do determine to resign shall have you ap pointed as soon as I know of your resignation. I must confess I am loath you should give up your seat, but if it’s your choice, I hope you’ll see that a proper person is appointed to supply your place. At all events it’s probable I shall set out some time in July and if I can get a companion shall take your carriage; in that case should be glad to know if you’ll have your trunk brought home. I mean to take your carriage unless you direct otherwise. You mention in some of your letters the appointment of two Agents; that I think would be unnecessary and improper, as one man could certainly do all the business. I hope your answer will be very explicit about your coming or resigning. This day fortnight I expect the grand question will be determined in Congress, that being the day assigned to receive the report of a Committee who are preparing the Declaration. There is a great change here since my arrival as there was in New Hampshire between the time that the powder was taken from the fort and the battle of Bunker Hill. New Jersey have called a new Convention who are now setting. They have forbid the meeting of the Assembly who were called by the Governor’s Proclamation and I hope my next will advise you of that govr’s being seized which I think ought to have been done many months ago. Affairs go on here bravely as you’ll see by the papers. I wrote some time ago that blank warrants would be sent to you, but it seems the Committee have changed their minds and now say the names must be sent here. I am, &c, Wm. Whipple Tr (DLC). ’See John Hancock to Thomas Cushing, June 16, 1776. “Joshua Wentworth had been appointed acting prize agent in New Hampshire by General Washington in 1775. See Stephen Moylan to Washington, October 13, 1775, in Clark, Naval Documents, 2:434; and Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell, June 11, 1776, note 3. John Adams to Horatio Gates My dear General Philadelphia June 18. 1776 We have ordered you to the Post of Honour, and made you Dictator in Canada for Six Months, or at least untill the first of October. 1 We dont choose to trust you Generals, with too much Power, for too long Time. I took my Pen, at this Time, to mention to you the Name of a young Gentleman, and to recommend him to your Notice and Favour. His Name is Rice. 2 This gentleman is the Son of a worthy Clergyman. He was educated at Harvard Coiledge, where he was an


[Page 294]
262 June 18, 1776 officer of the Military Company, and distinguished himself as a soldier in the manual Exercises and Maneuveres. After he came out of Colledge he put himself under my Care as a Student of the Law. While he was in my office he was very usefull in the Neighbourhood in training the Companies of Militia there. He is a modest, sensible, and well read young Man, and a very virtuous and worthy one. In my Absence from home, after the Battle of Lexington, he applied for a Commission in the Army, and obtained a Place, in my opinion vastly below his real Merit; I mean that of Adjutant in General Heaths, now Coll Greatons Regiment. In this Capacity, he has continued, from his first Engagement which was immediately after the Battle of Lexington, untill this Time, and is now in Canada with his Regiment, and I have been informed by a Variety of officers, that he has behaved remarkably well. As you are going to Canada, with full Powers, I must beg the Favour of you to think of this young gentleman, inquire into his Character and Conduct, and if you can, consistently with the Public Service, advance him to Some Place more Adequate to his Abilities and Merits, and services, I should take it as a Favour. I pray God to prosper you in Canada, and grant you a plentifull Crop of Laurells, and am your affectionate humble Servant, John Adams RC (NHi). 1 See JCC, 5:448; and John Hancock to George Washington, this date. 2 Nathan Rice (1754-1834). Elbridge Gerry to Elisha Porter Dear sir, 1 Philadelphia June 18th 1776 I reed, your Favour of the 31st May per Mr Chase but have heard nothing of the other Letter which is mentioned therein. I am sorry to find the affairs of Canada in such a situation, but they will be soon assisted if in the Power of Congress to effect it. General Gates is ordered to the Command in Canada, 6000 Militia from Connecticut & Massachusetts 8c New Hampshire are soon to join Him, 21000 Dollars in Specie & part of 500,000 in Bills were sent from this City the 16th for Albany, the Commissary General is to undertake the supplying the Army, a Committee is appointed to provide Medicine & Cloathing, & a strict Scrutiny will be made into the Causes of the Miscarriages in that Department. I am greived at the Loss of General Thomas & think he was a brave officer 8c could wish to have reed a Better Account of another officer which You mention. The persons which You mention at our old Lodgings were well a


[Page 295]
June 18, 1776 263 short Time since, & your Desire of being remembred to them shall be complied with. Things are going on well in the Colonies with Respect to In dependency, Confederation 8cc &c, Sc the Question relative to the former is to be agitated in Congress the 1st July next. General Washington is to be reinforced with 15000 men at New York which will augment his Army to 25000 8c a flying Camp is to be posted in the Jerseys consisting of 10000 men more. You have undoubtedly heard of the prize lately taken 8c carried into Boston out of which were landed seventy five Tons of Powder, 1000 Arms 8cc 8cc 8cc. Saltpetre is manufactured in Abundance; in the Massa chusetts only by Mr Devens Account they have already delivered into the Magazines fifty Tons, 8c have thirty Tons of Sulphur imported & left in Boston. Three Mills are built there two of which turn out upwards of 1000 each per Week. I hope the Disposition that has appeared in some officers to censure others will cease, 8c that in Leiu thereof a laudable Emulation will take place to excell in Discipline 8c Valour, without which an Army must be disgraced. I sincerely wish You success 8c happiness, 8c remain sir your Friend 8c hum ser, Elbridge Gerry P.S. Pray continue to give me the state of Things in Canada. RC (MHi). 1 Elisha Porter (1741/2-96), Hadley, Mass., lawyer and a member of the Massachu setts Provincial Congress in 1775, had been appointed colonel and commander of a Massachusetts militia regiment sent to Canada in early 1776. His diary of the Canadian campaign, January-August 1776, is in the Magazine of American History 30 (1893): 187-205. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 15:96-100. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir, Philadelphia June 18th 1776 I received your Favour of the 10th Inst., since which Mr Carol 8c Chace have arrived here 8c given to Congress a lengthy Detail of the confused State of Things in that Department. To rectifie Mat ters, General Gates to the Disapointment of the eastern District is Ordered to the Command there, with suitable Powers to organize where wanting 8c reduce to order the Army in that Country. Congress see the Necessity of a full Enquiry into the Miscarriages that have taken place, 8c a Scrutiny will be made into the Causes of the Failure in the Lines ordered, as well as those of the Want of provisions, Ammunition, Cloathing 8c pay. The Conduct of the Officers will not pass unnoticed. 21000 Dollars in hard Money & part of 500000 in Bills went off on Sunday Morning for Albany, 1 8c the necessary Powers are given to the Commissary General for enabling


[Page 296]
264 June 18, 1776 him to throw in the necessary Supplies & continuing them. 2 Thirty Dollars per Month is also added to his Salary. The president promised to send me your Letter after he had perused it, but thro the Hurry of Business I suppose has omitted it. 3 Nothing new here unless an intercepted Letter sent to Congress by the Convention of Virginia, whereby it appears that the Design of the Enemy is to land some Regulars at Florida & join the Cherokees &c with Which they intend to attack the western Frontiers of Virginia, & the other southern Colonies; but I hope their Vile Designs will be frustrated. 4 I hope the Difficulties in the Quarter Master’s Office will cease, & that the Assistant which You mention will not be so regardless of the public Good as from a small Consideration to resign his office. My best Regards to Generals Gates & Mifflin & believe me to be with Esteem sir your assured Friend & huml sert. Elbridge Gerry P.S. The Lower Counties it is said have given similar Instructions to the Delegates with Pennsylvania, &: this Day the Conference of Committees of this Colony meets; every County having sent Mem bers. 5 The middle Colonies will I think soon be vigourous. RC (CtHi). ’See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, June 17, 1776. “See JCC, 5:451. 8 Undoubtedly Trumbull's June 17 letter to John Hancock, which was read in Congress on June 18 and is in the Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:938-39. JCC, 5:459-60. ‘A May 19 letter of Henry Stuart, British deputy superintendent of Indian af fairs for the southern department, which had been intercepted and first sent to Georgia Gov. Archibald Bullock. Stuart, in an attempt to buoy the spirits of Caro lina and Virginia frontier inhabitants, had urged that they swear loyalty to the king and be prepared to join a combined British-Indian army which would soon march from West Florida to attack North Carolina and Virginia. For Stuart’s letter and related documents, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1228-30. 6 The proceedings of the conference of Pennsylvania committees of safety, June 18-25, 1776, are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:951-67. Robert Treat Paine had laconically reported this event in his diary: “Wrote to Dr. Cobb & Wife & Col Palmer. Committee of Conference sat Philada.” Paine’s Diary, June 18, 1776, MHi. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philada. June 18th. 1776. As it is impossible fully to ascertain the Strength of our Enemies, or the Force destined for the Attack of New York, it is incumbent on us to be prepared to defend ourselves agt. any Number of Troops that may be ordered agt. that Place. This, it is apparent, can never be effectually done, but by adopting the enclosed Resolve; wherein it is recommended by Congress to your Colony, to empower the


[Page 299]
June 19, 1776 267 I beg you will think of the Eastern Departmt. with Respect to General officers, when your very important Concerns will admit. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and last paragraph of post script by Hancock. 1 See the extensive series of resolutions passed by Congress on June 17 concerning reinforcements for the northern army, military operations in Canada, and the disposition of prize cargoes, in JCC, 5:447-54. 2 See JCC, 5:452; and Hancock to Washington, June 11, 1776. 3 Muster-Master General Stephen Moylan having been appointed quartermaster general by Congress on June 5, his deputy Gunning Bedford was chosen to succeed him on June 18. JCC, 5:419, 460. Hancock’s letter of this date to Bedford, inform ing him of his promotion and ordering him to “immediately Repair to Head Quarters at New York,” is in PCC, item 12A, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:949. Another Hancock letter of this date, written to Pennsylvania commissary James Mease and directing him immediately to “purchase & forward to Stephen Moylan Esqr Quarter Master General in New York as much Cloth suitable for Tents as you can procure,” is in PCC, item 12A, and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:949. See also JCC, 5:453. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir, Philadelphia 19th June 1776 Since my last of the 17th Instant 1 I reed yours of the same Date 8c find that notwithstanding upwards of 27000 Men with their Arms, two Major Generals 8c all the Brigadiers are marched or ordered from the N England Colonies, the Request of Massachusetts for a single Brigadier to their Liking is not complied with. This I consider as a Hardship 8c shall in future pay a more particular Regard to the eastern Department 8c Boston (to which the Enemy will think themselves invited) than has heretofore taken place. General Sullivans letter 2 relative to Canada looks more favourable than those before received, but it is very surprising that amongst all the Men of Sense sent into that Country there cannot be found two that agree in their Relations of Facts. Surely some strange Demon representing the Genius of the British Ministry has banished Truth from the Canadian Climes, but I doubt not that she will again return with her good Friend General Gates 8c give Us future Proofs of her being reinstated in that Quarter. You have now the Direction of the Commissary’s Department in Canada 8c I hope things will be reduced to order in good Time. With Respect to your order for Flower, It will undoubtedly be complied with. 3 The Office of Muster Master General is not yet filled, 4 Your Brother shall be remembered. This Day a Recommendation has passed Congress to all the assemblies 8c Conventions to provide a suit of Cloaths of which the Waist Coat 8c Breeches to be Buckskin, a Blanket, Hatt, 2 pair


[Page 301]
June 19, 1776 269 I am to request that you will deliver to the Agent of the Council of Safety of Pennsylvania the Cannon 8c Trucks ordered by Congress to be taken from thence—and also to inform you that the Congress expect this Resolution will be immediately complied with. 4 I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Svt. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’See JCC, 5:447-48. “See Trumbull’s letter to Hancock of June 10 in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:797; and Hancock to the Connecticut and New Hampshire Assemblies, May 16, 1776, note 2. ’See JCC, 4:412; and Trumbull’s letter cited above. ‘See JCC, 5:445^6; and Hancock to Esek Hopkins, May 7, 1776, note 2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 19th. 1776. Since my Letter on the 18th Inst. I have Nothing further in Charge from Congress that particularly relates to yourself, or the Army immediately under your Command. I have wrote to the Conventions of the Jerseys and New York, and to the Assembly of Connecticut on the Subject of the Resolve Inclos’d in my last, and have pressed them to a Compliance with the Request therein contained. Mr. Bedford who is appointed Muster Master General, I have directed to repair to Head Quarters immediately, and have delivered him his Commission. You will please to appoint a Deputy Muster Master General for the Department of Canada. I do myself the Honour of writing to Govr. Trumbull by this Conveyance, and transmitting a Copy of sundry Resolves respecting his Government. I also forward him blank Commissions. Your several Favours to the 17th Inst, have been duely received, and are at this Time before Congress. As soon as I have it in my Power, I shall, with particular Pleasure, transmit the Result. The Carpenters mentioned in the Resolve of the 17th I shall send to Genl. Schuyler directly from this City. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] The Inclos’d Resolves I Transmitt, to which I beg Leave to Refer you. 1 I have been so Engag’d that I have not Oppory. to Confer with the other Delegates of Massachusetts on the Subject of your Letter, but beg leave to Refer the matter to you, fully Convinc’d that you will Send such officers as will effectually Execute your 8c our wish. 2 I will do my self the honour to address you by next Post.


[Page 304]
272 June 20, 1776 James Wilson


[Page 307]
June 20, 1776 275 Publickly and in the most solemn manner. Mr. Willson I am inform’d shewd this Letter to the Congress and desired they would recollect what [h]is behavior had been during the Debate on Independency and woud testifie the same as none but them could clear his Character. This method was debated, found unparliamentary and droped, but renewed afterwards, and a Certificate was presented which ex presses according to what Mr. Samuel Adams told me as near as I can recollect what follows, Vizt. that on the first day of the Debate Mr. Willson had declared that in his private Character he thought that Independency ought to take place, and that he beleived that many of the Pennsylvania Delegates were of the same opinion, but that in his Public Character he was bound by the Instructions of the Assembly the only representatives of the People of this Province to oppose it. This was on a Saturday, on which very day the Assembly then sitting recinded their Instructions and before the Congress broke up Mr. Willson was told of it, but he answerd that he had not yet received any information of it from the house, and the Debate was ajourned untill the Monday following when Mr. Will- son Confest that he had given his private oppinion in favour of Independency and that tho he was convinced that the majority of his Constituents were of the same opinion yet he desired the determination of that matter might be postponed untill he could procure the further opinion of his Constituents in a fuller manner either By public meetings or otherwise. This Certificate some sign’d and others refused. Mr. Sami. Adams told him that this Certificate if published would rather hurt his Character with the People than be in his favour for that tho he had at first de clared his private opinion to be for indepen[den]cy he availed himself of the instructions of Assembly to oppose it and afterwards when the Assembly had repeald their Instructions and left him to the free exercise of his Will he had only changed his ground and desired the decision might be postponed to a further time. Which behavior cannot certainly be regarded as in favour of Independency. All which will certainly appear in a full and clear light if considered by an un prejudiced mind. And will be proved if necessary. Mr. Adams told me that this Certificate could be no prejudice to you and more of Disservice to Mr. Willson than otherwise and that he had told him so. "I have the pleasure to inform you that yesterday the Committy of Conference voted Independency to take place in this Province and are to send their resolve this day to the Congress desiring it may take place thro the united Colonies. This in my opinion is a Convincing proof! that they could no longer trust that impor tant matter to Mr. Willson and the other Pennsylvania Delegates particularly as they have Determined that it shall be carried to Congress by a Committy of their own Members and not by any [of t]he Delegates of this Province. . . . Shew my Letter if you will but dont let anyone take Coppies for they should Change, Add or diminish.” For an explicit denunciation of Whitehill’s letter, see James Wilson to John Montgomery, July 9, 1776. For additional information on Whitehill’s public career, which found him repeatedly in opposition to Wilson, especially over ratification of the Constitution in 1787-88, and culminated in the United States Congress, 1805-13, see Bio. Dir. Cong.; Page Smith, James Wilson, Founding Father, 1742- 1798 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1956), pp. 263, 270-72, 278, 303; and Merrill Jensen, ed., The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution (Madison: State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1976—), 2:733. “The debate of June 7 on Richard Henry Lee’s motion pertaining to inde pendence. “The Pennsylvania Assembly had already (on June 5) appointed a committee headed by John Dickinson to draft a new set of instructions for the Pennsylvania delegates in Congress. For a discussion of this move, and of Wilson’s response in Congress to Lee’s motion on independence, see David Hawke, In the Midst of a Revolution (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1961), pp. 160-61. Hawke’s discussion is based primarily upon the document printed in the present


[Page 310]
278 June 20, 1776 you can & write me by the Post. 2 I sincerely wish Sr. you may find satisfaction in yr Office. Honor & Victory if you are attacked. Yr freind & Sevt, R T Paine RC (MHi). ’See Paine to Henry Knox, May 31, 1776, note 1. ‘On June 17 Congress had ordered the Cannon Committee to acquire brass or iron fieldpieces. JCC, 5:453. Knox’s June 24 response is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:710-12. John Adams to Zabdiel Adams My dear Sir Philadelphia June 21. 1776 Your Favour of the Ninth of this Month was delivered to me, 1 Yesterday by Mr. Whitney, whose Health I hope will be fully re stored by the Small Pox for which he was innoculated the day before. Your Letter, Sir, gave me great Pleasure and deserves my most hearty Thanks. I am fully with you in Sentiment, that altho the Authority of the Congress founded as it has been, in Reason, Honour, and the Love of Liberty, has been sufficient to govern the Colonies, in a tolerable Manner, for their Defence and Protection: yet that it is not prudent, to continue very long in the same Way. That a permanent Consti tution should be formed, and foreign Aid, obtained. In these Points and thus far the Colonies, and their Representatives the Congress are extremely well united. But concerning a Declaration of Inde pendency there is some Diversity of Sentiment. Two Arguments only, are urged with any Plausibility against such a Measure. One is that it will unite all the Inhabitants of G. Britain against Us. The other, that it will put us too much in the Power of foreign States. The first has little Weight in it, because the People of Great Britain, are already as much united against Us, as they ever are in any Thing, and the Probability is, that such a Declaration would excite still greater Divisions and Distractions among them. 2 The second has less Weight still, for foreign Powers already know that We are as obnoxious to the British Court as We can be. They know that Parliament have in effect declared Us independent, and that We have acted these thirteen Months, to all Intents and Pur poses as if We were so. The Reports of fifty five Thousand Men, coming against Us, are chiefly ministerial Gasconade. However We have reason to fear that they will send several very powerfull Armaments against Us, and therefore our most strenuous Exertions will be necessary, as well as our most fervent Prayers. America is yet in her Infancy, or at least but lately arrived to Man hood, and is inexperienced in the perplex-


[Page 311]
June 21, 1776 279 ing Misteries of Policy, as well as the dangerous Operations of War. I assure you, sir, that your Employment, in investigating the Moral Causes of our Miseries, and in pointing out the Remedies, is devoutly to be wished. There is no station more respectable; nor any so pleasant and agreable. Those who tread the public Stage, in Characters the most extensively conspicuous, meet with so many Embarrassments, Perplexities, and Disappointments, that they have often reason to wish for the peacefull Retreats of the Clergy. . . . 3 Who would not wish to exchange the angry Contentions of the Forum, for the peacefull Contemplations of the Closet. Where Con templations prune their ruffled Wings and the free Soul looks down to pitty Kings? Who would not Exchange the discordant Scenes of Envy, Pride, Vanity, Malice, Revenge, for the sweet Consolations of Philosophy, the serene Composure of the Passions, the divine En joyments of Christian Charity, and Benevolence? Statesmen my dear Sir, may plan and speculate for Liberty, but it is Religion and Morality alone, which can establish the Principles upon which Freedom can securely stand. . . . The only foundation of a free Constitution, is pure Virtue, and if this cannot be inspired into our People, in a greater Measure, than they have it now, They may change their Rulers, and the forms of Government, but they will not obtain a lasting Liberty. They will only exchange Tyrants and Tyrannies. You cannot therefore be more pleasantly, or usefully employed than in the Way of your Profession, pulling down the Strong Holds of Satan. This is not Cant, but the real sentiment of my Heart. Remember me with much respect, to your worthy fam ily, and to all Friends. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:20-21. 1 Zabdiel Adams (1739-1801), Lunenburg, Mass., minister, was a cousin of John Adams. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 14:377-83. Zabdiel’s June 9 letter to John is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:6-8. 2 For a further exposition of some of the arguments put forth against inde pendence, see John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, June 8-10? 1776. 3 Suspension points in MS, here and below. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office Philada. 21st June 1776 The Congress having thought proper to appoint us to the Board of War & Ordinance, we do ourselves the Honour to transmit you the foregoing Extracts from their Proceedings establishing a War Office for the more speedy & effectual Dispatch of military Busi ness. 1 You will perceive, on Perusal of the Extracts, that it will be necessary for you forthwith to furnish the Board with an exact State of the Army under your Command &: every thing relative


[Page 313]
June 21, 1776 281 mighty Force we are threatned with; which however I think it is not certain will ever arrive; & I see more certainly the Ruin of Britain if she persists in such expensive distant Expeditions, which will probably prove more disastrous to her than anciently her Wars in the Holy Land. I return Gen. Sulivan’s Letter enclos’d. 2 Am glad to find him in such Spirits, and that the Canadians are returning to their Re gard for us. I am just recovering from a severe Fit of the Gout, which has kept me from Congress & Company almost ever since you left us, 3 so that I know little of what has pass’d there, except that a Declaration of Independence is preparing. With the greatest Esteem & Respect, I am, Dr Sir, Your most obedt & most humbl Servt. B F FC (NN). 1 Probably a letter from Arthur Lee dated February 13, 1776. See Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon, May 21, 1776, note 2. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:64-65. 2 Sullivan's letter to Washington of June 5-6, 1776, which Sullivan had requested be forwarded to Congress, and which Washington had enclosed in his letter to Hancock of June 16, is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:921-23. It was read in Congress on June 18. See JCC, 5:459; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:142-43. 3 Washington had been in Philadelphia from May 23 to June 4, 1776, to discuss the defense of the colonies. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell Dear sir Philadelphia 21st June 1776 Since my last of the 11th Instant your Favour of the 4th is come to Hand, & I fully agree in the Opinion You enjoy of the Lords protest & of their Intention in publishing the same. In this Way & by inserting in news Papers the Substance of their Debates, have the Opposition in both Houses pointed out to America the Line of Conduct proper for her to pursue since the Commencement of the present Contest by the stamp act, & by comparing these with Events We shall find that the Colonies have judiciously improved the salutary Hints. I wrote You my Sentiments with Respect to the Appointment of [the] Vendue Master since which I find the Business is loosely conducted & that the Continental Agent under the Direction of the marine Board is to make sd Appointmt. If Mr. Wendell 1 thinks himself authorized as an agent established by the Commander in chief previous to the Continental Regulations of the Admiralty, to make a temporary provission in that office untill Congress shall confirm him agent for the Colony or supersede him by a new Ap pointment, my Sentiments were that your Business or Intention of


[Page 322]
290 June 22, 1776 she shall order me, there I will go, without Dismay. I am, Dear Sir, with the greatest Esteem, your humble servant. LB (MHi). 1 This Saturday, June 22, Congress did not sit, pursuant to its passage on June 20 of the following resolve: "That in order to give time to the several committees, to prepare for the house the matters referred to them, it be a standing rule of Congress, that adjournments from the Friday evening, be always to Monday morn ing, unless on any particular occasion, the Congress shall order otherwise.” JCC, 5:468. Notwithstanding this effort to take more time from their routine daily deliberations, the delegates continued to meet on Saturdays more frequently than not during the ensuing months. E Greene's June 2 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “Adams was a member of the Board of War and Ordnance. JCC, 5:434-35, 438. John Adams to Benjamin Kent Sir Philadelphia June 22. 1776 Your Letters of April 24 and May 26 are before me 1 —both dated at Boston, a Circumstance which alone would have given Pleasure to a Man who has such an Attachment to that Town, and who has sufferd so much Anxiety for his Friends, in their Exile from it. We have not many of the fearfull, and still less of the Unbelieving among Us, how slowly soever, you may think We proceed. Is it not a Want of Faith, or a Predominance of Fear, which makes some of you so impatient for Declarations in Words of what is every day manifested in Deeds of the most determined Nature and unequivo cal Signification? That we are divorced, a Vinculo as well as from Bed and Board, is to me, very clear. The only Question is, concerning the proper Time for making an explicit Declaration in Words. Some People must have Time to look around them, before, behind, on the right hand, and on the left, then to think, and after all this to resolve. Others see at one intuitive Glance into the past and the future, and judge with Precision at once. But remember you cant make thir teen Clocks strike precisely alike, at the same second. I am for the most liberal Toleration of all Denominations of Religionists but I hope that Congress will never meddle with Re ligion, further than to Say their own Prayers, and to fast and give Thanks, once a Year. Let every Colony have its own Religion, without Molestation. The Congress ordered Church to the Massachusetts Council to be let out upon Bail. It was represented to them that his Health was in a dangerous Way and it was thought he would not now have it in his Power to do any Mischief. No Body knows what to do with him. There is no Law to try him upon, and no Court to try him. I am


[Page 323]
June 22, 1776 291 afraid he deserves more Punishment, than he will ever meet. 2 I am, your humble sevt. LB (MHi). 1 Benjamin Kent (1708-88), a Boston lawyer, was appointed attorney general for Suffolk County in 1776. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 8:220-30. Kent’s April 24 and May 26 letters to John Adams, in which he urged a declaration of independence and vociferously protested the release of Benjamin Church, are in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 On May 14 Congress had ordered the release of Benjamin Church on £.1000 bail and directed that he be handed over to the Massachusetts Council. JCC, 4:350, 352. Church returned to Massachusetts in early June, but after narrowly es caping a lynch mob, he was returned to confinement until allowed to leave Massachusetts in January 1778. The ship in which he sailed disappeared without a trace. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 13:395-97. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear sir. Philadelphia June 22. 1776 Your obliging Favour of the third of June, 1 has been too long unanswered. I acknowledge the Difficulty of ascertaining the com parative Merit of officers, and the danger of advancing Friends, where there is no uncommon Merit. This danger cannot be avoided by any other Means, than making it an invariable Rule, to promote officers in succession. For if you make a King the Judge of uncom mon Merit, he will advance favourites, without Merit, under Colour or Pretence of Merit. If you make a Minister of State the Judge, he will naturally promote his Relations, Connections and Friends. If you place the Power of judging of extraordinary Merit, in an assembly, you dont mend the Matter much. For by all the Expe rience I have had, I find that assemblies have Favourites as well as Kings and Ministers. The Favourites of assemblies, or the leading Members, are not always the most worthy. I dont know whether they ever are. Those leading Members have Sons, Brothers and Cousins, Acquaintances, Friends, and Connections of one sort or other, near or remote: and I have ever found, those Leading Mem bers of assemblies, as much under the Influence of Nature, and her Passions and Prejudices, as Kings, and Ministers. The principal Advantage and Difference lies in this, that in an assembly, there are more Guards and Checks, upon the Infirmities of leading Mem bers, than there are upon Kings and Ministers. What then shall We say? Shall we leave it to the general and the Army? Is there not as much Favoritism, as much of Nature, Passion, Prejudice, and Partiality, in the Army, as in an assembly? As much in a General as a King or Minister? Upon the whole I believe it wisest to depart from the Line of


[Page 324]
292 June 22, 1776 Succession, as seldom as possible. But I cannot but think that the Power of departing from it at all, tho liable to abuses every where, yet safest in the Hands of an assembly. But in our American Army, as that is circumstanced, it is as difficult to Settle a Rule of Succession, as a Criterion of Merit. We have Troops in every Province, from Georgia to New Hampshire. A Coll is kill’d in N. Hampshire—the next Coll in the American Army, to him, is in Georgia—must We send the Coll from Georgia, to command the Regiment in New Hampshire—upon his journey, he is seized with a Fever and dies—the next Coll is in Canada. We must then send to Canada, for a Coll to go to Portsmouth and as the next Coll to him is in South Carolina We must send a Coll from S. Carolina to Canada, to command that Regiment. These Marches, and Countermarches, must run through all the Corps of officers, and will occasion such inextricable Perplexities, delays, and Un certainties, that We need not hesitate to pronounce it impracticable and ruinous. Shall We say then that succession shall take Place, among the officers of every distinct Army—or in every distinct Department? My own private opinion is, that We shall never be quite right, untill every Colony is permitted to raise their own Troops, and the Rule of succession is established among the officers of the Colony. This, where there are Troops of several Colonies, serving in the same Camp, may be liable to some Inconveniences. But those will be fewer than upon any other Plan you can adopt. It is right I believe, to make the Rule of Promotion among Captains and Subalterns, regimental only—and that among Field officers more general. But the Question is how general, it shall be? Shall it extend to the whole American Army? or only to the whole District, or Department? or only to the Army, serving at a particular Place? That it is necessary to inlist an Army to serve during the War, or at least for a longer Period than one Year, and to offer some handsome Encouragement for that End, I have been convinced, a long Time. I would make this Temptation to consist partly in Money, and partly in Land, and considerable in both. It has been too long delayed—But I think it will now be soon done. What is the Reason that New York must continue to embarrass the Continent? Must it be so forever? What is the Cause of it? Have they no Politicians, capable of instructing and forming the Sentiments of their People? Or are their People incapable of seeing and feeling like other Men. One would think that their Proximity to New England, would assimilate their opinions and Principles. One would think too that the Army would have some Influence upon them. But it seems to have none. N. York is likely to have the Honour of being the very last of all in imbibing the genuine


[Page 325]
June 22, 1776 293 Principles and the true system of American Policy. Perhaps she will never entertain them at all. I am, with much Respect, your Friend and servant. LB (MHi). 1 Samuel H. Parsons (1737—89), a Connecticut lawyer and friend of Adams’ since their student days at Harvard, was appointed a colonel in the Continental Army in September 1775 and promoted to brigadier general on August 9, 1776. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 14:50-73. Parsons’ June 3 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Hancock to James Athearn Sir Philadelphia 22d June 1776 Two Privateers from this City having Taken Three Jamaica Ships, one of which being Arriv’d at your Island, & another at Cape Ann, the Owners Vizt. Philip Moore, Archibald Mercer, & John Donald son of this City Merchts. Visit our Province to Attend the proper Adjustmt. of the Concerns of the Vessells, and being Strangers in our parts, I most earnestly Recommend them to every Civility and Notice in your power, and Request you will give them every Advice and assistance they may need. 1 They are Gentn. of Reputa tion, & warmly Attach’d to our Cause, 8c as such are entitled to the Notice of all Good Men. I beg you will introduce them to your 8c my Connections. I would just mention that the Specie 8c Plate found on board these Ships was landed in this City, and Congress having great Occasion for the hard Money, made Application to the Owners, 8c they very generously furnish’d it, which Congress look’d upon as of essential Service. I shall write you further by Mr Bant who sets out from this City to morrow. 2 I am Dr Sir, Your very hum svt, John Hancock [P.S.] I shall be Glad you would introduce the Gentlemen to the Judge of the Court. RC (MBNEH). Addressed: “James Athearn Esqr. & other well Dispos’d Gentn,” at “Marthas Vineyard.” 1 See Hancock to Philip Moore and James Craig, June 13, 1776, note. James Athearn (1724-1814), a holder of some minor judicial offices in Dukes Co., Mass., had already served several terms in the Massachusetts Provincial Congress. L. Kin- vin Wroth et al., eds., Province in Rebellion: A Documentary History of the Founding of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, 1774-177}, 4 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1975), 4:2828. 2 This day Hancock also wrote brief letters to his brother, Deputy Paymaster General Ebenezer Hancock, forwarding “the Pay Roll of the Continental Army, it being necessary for you in your new Department,” and to Commissary General Joseph Trumbull, apparently enclosing Congress’ June 19 resolves on clothing for the Continental Army. See PCC, item 12A; Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1021; and JCC, 5:466-67.


[Page 327]
June 23,1776 295 You have deserved highly of this Country, Sir, by Setting So amiable and laudable an Example of public Spirit in Signing the Subscriptions for Fortifications. With great Pleasure I have learn’d that the Harbour is pretty well secured. I hope, in a Post or two, to be informed that every hostile Ship is either burnt, sunk or driven out of the Harbour. I am obliged to you, Sir, for your Solicitude for the Credit of the American Currency. It is a subject of great Importance. That milled Dollars are esteemed better, is Proof of an Apprehension, that the Paper will depreciate, rather than a certain Evidence that it has depreciated. The Rise of Goods, in Consequence of the Scarcity and the Demand, makes an Appearance of Depreciation in the Currency greater than it is. However, I candidly acknowledge that neither the increasing Scarcity of Goods, nor the increasing De mand for Goods for the Use of Armies, are Sufficient to account in my Mind for the Rise of Labour, the Produce of Lands, Manu factures and every Necessary of Life, as it is in the Eastern Colonies, without Supposing that the Currency has Somewhat depreciated. But you must not Say, that a milled Dollar is better than a Paper Dollar. It is an offence against the Public, which ought to be punished, and the criminality of it must be ascertained, and pun ished, to give or take a farthing more for Silver than Paper. That it is Time to put a Stop to Emissions of American Paper Dollars, I have been convinced, some time. We must attempt other Ways and Means of Supply. I know of but one Method, and that is to borrow American Bills, and to give in Exchange for Them Notes of the Treasury upon Interest. There will be two Difficulties at tending this. One will be the Rate of Interest. In my opinion We shall not be able to borrow at an Interest lower than six per cent. But some Gentlemen will be obstinately set against an Interest so high as that. Another Difficulty will be to establish proper Funds for the prompt Payment of the Interest, without which the Con tinental Credit will not be Supported. However all Difficulties give Way, before the spirit of Americans, whose Vigour, Fortitude and Perseverance will be increased by those Revolutions in Govern ment which are now taking Place in all the Colonies. Unlocated Lands and Quit Rents may be Some Resource, but not very Soon. We may lay our account for Taxes, heavy Taxes for many years. We expected before this Time to have had the Sense of our Province upon Declarations of Independency, Confederation, and foreign Alliances. But I begin to Suspect that your Delegates must have the Honour of declaring your Sense without your possitive orders. This will be no Hardship to me, who have been at no loss about the Sense of my Constituents, for a long time, upon these great subjects. I am &c LB (MHi). 1 Gordon’s May 1 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi.


[Page 329]
June 23, 1776 297 Pray let me know the state of the Small Pox, an Enemy which we have more cause to fear than any other. Is it among our Troops? Is it among the Canadians, I mean the Inhabitants of the Country? Can no effectual Means be used to annihilate the Infection? Cannot it be kept out of the army? The New England Militia will be of no Use, if they came in ever so great Numbers, if that distemper is to Seize them, as soon as they arrive. LB (MHi). 1 Sullivan’s May 4 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi, and Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 1:194-96. 2 Undoubtedly Sullivan’s letter to George Washington of June 5-6, 1776. See Benjamin Franklin to George Washington, June 21, 1776, note 2. 3 Undoubtedly Nathan Rice. See also Adams to Horatio Gates, June 18, 1776. John Adams to Cotton Tufts My dear Friend • Philadelphia June 23d. 1776 It is with Shame, and Confusion of Face, that I acknowledge that your agreable Favour of April the twenty sixth, 1 came duely to my Hand and has laid by me unanswered to this Time. There has been as much Folly and Inattention to my own Pleasure, and Interest, in this Negligence as there is of Ingratitude to you, for in the sincerity of my Heart I declare, that none of the Letters of my numerous Correspondents, contain more important Information or more sen sible Observations, than yours. In a Letter I received last night from Boston, I have the Pleasure to learn that your Ideas of fortifying the Harbour have been adopted, and by the next Post or two I hope to be informed that every hostile ship is made to scamper. The Danger, you apprehend, that our Armies will be thinned by the Freedom of Trade is real, but perhaps the Restraints laid upon it, by our Enemies may correct the Error, if it is one. The Voice of the People was so loud for it, that it was adopted altho some Persons thought it dangerous, and none expected any great Ad vantage from it before the next Winter. You mention Independence and Confederation. These Things are now become Objects of direct Consideration. Days, and Times, without Number, have been spent upon these Subjects, and at last a Committee is appointed to prepare a Draught of Confederation, and a Declaration that these Colonies are free States, independent of all Kings, Kingdoms, Nations, People, or States in the World. . . 2


[Page 338]
306 June 24, 1776 swered and I have heard nothing from you Since. 1 I have enter tained Hopes of seeing you here before now, as I heard you intended Such an Excursion. I was much obliged to you, for your particular Account of Major Austin, and Mr Rice. The first I find has the Command of Castle William. The last is gone to Canada, where if he lives through the Dangers of Famine, Pestilence and the Sword, I hope General Gates will promote him. I have written to the General concerning him, recommending him to the Generals No tice and Favour, in as Strong and warm Terms, as I ever used in recommending any one. Rice has got Possession of my Heart, by his prudent, and faithfull Attention to the service. 2 What is the Reason, that New York is still asleep or dead, in Politicks and War? Must it be always So? Cannot the whole Con gregation of Patriots and Heroes, belonging to the Army, now in that Province, inspire it, with one generous Sentiment? Have they no sense? No Feeling? No sentiment? No Passions? While every other Colony is rapidly advancing, their Motions Seem to be rather retrograde. The timid and trimming Politicks of some Men of large Property here, have almost done their Business for them. They have lost their Influence and grown obnoxious. The Quakers and Proprietarians together, have little Weight. New Jerseys shews a noble Arder. Is there any Thing in the Air, or Soil of New York, unfriendly to the Spirit of Liberty? Are the People destitute of Reason, or of Virtue? Or what is the Cause? I agree with you, in your Hopes, that the Massachusetts will proceed to compleat her Government. You wish me to be there, but I cannot. Mr Bowdoin or Dr Winthrop, I hope, will be chosen Governor. When a few mighty matters are accomplished here, I retreat like Cincinnatus to the Plough and like Sir William Temple to his Garden; and farewell Politicks. I am weary. Some of you, younger Folk, must take your Trick and let me go to Sleep. My Children will Scarcely thank me for neglecting their Education and Interest so long. They will be worse off than ordinary Beggars, because I shall teach them as a first Principle not to beg. Pride and Want, though they may be accompanied with Liberty, or at least may live under a free Constitution, are not a very pleasant Mixture, not a very desirable Legacy, yet this is all that I shall leave them. Pray write as often as you can to your, John Adams [P.S.] It is reported here that Coll Read is intended for the Gov ernor of New Jersey. I wish with all my Heart, he may. That Province is a Spirited, a brave and patriotic People. They want nothing, but a Man of sense, and Principle at their Head. Such an one is Read. His only fault is that he has not quite Fire enough. But this may be an Advantage to him as Governor. His Coolness,


[Page 341]
June 24, 1776 309 June 21 letter to Hancock is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1010. See also Hancock to John Witherspoon, June 19, 1776. 2 Presumably the resolves on allegiance, treason, and counterfeiting passed by Congress this day. JCC, 5:475-76. John Hancock to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Honble Sir, Philada. June 24th. 1776 The Convention of New Jersey having declared their late Govr. Wm. Franklyn Esqr a virulent Enemy to the United Colonies, and that he be confined in such Place 8c Manner as the Continental Congress shall direct, I do myself the Honour of transmitting you the enclosed Resolutions with Respect to him. Should he give his Parole in Writing you will, in that Case, be pleased to send him to any Part of the Colony, which you shall judge most proper. But should he refuse to give his Parole in Writing I am to request you will proceed agt. him agreeably to the Resolves of Congress relative to Prisoners in that Predicament. 1 I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your most obedt. & very hble Servt. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 5:473. Connecticut Governor Trumbull’s July 6 reply to this letter is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:45. Charles Thomson to Richard Peters Sir, June 24. 1776 I have it in command to request you would please to send me what public Letters are in your office that they may be transcribed. Please to examine whether you have not among the letters one from brigr. general Arnold of the 27 May with a cartel for exchange of prisoners entered into between him 8c Capt Forster. 1 I am Sr, Your humble servt, Chas Thomson, secy of Congress RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 Benedict Arnold’s letter of May 27, 1776, to the Canadian Commissioners and the “cartel” for exchange of prisoners arranged between Arnold and Capt. George Forster are in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:595-97. William Whipple to John Langdon Dr Sr Phila. 24th June 1776 Your two favors of the 10th inst one dated at Boston 8c the other


[Page 342]
310 June 24, 1776 at Portsmouth came duly to hand. I inform’d you in my last which went by Saturdays post, that the Marine Committee desire you would ship your men so soon as you can. They also direct me to desire You’ll provide six months wet Provisions, &: four months Dry, this stock to be keep good. You’ll apply to the Commasary at Boston for the Provisions (that is the Beef, Pork, & Bread or flouer) he has orders to supply you. As for Guns, that matter remains as when I wrote you last. I cannot prevail with Gov. Hopkins to consent to part with those at Providence. I tell him Your ship will make a cruize of three months if she has guns, before either of the Provi dence ships can be got to sea, but he insists that those ships are as forward as Yours. I believe the Guns must go from hence. There is a probability that enough for one ship will be in town in about 10 days, & You may depend I shall exert every nerve to get the first for you. I am just come from the Marine Commite & have once more got their Unanimos consent to nominate you for agent. 1 I think there is no doubt but you’ll be appointed, but believe it will be in expecta tion that you resign Your seat in Congress, which I have assur’d all that I have mentioned the matter to that you are determined on. I suppose a list of offices are on the way here. I shall dispatch them as soon as they arrive. 2 There has been a most hellish conspiracy at New York; 3 we have not the particulars of it yet, but by the best information I can get, the plan was to assassinate the General, blow up the magazine and spike the cannon; this was to be done on the arrival of the enemy it’s supposed. However there is a full discovery of the whole plot and a considerable number, say 30, or 40 of the infernal villains seized and I hope justice will be done to them. Governor Franklin is seized by the Convention of New Jersey and is to be confined in Connecticut. 4 The middle Colonies are getting in a good way. Next Monday being the first of July, the grand question is to be debated and I believe determined unanimously. May God unite our hearts in all things that tend to the well being of the rising Empire. Yours very sincerely, Wm Whipple [P.SJ Col. Bartlett desires his regards, but is too lazy to write. FC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973); Tr (DLC). 1 Congress appointed Langdon prize agent the next day. JCC, 5:478. Josiah Bart lett also revealed a mixed reaction to Langdon’s appointment. “I know not whether to congratulate or condole with you on your appointment to the Agency, as your acceptance of that office must vacate your seat in Congress, and tho’ I did what was in my power to procure that Birth for you, as I knew it was your desire, and that you would perform the business well, yet I must confess it gave me no pleasure when I knew on what conditions only you must have it—resigning your seat here.”


[Page 344]
312 June 25, 1776 ments than what they had by the printed arrangements made by Congress last summer. My reasons for mentioning this is, because your Congress may not have heard of such new arrangement, and by taking up the old one might do injustice to those who the Congress have in view more particularly to provide for. Capt. Bruyn, I believe, is the oldest captain who continued in Canada; and from my brother’s character of him, well deserves the post which his rank will entitle him to. He is a young man of education and fortune, and bears an unblemished character. I wish and believe young Platt may be prop erly provided for in this regiment; he was with Major Duboys and Capt. Bruyn at Point Lacoy, at the engagement between our people and a number of Canadians, in which the latter was defeated, and behaved well, as Major Duboys can testify. We have just received the disagreeable intelligence from Canada, of the defeat of part of our army under Genl. Thompson, and of his being taken, &c. &c. which you must have had before it reached us. 2 We seem unfortunate in that quarter; but we must learn to bear the sound of bad as well as good news; indeed, it would be unreason able to expect the chance of war always in our favour. We have nothing new here worth communicating; whenever we have, you may expect to hear from me. I mean this scroll for my friends Treadwell and Hubbel, as well as you, not having time to write to either of them. My best compliments to them, and believe me to be, Yours, most affectionately, Geo. Clinton. P. S. Please to forward the enclosed to Mrs. Clinton. I can’t find any such stockings as you mentioned yet. I can get green thread German Town stockings, but very dear. Will they do? MS not found; reprinted from George Clinton, Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804, ed. Hugh Hastings and J. A. Holden, 10 vols. (New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Crawford Co. et al., 1899-1914), 1:239-41. 1 See JCC, 5:471-72. See also John Hancock to the New York Convention, June 21 and 26, 1776. * Letters from Generals Arnold, Sullivan, and Thompson describing the latest American reverses in Canada were transmitted to Congress by Washington in his June 23 letter to Hancock. See PCC, item 152, 2:89-102; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1035-39. Elbridge Gerry to Horatio Gates Dear General Philadelphia June 25th 1776 Since I had the pleasure of seeing You in this Place the affairs of Canada having been evidently suffering from Want of an experi enced officer to take the Command; 8c your Appointment to that


[Page 349]
June 25, 1776 317 affirm that either of these are of the neuter gender, but on the other hand am persuaded the people are in favour of a total and final separation, and will support the measure, even if the con ventions and delegates of those colonies vote against it. Since my first arrival in this city the New-England delegates have been in a continual war with the advocates of proprietary interests in congress and this colony. These are they who are most in the way of the measures we have proposed, but I think the contest is pretty nearly at an end, and am persuaded that the people of this and the middle colonies have a clearer view of their interest, and will use their endeavours to eradicate the ministerial influence of governours, proprietors and jacobites, and that they now more con fide in the politics of the New-England colonies than they ever did in those of their hitherto unequal governments. Your’s as ever, E. Gerry. MS not found; reprinted from Austin, Life of Gerry, 1:193-94. 1 Perhaps James Warren’s letter dated June 12, 1776, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:829-30. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 25th. 1776. Since my last of the 211 Inst. I have Nothing further in Charge from Congress, except the enclosed Resolves, which are so full and explicit that I need not enlarge. 1 You will perceive, they are calculated to prevent Insurrections and to introduce good Order, and Obedience to Laws thro-out the United Colonies; Objects of the greatest Importance in our present Situation: since all internal Convulsions, while they weaken the Force & Springs of Government, must necessarily render its Operations agt. foreign Enemies, less vigorous and decisive. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. 8c very hble Sev. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: "To The Convention of New Hampshire. The Assembly of Massachusetts Bay. The Assembly of Rhode Island. The Assembly of Connecticut. The Convention of New York.’’ 1 See the resolves on allegiance, treason, and counterfeiting passed by Congress on June 24 in JCC, 5:475-76. This day Hancock also sent an almost identical letter to the Maryland Convention. Red Books, MdAA. John Hancock to Certain Colonies Gentlemen, Philada. June 25th. 1776 The Congress have this Day come to the enclosed Resolves, which


[Page 353]
June 25, 1776 321 Evening and in answer thereto I have now to inform you, that when Congress appointed the Captains for the Frigates 1 it was agreed that the Rank should be setled hereafter, and that the Captains should only at present be Certified of their appointment. Captain. Nicholson has been strongly recommended, and Congress has a high opinion of his abilities and merit and I have no doubt of his standing pretty high in rank. The Marine Committee will pay great attention to the recommendations of Capt. Nicholson and your board of Commissioners for building the Frigate, but when you recommend two Gentn. for Sea Lieutenants it would be well to get such of your delegates as may be in your province to Join in such recommendation. I believe it will be agreeable to the Com mittee that Captain Nicholson should recommend all the Warrant Officers, in this however you can also Join, and the Committee will immediately transmitt the Warrants filled up agreeable to such recommendation. The Marine Officers for your Ship will be ap pointed to day, their names you have below, the sooner Capt. Nich olson engages all the Warrant & petty officers the more agreeable it will be to the Committee who wish to have the Ships ready soon as possible. 2 I fear many of them will wait for Guns & Anchors. I am in haste, Sir, Your mo. Obed huml Serv, Joseph Hewes John Stewart, Captain 'I Tho. Pownal, first Lieut. V Marines Richd. Harrison, Second Lieutn. J N.B. These Gentlemen were strongly recommended by the delegates of your Province 8c I hope they will be agreeable to all. RC (MdHi). 1 Done on June 6. ]CC, 5:423. 2 See JCC, 5:478. Maryland Delegates to Matthew Tilghman Sir, Philada. 25 June 1776 Since writing the Enclosed 1 the post arrived from York and brought a letter from General Sullivan to the Congress giving a Melancholy account of another unfortunate event in Canada. Gene ral Thompson who was ordered with a party of two thousand Men to dislodge the English forces at the Three Rivers was attacked by General Burgoine and totally routed. Thompson and Several others are taken prisoners, and about one hundred and fifty of his men killed, the rest returned to the Sorel. The letter Says further (I


[Page 354]
322 June 25, 1776 think) Arnold had abandoned Montreal, and that upon the whole our affairs in Canada bear a most unpromiseing aspect. This bad news is in Some measure Counterballanced by more agreeable In telligence from Boston, the publick papers from thence inform us that the English Ships of War are all driven away from the Boston Harbour and private letters Say that five transports with Scotch Troops have been taken lately and carried into the Eastern Ports. The post is just Setting off and will not allow me to be more partic ular. We shall by the next opportunity transmit to you a more full and satisfactory Account. A report prevails here, which is believed to be true, that a most diabolical plot to assasinate the General at York, blow up the Magazine, and Spike the Cannon has lately been discovered, many people it is Said have been thrown into prison, and some remain under guard, among the rest is the Mayor of the City. What with External and internal Enemies we fancy we Shall very Shortly have our hands full of business. We are Sir, with Great Esteem, yr. Most Obedt. Servant, J Rogers Tr (MdAA). Addressed: "The Honourable Matthew Tilghman, Esquire, President of the Maryland Convention.” 1 Not found. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpa. 25t June 1776 I Wrote to you last Saturday and informed you that I had been unwell since which I find myself much better, but as my Health is rather low and Other Reasons strongly Urge Me to Return to my Family, I purpose therefore to Set out for home in a few days. 1 I have not been so ill as to be in the least confined, but a long Atten tion to Business of the Sendentary Kind has produced a Relaxation which nothing but a Journey can Cure. Mr. Huntington I hear is on the Way, he will likely be in this Morning. 2 Mr. Sherman puts in to Return but as he went home about Two Months ago, I think I have a prior and better Right. Wishing you, my Family and Freinds the Blessing of the Almighty, I Subscribe myself with the tenderest Affection yrs, Oliver Wolcott RC (RPJCB). 1 Wolcott probably left Philadelphia on June 28, since his letter of July 1 to Matthew Griswold, written from New York while en route home, discussed pro ceedings that transpired in Congress on June 27. His 1776 accounts with the state of Connecticut indicate that for this period of service he eventually collected


[Page 358]
326 June 26, 1776 The Reasons that induced Congress to take this Step, as it is a Deviation from Rule, should be particularly mentioned. I am therefore directed to inform you, that in Consequence of their being furnished with a List of the Officers who had served in Canada, and the Rank to which they were entitled, they have been enabled to appoint, and in Fact, have only appointed, such as were originally recommended & appointed by the Provincial Congress of your Colony, and have served faithfully both the last Summer Campaign, and through the Winter. It is therefore apprehended the Congress have only prevented 2 you in their Appointments, and that the same Gentlemen would have met with your Approbation for their Services to their Country. Added to this, the last Intelligence from Canada, shewing our Affairs to be in the most imminent Danger, rendered the utmost Dispatch necessary, that not a Moment’s Time might be lost. The other Officers of the Battalion, I am to request you will be pleased to appoint, and to exert every Nerve to equip the Bat talion as soon as possible. As an additional Encouragement, the Congress have resolved, that a Bounty of ten Dollars be given every Soldier who shall enlist for three Years. 3 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed and very hble Ser. J.H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’See JCC, 5:481. 3 Used here in the sense of anticipated. 3 See JCC, 5:483. The New York Convention, after protesting against what it re garded as congressional usurpation of its right to nominate officers for New York troops, agreed to accept the appointments Congress had already made for the new regiment and asked Congress to select the rest of the officers for this unit. See New York Convention to Hancock, July 11, 1776, in PCC, item 67, 1:232-35, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1395-96. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 26th. 1776. You will perceive by the enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to the Commands of Con gress, and to which I beg Leave to request your Attention, that they have come to a Resolution to augment the Number of Troops, destined for the Northern Department, four Thousand. 1 It is scarcely necessary to mention the Motives on which they acted, or to explain the Propriety of the Measure. The Arrival of Genl. Burgoyne with a large Reinforcement—the known Char acter of that Officer for Action and Enterprize—the Defeat of General Thompson with the Troops under his Command, and his being made Prisoner, are so many Circumstances, that point out


[Page 359]
June 26, 1776 327 the absolute Necessity of being more expeditious in our Prepara tions for the Defence of that Province, and of encreasing our Force there. In this Light I have represented the Matter to [the] Convention of New Hampshire, and the Assemblies of Massachussetts Bay, and Connecticut, to whom I have wrote by this Express, in the most pressing Language, urging them to send forward their Militia. As an additional Encouragement, the Congress have resolved that a Bounty of ten Dollars be given every Soldier who shall enlist for three Years. I have also wrote to the Convention of New York on the Sub ject of the enclosed Resolve; and have delivered Col. Dubois, Col. Bruyn, and Major Goforth, their Commissions. Should you be able, consistent with the Safety of New York, to afford any Assistance to the Canada Department, I am to request you will do it, and give such Directions, as you think will promote the Public Service. 2 You will please to give Coll. Dubois the necessary Directions respecting the Raising his Regiment, he will wait on you immediately on his Arrival at New York. I have the honour to be with Esteem, Sir, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] I must Request the favr. of you to order a fresh Express to proceed with the Inclos’d Letters to the Northern Colonies. 3 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with concluding paragraph, signature, and postscript by Hancock. 1 These resolves, dealing with reinforcements for the American army in Canada and the appointment of officers for Col. Lewis Dubois’ battalion, are in JCC, 5:479, 481, 483. 2 Washington replied on June 29 that owing to troop shortages in his own army at New York he was unable “to afford the least assistance to the Canada Depart ment.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:199. ’See Hancock to Certain Colonies, June 25, 1776. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia 26th June 1776 The repeated Misfortunes our army in Canada have met with, make it necessary that a Strong reinforcement should be sent there as Speedily as possible. The many Disadvantages we shall Labour under by the Enemies being in full Possession of that Country, & the Lakes, is so obvious, it is needless to mention them. By the last accounts Genl. Burgoyne with a strong army, was as high up the St Laurence as the three Rivers, where he had defeated a detachment of 2000 men under Genl. Thompson & taken him Prisoner. Sickness and other disasters have much dispirited our men, unless they are speedily supported by a strong reinforcement its un-


[Page 360]
328 June 26, 1776 certain what will be the consequence. The New England Colonies & New-York will be more immediately affected by our misfortunes there, then the other Colonies; & from their Scituation its likely will be able to afford the earliest assistance. For these reasons Congress have come to the Resolutions that are transmitted to you by the President Requesting that a Regiment in addition to that which was some time ago Requested, may be sent with all Possible dispatch from our Colony to join the Army in Canada. 1 If these troops can be rais’d soon it will have a tendency to raise the spirits of those already in that Country, and will in our opinion, be the only method of securing the frontiers of our Colony at the expence of the Continent. We shall be exceedingly glad to know from time to time, how you suceed in raising these Troops; it wod also be very agreeable, & serviceble, could we be inform’d of other Public transactions, in the Colony. Please to send by first opportunity a Copy of President Cutts Commission, also any Papers shewing Govr Wentworths authority, for Granting Lands westward of Connecticut River. 2 We understand Mr Langdon intends to resign his seat in Congress; if that shod be the case we hope some body will be immediately appointed in his Room. 3 We have the Honour to be, With Great Respect, Sir, Your Most Obt. Serts. Josiah Bartlett Wm. Whipple RC (PPRF). Written by Whipple and signed by Bartlett and Whipple. 1 See John Hancock to Certain Colonies, June 25, 1776. 2 The New Hampshire delegates were undoubtedly seeking these documents bear ing on their colony’s claims to the New Hampshire Grants as a consequence of the petition that had been presented to Congress on May 8, 1776, by Capt. Heman Allen. Although Congress sidestepped a final determination on the issue, a resolve of June 4 granted Allen “leave to withdraw the petition ... he representing that he has left at home some papers and vouchers necessary to support the allegations therein contained.” Bartlett and Whipple undoubtedly wished to be well prepared when the petition was resubmitted. See JCC, 4:334-35, 337, 405, 416. Allen’s petition is in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 4:702-5. See also the letter of trans mittal covering the petition and the committee of Congress’ draft resolution recom mending that the “petitioners, for the present submit to the government of New York,” which had been tabled on May 30, 1776, in PCC, item 40, fols. 1-7. ’John Langdon notified Whipple of his resignation from Congress in a letter of July 1, 1776. See Clark, Naval Documents, 5:846. Matthew Thornton, Langdon’s replacement, was not appointed to the New Hampshire delegation until September 12 and did not take his seat in Congress until November 4, 1776. See N.H. State Papers, 8:333; and JCC, 6:920. Secret Committee to Thomas Mumford Sir Philada. June 26th. 1776 We have received your favour of the 7th Inst. 8c thank you for the


[Page 364]
332 June 28, 1776 Carolina, but more of this next opportunity, at present I confine my self to news. Burgoyne with a large force is arived in Canada. Genl Sullivan sent 2000 Men under Genl. Thompson to engage a party of the Kings Troops that were about forty Miles below head quarters towards Quebec but unluckily the evening before Thomp son came up with them they had been reinforced by Burgoyne with several regiments just arrived. Notwithstanding the superiour force Thompson engaged them, was repulsed with the loss of 150 men killed & taken prisoners. In the retreat Thompson & five or Six officers were taken prisoners by a party of Canadians who tho they were supposed to be our friends found this a lucky time to make their peace with the strongest party. Our whole army are retreated to the Isle a Noix a little on this side St. Johns, 1500 of them have the Small Pox, out of three Regiments not more than fifty able to bear Arms, we hope to keep possession of the Lakes. A damnable Plott has been discovered in New York, there hellish Tories had con certed a plan to Murder General Washington & Several other Gen erals, Blow up the Magazine & Spike up all the cannon, they waited only for the Arival of the Kings Troops when this plan was to have been executed. The General has not yet got to the Bottom of this affair. Many persons are taken up and imprisoned, some persons of Note among them, the Mayor of the City, the famous Major Rogers &c. &c., it is said Govr. Tryon is concerned, but he is safe on board a Kings Ship at Sandy Hook, so much for the dark side. Things go a little better in another Quarter, our Continental Vessels of war & some Privateers have taken lately at different times & places Six large Transport Ships from Scotland having in all near 600 of Frasiers Regiment of highlanders on board with their Baggage, Arms, provisions &c. An express that came half an hour ago informs that he saw upwards of 200 of these march out of Boston in order to be confined in the Jails in the Country. He says they are fine Men, have all New regimentals, Scarlet faced with blue, he came out he says with them and heard Many of them curse most bitterly both King & Parliament for deceiving them. They had been told not a Rebel would be found on the Sea Coast, that they had all fled fifty or sixty miles back in the Country and that they were sent here to enjoy the Lands which the Rebells had forsaken, they did not expect any thing else, & had brought their Wives in order to set down quiet &c. 2 Governor Franklyn is taken into custody and sent Prisoner to Connecticut. On Monday the great question of Independancy and Total Seper- ation from all political intercourse with Great Britain will come on, it will be carried I expect by a great Majority and then I suppose we shall take upon us a New Name. My Complimts. to Mr Johnston, I reed, a line from him from Halifax by the return Waggons, also one from Edenton by Williams who is the bearer of this. I have not [time] to write him now, shall do it by Post on Tuesday, he


[Page 365]
June 28, 1776 333 must consider this as written to him also, my Compliments to the Ladies. I am Dr Sir, Your mo. Obed hum Ser, Joseph Hewes RC (NcD). 1 Letters from Iredell to Hewes of April 29 and June 9 are in N.C. Colonial Records, 10:1035-37, 1038-40. 2 Accounts of the capture of these Highland troops are in Clark, Naval Docu ments, 5:293, 423, 434-36, 448-19, 563, 577-83, 618, 686-88. John Penn to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philada. June 28th. 1776 I arrived here several days ago in good health & found Mr. Hewes well. I am truly sorry to inform you that our affairs are in a bad situation in Canada. I fear by the time you receive this our army will have left that Country. Unfortunately for us the small pox has gone through our Troops there, which has in some measure occa sioned our misfortunes. I expect we shall be able to make a stand at the lakes. General Burgoin with a very considerable force arrived in Canada some time ago. He lately made Prisoners Brigad General Thompson and several other officers tho’ we had but few men killed or taken at the time. A dangerious plot has lately been discovered at New York. The design was to blow up the Magazine and kill General Washington, a large number are under confinement some of note. Governor Tryon is at the bottom, several of the General’s Guard were bribed, it seems when the whole is made known we shall be much surprised. The famous Rogers that was so active last war is one of the number & now confined. The first day of July will be made remarcable; then the question relative to Independance will be ajitated and there is no doubt but a total seperation from Britain will take place. This Province is for it; indeed so are all except Maryland & her people are coming over fast, I shall be much obliged to you to give the inclosed letters passes and when you have an opportunity to let me know what is doing in the busie world your way. I am with great respect, Dear Sir, Your mo. obt. Servt. John Penn [P.S.] Please to give my Complts. to your Lady & Miss Peggy. J. P. RC (PHi). John Penn to Unknown Dear Sir Philada. June 28th. 1776 Agreeable to my promise I write this in hopes you may receive it,


[Page 368]
336 June 29, 1776 tion and reflect Honour upon the Officers who conducted it. Con sidering the superiour Force of the British Troops, and a Retreat as unavoidable, every Thing has been done, which, in such a Situation, could be expected. In short, Sir, I am extremely glad, our Army is likely to get safe out of Canada. I am to request you will please to order Col. Stephenson, & one other Field Officer of that Corps, to repair to this City, to confer with the Delegates of Virginia and Maryland, on the most proper Steps, to fill up the Companies, as expeditiously as possible. 3 If there are any Subaltern Officers of that Corps, whom you can recommend it is the Desire of Congress, they should be promoted in Preference to those now to be taken into Pay. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. hble Sevt. John Hancock Presidt 11 oClock. I have this moment Rec’d your favr. of 28th which shall be laid before Congress. I have also Rec’d by Post a Letter from Brigadr. General Whitcomb Returning his Commission, & desiring to be Excus’d on Accot. of Age & a Diffidence of not being able to answer the Expectation of Congress. 4 The Inclos’d Copy of a Letter came to my hands, which I thought best to Transmit you. I am, yours, J Hancock Pt. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. ’See JCC, 5:486-88. 2 Two letters of the 27th from Washington, with their several enclosures, are in PCC, item 152, 2:103-22; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1000, 1101-9. Washington observed of the letters from Generals Arnold, Schuyler, and Sullivan and other American officers in Canada (enclosed in his first June 27 letter): “They will give a further account of the melancholy situation of our affairs in Canada, and show that there is nothing left to save our Army there but evacuating the country.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1101. 3 Hugh Stephenson was appointed colonel in command of the rifle regiment that Congress ordered to be raised on June 27. JCC, 5:486. ‘Washington’s letter to Hancock of June 28 is in PCC, item 152, 2:123-30; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:190-94. The refusal of John Whitcomb, a general in the Massachusetts militia, to accept the commission as brigadier general in the Continental Army that Congress bestowed on him on June 5 is remarked on in Artemas Ward to Washington, June 23, Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1041; and Washington to Ward, July 1, 1776, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:210. Francis Lewis to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Dr. Sir Phila. 29th June 1776. I have been duly favored with your Letter of the 19th Inst, with a list of the Numbers of 70 bbls Flour landed out of the ship Mary, Capt. Kennedy. 1 Youl please to observe that this Flour is shiped on the Continental Account and therefore should be sold on


[Page 369]
June 29, 1776 337 their account and the Committee for those transactions are made sincible by contracts executed to the Eastwd that Flour Yields an advanced price there. Agreeable thereto youl please to dispose of those 70 bbls and transmit me the Account that I may lay it before the Committee, the weight & Fare of each bbl is mark’d upon the head. I am sorry to find that Capts. Sarly & Kennedy are still detained in your harbor by the ships of War. I hope they will embrace the first good opportunity for going to sea. I expect there is another Sloop and Ship (ere this) in your harbor laden from Nw York for the Continental Account. Pray communicate this to the Capts. Sarly & Kennedy and that I have received Capt Sarleys letters, that they must waite with patience & take the first favourable oppor tunity. The other parts of your Letter I communicated to the President in Congress, who promised me he would furnish you with the Agents appointmt and printed Instructions, that relative to the Seamen shall lay before the Marine Committee at their stated meeting on Monday next. 2 I shall be always glad to render you any services here & am, Dr. Sir, Your very Humble Servt, Fra Lewis RC (CtY). “This letter from Shaw, the Continental prize agent in Connecticut, is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:625-26. “Despite the fact that Shaw was appointed prize agent on April 23, he had not received official notice of the appointment by June 19 when he wrote to Lewis. Ibid; and JCC, 4:301. Edward Rutledge to John Jay My dear Jay Philadelphia, June 29, 1776 I write this for the express Purpose of requesting that if possible you will give your Attendance in Congress on Monday next. I know full well that your Presence must be useful at New York, but I am sincerely convinced that it will be absolutely necessary in this City during the whole of the ensuing Week. A Declaration of Independence, the Form of a Confederation of these Colonies, and a Scheme for a Treaty with foreign Powers will be laid before the House on Monday. Whether we shall be able effectually to oppose the first, and infuse Wisdom into the others will depend in a great Measure upon the Exertions of the Honest and sensible part of the Members. I trust you will contribute in a considerable degree to effect the Business and therefore I wish you to be with us. Rec ollect the manner in which your Colony is at this Time represented.


[Page 370]
338 June 29, 1776 Clinton has Abilities but is silent in general, and wants (when he does speak) that Influence to which he is intitled. 1 Floyd, Wis ner, Lewis and Alsop though good Men, never quit their Chairs. You must know the Importance of these Questions too well not to wish to pe] present whilst they are debating and therefore I shall say no more upon the Subject. I have been much engaged lately upon a plan of a Confed eration which Dickenson has drawn. 2 It has the Vice of all his Productions to a considerable Degree; I mean the Vice of Refining too much. Unless it is greatly curtailed it never can pass, as it is to be submitted to Men in the respective Provinces who will not be led or rather driven into Measures which may lay the Foun dation of their Ruin. If the Plan now proposed should be adopted nothing less than Ruin to some Colonies will be the Consequence of it. The Idea of destroying all Provincial Distinctions and making every thing of the most minute kind bend to what they call the good of the whole, is in other Terms to say that these Colonies must be subject to the Government of the Eastern Provinces. 3 The Force of their Arms I hold exceeding Cheap, but I confess I dread their over-ruling Influence in Council, I dread their low Cunning, and those levelling Principles which Men without Character and without Fortune in general Possess, which are so captivating to the lower Class of Mankind, and which will occasion such a fluc tuation of Property as to introduce the greatest disorder. I am resolved to vest the Congress with no more Power than what is absolutely necessary, and to use a familiar Expression to keep the Staff in our own Hands, for I am confident if surrendered into the Hands of others a most pernicious use will be made of it. If you can’t come let me hear from you by the Return of the Post. 4 Compliments to Livingston and G. Morris. God bless you. With Esteem and affection, Yours, E. Rutledge RC (NNC). lay, Papers (Morris), 1:280-81. ’Although the precise day Clinton left Philadelphia is not known, he appar ently remained until near the end of the first week in July. His account for service in the Continental Congress indicates that he claimed compensation for the period May 10, 1775, to July 12, 1776, which undoubtedly included travel time from and to New York. See Stan V. Henkels Catalog, no. 1343 (January 17, 1924), item 129. It is also known that on July 12 General Washington directed a letter to him at New Windsor. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:227. * Rutledge was a member of the committee appointed on June 12 to draw up a plan of confederation. JCC, 5:433. • Perhaps one feature of the proposed Articles of Confederation that Rutledge found objectionable at this stage was a clause in the committee’s draft vesting either "Congress or . . . some Court for that purpose” with authority to settle boundary disputes which states themselves could not resolve. In any case this clause did not appear in the draft articles that were finally submitted to Congress on July 12. See the 13th article of Josiah Bartlett’s Draft Articles of Confederation, June 17-July 1? 1776.


[Page 373]
June 30, 1776 341 he wrote me, that with Powder and heavy Cannon, he would under take to make Prisoners at Discretion of the Army in the Town and the fleet in the Harbour as he did last Summer. I am &c. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence, 2:24-26. ’Tufts’ June 17 letter to Adams is in Adams, Family Correspondence, 2:17-19. “See Tufts to Adams, July 25, 1776. Ibid., p. 61. 3 Suspension points in MS, here and below. Thomas Jefferson to the President of the Virginia Convention Honble. Sir [ca. June 30, 1776] 1 I this day received information that the Convention had been pleased to reappoint me to the office in which I have now the honor to be serving them and through you must beg leave to return them my sincere thanks for this mark of their continued confidence. 2 I am sorry the situation of my domestic affairs renders it indispensably necessary that I should sollicit the substitution of some other person here in my room. The delicacy of the house will not require me to enter minutely into the private causes which render this necessary: I trust they will be satisfied I would not have urged it again were it not necessary. I shall with chear- fulness continue in duty here till the expiration of our year by which time I hope it will be convenient for my successor to attend. 3 FC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:408. That this letter was intended for Ed mund Pendleton, president of the Virginia Convention, is clear from the sub stance of Jefferson’s remarks. ’This conjectural date is based on Jefferson’s July 1 letter to William Fleming, which indicates that he had already received notice of his reelection to the Vir ginia delegation. See Jefferson to William Fleming, July 1, 1776. 2 On June 20 the Virginia Convention decided to reduce its congressional dele gation from seven to five, and reelected Jefferson, Francis Lightfoot Lee, Richard Henry Lee, Thomas Nelson, and George Wythe to serve for the next year begin ning August 11. Benjamin Harrison and Carter Braxton were not reelected. The Proceedings of the Convention of Delegates, Held at the Capitol, in the City, of Williamsburg. In the Colony of Virginia, On Monday, the 6th of May, 1776 (Rich mond: Ritchie, Trueheart & Du-Val, 1816), p. 58; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1582. For further comments on the election, see Edmund Randolph to Jefferson, June 23, and William Fleming to Jefferson, July 27, 1776, in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:407, 475. “Jefferson remained in Congress until September 2, but not until October 10, 1776, was Benjamin Harrison elected to replace him. Journal of the House of Delegates of Virginia. Anno Domini, 1776 (Williamsburg: Alexander Purdie, 1777), pp. 7-8.


[Page 374]
342 June 30, 1776 Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee Dear Brother, Philadelphia June 30th. 1776 Our affairs in Canada are at length brot to a conclusion, and we have now to contend with all the bad consequences which have been apprehended from the Enemy’s being in possession of that Country. You will see by the papers that Genl. Thomson was sent with 2000 men to dislodge a party of the Enemy at Trois Rivieres, but Genl. Burgoine having arrived with a considerable body of troops, our men were obliged to retreat with the loss of 150, leaving the Genl. & a few others in captivity. Burgoine pursued his advantage, and our Generals found it absolutely necessary to retire out of the Country with their sick & dispirited Army. The accounts of Burgoine’s force are from 8 to 10,000. We cou’d not muster above 3000, all the rest being in the small pox. Our Army, being 7000 brot off all their artillery, stores, baggage & provisions; having destroyed all the forts & bridges behind them. They are now at Crown Point, where they propose to make a stand against Burgoine’s Army, assisted by Canadians & Indians, by keeping the mastery of Lake Champlain, if possible which is much to be doubted, as he has bro’t with him a great number of vessells ready framed. At New York Genl. Washington has not 19000 men, &: 50 of Howe’s fleet are now at the hook. None of the militia is yet come in, & Genl. Washington is apprehensive they will not, till it is too late, and there is reason to fear they will never join the Army at Crown Point for fear of the small pox, or if they do, that they will be rendered useless by it. Add to all this, that it is certain great num bers in the Province of N York will join the Enemy. A horrid plot was lately discoverd in the City, to deliver up our Army to the Enemy by spiking the Cannon & blowing up the Magazine & some say to assassinate the Genl. We have not yet the particulars but many are in goal. They had debauched two of the Genl’s guards, one of whome is executed. 1 Thus you have a full view of the sit uation of our affairs, from which I dare say you will agree with me, that we are in a most perilous state, from which nothing but some extraordinary event, can extricate us. We have advice, that the crew of one of the Ships that sailed from this port last winter, loaded by the Congress, confined the Capt. & carried her into Bristol and discover’d the signals by which all the other ships were to distinguish their friends from their Enemies upon their arrival on this Coast. I have nothing to ballance this dismal Acct., but that we have taken about 700 of Frazer’s highlanders; & that depending on the goodness of our Cause, we have not lost our spirit. July 1st. This day the resolve for independency was considered


[Page 375]
June 1776 343 & agreed to in Comtee of the whole, two dissentients S. Carolina & Pensylvania. N. York did not vote, not being empower’d. Tomorrow it will pass the house with the concurrence of S. Carolina. The Pensylvania delegates indulge their own wishes, tho they ac knowledge, what indeed everybody knows, that they vote con trary to the earnest desires of the people. This morning a unanimous vote of the Maryland Convention was brot to Congress, empowering their delegates to concur in all points with Congress. All the Colonies have declared their sense, except N. York, whose new Convention, now choosing, is to do the business. We expect you will join us in August, as soon as Government is settled; 2 indeed it will be necessary as Col. Braxton talks of going away in 3 weeks, & I suppose Col. Harrison will go early in August, which will leave us a bare representation. 3 or 4 months will in a great measure decide the fate of America. Tho I think, if our people keep up their spirits, & are determined to be free; whatever advantages the Enemy may gain over us This summer & fall; we shall be able to deprive them of in the winter, & put it out of their power ever to injure us again. Yet I confess I am uneasy, least any considerable losses on our side, shou’d occasion such a panick in the Country, as to induce a sub mission. The evil is coming, which I always dreaded, at the time when all our attention, every effort shou’d be to oppose the Enemy, we are disputing about Government Sc independence. My best re spects to all friends, & believe me upon all occasions your most afft. friend & bror. Francis Lightfoot Lee [P.S.] Will you do the needfull, with respect to Mr. Lee’s estate, before you return? I think Tom Belfeild will be as good a manager, as you can get. RC (ViHi). 1 Thomas Hickey, a member of Washington’s guard, was court-martialed for sedi tion, mutiny, and recruiting men for the enemy and was executed on June 28. Many of the rumors generated by his arrest, including that of an assassination plot, were not supported by the charges of his conviction. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:182; and William Whipple to Joshua Brackett, June 23, 1776, note 3. 2 Richard Henry was at this time in Williamsburg attending the Virginia Con vention. His letter of June 29 to Gen. Charles Lee, in which he reported that “I shall return to Chantilly in a few days and remain there until the last of August, when I go to Philadelphia,” is in Richard Henry Lee, The Letters of Richard Henry Lee, ed. James C. Ballagh, 2 vols. (New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14), 1:203-5. Samuel Adams to Perez Morton My dear sir, Philada June 1776 When I was at Watertown in August last the General Assembly


[Page 378]
346 July 1, 1776 which We have in View, and We must expect a great Expence of Blood to obtain it. But We should always remember, that a free Constitution of civil Government cannot be purchased at too dear a Rate; as there is nothing on this Side of the new Jesusalem, of equal Importance to Manklind. It is a cruel Reflection that a little more Wisdom, a little more Activity, or a little more Integrity would have preserved Us Canada, and enabled Us to Support this trying Conflict at less Expence of Men and Money. But irretrievable miscarriages ought to be lamented no further, than to enable and Stimulate us to do better in future. Your Colleagues Hall and Gwinn, 4 are here in good Health, and Spirits, and as firm as you your self could wish them. Present my Compliments to Mr Houstoun. Tell him the Colonies will have Republics, for their Government, let us Lawyers and your Divine 5 say what we will. I have the Honour to be, with great Esteem and Respect, Sir, your sincere friend, and most humble Servant. LB (MHi). 1 Bulloch’s May 1 letter to Adams, explaining his appointment as president of Georgia, is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 Adams played a prominent role in this debate, apparently delivering the prin cipal response to John Dickinson’s lengthy speech in opposition to independence. As Adams explained in his autobiography: “No Member rose to answer him: and after waiting some time, in hopes that some one less obnoxious than myself, who had been all along for a Year before, and still was represented and believed to be the Author of all the Mischief, I determined to speak. “It has been said by some of our Historians, that I began by an Invocation to the God of Eloquence. This is a Misrepresentation. Nothing so puerile as this fell from me. I began by saying that this was the first time of my Life that I had ever wished for the Talents and Eloquence of the ancient Orators of Greece and Rome, for I was very sure that none of them ever had before him a question of more Importance to his Country and to the World. They would probably upon less Occasions than this have begun by solemn Invocations to their Divinities for Assistance but the Question before me appeared so simple, that I had confidence er ough in the plain Understanding and common Sense that had been given me, to believe that I could answer to the Satisfaction of the House all the Arguments which had been produced, notwithstanding the Abilities which had been displayed and the Eloquence with which they had been enforced. Mr. Dickinson, some years afterwards published his Speech. I had made no Preparation before hand and never committed any minutes of mine to writing.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:396-97. See also John Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, this date. ’Robert Treat Paine noted in his diary for this day: “Fine showers. Genl. Howe’s Army arrived at Sandy Hook.” MHi. 4 Lyman Hall and Button Gwinnett. ’John J. Zubly. See Zubly to Archibald Bulloch and John Houstoun, Novem ber 10? 1775.


[Page 379]
July 1, 1776 347 John Adams to Samuel Chase Dear Sir Philadelphia July 1. 1776 Your Favour by the Post this Morning gave me much pleasure, 1 but the generous and unanimous Vote of your Convention, 2 gave me much more. It was brought into Congress this Morning, just as We were entering on the great Debate. That debate took up the most of the day, but it was an idle Mispence of Time for nothing was Said, but what had been repeated and hackneyed in that Room before an hundred Times, for Six Months past. In the Committee of the whole the Question was carried in the affirmative and reported to the House. A Colony desired it to be postponed untill tomorrow. 3 Then it will pass by a great Majority, perhaps with almost Unanimity: yet I cannot promise this. Because one or two Gentlemen may possibly be found, who will vote point blank against the known and declared sense of their Constituents. Maryland, however, I have the Pleasure to inform you, behaved well: Paca, generously and nobly. Alas Canada! We have found Misfortune and disgrace in that Quarter. Evacuated at last. Transports arrived at Sandy Hook, from whence We may expect an Attack in a short Time, upon New York or New Jersey, and our Army not so strong as we could wish. The Militia of New Jersey and New England, not so .ready, as they ought to be. The Romans made it a fixed Rule never to send or receive Em bassadors, to treat of Peace with their Enemies, while their affairs were in an Adverse and disastrous situation. There was a Generosity and Magnanimity in this, becoming Freemen. It flowed from that Temper and those Principles, which alone can preserve the Freedom of a People. It is a Pleasure to find our Americans of the same Temper. It is a good Symptom, forboding a good End. If you imagine that I expect this Declaration will ward off Calami ties from this Country, you are much mistaken. A bloody Conflict We are destined to endure. This has been my opinion, from the Beginning. You will certainly remember my declared opinion was, at the first Congress, when we found that we could not agree upon an immediate Non Exportation, that this Contest would not be Settled without Bloodshed, and that if Hostilities Should once com mence, they would terminate in an incurable Animosity, between the two Countries. Every political Event Since the 19th of April 1775 has confirmed me in this opinion. If you imagine that I flatter myself, with Happiness and Halcyon days, after a Separation from Great Britain, you are mistaken again. I dont expect that our new Government will be so quiet, as I could wish, nor that happy Har-


[Page 381]
July 1, 1776 349 and that Portsmouth might be Defended at the Expence of the Continent, and I was in hopes those men we had there would be immediately put on the Continental Establishment (as has been Done in several other Colonies) and others inlisted to make them up to a full Regiment; by that means the heavy Expence of main- taing those men would be saved to the Colony. But if they are kept in pay & another Regiment is raised beside, I fear when it is known it will be thought to be more than is necessary, and possibly the Continental Regiment will be ordered or at least a Considerable part of it to some other place and the Colony reap no advantage by raising them. If it be necessary for the public Safety I am willing to spare neither Cost nor pains; yet as almost Every Colony have raised men for their Defence at the Expence of the Continent, I should be sorry to loose the Benefit the Congress Designed us. I would not have you think by what I have wrote that I mean to Censure what you have Done; you may & no Doubt have good rea son for it; But as things appear to me and as other Colonys have Done, I should not have thought best to keep any men at Ports mouth in the pay of the Colony, as I believe one full regiment will be Quite sufficient unless in Case of an attack when the militia will be called in. The whole Congress are unanimous for forming a plan of Con federation of the Colonies. A Committe of one from Each Colony, have been upon it for about a fortnight at all oppertunities; last Saturday the Committe spent the whole Day on it, this Day after Congress we are to meet again when I Believe it will be fitted to lay before Congress. 2 When the Congress will model it to their minds I know not. Before it is in force it will be laid before all the Legis latures of the Colonies and Receive their Sanction. It is a Business of the greatest importance as the future happiness of America will Depend on it in a great measure; and you may Easily see the Diffi culty to frame it so as to be agreable to the Delegates of all the Different Colonies & of the Colonial Legislatures also; for without the unanimous Consent of all it Cannot be Established. May the Supreme Disposer of all Events overrule this and all our affairs for the happiness & Safety of America. Mr Dickenson the Pensylvania farmer is one of the Committee. The Resolve of our Colony with regard to our Conduct in the affair of Independency Came to hand on Saturday, 3 very Seasonably, as that Question was agreable to order this day taken up' in a Committe of the whole House & every Colony fully represented; Thus much I can inform you that it was agreed to in Committe & I make no Doubt but that by next post I shall be able to send you a formal Declaration of Independency Setting forth the reasons &c. By letters from General Lee we are informed that Genl. Clinton with above 50 Sail of Ships &c were before Charlestown South Carolina, 4


[Page 385]
July 1, 1776 353 Injuries offered to their Country, may irritate them to Counsels 8c to Actions that may be detrimental to the Cause they would dye to advance. What Advantages? 2. 1. Animate People. 2. Convince foreign Powers of our Strength 8c Unanimity, 8c aid in consequence thereof. As to 1st—Unnecessary. Life, Liberty 8c Property sufficient Motive. General Spirit of America. As to 2d—foreign Powers will not rely on Words. The Event of the Campaign will be the best Evidence. This properly the first Campaign. Who has received Intelligence that such a Proof of our Strength 8c daring Spirit will be agreeable to France? What must she expect from a People that begin their Em pire in so high a stile, when on the Point of being invaded by the whole Power of G.B. aided by [formidable foreign?] aid— unconnected with foreign Power? She 8c Spain must perceive the imminent Danger of their Colonies lying at our Doors. Their Seat of Empire in another world. Masserano. 4 Intelligence from Cadiz. More respectful to act in Conformity to the views of France. Take advantage of their Pride, Give them Reason to believe that We confide in them, desire to act in conjunction with their Policies 8c Interests. Know how they will regard this {new Star) Stranger in the States of the world. People fond of what they have attained in producing. Regard it as a Child—A Cement of affection. Allow them the glory of appearing the vindicators of Liberty. It will please them. It is treating them with Contempt to act otherwise. Especially after the application made to France which by this time has reach’d them. Bermuda 5 May. 5 Abilities of the person sent. What will they think, if now so quickly after without waiting for their Determination—Totally slighting their sentiments on such a prodigous [. . .]—We haughtily pursue our own Measures? May they not say to Us, Gentlemen You falsely pretended to consult Us, 8c disrespectfully proceeded without waiting our Resolution. You must abide the Consequences. We are not ready for a Rupture. You should have negotiated till We were. We will not be hurried by your Impetuosity. We know it is our Interest to support You. But we shall be in no haste about it. Try your own strength & Resources in which you have such Confidence. We know now you dare not look back. Reconciliation is impossible without declaring Yourselves the most rash 8c at the same Time the most contemptible Thrasos 6 that ever existed on Earth. Suppose on this Event G.B. should offer Canada to France 8c Florida to Spain with an Extension of the old Limits. Would not France 8c Spain accept them? Gentlemen say the Trade of all America is more valuable to France than Canada. I grant it but suppose she may get both. If she is politic, 8c none


[Page 386]
354 July 1, 1776 doubts that, I averr she has the easiest Game to play for attaining both, that ever presented itself to a Nation. When We have bound ourselves to an eternal Quarrel with G.B. by a Declaration of Independence, France has nothing to do but to hold back 8c intimidate G.B. till Canada is put into her Hands, then to intimidate Us into a most disadvantageous Grant of our Trade. It is my firm opinion these Events will take Place—8c arise naturally from our declaring Independance. As to Aid from foreign Powers. Our Declaration can procure Us none this Campaign tho made today. It is impossible. Now consider if all the advantages expected from foreign Powers cannot be attained in a more unexceptionable manner. Is there no way of giving Notice of a Nation’s Resolutions than by proclaiming it to all the world? Let Us in the most solemn Manner inform the House of Bourbon, at least France, that we wait only for her Determination to declare an Independance. We must not talk gen erally of foreign Powers but of those We expect to favor Us. Let Us assure Spain that we never will give any assistance to her Colonies. Let France become Guarantee. Form arrangements of this Kind. Besides, first Establish our governments 8c take the Regular Form of a State. These preventive Measures will shew Deliberation, wis dom, Caution 8c Unanimity. Our Interest to keep G.B. in Opinion that We mean Reunion as long as possible. Disadvantage to administration from Opposition. Her Union from our Declaration. Wealth of London 8cc pour’d into Treasury. The whole Nation ardent against us. We oblige her to persevere. Her Spirit. See last petition of London. Suppose We shall ruin her. France must rise on her Ruins. Her Ambition. Her Re ligion. Our Danger from thence. We shall weep at our victories. Overwhelm’d with Debt. Compute that Debt 6 Millions of Pa. Money a Year. The War will be carried on with more Severity. Burning Towns. Letting Loose Indians on our Frontiers. Not yet done. Boston might have been burnt. What advantages to be expected from a Declara tion? 1. Animating our Troops. Answer, Unnecessary. 2. Union of Colonies. Answer, Also unnecessary. It may weaken that Union— when the People find themselves engaged in a [war] rendered more cruel by such a Declaration without prospect of End to their Calam ities by a Continuation of the War. People changeable. In Bitterness of Soul they may complain against our Rashness 8c ask why We did not apply first to foreign Powers. Why We did not settle all Differ ences among ourselves. Take Care to secure unsettled Lands for easing their Burthens instead of leaving them to particular Colonies. Why not wait till better prepar’d. Till We had made an Experiment of our Strength. This [probably?] the first Campaign.


[Page 388]
356 July 1, 1776 Title page—Binding. I should be glad to know whether in 20 or 30 Years this Commonwealth of Colonies may not be thought too unwieldy—& Hudson’s River be a proper Boundary for a separate Commonwealth to the Northward. I have a strong Impression on my Mind that this will take place. MS (PHi). In the hand of John Dickinson. Endorsed: “Arguments agt. the Inde pendance of these Colonies—in Congress.’’ For additional notes appearing at the end of this MS, see the following entry. These notes are strikingly cryptic and are strewn with abbreviations which have been expanded without brackets in this text. ’This document was identified and dated by John H. Powell in 1941, and no documents have since been discovered that challenge his assessment. “Speech of John Dickinson Opposing the Declaration of Independence, 1 July, 1776,” PMHB 65 (October 1941): 458-81. Powell relied heavily upon Burnett’s Letters and drew particularly from both John Adams’ letter to Samuel Chase of this date and his autobiographical recollections. In this context, a well known passage from Adams’ autobiography merits reprinting. “I am not able to recollect, whether it was on this [July 1], or some preceeding day, that the greatest and most solemn debate was had on the question of Independence. The Subject had been in Contemplation for more than a Year and frequent discussions had been had concerning it. At one time and another, all the Arguments for it and against it had been exhausted and were become familiar. I expected no more would be said in public but that the question would be put and decided. Mr. Dickinson however was determined to bear his Testimony against it with more formality. He had prepared himself apparently with great Labour and ardent Zeal, and in a Speech of great Length, and all his Eloquence, he combined together all that had before been written in Pamphlets and News papers and all that had from time to time been said in Congress by himself and others. He conducted the debate, not only with great Ingenuity and Eloquence, but with equal Politeness and Candour: and was an swered in the same Spirit.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:396; Burnett, Letters, 1:521-23. Powell also made three other attempts to tell the story of the events of July 1, the last of which contains a critical analysis of Adams' reliability when reporting on his clashes with Dickinson. For Powell’s final reflections on the subject, as well as on the initial estrangement between the two men that occurred the previous summer, see his two essays “ ‘A Certain Great Fortune and Piddling Genius,' ” and “The Day of American Independence,” in John H. Powell, General Washington and the Jack Ass, and Other American Characters, in Portrait (South Brunswick, N.J.: Thomas Yoseloff, 1969), pp. 86-175, 314-23. 2 At this point Dickinson wrote in the margin: “Drawing Resentment one proof of Virtue.” • In the margin: “Where Men differ, on which side is Passion?” 4 Filipe Ferrero de Fiesco, prince de Masserano, Spanish ambassador to the court of St. James’s. It is not known just what Dickinson knew of Spanish policy at this time or how he learned of the ambassador’s activities in London, but it seems likely that Arthur Lee was his principal source of information on the response of European powers to the American rebellion. Although Americans hoped that both France and Spain would provide them aid and were led to believe this by Beaumarchais, Dickinson feared that it was hazardous to depend upon such assurances. For a second reference to Masserano in this speech, see note 8 below. 5 Perhaps a reference to Silas Deane’s arrival at Bermuda en route to France. Letters from Deane written from Bermuda on May 3 had already been received in Philadelphia. See Robert Morris to Silas Deane, June 5, 1776. ’Thraso was the name of a bragging soldier in Terence’s comedy The Eunuch.


[Page 389]
July 1, 1776 357 7 In the margin: “Even the mere Title of Royalty not assumed without consult ing other Powers [. . . . all actual sovereignty?].” 8 At this point Powell wrote a lengthy note speculating on Dickinson’s under standing of deteriorating Spanish-Portuguese relations and their possible impact on Spanish policy toward Britain. “Speech of John Dickinson.” pp. 476-78n.l00. Unfortunately, the entire discussion rests upon a misreading of Dickinson’s notes and seriously distorts his simple point that it would be premature to act on inde pendence until Congress had learned what reception Silas Deane had met in Europe. In reconstructing Dickinson’s speech, Powell supplied many connectives in brackets to cast it in the form of complete sentences. Thus he printed this passage as follows—brackets omitted: “France & Spain may be alarm’d & provoked with each other; Masserano was an insult to France.” It seems clear, however, that Dickinson actually believed (1) that France and Spain might be alarmed and provoked with Congress, not with each other; and (2) that Congress’ failure to await a response to the Deane mission, not Masserano’s appointment, was an insult to France. In the MS "Masserano” appears at the end of a line; the following passage begins a new one. See also note 4 above. John Dickinson’s Notes on Arguments Concerning Independence [July 1? 1776] 1st argument. Foreign States will not assist Us, untill We declare Independence. No Instance of it. Elizabeth helping Holland. Hol land confederated with England. Answer. States governed by In terests. Elizabeth did not openly assist Holland till She was on the Point of War with Spain. Holland would not treat with Parliament when it had conquered—[. . . .] Charles 1st complained of French Embassadors corresponding with Parliament. Richelieu assisted Parliament. It will convince People of England We are united—Whereas the Ministry tell them some of Us are afraid of Independence. Answer. The King’s Speech expressly charges Us all with aiming at it. 2d. Joy in Virginia on Declaration—the same in every part of America. The Spirit of the People. Blood. Fires. Answer. Raised too much by Resentment. 3d. It will accelerate the People of the Colonies in establishing their Governments. Answer. People are going on as fast as they can. 4th. It will hasten the suppression of Toryism—ascertaining Of fenders, trying them; prevent publication of Tory [declarations?]. Answer. That purpose will be effectually answered by establishing Governments. 5th. The People expect it. Answer. Let them know it is only deferred till a Confederation or a Treaty with Foreign Powers is concluded.


[Page 393]
July 1, 1776 361 He has refused his assent to laws the most wholsome & necessary for the public good. He has forbidden his governors to pass laws of immediate & pressing importance, unless suspended in their operation till his as sent should be obtained; & when so suspended, he has utterly ne glected to attend to them. He has refused to pass other laws for the accomodation of large districts of people, unless those people would relinquish the right of representation in the legislature, a right inestimable to them, & formidable to tyrants only. He has called together legislative bodies at places unusual, un comfortable, and distant from the depository of their public records, for the sole purpose of fatiguing them into compliance with his measures. He has dissolved representative houses repeatedly [8c continually] for opposing with manly firmness his invasions on the rights of the people. He has refused for a long time after such dissolutions to cause others to be elected, whereby the legislative powers, incapable of annihilation, have returned to the people at large for their exercise, the state remaining in the mean time exposed to all the dangers of invasion from without & convulsions within. He has endeavored to prevent the population of these states; for that purpose obstructing the' laws for naturalization of foreigners, refusing to pass others to encourage their migrations hither, 8c rais ing the conditions of new appropriations of lands. He has {obstructed} [suffered] the administration of justice [totally to cease in some of these states] {by} refusing his assent to laws for establishing judiciary powers. He has made [our] judges dependant on his will alone, for the tenure of their offices, 8c the amount 8c paiment of their salaries. He has erected a multitude of new offices [by a self assumed power] and sent hither swarms of new officers to harrass our people and eat out their substance. He has kept among us in times of peace standing armies [and ships of war] without the consent of our legislatures. He has affected to render the military independant of, 8c superior to the civil power. He has combined with others to subject us to a jurisdiction foreign to our constitutions 8c unacknoleged by our laws, giving his assent to their acts of pretended legislation for quartering large bodies of armed troops among us; for protecting them by a mock trial from punishment for any murders which they should commit on the inhabitants of these states; for cutting off our trade with all parts of the world; for imposing taxes on us without our consent;


[Page 395]
July 1, 1776 363 In every stage of these oppressions we have petitioned for redress in the most humble terms: our repeated petitions have been an swered only by repeated injuries. A prince whose character is thus marked by every act which may define a tyrant is unfit to be the ruler of a {free} people [who mean to be free. Future ages will scarcely believe that the hardiness of one man adventured, within the short compass of twelve years only, to lay a foundation so broad & so undisguised for tyranny over a people fostered & fixed in prin ciples of freedom.] Nor have we been wanting in attentions to our British brethren. We have warned them from time to time of attempts by their legis lature to extend {an unwarrantable} [a] jurisdiction over {us} [these our states.] We have reminded them of the circumstances of our emigration & settlement here, [no one of which could warrant so strange a pretension: that these were effected at the expence of our own blood & treasure, unassisted by the wealth or the strength of Great Britain: that in constituting indeed our several forms of government, we had adopted one common king, thereby laying a foundation for perpetual league & amity with them: but that sub mission to their parliament was no part of our constitution, nor ever in idea, if history may be credited: and,] we {have} appealed to their native justice and magnanimity {and we have conjured them by} [as well as to] the ties of our common kindred to disavow these usurpations which {would inevitably} [were likely to] interrupt our connection and correspondence. They too have been deaf to the voice of justice & of consanguinity, [and when occasions have been given them, by the regular course of their laws, of removing from their councils the disturbers of our harmony, they have, by their free election, re-established them in power. At this very time too they are permitting their chief magistrate to send over not only souldiers of our common blood, but Scotch & foreign mercenaries to invade & destroy us. These facts have given the last stab to ago nizing affection, and manly spirit bids us to renounce for ever these unfeeling brethren. We must endeavor to forget our former love for them, and to hold them as we hold the rest of mankind enemies in war, in peace friends. We might have been a free and a great people together; but a communication of grandeur & of freedom it seems is below their dignity. Be it so, since they will it. The road to happiness & to glory is open to us too. We will tread it apart from them, and] {we must therefore} acquiesce in the necessity which denounces our [eternal] separation {and hold them as we hold the rest of mankind, enemies in war, in peace friends}!


[Page 397]
July 1, 1776 365 so that Pennsylvania’s vote could be cast in favor of independence. As McKean long afterward explained: “The State of Pennsylvania on the 4th. of July (there being five members present, Messrs. Dickinson and Morris, who had in the com mittee of the whole voted against Independence were absent) voted for it; three to two, Messrs. Willing and Humphries in the negative. Unanimity in the thirteen States, an all important point on so great an occasion, was thus obtained; the dissention of a single State might have produced very dangerous consequences." See Burnett, Letters, 1:534-45. Despite McKean’s precise explanation of the behavior of the Pennsylvania dele gates, there is good reason to believe that his memory failed him on this point, and that Dickinson and Morris may have actually been in Congress on July 4. It should be noted, at any rate, that Dickinson’s name appears as a member of the com mittee appointed that day to confer on the defense of New Jersey and Pennsyl vania and that Morris was explicitly ordered by Congress that morning to inquire into a matter related to a vessel employed by the Continental Navy. It is of course possible that both these actions involving the two men could have been taken in their temporary absence, but it seems more likely that McKean’s account of Pennsylvania’s vote on independence pertains to the vote of July 2 on Richard Henry Lee’s resolution rather than the vote on the Declaration on July 4. McKean related his version of this vote twice, in 1796 and in 1813, the first of which is known to be in error on the subject of the weather. Thus McKean wrote “On the 4th (which was a rainy day) Messrs. Dickinson and Morris were absent,” but it is beyond doubt that although it rained for several hours in Philadelphia on July 2, July 4 was a clear day. If, therefore, McKean is wrong about Dickinson’s presence on July 4, it would be a great irony that Jefferson’s credibility was long questioned because of this particular passage from his notes but escaped challenge on other points analyzed in this volume, such as the time of day the Declaration was adopted, now believed to be in error. See Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, June 7-28, note 2; and Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators, July 4, 1776, note 2. "For a discussion of the significant alterations that Jefferson made in this para graph, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), l:328n,15. ’The words appearing in these brackets, here and below, Jefferson wrote in the margin, indicating their placement with carets. 8 For discussion of a controversial statement about the signing of the Declaration that Jefferson later wrote on a separate slip and inserted at this point in the MS, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:301-8. For the continuation of these notes, see Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 12-August 1, 1776. Thomas Jefferson to William Fleming Dear Fleming Philadelphia. July 1. 1776. Your’s of 22d June came to hand this morning and gratified me much as this with your former contains interesting intelligence. 1 Our affairs in Canada go still retrograde, but I hope they are now nearly at their worst. The fatal sources of these misfortunes have been want of hard money with which to procure provisions, the ravages of the small pox with which one half of our army is still down, and an unlucky choice of some officers. By our last letters, 2 Genl. Sullivan was retired as far as Isle au noix with his dispirited army and Burgoyne pursuing him with one of double or treble his


[Page 398]
366 July 1, 1776 numbers. It gives much concern that he had determined to make a stand there as it exposes to great danger of losing him and his army; and it was the universal sense of his officers that he ought to retire. Genl. Schuyler has sent him positive orders to retire to Crown Point but whether they will reach him time enough to with draw him from danger is questionable. Here it seems to be the opinion of all the General officers that an effectual stand may be made and the enemy not only prevented access into New York, but by preserving a superiority on the lakes we may renew our attacks on them to advantage as soon as our army is recovered from the small pox and recruited. But recruits, tho long ordered, are very difficult to be procured on account of that dreadful disorder. The Conspiracy at New York is not yet thoroughly developed, nor has any thing transpired, the whole being kept secret till the whole is got through. One fact is known of necessity, that one of the General’s lifeguard being thoroughly convicted was to be shot last Saturday. 3 General Howe with some ships (we know not how many) is arrived at the Hook, and, as is said, has landed some horse on the Jersey shore. The famous Major Rogers is in custody on violent suspicion of being concerned in the conspiracy. I am glad to hear of the Highlanders carried into Virginia. It does not appear certainly how many of these people we have but I imagine at least six or eight hundred. Great efforts should be made to keep up the spirits of the people the succeeding three months: which in the universal opinion will be the only ones in which our trial can be severe. I wish you had depended on yourself rather than others for giving me an account of the late nomination of delegates. 4 I have no other state of it but the number of votes for each person. The omis sion of Harrison and Braxton and my being next to the lag give me some alarm. It is a painful situation to be 300. miles from one’s country, and thereby open to secret assassination without a possi bility of self-defence. I am willing to hope nothing of this kind has been done in my case, and yet I cannot be easy. If any doubt has arisen as to me, my country will have my political creed in the form of a ‘Declaration &c.’ which I was lately directed to draw. This will give decisive proof that my own sentiment concurred with the vote they instructed us to give. Had the post been to go a day later we might have been at liberty to communicate this whole matter. July. 2. I have kept open my letter till this morning but nothing more new. Adieu. Th. Jefferson Reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:411-13. ’Fleming (1736-1824), Cumberland County lawyer and judge, member of the Virginia House of Delegates, 1776-81, and delegate to Congress, 1779, was a repre sentative to the Virginia conventions in 1775 and 1776. Bio. Dir. Cong. His June 22 letter is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:406.


[Page 402]
370 July 2, 1776 serve all the natural Curiosities that Can be Collected from all parts of the world as Birds, beasts, fish, Shells, Snakes, plants 8c a great many other Curiosities. Among them there was a Shark, a Crocodile, a Cat fish, a Dog fish, a Sea porcupine, a Creature Called a Hog in armour, 2 ostrich’s Eggs which were perfectly round 8c of the Colour of Ivory and I Guess would hold a pint 8c an half Each. There was a great many other Creature of a Strange make from any thing I Ever Saw before 8c whose names I have forgot as I had but a little time there. Snakes Skins Stuft among them a Small Alligators Skin 8cc 8cc 8cc.” Reports availability of some fruits and vegetables at Philadelphia and prices of a few articles of clothing. RC (NhHi). Page one of four-page letter missing. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren Dear sir, Philadelphia 2d July 1776 I have only Time to inform You that Yesterday was agitated in Congress the great Question of Independancy, 8c as the Facts are as well known at the Coffee House of the City as in Congress I may go on to inform You that in a Committee of the Whole House It was carryed by nine Colonies. I remain sir with due Regards, your assured Friend 8c huml serv, Elbridge Gerry RC (Facsimile, Austin, Life of Gerry, following p. 196). Joseph Hewes to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear sir, Philadelphia, 2d July, 1776. When I wrote to you last, I believe I mentioned to you only two lieutenants for the ship. 1 It was a mistake. Three are allowed to each of the frigates, so that, when Capt. Nicholson sends up a recommendation for sea officers, he should put down three lieuten ants. Part of General Howe’s army is arrived at Sandy Hook. We must expect warm work in that quarter in a few days. I am, with respect, sir, Your most obedient servant, Joseph Hewes. MS not found; reprinted from Robert Purviance, A Narrative of Events which occurred in Baltimore Town during the Revolutionary War (Baltimore: Jos. Robinson, 1849), p. 198. 1 See Hewes to Samuel Purviance, Jr., June 25, 1776.


[Page 406]
874 July 3, 1776 the first Class? Mr, Whitney and Mrs. Katy Quincy are cleverly through Innoculation, in this City. I have one favour to ask, and that is, that in your future Letters, you would acknowledge the Receipt of all those you may receive from me, and mention their Dates. By this Means I shall know if any of mine miscarry. The Information you give me of our Friends refusing his Ap pointment, has given me much Pain, Grief and Anxiety. I believe I shall be obliged to follow his Example. 3 I have not Fortune enough to support my Family, and what is of more Importance, to support the Dignity of that exalted Station. It is too high and lifted up, for me; who delight in nothing so much as Retreat, Solitude, Silence, and Obscurity. In private Life, no one has a Right to censure me for following my own Inclinations, in Retirement, Simplicity, and Frugality: in public Life, every man has a Right to remark as he pleases, at least he thinks so. Yesterday the greatest Question was decided, which ever was de bated in America, and a greater perhaps, never was or will be decided among Men. A Resolution was passed without one dis senting Colony “that these united Colonies, are, and of right ought to be free and independent States, and as such, they have, and of Right ought to have full Power to make War, conclude Peace, establish Commerce, and to do all the other Acts and Things, which other States may rightfully do.” You will see in a few days a Declara tion setting forth the Causes, which have impell’d Us to this mighty Revolution, and the Reasons which will justify it, in the Sight of God and Man. A Plan of Confederation will be taken up in a few days. When I look back to the Year 1761, and recollect the Argument concerning Writs of Assistance, in the Superiour Court, which I have hitherto considered as the Commencement of the Controversy, between Great Britain and America, and run through the whole Period from that Time to this, and recollect the series of political Events, the Chain of Causes and Effects, I am surprized at the Suddenness, as well as Greatness of this Revolution. Britain has been fill’d with Folly, and America with Wisdom, at least this is my Judgment. Time must determine. It is the Will of Heaven, that the two Countries should be sundered forever. It may be the Will of Heaven that America shall suffer Calamities still more wasting and Distresses yet more dreadfull. If this is to be the Case, it will have this good Effect, at least: it will inspire Us with many Virtues, which We have not, and correct many Errors, Follies, and Vices, which threaten to disturb, dishonour, and destroy Us. The Furnace of Affliction produces Refinement, in States as well as Individuals. And the new Governments we are assuming, in every Part, will require a Purification from our Vices, and an Augmentation of our Virtues


[Page 407]
July 3, 1776 375 or they will be no Blessings. The People will have unbounded Power. And the People are extreamly addicted to Corruption and Venality, as well as the Great. 4 I am not without Apprehensions from this Quarter. But I must submit all my Hopes and Fears, to an overruling Providence, in which, unfashionable as the Faith may be, I firmly believe. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:27-28. 1 See Mary Palmer to John Adams, June 15, 1776, Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:9-12. “Abigail and the Adams children were inoculated by Thomas Bulfinch in July. See Abigail Adams to John Adams, July 13-14, 1776, ibid., pp. 45-47. “James Warren had refused an appointment as justice of the Massachusetts Su perior Court of Judicature. 4 The following sentence was apparently inadvertently omitted in the RC and is here taken from the LB in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 3d. 1776 Had a Declaration of Independency been made seven Months ago, it would have been attended with many great and glorious Effects. . . J We might before this Hour, have formed Alliances with foreign Sfates. We should have mastered Quebec and been in Possession of Canada. . . . You will perhaps wonder, how such a Declaration would have influenced our Affairs, in Canada, but if I could write with Freedom I could easily convince you, that it would, and explain to you the manner how. Many Gentlemen in high Stations and of great Influence have been duped, by the ministerial Bubble of Commissioners to treat. . . . And in real, sincere Expec tation of this Event, which they so fondly wished, they have been slow and languid, in promoting Measures for the Reduction of that Province. Others there are in the Colonies who really wished that our Enterprise in Canada would be defeated, that the Colonies might be brought into Danger and Distress between two Fires, and be thus induced to submit. Others really wished to defeat the Ex pedition to Canada, lest the Conquest of it, should elevate the Minds of the People too much to hearken to those Terms of Recon ciliation which they believed would be offered Us. These jarring Views, Wishes and Designs, occasioned an opposition to many salutary Measures, which were proposed for the Support of that Expedition, and caused Obstructions, Embarrassments and studied Delays, which have finally, lost Us the Province. All these Causes however in Conjunction would not have disap pointed Us, if it had not been for a Misfortune, which could not be foreseen, and perhaps could not have been prevented, I mean the


[Page 410]
378 July 3, 1776 to send such troops “as they can spare” to Monmouth County, New Jersey. JCC, 5:508. Congress took this step in response to a July 2 letter from John Covenhoven, vice president of the New Jersey Provincial Congress, reporting a gathering of armed tories in Monmouth. PCC, item 68, fols. 161, 164; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1-2. For further details about this episode, see Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1633, 1636-37, 5th ser. 1:37, 139. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton My Dear friend, Phila. July 4th. 1776. Our Seeming bad Success in Canada, I dare say gives you great uneasiness. In Times of danger, and under misfortunes, true Cour age and Magnanimity can only be Ascertained. In the Course of Such a War we must expect some Losses. We are told a Panick Seized the Army. If so it hath not reached the Senate. At the Time our Forces in Canada were retreating before a Victorious Army, while Genl. Howe with a Large Armament is Advancing towards N. York, Our Congress Resolved to Declare the United Colonies Free and independent States. A Declaration for this Purpose, I ex pect, will this day pass Congress, it is nearly gone through, after which it will be Proclaimed with all the State & Solemnity Circum stances will admit. It is gone so far that we must now be a free inde pendent State, or a Conquered Country. 1 I can readily guess at your feelings upon hearing that Genl Howe with 130 Transports are between N. York & the Hook. This was our last Acct., no express hath come in this morning. All seems Un certainty where they will Land, I assure you I don’t feel quite rec onciled at being here and the Enemy by my door at home. All reports Agree that New Jersey is all in motion to meet the Enemy in Case they pay our Province a Visit, or to Assist N. York as Oc casion may require. Had Genl. Howe Landed his forces as soon as he Arrived he might have Carried all before him. Possibly while I am Writing this he may be reaping the Fruits of a Victory. This seems now to be a trying season, but that indulgent Father who hath hitherto Preserved us will I trust appear for our help, and pre vent our being Crushed; If otherwise, his Will be done. I have no Particular News more to Communicate. No news from Your family to send. I wrote you the day before I left home. I am Among a Consistory of Kings as our Enemy Says. I assure you Sir, Our Congress is An August Assembly—and can they Support the Declaration now on the Anvil, they will be the greatest Assembly on Earth. As I am not Able to Communicate to you any thing but what the Public Papers will Announce, you will readily perceive I mean to let you know you are not forgot by me. Tho’ I address my self to


[Page 411]
July 4, 1776 379 you Sir, yet I mean to include my much esteemed friend Mr Cald well in it. We are now Sir embarked on a most Tempestious Sea, Life very uncertain, Seeming dangers Scattered thick Around us, Plots Against the Military, and it is Whispered, Against the Senate. Let us prepare for the worst, we can Die here but once. May all our Business, all our purposes 8c pursuits tend to lit us for that impor tant event. I am Dr sir, Yours 8c Mr Caldwells most Obedient 8c Huml Servt. Abra. Clark RC (PHi). Addressed: “To Elias Dayton Esqr., Colonel of the third battalion of N. Jersey Forces, at Johns Town, Mohawk River, or Crown Point, to be forwarded to their Station from Albany.” 1 Clark was a member of the delegation elected by the New Jersey Provincial Congress on June 22 and empowered to join with other delegates “in declaring the United Colonies independent of Great Britain, entering into a Confederacy for union and common defense, [and] making treaties with foreign nations for com merce and assistance.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1628-29. In an earlier letter to Dayton, Clark had observed of this election: “The Continental Congress are to determine next Monday upon Independency. I am going among them to Morrow. We have a New set of Delegates—Judge Stockton, Francis Hopkinson, Doctor Witherspoon, John Hart & myself. We have raised 5 battalions to go to N. York, they are now nearly raised & will I expect begin to March to Morrow. Mr. [Wil liam] Livingston was appointed to Command them, after Joseph Read [Reed], Who was first Appointed had declined. Mr. Livingston hath declined he told me yester day, and seems much Chagarened at his being left out of Congress, and there is not wanting some who endeavour to persuade him that it was through my means to Supplant him, which was far from true. I used my Endeavours to get him con tinued in, and it is much against my Will that I am Appointed.” Clark to Elias Dayton, June 26, 1776, Sparks Papers, MH. Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, who was not a member of the new delegation, also made some pertinent comments about this election. “I have declined being appointed anew to the Continental Congress for reasons which I have not Room to explain (this being the only white piece of Paper in Bristol). However You will have a sound Delegation & they were in structed to vote right. ... I am confident it is better that I stay in the Colony for the present than in the Continental Congress. . . . The People of this Colony were quite in the dark as to the Sentiments of the Delegates till lately. Our new ones I trust will not deceive us; but lest they should I wish I could secretly learn their Conduct whenever they may by any Means be found tripping. The others were spoilt among You & I hope You will think this hint worth attending to.” Sergeant to Samuel Adams, June 24, 1776, Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators Gentlemen, 1 Philadelphia, July 4th, 1776, The Congress this morning 2 directed us to confer with the Com mittees of Safety and Inspection, and the Field Officers now in town, about the proper mode of collecting the militia of this prov ince, in order to form a flying camp, to cover Pennsylvania and


[Page 412]
380 July 4, 1776 Philadelphia, July 4th, 1776, GENTLEMEN; T HE Congrefs this morning direfted us to confer with the Committees of Safe ty and Infpeftion, and the Field Officers now intown, about the proper mode of collecting the militia of this province, in order to form a flying camp, to cover Pennsylvania and New-Jerfey, from the Attacks of the Enemy, who have landed on Stattcn-Ifland, and will probably diredh their March this Way, if they Ihould imagine the Attempt on New-York too hazardous. Neceffity obliges us to difpenfe with forms, and to avail ourfelves of the advantage, which we may rea- fonably hope from your being alfembled : We, therefore, moil earneIHy requeft you immediately to colled the Forces of your feveral Counties, and march them down to Bruntwick, where the Congrefs will furniih them with prorilions, and allow them Continental pay. Men who-have the fafety of their country at heart, need no other incentive to the greateft exertions, than fuchas arifes from its danger , for which reafon, we have thought it neceflary barely to inform you of the iaft; with this addition, that the Militia of New-Jerfey are already, for the moft part, in New-York ; fo that that province will be defencelefs without your timely aid. We are Gentlemen, your moft obedient humble fervants, B. Franklin, Rost. R. Livingston,7_ _ F. Hopkinson, J. Dickinson CCommitteeof Congress; To the Committee of Aflbciators, -) at Lancafter. 1 GENTLEMAN; ' ? W E beg your moff /crious attention' Ip the contents of the within letter, and by the deftre of the Committee of Congrefs, fignify to you our approba tion thereof, and that it ie. our opinion only the four thoufand five hundred men are tneant by the Compiittee. It is hoped thofe volunteers who have engaged to lerve in theflying camp’, will marcli immediately” thb nigheft way to Brunfwick, in New-Jerfey, and that regnlftK'fiiufter-rolls will be kept by the colonels of the feve- ral battalions. * * At foon as a company is formed, it is expefted it will march without watting for the battalion. As th'ere is to be a conference between the Delegates of New- Yotk, New-Jerfey, and Pennfylvania; and the Committee of Safety, with this Committee, and the Field-Officers of the five Battalions of this city and the li berties, to-morrow morning, at the State-Houfe, at feven o’ clock, we will let Jou know the refult of their confultation. •Signed by Order of the Committee, THOMAS M'KEAN, Chairman: Philadelphia, Committee-Chamber, July 4th, 1776. To the Convention of Aflbciators, of the} Province of Pennfylvania, at Lancafter. r Committee of Congress Letter of July 4, 1776


[Page 418]
386 July 4, 1776 to keep Possession of Power is now at an End, and a new Mode of Government, equall to the Exigencies of our Affairs will be adopted, agreeable to the Recommendation of Congress to the United Colonies. I am directed to request you will appoint a proper officer for the Command'of the flying Camp; and also persons to supply them with Rations. I have wrote to the severall Committees, and press’d them to for ward their Troops with the utmost Dispatch. 2 I have the Honour to be, with perfect Esteem, Sir, Your most obedt. Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with concluding paragraph, closing, and signature by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:508-9. 2 Hancock also sent a letter this day to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety, asking the committee to send Washington as many flints as it could spare. Record Group 27, PHarH; JCC, 5:516-17; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:113, 215. Robert Morris to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gent’n: July 4th, 1776. The Congress passed a Recommendation this day, 1 Requesting a Conference of the Committee of Safety, the Committee of Inspection of this City, the Delegates of New York, New Jersey, & Pennsylvania, and the Commanding Officers of the Association, to devise the most expeditious mode of raising & marching the Militia of this Province to the Assistance of the Neighbouring Colonies. I am, Gent’n, Your obed’t Serv’t, Sign’d, Rob’t Morris. MS not found; reprinted from Minutes of the Provincial Council of Pennsylvania from the Organization to the Termination of the Proprietary Government, 10 vols. (Philadelphia: J. Severns & Co.; Harrisburg: Theo. Fenn & Co., 1851-53), 10:631. 1 See JCC, 5:516; and Committee of Congress to the Lancaster Associators, this date, note 1. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary [July 4, 1776] Cool. 1 The Independance of the States Voted 8c declared. MS (MHi). 1 This was the fourth consecutive day Philadelphians had enjoyed a respite from


[Page 420]
388 July 4, 1776 the hot spell they had experienced the last two weeks of June. Paine’s weather comments the preceding three days were as follows: July 1—"Fine showers.” July 2—“Rain’d hard. Cool’d the air much." July 3—“Cool day.” Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philada. July the 4th 1776 I have inclosed you a Summons directed to the Sheriff to Summon the Member for our County to meet in Assembly at Newcastle on the 22d day of this Instant which I hope you will have put into his hands as soon as possible after it Comes to Yours. I arrived in Congress (tho detained by thunder and Rain) time Enough to give my Voice in the matter of Independence. 1 It is determined by the Thirteen United Colonies with out even one disenting Colony. We have now Got through with the Whole of the declaration and Ordered it to be printed, so that You will soon have the pleasure of seeing it. Hand bills of it will be printed and Sent to the Armies, Cities, Countys, Towns &c—to be published or rather proclaimed in form. Don’t neglect to Attend Closely and Carefully to my Harvest and You’l oblige, Yours 8cc, Caesar Rodney RC (CCamarSJ). 1 The circumstances behind Rodney’s last minute appearance in Congress were described by Thomas McKean many years later as follows. “On Monday the 1st. of July the question was taken in the committee of the whole when the State of Pennsylvania (represented by seven Gentlemen then present) voted agt. it. Delaware (having then only two Representatives present) was divided; all the other States voted in favor of it. Whereupon, without delay I sent an Express (at my private expence) for your honored Uncle Caesar Rodney Esquire, the remaining member for Delaware, whom I met at the State-house door, in his boots and spurs, as the members were assembling; after a friendly salutation (without a word on the business) we went into the Hall of Congress together find found we were among the latest: proceedings immediately commenced, and after a few minutes the great question was put; when the vote for Delaware was called your uncle arose and said: As I believe the voice of my constituents and of all sensible and honest men is in favor of Independence and my own judgment concurs with them, I vote for Independence, or in words to the same effect.” McKean to Caesar A. Rodney, September 22, 1813, Burnett, Letters, 1:534. For an analysis of several conflicting accounts of Rodney’s ride to Philadelphia, see William Baskerville Hamilton, Anglo-American Law on the Frontier: Thomas Rodney b His Territorial Cases (Durham: Duke University Press, 1953), pp. 21-22. James Wilson to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety Gentlemen Philada 4th July 1776 I beg Leave to recommend to you the following Gentlemen as of ficers of a Company in the German Regiment. 1


[Page 421]
July 5, 1776 389 Conrad Schneider—Captain Jacob Stadler—1st Lieutt. Jacob Foreman—2d Lieutt. George Harmony—Ensign They are recommended to me from Cumberland; and I am in formed will be able to raise a Company immediately in that County. I am, with much Esteem, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servt, James Wilson RC (NN). 1 For the creation o£ the German battalion, authorized according to a resolution of May 25, 1776, see JCC, 4:392, 5:454, 487-88. See also JCC, 5:571, 590. John Adams to Mary Palmer Miss Polly Philadelphia July 5. 1776 Your Favour of June 15, 1776 1 was handed to me, by the last Post.. . 2 I hold myself much obliged to you for your Attention to me, at this Distance, from those Scenes, in which, altho I feel myself deeply interested, yet I can neither be an Actor nor Spectator. You have given me (not withstanding all your modest Apologies) with a great deal of real Elegance and Perspicuity, a minute and circumstantial Narration of the whole Expedition to the lower Har bour against the Men of War. It is lawfull you know to flatter the Ladies a little, at least if Custom can make a Thing lawfull: but, with out availing myself in the least degree of this Licence, I can safely say that from your Letter and another from Miss Paine to her Brother, I was enabled to form a more Adequate Idea of that whole Trans action, than from all the other Accounts of it, both in News papers and private Letters which have come to my Hands. In Times as turbulent as these, commend me to the Ladies for Historiographers. The Gentlemen are too much engaged in Action. The Ladies are cooler Spectators. . . . There is a Lady at the Foot of Pens Hill, who obliges me, from Time to Time with clearer and fuller Intelligence, than I can get from a whole Committee of Gentlemen. I was a little mortified, at the unlucky Calm, which retarded the Militia from Braintree, Weymouth and Hingham. I wished that they might have had more than half the Glory of the Enterprize. However, it satisfies me to reflect, that it was not their Fault but the fault of the Wind that they had not. I will inclose to you a Declaration, in which all America is re markably united. . . ® It compleats a Revolution, which will make as good a Figure in the History of Mankind, as any that has preceeded it—provided always, that the Ladies take Care to record the Circum stances of it, for by the Experience I have had of the other Sex, they are either too lazy, or too active, to commemorate them.


[Page 432]
400 July 6, 1776 Secret Committee to Thomas Mumford Sir Philada. July 6th. 1776 Your favour of the 26th Ulto came duely to hand, and we readily agree that you may dispose of the Six barrells of Montserat Sulphur to Messrs. Wales & Elderkin in order to keep their Powder Mill going, but you must fix the price with them as we neither know the Cost or Value of that Sulphur not having received any such here, nor have we ever as yet any Invoice, so that we are even at a loss to know what we must charge Messrs. Wisner & Livingston for the quantity delivered to them & hope you will assist us in this point. Indeed we wish to see the Invoice soon as Convenient. We rec’d the enclosed letter for You a few days since from St Eustatia & in taking off the Cover which was directed to the Secret Committee, the Seal of your letter inside stuck to it so that both came off together, which you’l not blame us for. You’l find herein all the papers that were enclosed except Capt Palmers bills of Loading for 50 half & 240 Quarter bbls of Powder shipped by your Friends at St Eustatia for this place which we have received safe & shall duely note the same in your Account. Your said Friends appear to be attentive good Men, deserving of the Confidence you repose in them. The freight of this Powder is fixed in St Eustatia at four Dollars for every hun dred wt which is very dear, but we suppose you must pay the same for the 250 half barrells, unless the Owners of the vessell shoud agree to take less. We will hereafter give orders respecting that Powder & such other Quantitys as may arrive & are sir, Your obedt. hble servts. By order of the Secret Committee, Robt Morris, Chair Man RC (Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Lookout Mountain, Tenn., 1974). Written by Robert Morris. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 7. 1776 I have this Moment folded up a Magazine, and an Evening Post 1 and sent it off, by an Express, who could not wait for me to write a single Line. It always goes to my Heart, to send off a Packett of Pamphletts and News Papers, without a Letter, but it sometimes unavoidably happens, and I suppose you had rather receive a Pam phlet or News Paper, than nothing. The Disign of our Enemy, now seems to be a powerfull Invasion


[Page 433]
July 7, 1776 401 of New York and New Jersey. The Hallifax Fleet and Army, is arrived, and another Fleet and Army under Lord How, is expected to join them. We are making great Preparations to meet them, by marching the Militia of Maryland, Pensilvania, and New Jersey, down to the Scene of Action, and have made large Requisitions upon New England. I hope for the Honour of New England, and the Salvation of America, our People will not be backward in march ing to New York. We must maintain and defend that important Post, at all Events. If the Enemy get Possession there, it will cost N. England very dear. There is no danger of the Small Pox at New York. It is carefully kept out of the City and the Army. I hope that your Brother and mine too will go into the Service of their Country, at this critical Period of its Distress. Our Army at Crown Point is an Object of Wretchedness, enough to fill a humane Mind, with Horror. Disgraced, defeated, discon tented, dispirited, diseased, naked, undisciplined, eaten up with Vermin—no Cloaths, Beds, Blanketts, no Medicines, no Victuals, but Salt Pork and flour. A Chaplain from that Army, preached a Sermon here the other day, from “cursed is he, that doth the Work of the Lord, deceitfully.” I knew better than he did, who the Persons were, who deserved these Curses. But I could not help myself, nor my poor Country any more than he. I hope that Measures will be taken to cleanse the Army at Crown Point from the small Pox, and that other Measures will be taken in New England, by tolerating and encouraging Inoculation, to render that Distemper less terrible. I am solicitous to hear, what Figure, our new Superiour Court made in their Eastern Circuit. What Business they did? Whether the Grand Juries, and petit Juries, were sworn. Whether they tried any Criminals? or any civil Actions. How the People were affected at the Appearance of Courts again. How the Judges were treated, whether with Respect, or cold Neglect &c. Every Colony, upon the Continent will soon be in the same Situa tion. They are erecting Governments, as fast as Children build Cobb Houses. But I conjecture they will hardly throw them down again, so soon. The Practice We have hitherto been in, of ditching round about our Enemies, will not always do. We must learn to Use other Wea pons than the Pick Axe and the Spade. Our Armies must be disci plined and learn to fight. I have the Satisfaction to reflect, that our Massachusetts People, when they have been left to themselves, have been constantly fighting and skirmishing, and always with success. I wish the same Valour, Prudence, and Spirit had been discovered every where. 2


[Page 434]
402 July 7, 1776 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:37-38. ’Presumably the Pennsylvania Magazine: or, American Monthly Museum; and the Pennsylvania Evening Post, July 6, 1776, which contained the first newspaper printing of the Declaration of Independence. “Adams wrote a second letter this day to Abigail, discussing “Epistolary Style” and urging her to have the children practice and master writing skills. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:39-40. John Adams to Joseph Reed Dear Sir. Philadelphia July 7 1776 Yesterday your Favour of the 4th Instant was handed me by the Post. Am much obliged to you for it, and will give all the attention I can to its Contents. Am not certain that I know the Gentleman who you recommend by the Name of Henshaw—but I believe I do. 1 There are several very worthy Men of that Name: which of them this is, I am not clear. The Difficulty is that we dont know what vacancies there are, to which Congress may with Propriety promote such officers. If the general should recommend him to any advance ment, he would readily have it. But if any Individual Member here should move for his Promotion without a Recommendation from Head Quarters, a suspicion would arise that he did not stand well there. Does he come to New York as Lt. Coll of a Regiment of Militia, or in what Capacity. Should be obliged to you for his Christain Name, and for a Hint of any Vacant Place to which he may be promoted. Nothing in my Power shall be wanting to serve a worthy Man and a usefull officer. Your description of the Force of the Enemy and your own weakness, is indeed allarming. The Importance of the Post you hold is very great; and it must be maintained and defended at all Events. Congress have already ordered three of the Battailions at Boston, to N. York, and tomorrow will order the other two. 2 The two Pensilvania Battallions are ordered to N. York, and Measures have been taken to send all the Militia of Pensilvania, who can be armed to N. York and N. Jersey. Maryland is requested to send along their Proportion of the flying Camp. I hoped that the Militia from New England would have been with you before this Time, at least a considerable Part of them. You will Soon see Some of them I think. I have the Pleasure to agree perfectly with you, that now is the golden opportunity, for Sending into New York, Troops from every Quarter. The General may rely upon it, that no Tenderness for my own Province, nor any other Consideration shall induce me, to throw the least Impediment in the Way of any Measure that shall be proposed for that Purpose. I have even promoted the order


[Page 435]
July 7, 1776 403 for calling away the five Battailions from Boston, altho I know not how the numerous Fortifications there are to be garrisoned, or even the Continental Stores to be defended. There really is a Strong, an earnest, and sincere desire, here, to do every Thing to forward the Militia from every Quarter. I wish their was as laudable a Spirit to give Bounties in Money, and Land, to Men, who would inlist during the War. But there is not. Congress offers Ten dollars Bounty to inlist for three years, when New Jersey, New York, Connecticut, Mass. Bay and New Hampshire are voting six, Eight, or Ten Pounds a Man to serve for Six Months. This Economy at the Spigot, and Profusion at the Bung will ruin us. Do for Gods Sake Coll Reed convince our Southern Brethren that the Common People and even Common Soldiers are rational Crea tures, and that they can see, hear, and feel. My Heart bleeds in every Veign of it, for New York and the Army in it: But there is another Scene more affecting Still. The Army under Schuyler and Gates is an object miserable enough to affect less feeling Hearts than yours or mine. An Army, disgraced and dispirited, with repeated defeats; devoured with Vermin; with out a Second Shirt, or pair of Hose, without Beds, or Blanketts, diseased with the Small Pox, and nothing to eat, but Salt Pork and flour—incapable of succour, by fresh Recruits, because such as have had the Small Pox are not to be found, and such as have not, would only bring fresh Wretchedness among them! What shall we do? Is it possible to cleanse that army from Infection? Without this, I fear, our Hopes in that Quarter are but delusions. After all I am not disconcerted by all these Confusions, because I have expected them these twelve Months, and because I have known our affairs in a situation much worse than they are even now. A fatal Delusion, from fond Hopes of Reconciliation, enter tained, fostered and cherished, against the clearest Evidence, which is ever to be expected in such Cases, has held us back, from making such Preparations for our better Security as were in our Power. These Hopes are now extinguished, and I think that more Vigour will take Place and another winter will greatly befriend us. The golden opportunity however, is irretreivably lost. Canada is our Enemy, and We are now compleatly between two Fires. I expect an horrid Carnage upon our Frontiers, and a great Deal of Desola tion upon the Sea Coast, but I hope still that We shall come out of the Furnace of Affliction, double refined. I am with great Respect, LB (MHi). *It is probable that the person Reed had recommended in his July 4 letter to Adams, which is in the Adams Papers, MHi, was Joseph Henshaw (1727-94), Boston and Leicester, Mass., merchant and lieutenant colonel of militia. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 12:268-71.


[Page 436]
404 July 7, 1776 2 On July 8 Congress authorized General Washington “to call to his assistance, at New York, such of the continental regiments in the Massachusetts bay, as have not already received orders to march to Ticonderoga.” JCC, 5:527. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia July 7. 1776 Congress has been pleased to establish a War office, and have done me the Honour to make me a Member of that Board, which lays me under obligation to write you upon the Subject of Flints. Congress has impowered and directed the Board to employ a Number of Persons, wherever they can find them, to manufacture Flints, and also to enquire in the Several Colonies, for the proper Flint Stone. 1 It would be unpardonable Negligence in Us, in our Circum stances, to depend upon Supplies from abroad, of any Articles necessary to carry on the War; Materials for the Manufacture of which are afforded by our own Country in Sufficient Plenty. This is the Case of Flint Stone. It is affirmed by Gentlemen of undoubted Credit, that large Quantities of the genuine Flint Stone are found in Orange County, in the Government of New York, and it is reported that other Quantities are found in various other Parts of the united American States. Congress is determined to leave no proper Measures unessayed, to discover the Truth, and to obtain Informa tion in what Parts of America this Kind of stone is to be found and in what Quantities. To this End the Board of War and ordinance is directed to invite the assistance of the Several Legislatures of all the States in Union, in promoting an Inquiry. I am directed by the Board to request you to lay this Letter before the Legislature of the Massachusetts Bay, and to ask their Attention to this Subject and that they would be pleased to appoint a Committee of their Body, or take any other Measures which they may think proper and effectual for inquiring whether there is any Quantity of this necessary stone, in their Country, in what Counties or Towns of it it lies, and whether there are any Persons who have ever practiced the Art of making the Flints into suitable sizes and shapes for military service. And it is further requested, that after a proper Enquiry shall have been made, the Result of it, be reported to the Board of war and ordinance, at the War office, in Markett Street near the Corner of fourth Street Philadelphia. I have the Honour to be &c. LB (MHi). ’See JCC, 5:517.


[Page 439]
July 8, 1776 407 RC (DLC photostat). 1 Photostats of Trumbull’s July 3 and 5 letters to Gerry are in the Gerry Papers, DLC. 2 The Pennsylvania Evening Post of July 6, 1776, which also contained the Decla ration of Independence. “See JCC, 5:526-27. See also John Hancock to Horatio Gates, this date. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia July 8th. 1776. The Congress being informed by Letter from General Schuyler to General Washington, which was laid before them at the Request of the former, and by your own Consent, that a Difference of Opinion had arisen between General Schuyler & yourself, with Regard to the Command of the Army in the Northern Department, they immediately took the Matter into Consideration, and have this Day come to the inclosed Resolution, which I do myself the Honour of transmitting in Obedience to their Commands. 1 You will there perceive that Congress are of Opinion, your Com mand was totally independent of Genl. Schuyler, while the Army was in Canada, but no longer, and indeed, the Terms in which the Resolve, relative to your Appointment, is conceived, seem to shew that this was their Intention. You were expressly, by that Resolve, to take the Command of the Troops in Canada, Words which strongly imply, that they had no Design to divest Genl. Schuyler of the Command while the Troops were on this Side Canada. I am however to inform you, that Congress highly approve your Resolu tion and Magnanimity that the public Service should receive no Detriment from any Difference of opinion on the Occasion. It is their most earnest Desire you will go on to act in the same Manner, and cultivate Harmony in all your military operations. A good Understanding and mutual Confidence are so essentially necessary in Order to give Success to our Measures, that I am convinced, they will take Place on all Occasions, between you. He deserves most of his Country, and will undoubtedly meet with the greatest applause, in whatever Rank or Station he may be, who renders her the most useful and signal Services. I have the Honour to be, Sir, with great Respect & Esteem, your most obed 8c very hble Ser. J°hn Hancock Presidt RC (NHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'See JCC, 5:526. For accounts of this dispute between Generals Gates and Schuy ler, see Schuyler to Washington, July 1, and enclosures, in Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1199-1203; and Washington to Hancock, July 4-5, and to Schuyler, July 11, 1776, in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:222-24, 257. See also JCC, 5:448; and Jona than G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 103-11.


[Page 448]
416 July 9, 1776 DNB. His Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty had recently been reprinted by John Dunlap in Philadelphia. For citations to the several 1776 American re printings of this celebrated pamphlet, see Charles Evans, American Bibliography, 12 vols. (Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34), nos. 15030-34. Samuel Adams to Joseph Hawley My dear Sir, Philade July 9 1776 I should sooner have acknowledgd the Receipt of your several Letters dated at Northampton & Springfield the 17th and 22d of May, 1 had I not expected that before this Time I should have had the pleasure of seeing and conversing with you—but Business here has been so pressing and important, that I have not thought it consistent with my Duty as yet to absent my self. 2 Our repeated Misfortunes in Canada have greatly chagrind every Man who wishes well to America. I dare not at present communicate to you what I take to have been the real Causes of these Disasters. Some of them indeed must be obvious to any Man who has been attentive to that Department. Our secret Enemies have found Means to sow the Seeds of Discord & Faction there and Heaven has suf- ferd the small Pox to prevail among our Troops. It is our Duty to try all Means to restore our Affairs to a good Footing but I despair of that being effected till next Winter. To be acting merely on the defensive at the Time when we should have been in full possession of that Country is mortifying indeed. The Subject is disgusting to me—I will dismiss it. 3 How is arrivd, as you have heard, with his Troops at New York. The People in this Colony & the Jerseys are in Motion and if the New England Militia joyn our Army with their usual Alertness & Spirit, I have no doubt but the Enemy will meet with a warm Reception. A few days may probably bring on an Event which will give a favorable Turn to our Affairs. The Congress has at length declared the Colonies free and in dependent States. Upon this I congratulate you, for I know your heart has long been set upon it. Much I am affraid has been lost by delaying to take this decisive Step. {It is my opinion that if it had been done Nine months ago, when) we might have been jus tified {in doing it) in the Sight of God and Man, thos[e] Months ago. If we had done it then, in my opinion Canada woud this time have been one of the united Colonies; but “Much is to be endurd for the hardness of Mens hearts.” We shall now see the Way clear to form a Confederation, contract Alliances & send Em bassadors to foreign Powers & do other Acts becoming the Char acter we have assumd. Adieu my Friend. Write to me soon. S A


[Page 450]
418 July 9, 1776 Delegates four Tons were Ordered to be sent immediately, on Con tinental Acct, for the use of the Militia who March out to guard the Province untill the Flying Camp is formed, or for the use of the flying Camp if not expended before they take the field. 1 I have the Pleasure to assure you Congress pay particular Attention to the Defence of New Jersey, and hitherto have denied us nothing which we have Asked for that Purpose. They look upon our Pro vince in great danger of being ravaged by the Enemy, and it is hoped you will not esteem it so far free from danger as to make your Continuing together unnecessary. It is indeed a busy Season, but we have a busy Enemy near us, and from the best intelligence Lord Howe is hourly expected to Arrive with 20,000 Troops. These with what have already arrived will make a formidable Army, and require the utmost exertion of the Middle Colonies to Oppose them. I expect the Militia of Phila. will begin to March to day—and from Accts, the Colony of Connectticut are sending forwards the strength of the Colony. I am, Sir, Your most Obedient, Humble Servt. Abra Clark RC (MeHi). ’See JCC, 5:525; and Samuel Tucker to John Hancock, July 6, 1776, in PCC, item 68, fols. 175, 177, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:37-38. John Hancock to Jacob Duche Sir, Philada. July 8th [i.e. 9] 1776. 1 It is with the greatest Pleasure I inform you, that the Congress have been induced, from a Consideration of your Piety {8c Religion), as well as your uniform 8c zealous Attachment to the Rights of America, to appoint you their Chaplain. It is their Request, which I am commanded to signify to you, that you will attend on them every Morning at nine O’Clock. I have the Honour to be, Sir, with Respect, your most obedt. 8c very hble Sevt. J.H. Prst. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’According to the journals, Duchy’s appointment as chaplain of Congress was made on July 9. JCC, 5:530. Abraham Clark subsequently claimed that he was primarily responsible for this action. See Abraham Clark to James Caldwell, August 2, 1776. John Hancock to James Mease Mr. Mease, Philada. 9th July 1776 The Quarter Master Genl, having wrote to Mr DeHaven for a Number of Waggons 8c Teams, 8c he having purchas’d them, 8c they


[Page 457]
July 10, 1776 425 must be amended, for the value of an Army depends upon its Disci pline. The Discipline of Rome and Britain, occasioned the Tryumphs of their Arms. I am Sorry you are tired of your situation in the Army. Without Command or even Rank, you have in your office of Judge Advocate as good an oppertunity to make yourself acquainted, with the whole Army, the World, and the Art of War, as you could in any other. Rank, without Command, is, in my Eyes, rather ostentatious, vain and despicable, than any advantage to a gentleman. You are pleased to ask my Advice, and I am very willing to give it. I would not by any Means advise you to continue in your present situation, longer, than this year. But I hope you will not leave the army this Cam paign. This is the most critical, and hazardous summer, We ever Saw, or I think shall see. Serve it out, and then resign. You will be wanted in your own Country, and you cannot be desired to serve longer, without Promotion. With your Education, and Fortune you will be able to serve your Country at home with great Advantage. But if Promotion in the military Line is your Wish, I should think the General would readily recommend you to be a Field officer in some of the vacant Regiments. I wish our Massachusetts officers had better Educations, and more Capacity and Spirit, than I fear some of them have, and I wish to introduce you and other gentlemen of the younger Sort, who have Foundations laid on which any Super structure may be built, into the Army. But I cannot wish you to forego, better Prospects of serving yourself and your Country too at home. Somehow or other, Massachusetts Gentlemen have been ne glected. Tudor, Austin, Osgood, Ward, Smith, Price, and many others might be mentioned who need not give Place to others of their Age in the Army. But others not their Superiours, have found better Fortune. There is a base Jealousy of the Massachusetts in more Places than one. I Said a Jealousy, I meant an Envy. I dont blame the Massachusetts Generals, for resigning, one after another. They have had Reason. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Tudor’s July 7 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to Joseph Ward Sir Philadelphia July 10th. 1776 Yours of 1 July came duely to Hand. 1 The Establishment of the War office as you observe has given me Work enough—more than I have a Relish for, and of a Kind not very suitable to my Taste, but must acquiesce. Shoud be greatly obliged to any officer of the Army


[Page 459]
July 10, 1776 427 He must fit her in a very compleat manner 8c must have plenty of these kind of Stores. He is also to procure as many Seamen as he possibly can to come with him in this Brigt. in which we also pray for your assistance 8c that you will furnish with money to pay ad vance wages for Provisions and a New Suit of Sails all which we hope he will soon get Compleated with your assistance. When you have paid all charges 8c Expences relative to this Vessell, whatever ballance remains from the Sale of her Cargo you’l please to Invest in the purchase of some Brass Field Pieces, Six 8c four pounder, 8c if you can procure them, good Soldiers muskets, Gun Locks, Powder or Salt Petre, or if you cannot ship such articles, you may then In vest the said Ballance in Blankets and other Woolen Goods suitable for wear in a Cold Climate and whatever you buy, ship onboard the said Brigt. Dispatch for address of the Committee of Secret Cor respondence on Account 8c Risque of the United States of America and enclose to them an Invoice 8c bill of Loading for the same. It is necessary that Capt. Parker make dispatch in fitting the Brigt. and getting her ready for Sea 8c that you also compleat your business for her soon as you can but she is not to Sail untill Mr. Deane sends his dispatches for those are the most immediate object of the present Voyage. Therefore if Mr. Deane is not at Bourdeaux you will please to keep him well informed when the Brigt. will be ready to return 8: the Moment his dispatches come to your hands deliver them to Capt Parker with an injunction to Sail immediately for this Coast agre- able to his orders. Shou’d Mr. Deane be in Bourdeaux Capt. Parker must be directed by him entirely in all his proceedings and if Mr. Deane desires any Goods to be Shipped onboard the Dispatch they must be received onboard. In short the Captain is ordered to re ceive onboard all Goods you recommend. Therefore you’l please to Ship any you may have or that Mr Deane may order 8c inform Mr John Dani Schweighauser of Nantes that he may Ship any he has for Account of this Continent. We hope you will assist in making it known that great Wages 8c encouragement are given to Seamen in America 8c the Seamen of every Country will be alike Welcome. We shall have frequent opportunitys of addressing you 8c remain, Gentn, Your obedt Servants FC (DNA: PCC, item 37). In the hand of Robert Morris. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Peter Parker Sir Philada. July 10th 1776 The Brigt Dispatch of which you are hereby appointed Com-


[Page 472]
440 July 12, 1776 cattle: but so may the Southern farmer working ten slaves. That a state of 100,000 freemen can maintain no more cattle than one of 100,000 slaves. Therefore they have no more of that kind of property. That a slave may indeed from the custom of speech be more properly called the wealth of his master, than the free labourer might be called the wealth of his employer: but as to the state both were equally it’s wealth, and should therefore equally add to the quota of it’s tax. Mr. Harrison proposed a compromise, that two slaves should be counted as one freeman. He affirmed that slaves did not do so much work as freemen, and doubted if two effected more than one. that this was proved by the price of labor, the hire of a labourer in the Southern colonies being from 8 to £12, while in the Northern it was generally £24. Mr. Wilson said that if this amendment should take place the Southern colonies would have all the benefit of slaves, whilst the Northern ones would bear the burthen. That slaves increase the profits of a state, which the Southern states mean to take to them selves; that they also increase the burthen of defence, which would of course fall so much the heavier on the Northern. That slaves occupy the places of freemen and eat their food. Dismiss your slaves & freemen will take their places. It is our duty to lay every discour agement on the importation of slaves; but this amendment would give the jus trium liberorum to him who would import slaves. That other kinds of property were pretty equally distributed thro’ all the colonies: there were as many cattle, horses, & sheep in the North as the South, Sc South as the North: but not so as to slaves. That ex perience has shewn that those colonies have been alwais able to pay most which have the most {males) inhabitants, whether they be black or white. And the practice of the Southern colonies has alwais been to make every farmer pay poll taxes upon all his labourers whether they be black or white. He acknoleges indeed that freemen work the most; but they consume the most also. They do not produce a greater surplus for taxation. The slave is neither fed nor clothed so ex pensively as a freeman. Again white women are exempted from labour generally, which negro women are not. In this then the Southern states have an advantage as the article now stands. It has sometimes been said that slavery is necessary because the commodities they raise would be too dear for market if cultivated by freemen; but now it is said that the labor of the slave is the dearest. Mr. Payne urged the original resolution of Congress, to proportion the quotas of the states to the number of souls. Dr. Witherspoon was of opinion that the value of lands & houses was the best estimate of the wealth of a nation, and that it was practicable to obtain such a valuation. This is the true barometer of wealth. The one now proposed is imperfect in itself, and unequal


[Page 473]
July 12, 1776 441 between the states. It has been objected that negroes eat the food of freemen & therefore should be taxed. Horses also eat the food of freemen; therefore they also should be taxed. It has been said too that in carrying slaves into the estimate of the taxes the state is to pay, we do no more than those states themselves do, who alwais take slaves into the estimate of the taxes the individual is to pay. But the cases are not parallel. In the Southern colonies slaves pervade the whole colony; but they do not pervade the whole continent. That as to the original resolution of Congress to proportion the quotas according to the souls, it was temporary only, & related to the monies heretofore emitted: whereas we are now entering into a new compact and therefore stand on original ground. Aug. 1. The question being put the amendment proposed was rejected by the votes of N. Hampshire, Massachusets, Rhode Island, Connecticut, N. York, N. Jersey, & Pennsylvania, against those of Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North & South Carolina. Georgia was divided. The other article was in these words. ‘Art. XVII. In determining questions each colony shall have one vote.’ July 30. 31. Aug. 1. Present 41 members. Mr. Chase observed that this article was the most likely to divide us of any one proposed in the draught then under consideration. That the larger colonies had threatened they would not confederate at all if their weight in congress should not be equal to the numbers of people they added to the confederacy; while the smaller ones declared against an union if they did not retain an equal vote for the protection of their rights. That it was of the utmost consequence to bring the parties together, as should we sever from each other, either no foreign power will ally with us at all, or the different states will form different alliances, and thus increase the horrors of those scenes of civil war and blood shed which in such a state of separation & independance would render us a miserable people. That our importance, our interests, our peace required that we should confederate, and that mutual sacrifices should be made to effect a compromise of this difficult question. He was of opinion the smaller colonies would lose their rights, if they were not in some instances allowed an equal vote; and therefore that a discrimination should take place among the questions which would come before Congress. (He therefore pro posed} that the smaller states should be secured in all questions con cerning life or liberty 8c the greater ones in all respecting property. He therefore proposed that in votes relating to money, the voice of each colony should be proportioned to the number of it’s inhabitants. Dr. Franklin 3 (seconded the proposition) thought that the votes should be so proportioned in all cases. He took notice that the Delaware counties had bound up their Delegates to disagree to this article. He thought it a very extraordinary language to be held by


[Page 474]
442 July 12, 1776 any state, that they would not confederate with us unless we would let them dispose of our money. Certainly if we vote equally we ought to pay equally: but the smaller states will hardly purchase the privilege at this price. That had he lived in a state where the repre sentation, originally equal, had become unequal by time & accident he might have submitted rather than disturb government: but that we should be very wrong to set out in this practice when it is in our power to establish what is right. That at the time of the Union between England and Scotland the latter had made the objection which the smaller states now do. But experience had proved that no unfairness had ever been shewn them. That their advocates had prognosticated that it would again happen as in times of old that the whale would swallow Jonas, but he thought the prediction re versed in event and that Jonas had swallowed the whale, for the Scotch had in fact got possession of the government and gave laws to the English. He reprobated the original agreement of Congress to vote by colonies, and therefore was for their voting in all cases according to the number of taxables {so far going beyond Mr. Chase’s proposition). Dr. Witherspoon opposed every alteration of the article. All men admit that a confederacy is necessary. Should the idea get abroad that there is likely to be no union among us, it will damp the minds of the people, diminish the glory of our struggle, 8c lessen it’s im portance, because it will open to our view future prospects of war 8c dissension among ourselves. If an equal vote be refused, the smaller states will become vassals to the larger; 8c all experience has shewn that the vassals 8c subjects of free states are the most enslaved. He instanced the Helots of Sparta 8c the provinces of Rome. He observed that foreign powers discovering this blemish would make it a handle for disengaging the smaller states from so unequal a confederacy. That the colonies should in fact be considered as individuals; and that as such in all disputes they should have an equal vote. That they are now collected as individuals making a bargain with each other, 8c of course had a right to vote as individuals. That in the East India company they voted by persons, 8c not by their proportion of stock. That the Belgic confederacy voted by provinces. That in ques tions of war the smaller states were as much interested as the larger, 8c therefore should vote equally; and indeed that the larger states were more likely to bring war on the confederacy, in proportion as their frontier was more extensive. He admitted that equality of repre sentation was an excellent principle, but then it must be of things which are co-ordinate; that is, of things similar 8c of the same na ture: that nothing relating to individuals could ever come before Congress; nothing but what would respect colonies. He distinguished between an incorporating 8c a federal union. The union of England was an incorporating one; yet Scotland had suffered by that union:


[Page 475]
July 12, 1776 443 for that it’s inhabitants were drawn from it by the hopes of places & employments. Nor was it an instance of equality of representation; because while Scotland was allowed nearly a thirteenth of represen tation, they were to pay only one fortieth of the land tax. He ex pressed his hopes that in the present enlightened state of men’s minds we might expect a lasting confederacy, if it was founded on fair principles. John Adams advocated the voting in proportion to numbers. He said that we stand here as the representatives of the people. That in some states the people are many, in others they are few; that there fore their vote here should be proportioned to the numbers from whom it comes. Reason, justice, & equity never had weight enough on the face of the earth to govern the councils of men. It is interest alone which does it, and it is interest alone which can be trusted. That therefore the interests within doors should be the mathemat ical representatives of the interests without doors. That the individuality of the colonies is a mere sound. Does the individuality of a colony increase it’s wealth or numbers? If it does; pay equally. If it does not add weight in the scale of the confederacy, it cannot add to their rights, nor weight in arguments. A. has £50. B. £500. C. £1000 in partnership. Is it just they should equally dispose of the monies of the partnership? It has been said we are independant individuals making a bargain together. The question is not what we are now, but what we ought to be when our bargain shall be made. The confederacy is to make us one individual only; it is to form us, like separate parcels of metal, into one common mass. We shall no longer retain our separate individuality, but become a single indi vidual as to all questions submitted to the Confederacy. Therefore all those reasons which prove the justice & expediency of equal representation in other assemblies, hold good here. It has been objected that a proportional vote will endanger the smaller states. We answer that an equal vote will endanger the larger. Virginia, Pennsylvania, 8c Massachusets are the three greater colonies. Consider their distance, their difference of produce, of interests, 8c of manners, 8c it is apparent they can never have an interest or inclination to combine for the oppression of the smaller. That the smaller will naturally divide on all questions with the larger. Rhode Isld. from it’s relation, similarity 8c intercourse will generally pursue the same objects with Massachusets; Jersey, Delaware 8c Maryland with Pennsylvania. Dr. Rush 4 took notice that the decay of the liberties of the Dutch republic proceeded from three causes. 1. The perfect unanimity requisite on all occasions. 2. Their obligation to consult their con stituents. 3. Their voting by provinces. This last destroyed the equal ity of representation, and the liberties of Great Britain also are sinking from the same defect. That a part of our rights is deposited in the hands of our legislatures. There it was admitted there should


[Page 476]
444 July 12, 1776 be an equality of representation. Another part of our rights is deposited in the hands of Congress: why is it not equally necessary there should be an equal representation there? Were it possible to collect the whole body of the people together, they would deter mine the questions submitted to them by their majority. Why should not the same majority decide when voting here by their representa tives? The larger colonies are so providentially divided in situa tion as to render every fear of their combining visionary. Their interests are different, & their circumstances dissimilar. It is more probable they will become rivals & leave it in the power of the smaller states to give preponderance to any scale they please. The voting by the number of free inhabitants will have one excellent effect, that of inducing the colonies to discourage slavery & to en courage the increase of their free inhabitants. Mr. Hopkins observed there were 4 larger, 4 smaller 8c 4 mid dlesized colonies. That the 4 largest would contain more than half the inhabitants of the Confederating states, 8c therefore would gov ern the others as they should please. That history affords no instance of such a thing as equal representation. The Germanic body votes by states. The Helvetic body does the same; 8c so does the Belgic confederacy. That too little is known of the antient confederations to say what was their practice. Mr. Wilson thought that taxation should be in proportion to wealth, but the representation should accord with the number of freemen. That government is a collection or result of the wills of all. That if any government could speak the will of all it would be perfect; and that so far as it departs from this it becomes imperfect. It has been said that Congress is a representation of states; not of individuals. I say that the objects of it’s care are all the individuals of the states. It is strange that annexing the name of ‘State’ to ten thousand men, should give them an equal right with forty thousand. This must be the effect of magic, not of reason. As to those matters which are referred to Congress, we are not so many states; we are one large state. We lay aside our individuality whenever we come here. The Germanic body is a burlesque on government: and their practice on any point is a sufficient authority 8c proof that it is wrong. The greatest imperfection in the constitution of the Belgic confederacy is their voting by provinces. The interest of the whole is constantly sacrificed to that of the small states. The history of the war in the reign of Q. Anne sufficiently proves this. It is asked Shall nine colonies put it into the power of four to govern them as they please? I invert the question and ask Shall two millions of people put it in the power of one million to govern them as they please? It is pretended too that the smaller colonies will be in danger from the greater. Speak in honest language 8c say the minority will be in danger from the majority. And is there an assembly on earth where this


[Page 477]
July 12, 1776 445 danger may not be equally pretended? The truth is that our pro ceedings will then be consentaneous with the interests of the majority, and so they ought to be. The probability is much greater that the larger states will disagree than that they will combine. I defy the wit of man to invent a possible case or to suggest any one thing on earth which shall be for the interests of Virginia, Pennsylvania & Massa- chusets, and which will not also be for the interest of the other states. MS (DLC). In the hand of Thomas Jefferson. A continuation of Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 1-4, 1776. 1 For analysis of the notes printed in this entry, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:327-29. 2 For additional information on this debate, see John Adams’ Notes of Debate, July 30, 1776. 3 See also John Adams’ Notes of Debate, August 1, 1776. ‘See Benjamin Rush’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, August 1, 1776. Marine Committee to John Ashmead Sir Philada. July 12th 1776 The Marine Committee having considered how necessary your attendance is in the Yard taking care of the Materials, and the Frigate of which you are Clerk, think proper to request that you will not go on the proposed expedition to the Jerseys, but that you remain to do your very necessary business. 1 You May shew this to your commanding officer to whom, it is hoped, it will prove a satisfactory reason for your stay. We are sir, Your hble servts. Robt Morris Geo. Read Button Gwinnett Arthur Middleton Fras Lewis RC (CCamarSJ). In the hand of Timothy Matlack and signed by Gwinnett, Lewis, Middleton, Morris, and Read. Endorsed—“Agreed in Congress”—and signed by John Hancock. 1 Ashmead, clerk of the frigate Randolph, was a member of a company of Quaker Light Infantry which was on its way to New Jersey to join the flying camp. Clark, Naval Documents, 5:1046n.3. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings July 12.[1776] A Contract was enterd into with Button Guinet [Gwinnett], of the province of Georgia, & an order in his favor was drawn on the Treasurers for 20,000 Dlls, to be by him laid out in the produce of


[Page 483]
July 14, 1776 451 Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton My Dear friend, Eliza. Town July 14th. 1776. I have not had the Pleasure of a Letter from you a long Time. Yours of the 6th July to Mrs. Dayton I saw yesterday. I frequently write, but fear you do not receive them. Soon after my going to Congress at Phila. we had news of Genl. Howes Arrival at Sandy Hook, and a few days after of his Landing on Staten Island, and Surrounding it with his forces. From your feeling for your Town & family when you first reed, this News, you can form some Judgment of mine tho’ I was much nearer to them. I expected nothing less from this event, than Eliza. Town long Ob noxious to the Enemy, would be laid in Ashes, and indeed, had they come over they would have met with no Opposition as our Militia a few days before had Marched to New York by request of the Genl. Few escaped from the Island, our friend Joshua Mersereau just escaped them, and Sami. Dehart they took at the ferry, and Obliged him to bring his family back from Eliza. Town where he had sent them before. It is said they treat the people of the Island with great kindness & tenderness. I continued at Phila. till Thursday last when I returned homeward, We having first Obtained of Congress all the Assistance they could afford for our Province. Near half the Militia of Pennsyla. Chearfully offered to March to the Aid of this Province and indeed, their Ardour was such Congress was Obliged to stop part of the Militia of Phila. or the City would have been left wholly defenseless. Part of the Pennsylvanians are at Amboy, and Many on the road this way. More than 10,000 of them it is expected will in a few days be here, and are to stay till a flying Camp of 10,000 men, now raising in Pennsyla., Maryland & Delaware Counties, take their place. I was yesterday at the Point, and could see near one hundred of the Enemy Parading at Posts. They have taken up the draw bridge to keep our people from Attacking them, and keep a guard there behind a breast work made with the Planks of the bridge. We have a breast work up the road near where Israel Arnet formerly lived, extending across the road into the fields. Works is erected from the Mouth of the Creek before the Point house to the East Corner of the garden, two other works are erected &: erecting further Eastward. There is at the Point two of our Province field pieces with part of the Artillery Company, and also the Cannon taken in the Prize Ship. Two of our field pieces with 1/3 of the Artillery Company is at New Blazeing Star, with a part of the Enemy in sight across the Sound, two others of the field pieces at Newark with 1/3 of the Company to keep of[f] their fears, the only enemy in Sight. The Artillery Company from West Jersey is Stationed at Amboy with only two pieces, being all that Company had. Altho’


[Page 484]
452 July 14, 1776 the Enemy is in Sight at every pass to and from the Island, it is with great difficulty the Militia can be prevailed upon to stray from their farms at this busy season. It is a matter of great Surprize that the forces on the Island are Suffered to remain in quiet, where they are daily receiving Tory recruits, and An Army of near 20,000 from England is Expected hourly to Arrive to join them; and those on the Island, from the best Accounts Amount to About 10,000. A Vessel came up in the Narrows on Friday last Supposed to have Lord Howe on board from the Salute reed, from all the Shiping. If he hath arrived his Army is not far behind, which when Arrived with those on the Island will become formidable. The forces on the Island are dispersed in parties all round it, and I think might easily be dealt with. Capt McLeod said yesterday Our Generals deserved to be Damned if they did not Attack them on the Island before the reinforcements Arrived. On Friday two Men of War & some Tend ers run up the North River as far as Kings Bridge and perhaps further as they went out of Sight Notwithstanding a fire from all our works; they reed, several Shot it is said into their Hulls, and had their rigging damaged. Our Affairs to the Northward wear a bad Aspect; I am Surprized at our forces leaving Island Aux Noix as from the best intelligence reed they might easily have kept the Enemy out of the Lake, by keeping that Post, and it is said from good Authority that 3,000 could keep it against 30,000. The reasons for this Assertion are conclusive, but too long to give here. In your Letter to Mrs. Dayton you desire Elias may be sent to you, but seem to leave the matter with Mrs. Dayton. You cannot think she would willingly consent to it, and at this Time under present Circumstances, I believe you would not desire it. She Asked my Advice, and I gave it for his not going much against Elias’s in clination. The Navigation of Hudsons River now Stoped, and a passage to you almost impossible for him, at best very impracticable. Mrs. Dayton hath removed part of your goods to Springfield, and herself and Children ready to follow as danger Approaches. She is in good Spirits, thinks she can flee faster than they can pursue. As to the Plot in New York, I can inform you but little. The Mayor is Confined, One Forbes Appears to have been very Active in it, and all Centres in Governor Tryon, many have Absconded from New York; none in New Jersey are impeached, at least nothing proved Against them. Govr. Franklin is sent Prisoner to Harford in Connecticut. The Amboy Gentry are upon their parole at Trenton. Jouet at the Arrival of the Army run of[f] and hid himself at Schoolys Mountain but at request of his friends purposes to return. Mr. Chetwood put of[f] with his wife some where back, and is now it is thought, near his end by a fever Occasioned they say by the


[Page 485]
July 14, 1776 453 fright; he refuses to Doctor, and his wife in a state of deep Melan choly scarcely Speaking in a day. Our Declaration of Independance I dare say you have seen. A few weeks will probably determine our fate. Perfect freedom, or Abso lute Slavery. To some of us freedom or a halter. Our fates are in the hands of An Almighty God, to whom I can with pleasure confide my own; he can save us, or destroy us; his Councils are fixed and cannot be disappointed, and all his designs will be Accomplished. My most cordial respects to my Friend Mr Caldwell, to whom I mean to address all my Letters on public affairs in Conjunction with your self as it is useless to tell you both the same Story in dif ferent Letters. Your families are well. I have nothing further Neces sary to communicate, but that I am, most Affectionately yours, Abra. Clark RC (NN). Addressed: “To Elias Dayton Esquire, Colonel of a battalion of Jersey Troops, at the German Flatts.” John Hancock to Hugh Mercer Sir, Philada. July 14th. 1776. The Congress having been informed by Genl. Washington, that he had given the Command of the Flying Camp and Militia in New Jersey to you, and for that Purpose you was stationed in the Jerseys, 1 I have it in Charge from Congress to empower and direct you to march such of the Militia and Flying Camp to Brunswick, or other Places in the Jerseys, as you may, on all Occasions, judge nec essary and most conducive to the public Service;’ provided it does not interfere with any prior Direction from Genl. Washington. Four Tons of Powder were sent off to you, a few Days ago; and a large Parcel of Cartridges well balled, will be this Day forwarded to you for the Use of the Troops under your Command. Colonel Biddle, the Quarter Master Genl, has Orders to furnish all Neces saries. He will wait on you, and follow such Directions, as you may judge necessary to give him. You will please to give me the earliest Intelligence of every Oc currence by Express, that it may be laid before Congress. I most heartily wish Success to your Arms, & have the Honour to be, with much Esteem, Sir, your very hble Servt. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 5:558; and Hancock to Washington, July 13, 1776, note 4. Hugh Mercer (c. 1725-77), a Scottish Jacobite trained as a physician at the University of Aberdeen, came to Pennsylvania around 1747. After becoming acquainted with


[Page 488]
456 July 14, 1776 sake. Banish your fears, all may be right. A few Weeks will discover much, I hope in our favour. God preserve you and our little ones and believe me yours most Affectionately, Geo. Read [P.S.] I expect Mr. Rogers of Maryland will carry this; if you See him treat him as my old acquaintance. I am told the 2d Frigate was launched today. Tom & Jas. Read send their love to you. RC (DeHi). 1 Although Read clearly wrote "14th May 1776” the contents of the letter indi cate that it was written on July 14. Read’s references below to the passage of two British ships up the Hudson River, the arrival of Lord Howe at the Narrows, and the launching of the frigate Delaware are to events that took place on July 12 and 13, 1776. 2 This unusual Sunday session of Congress was called on the receipt of Washing ton’s July 12 letter to Hancock. JCC, 5:558; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:264-65. ’George Ross. ‘ See also Robert Treat Paine’s Diary, July 13, 1776, note 2. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 15. 1776 My very deserving Friend, Mr. Gerry, setts off, tomorrow, for Boston, worn out of Health, by the Fatigues of this station. He is an excellent Man, and an active able statesman. I hope he will soon return hither. I am sure I should be glad to go with him, but I can not. I must write to have the Guard relieved. There is a most amiable, lawdable, and gallant Spirit prevailing, in these middle Colonies. The Militia turn out in great Numbers and in high Spirits, in New Jersey, Pensilvania, Maryland, and Delaware, so that We hope to resist Howe and his Mirimidons. Independence is at last unanimously agreed to in the New York Convention. You will see by the Newspapers inclosed what is going forward in Virginia, and Maryland and New Jersey. Farewell! fare well, infatuated, besotted Stepdame. I have not Time to add, more than that I receive Letters from you but seldom of late. Tomorrows Post I hope will bring me some. So I hoped of last Saturdays and last Tuesdays. Ever yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:49-50.


[Page 494]
462 July 15, 1776 tion from you. All the other enclosed Resolves, I have likewise given Orders to the proper Persons to have executed. I expect your several Letters, which are now before Congress, will receive a speedy Determination; and that I shall have the Pleasure of forwarding the Result on Tuesday, or Wednesday, at farthest. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'For these resolves, see JCC, 5:558-59. Hancock also wrote a letter this day to William Shippen, Jr., informing him of his appointment by Congress as “Surgeon General & Director of the Hospital for the Flying Camp & Militia in New Jersey, with the pay of Four Dollars a Day.” PCC, item 12A; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:346; and JCC, 5:562. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia, July 15th, 1776. Yours of the 3d inst. came to hand to-day. 1 I wish I could be bet ter satisfied on the point of Patty’s recovery. I had not heard from her at all for two posts before, and no letter from herself now. I wish it were in my power to return by way of the Forest, as you think it will be impracticable for Mrs. Eppes to travel to the moun tains. However, it will be late in August before I can get home, and our Convention will call me down early in October. Till that time, therefore, I must defer the hope of seeing Mrs. Eppes and yourself. Admiral Howe is himself arrived at New York, and two or three vessels, supposed to be of his fleet, were coming in. The whole is expected daily. Washington’s numbers are greatly increased, but we do not know them exactly. I imagine he must have from 30 to 35,000 by this time. The enemy the other day ordered two of their men-of-war to hoist anchor and push by our batteries up the Hudson River. Both wind and tide were very fair. They passed all the batteries with ease, and, as far as is known, without receiving material damage; though there was an incessant fire kept up on them. This experi ment of theirs, I suppose, is a prelude to the passage of their whole fleet, and seems to indicate an intention of landing above New York. I imagine General Washington, finding he cannot prevent their go ing up the river, will prepare to amuse them wherever they shall go. Our army from Canada is now at Crown Point, but still one half down with the smallpox. You ask about Arnold’s behavior at the Cedars. It was this. The scoundrel, Major Butterfield, having sur rendered three hundred and ninety men, in a fort with twenty or


[Page 495]
July 15, 1776 463 thirty days’ provision, and ammunition enough, to about forty regu lars, one hundred Canadians, and five hundred Indians, before he had lost a single man—and Maj. Sherburne, who was coming to the relief of the fort with one hundred men, having, after bravely en gaging the enemy an hour and forty minutes, killing twenty of them and losing twelve of his own, been surrounded by them, and taken prisoners also—Gen. Arnold appeared on the opposite side of the river and prepared to attack them. His numbers I know not, but believe they were about equal to the enemy. Capt. Foster, com mander of the king’s troops, sent over a flag to him, proposing an exchange of prisoners for as many of the king’s in our posses sion, and moreover, informed Arnold that if he should attack, the Indians would put every man of the prisoners to death. Arnold refused, called a council of war, and, it being now in the night, it was determined to attack next morning. A second flag came over; he again refused, though in an excruciating situation, as he saw the enemy were in earnest about killing the prisoners. His men, too, began to be importunate for the recovery of their fellow soldiers. A third flag came, the men grew more clamorous, and Arnold, now almost raving with rage and compassion, was obliged to consent to the exchange and six days suspension of hostilities, Foster declaring he had not boats to deliver them in less time. How ever, he did deliver them so much sooner as that before the six days were expired, himself and party had fled out of all reach. Arnold then retired to Montreal. You have long before this heard of Gen. Thompson’s defeat. The truth of that matter has never appeared till lately. You will see it in the public papers. No men on earth ever behaved better than ours did. The enemy behaved dastardly. Col. Allen (who was in the engagement) assured me this day, that such was the situation of our men, half way up to the thighs in mud for several hours, that five hundred men of spirit must have taken the whole; yet the enemy were repulsed several times, and our people had time to extricate themselves and come off. It is believed the enemy suffered considerably. The above account of Arnold’s affair you may rely on, as I was one of a committee appointed to inquire into the whole of that matter, and have it from those who were in the whole transaction, and were taken prisoners. 2 My sincere affections to Mrs. Eppes, and adieu, Th. Jefferson MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:458-60. 'For Eppes’ letter of July 3, 1776, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 15:576. “Jefferson had been appointed to a committee to consider the prisoner cartel between General Arnold and Capt. George Forster. For Jefferson’s notes on Maj. Henry Sherburne’s testimony about the Cedars affair and the committee’s June 17 report, see ibid., 1:396-404. For the committee’s -'.-vised report and resolutions approved on July 10, see JCC, 5:534-39.


[Page 498]
466 July 16, 1776 Post—don’t miss one for any Cause whatever. My dearest Love to you all. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:50-51. ' 1 Isaac Smith’s letter of July 8 to Adams is in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:41^42. For Mason’s letter, see John Adams to Jonathan Mason, Jr., July 18, 1776, note 1. 2 Suspension points in MS, here and below. ’Adams enclosed the following letter which he had received from John Hancock this day. “On a Visit to Mrs. Yard this Eveng. I was inform’d by her that your Lady & Children propos’d to go into Boston, with an intention of Taking the Small Pox by Inoculation, and as the Season is warm, & the present process of Treating that Disorder, requires all the air that can possibly be had, & as any Scituation in Boston is as much Bless’d with a free air as most other, I make a Tender of my house & Garden for their use if you Choose to improve it, & by a Signification of your Consent I will write by this Express to that purport. The fruit in the Garden shall be at their Controal, & a maid Servt. & the others in the House shall afford them every Convenience that appertains to the House. It will give me pleasure to be any way instrumental, however small, in adding to their Convenience.” Ibid., p. 51. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Friend Philad. July 16, 76 There is no Necessity of my troubling you with a long Epistle at present, for my very worthy Friend and Colleague 1 who kindly takes the Charge of this will fully inform you of the State of Affairs here. He will tell you some things which I have often wishd to communi cate to you, but have not thought it prudent to commit to Writing. Our Declaration of Independance has already been attended with good Effects. It is fortunate beyond our Expectation to have the Voice of every Colony in favor of so important a Question. I inclose you the Form of a Constitution which the Convention of Virginia have agreed upon for that Colony. It came to my hand yesterday by the Post, and I spare it to you, although I have not had time to peruse it. I suppose there are other Copies in Town. Adieu. FC (NN). 1 Elbridge Gerry. John Alsop to the New York Provincial Congress Hble. Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 16th July, 1776. Yesterday our President read in Congress a resolve of your Honble. Body, dated 9th instant, in which you declare New-York a free and


[Page 499]
July 16, 1776 467 John Alsop


[Page 500]
468 July 16, 1776 independent State. I can’t help saying that I was much surprized to find it come through that channel. The usual method, hitherto practised, has been for the Convention of each Colony to give their Delegates instructions to act and vote upon all and any important question. And from the last letter we were favoured with from your body, you told us that you was not competent or authorized to give us instructions on that grand question, nor have you been pleased to answer our letter of the 2d instant, any otherwise than by your said resolve, transmitted to the President. I think we were entitled to an answer. I am compelled, therefore, to declare that it is against my judg ment and inclination. As long as a door was left open for a re conciliation with Great Britain, upon honourable and just terms, I was willing and ready to render my country all the service in my power, and for which purpose I was appointed and sent to this Congress; but as you have, I presume, by that declaration closed the door of reconciliation, I must beg leave to resign my seat as a Delegate from New-York, and that I may be favoured with an answer and my dismission. 1 I have the honour to be, With esteem, gentlemen, Your most obdt. hble, servt. John Alsop Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:536. 1 The New York Convention read Alsop’s letter on July 22 and promptly re solved “That the Convention do cheerfully accept of Mr. Alsop’s resignation of his seat in the Continental Congress, and that Mr. Alsop be furnished with a copy of this resolution.’’ Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1428-29. See also JCC, 5:560; New York Convention to the New York Delegates, July 22, 1776, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1430-31; and Rick J. Ashton, “The Loyalist Congressmen of New York,” New- York Historical Society Quarterly 60 (1976): 102-6. John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Philada. July 16th. 1776. Since I had the Honour of addressing you on the fourth of June, at which Time I transmitted sundry Resolves of Congress, requesting you to call forth your Militia, our Affairs have assumed a much more serious Complexion. If we turn our Attention towards the Northern Department, we behold an Army reduced by Sickness, and obliged to flee before an Enemy of vastly superior Force. If we cast our Eyes to Head Quarters, we see the British Army reinforced under Lord Howe, and ready to strike a Blow, which may be attended with the most fatal Consequences, if not timely resisted. The Situation of our Country at this Season, calls therefore for all the Vigour & Wisdom among us; and if we do not mean to desert her at this alarming


[Page 504]
472 July 16, 1776 house certainly till the last of Octr. & a chance for the winter. Our best Love to Chantilly & Stratford, & Respects to all friends in Westmoreland. 1 Yr. Afft. Bror. & friend, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (NN). 1 Francis Lightfoot Lee also wrote a letter to Landon Carter this day in which he commented: “It gives me concern to hear that some of your Negroes have joined the Arch Devil, and my friend Mr. Carter’s favoriie servant too! But Slavery plants a Vice where a Virtue might be expected. Your government I find is at length compleated. God send it may procure internal peace and happiness to the Country." George D. Smith Autograph Letters (New York: 898 items, n.d.), item 450. Thomas Nelson to John Page Dear Page Philada July 16th 1776 I was disappointed in not receiving a line from you by yesterdays post, but I suppose your hurry of business in your new department, prevented you taking notice of me. 1 We expected to have heard something from New York yesterday, but I fear the Enemy have taken such possession of the River as to prevent any intelligence being convey’d to us. Two of the Ships of War & two Tenders pass’d our Forts on the North River in defiance of our Batteries. This we imagin’d was done as an experiment. Whether any others of them, or any Transports have follow’d we are not inform’d, not having heard from the General since the 12 Instant at night &: then the express cross’d under a strong escort. 2 It is thought that they design to surround our Army & pen them up in the City of N. York, but the General no doubt is aware of this, & will counter plot them, for should such a thing happen, there must be a surrender on our side in a few Months, as they would cut off all supplies. Our Men are in high spirits & wish ardently for an attack that they distinguish themselves from Men fighting for the hire of 4d per day. I do not think you will have any thing to apprehend in Virginia this Campaign, but from Dunmore & him you may prevent doing any thing except in the predatory way. Could you not then spare a few thousand Militia to come hither to augment the flying Camp that is to be establishd between this Colony & Maryland? They would be of infinite service. I have enclos’d several of Dr Price’s excellent Pamplets 3 to you which you will dispose of as they are directed & oblige, Your sincere friend & hbe Sert, Thos Nelson Jr RC (PHi). 1 The Virginia Convention had elected John Page to the governor’s council on June 29. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1600.


[Page 509]
July 17, 1776 477 petty officers and men. Provisions I wrote you about last post. I agree with you that these matters have not been properly attended to, but I by no means take any part of the charge of neglect to myself for no poor devil ever begged for alms with more earnestness than I have to get these matters settled and am still determined if possible to have every thing complete before I leave this. Two of the ships were launched here last week viz: the Randolph and Dela ware, but when they will get to sea is uncertain as they have no anchors yet. Independence was proclaimed in the army at New York last Wednesday when the leaden King in the Bowling Green was dis mounted and is by this time cast into bullets for the destruction of his tools of Tyranny. May every one of them be properly com missioned. We are daily in expectation of some grand military opera tions at New York. The Militia are all marching from this Colony. The associates are mostly gone from this City, Cols Dickenson, Cad- wallader &c at the head of their regts. No doubt in a very few days 20,000 men if not more will be embodied at New Jersey besides the army at York. This declaration has had a glorious effect—has made these Colonies all alive—all the Colonies forming governments as you’ll see by the papers. I expect there will be some interruption in the communication but hope it won’t last long. In very great haste, yours, Wm Whipple [P.S.] Please to send the enclosed paper to the North end. I have sent the play you mention to Mr Brackett. 3 Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s luly 1 letter to Whipple is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:846-47. 2 Not found. 3 Langdon had asked for "the Pamphlet called the fall of British Tyranny a play.” Ibid., p. 847. John Adams to Joseph Ward Sir Philadelphia Wednesday July 17. 1776 Yesterdays Post brought me your Letter of the 8th inst. with several others containing Intelligence of a Nature very interesting to me. 1 The Prevalence of the Small Pox in Boston is an incident, which I can not but esteem fortunate for the public, altho the Stake I have in it, having all my nearest Connections among the earliest ad venturers makes me feel an Anxiety too private and particular, for the situation I am in. 2 The Small Pox is really the most formidable Enemy We have to contend with, in the whole Train—and I cannot but rejoice at the


[Page 510]
478 July 17, 1776 Resolution of my Countrymen to Subdue this Enemy first. It is a great Satisfaction to see that no Dangers dismay, no Difficulties dis courage, the good People of America. You ask when will America take Rank as a Nation? This Ques tion was answered before it was put, but it Seems the answer had not reached Boston. Before now you are satisfied I hope. What would you have next? Your Troops are all ordered to N. York and Crown Point. The small Pox will Stop all who have taken it, at least for some time. We have not a sufficient Number of Men at New York. I hope our Militia will go. It is a great Grief to me to find by the Returns, that no Massachusetts Militia are yet arrived at New York. I almost wish the Council would order the Regiments from Worcester, Hamp shire and Berkshire to march thither. Rank is not always proportional to Merit, and Promotion seldom keeps Pace with services. The Promotions you mention, are I hope worthy Men: but their Merits and services might perhaps have been sufficiently rewarded with fewer Steps of advancement—or there may be others, who have equally deserved. All that I can Say is that Time and Chance happens to all Men and therefore I hope yours will come sometime or other. Mine I am pretty sure never will. If you come to New York, which I hope you will, you may perhaps have a better Chance. Our Privateers have the most Skill or the most Bravery, or the best Fortune, of any in America. I hope Captn. Johnson was in a private ship. I dont like to hear that the continental Cruizers have taken so many and the Provincial Cruizers and privateers so few Prizes. Our People may as well fight for themselves as the Continent. LB (MHi). ‘An extract of Ward’s luly 8 letter to Adams, which is in the Adams Papers, MHi, is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:969. “Adams also wrote a brief letter this day to his uncle Isaac Smith, Sr., commu nicating concern over his family’s health and the spread of smallpox in Massa chusetts. See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:52. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada July 17 1776 By this Express the General Assembly will receive the most earnest Recommendation of Congress to raise Sc send with all possible Speed the 2000 Men requested of them for New York above a Month ago. 1 There never was a more pressing Necessity for their Exertions than at present. Our Army in N Y consists of not more than half the number of those which we have reason to expect will in a very short


[Page 511]
July 17, 1776 479 Time be ready to attack them. And to this let me add that when we consider how many disaffected Men there are in that Colony, it is but little better than an Enemies Country. I am sensible this is a busy Season of the year, but I beg of you to prevail on the People to lay aside every private Concern and devote themselves to the Service of their Country. If we can gain the Advantage of the Enemy this Campaign we may promise ourselves Success against every Effort they will be able to make hereafter, But I need not multiply words. I am sure your Mind is fully impressd with the Importance of this Measure. Adieu my Friend. The Express waits. S A FC (NN). 1 See John Hancock to Certain States, July 16, 1776. For the response of the Massachusetts Council to this appeal, which reported that the state was raising 1,500 more men for the northern department, see Richard Derby to John Hancock, July 23, 1776, in PCC, item 65, 1:97; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:550. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Convention Gentlemen, Philada. July 17th. 1776. The Congress, Previous to the Meeting of the Convention of the State of Pennsylvania, having received Information of such a Nature as induced them to appoint a Committee who are under an Injunc tion of Secrecy to make the necessary Enquiry; but as this State is mostly interested in the Subject of the Enquiry, Congress have thought proper that the Matter should be made known to a Com mittee of your Body. I have it therefore in Charge to request that you will be pleased to appoint a Comee. from your Convention to be under an Injunction of Secrecy to confer with the Committee of Congress on this important Matter. Having the Honour to be of the Committee of Congress, I should be glad to be informed of the Names of such Persons as you shall appoint on the Committee, that a Time & Place may be fixed for the Conference. 1 I have the Honour to be, with Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hbl sert. J. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Congress had appointed this committee on July 11 to investigate a report of a conspiracy “for liberating the prisoners &c in the gaol of Philadelphia.” JCC, 5:543. No record of any meeting between this committee and a committee of the Pennsylvania Convention has been found. However, at the request of this con gressional committee the convention did agree on July 20 to remove “common Prisoners” from the new Philadelphia jail and “give up the said new Jail to the Congress for the use of the State Prisoners.” See JCC, 5:572, 594; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:7.


[Page 516]
484 July I®, 1776 of 6th June,” but no such letter has been found. Sec Chase to Benedict Arnold, August 7, 1776. John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Convention Gentlemen, Philada. July 18. 1776. I have it in Charge from Congress to inform you that they have come to a Resolution of raising a Battalion in the Counties of Westmoreland & Bedford Pennsylvania for the Defence of the West ern Parts of that State. I am therefore to request you will immediately recommend proper Persons to Congress for Field Officers of said Battalion. 1 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Sert J. H. Prest LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’See JCC, 5:589-90. Congress approved the convention’s nominees for field offi cers for this battalion on July 20. JCC, 5:596; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:7. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philada. July 18. 1776 In Consequence of the Resolve of Congress respecting the Petition of Capt Benedict, I am most earnestly to Recommend to you to give Attention to the Subject matter of it, & to Desire that the proper payments may be made so far as they appear just & well sup ported or that the objections to the Adjustment of the Accots. as set forth by the Petitioner, may be explicitly Stated to Congress, to prevent any Prejudice arising to the general Service. 1 I am with respect Sir, Your very hume Sert. J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). ’ See JCC, 5:566. Schuyler subsequently informed Hancock: “Captain Benedict’s pay was stopped in consequence of an order from the honourable Commissioners of Congress, before whom, it seems, he had been charged with some malpractices in Canada.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:856. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada July 18, 1776 Mr Griffin delivered me your letter of the 4th [i.e. 15th] with the packets, which I have laid before Congress. 1 No resolution is taken in consequence thereof, nor has any thing new Occurred since my last, except the Inclos’d Resolves. 2 I have the honour to be, Sr„ your obedt. humble Servt. John Hancock Presidt.


[Page 525]
July 20, 1776 493 It is a long Time, since I heard from her or indeed any Thing concerning her only that she was determined to have the Distemper, with all my Children. How do you think I feel? supposing that my Wife and Children are all sick, of the small Pox, myself unable to see them, or hear from them. And all this in Addition to sev eral other Cares, public and private, which alone would be rather troublesome? However, I will not be dejected. Hope springs eternal in my Breast, and keeps me up, above all Difficulties, hitherto. I am, sincerely Yours. LB (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:54-55. 1 Suspension points in MS. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear sir, Philade July 20 1776 I have the Pleasure of informing you, that the Continental Troops under the Command of Major Genl Lee, have tryumphd over the British Forces in South Carolina, the particulars of which you have in the inclosd Paper. 1 I trust this Blow has given so great a Check to the Power of the Enemy as to prevent their doing us any material Injury in that part of America. We look towards New York, and earnestly pray that God would order a decisive Event in our Favor there. You must have earlier Intelligence from time to time of the Circumstances of our Affairs in that Depart ment than you can have from this place. Yesterday Circular Letters with inclosd Declarations from Lord Howe to the late Governors of New Jersey & the Colonies Southward as far as Georgia, were laid before Congress. As they were orderd to be publishd, I have the opportunity of transmitting a printed Copy of them for your Amusement. 2 There were also Letters from London to pri vate Persons probably procured if not dictated by the British Ministry and written with a manifest Intention to form a Party here in favor of his Lordship, to induce People to believe that he is a cordial Friend to America, and that he is empowered to offer Terms of Accommodation acceptable to the Colonists. But it is now too late for that insidious Court to play such Tricks with any reasonable Hopes of Success. The American States have declard themselves no longer the Subjects of the British King. But if they had remaind such, the Budget is now opened to the World, and the People see with their own Eyes, with how much Magnanimity the Prince offers them Pardon on Condition that they will sub mit to be his abject Slaves. I was informd in a Letter I reed from London last March, that


[Page 526]
494 July 20, 1776 this very Nobleman declind to accept the Commission until he should be vested with Authority to offer to us honorable Terms— that he made a Merit of it—And yet he now comes with Terms disgraceful to human Nature. If he is a good kind of Man, as these Letters import, I am mistaken if he is not weak & ductile. He has always voted, as I am told, in favor of the Kings Measures in Parliament, and at the same time professd himself a Friend to the Liberties of America! He seems to me, either never to have had any good Principles at all, or not to have had Presence of Mind openly and uniformly to avow them. I have an Anecdote which I will communicate to you at another Time. At present I have not Leisure. Pray let me have a Letter from you soon. You cannot do me a greater Act of Kindness or more substantially serve me than by writing often. I am affectionately, Your Friend, S A [P.S.] Will you be kind enough to let my Family know that I am in health. I wish you wd present my most respectful Compts to my very venerable Friend Dr C—y. 3 I hope the worthy old Gentleman is yet in Health 8c Spirits. FC (NN). 1 Probably the broadside printed this day containing extracts of two letters de scribing the attack on Sullivan's Island, a photocopy of which is in Clark, Naval Documents, 5:1161. 2 See John Hancock to George Washington, July 18, 1776. 8 Undoubtedly Charles Chauncy. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office July 20th. 1776 I have it in Direction from the Board of War to request your Excellency would give them your Advice on the enclosed Ap plication from Mr William Goddard whom as well as every Person qualified to fill the several Stations in the Army they would wish to provide for consistent with Regularity 8c the Good of the Ser vice. You will perceive that Mr Goddard applies for a Lieut Colonelcy which depends on the Removal of several Officers into superior Stations 8c in his Opinion these removals should be made according to the Precedence of the Officers considered with Re lation to the whole Army. Whether Vacancies should be filled colonially or continentally is a Matter which has not yet been settled 8c about which there are various Opinions; 8c whether, in the particular Cases pointed out by Mr Goddard, it is expedient to make the Arrangements mentioned in his Letter to the Board,


[Page 529]
July 20, 1776 497 little Poll, & Mrs. Darnall. Remember me to all friends. I am, yr. most affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). ‘Carroll had written to his father on July 5 explaining his plans for attending Congress. “Contrary to my expectation I am appointed a Deputy to Congress, and much against my inclination I find myself obliged to set off for Philadelphia in a week at farthest. Mr. Johnson cant go, his wife is nigh her time. Mrs. Chase is too ill to permit Chase to go. Mr. Tilghman is prevented by something or other. So I am reduced to the necessity of being there very soon as we have now no Repre sentation, Mr. Rogers being left out of the appointment.” Charles Carroll Papers, MdHi. 2 Carroll had been added to the Board of War on July 18. JCC, 5:575. 3 A reference to the Pennsylvania Ledger: or the Virginia, Maryland, Pennsyl vania, ir New Jersey Weekly Advertiser, printed by James Humphreys, Jr. William Ellery to Ezra Stiles? [July 20, 1776] i Ld. Howe is arrived in the Eagle Man o’War. The Reinforcmt is not arrived & I hope will never arrive. His Ldship sent a Flag o’ truce a few days ago with Letters to Gen. Washington directed “to George Washington Esq.” which were not received because his proper Title was not given him: since that some others have been sent to him with a similar Superscription & were for the same Reason not received. After this a flag was sent to Amboy with Letters to all the late Governors So. of N. York inclosg written Declarations con taining his & his Brother’s (Genl Howe) appointmt as Commissioners to receive the Submission of the Colonies or private Persons & grant Pardons agreeable to the late act of the Brit. Parliament, and a number of Letters principally from Friends in London to Friends here placing the Character of the Howes in the most amiable point of View, &: recommending Reconciliation with G. Britain. These Letters were all sent by the commanding Officer at Amboy to G. Washington, & were transmitted by him to Congress, and were opened &: read, that part of them, I mean which related to our Affairs. Among the Letters were some to Dr Franklin, one to the Farmer, and one to Mr Stockton. Dr Franklin was not in Congress when the Letters were bro’t in, but was sent for. When he entered, his Letters were delivered to him sealed. He opened them, looked over them, and handed them to the President desiring him to read them. They were accordingly read to Congress & contained much the same Sentiments with those to Friends, as did that to Mr Stockton, who is a Member of Congress, and who was treated and behaved in the same manner that Dr Franklin did. As the Farmer is in the Jersey at the Head of his Battalion, his Letter is kept sealed by the President until he shall return & receive it in Congress. The Letters


[Page 535]
July 20, 1776 503 would not suffer their Country to be over run, but when convinced that they must contribute to the Common Cause, they would do it at once. You will receive by this Conveyance what to me & to all who love me has & will be a most pleasing piece of Intelligence—I mean an Account of a very complete Defeat of the British Navy in So. Carolina. On the 28th of June the Experiment of 50 the Bristol of 50, the Solbay,' Syria, Actoon [Actaeon] Sc Action [Active] of 28 each, the Friendship of 26, the Sphynx of 20 Sc the Thunder Bomb drew up in Line of Battle before our Fort at Sulivan’s Island about 5 miles from & in full sight of the Town—to divert the attention of the People the Bomb began to throw her shells until the Ships could be brought to bear on the Fort, at the same time they attempted to land a Body of about 2000 men from 35 Flat Bottom Boats on a distant part of the Island judging that we had so many out of the Fort—but in that they were wrong, as indeed in almost every thing else, for we had abt. 3000 men posted there with 2 Field pieces & an 18 poundr under the Command of Col. Thompson of the Rangers who twice repulsed their whole Force with Loss on their Side, but none on his own. “The Fleet during the whole of this time indeed from 11 o’clock a.m. until 10 at Night kept up a most furious Fire on the Fort but were at last gallantly re pulsed, with a mere handful of Men, a force which to one so little skill’d in war as I am, would have appear’d totally inadequate for the purpose—We had but 800 Men in the Fort & could bring but 12 Guns to bear upon the Fleet. The Loss as to Men on our part was inconsiderable as to No. Sc Character (other than being as brave as they could be—there were but 12 kill’d Sc 24 wounded, not an officer beyond a Serg; the least part,—Genies Lee & Howe says they behaved to a share with as much coolness & courage as they ever saw—& what makes it more singular is, that but one of the whole Number had ever been in Action. The Bristol lost her Mizen Mast the 1st shot, her main and fore mast her Hall Yard etc vastly damaged—the Capt. of the Commodore lost his Arm, the Commodore was wounded in the thigh and knee and had his Breeches torn off 44 Men kill’d 30 wounded 20 of whom are since dead—the Experiment’s Capt. kill’d togr. with 57, others Sc 30 wounded—the Ship vastly hurt, several of her Parts brok into one or it is the general opinion that neither of the above Vessels will ever get to Sea again— Uncertain what the others lost—The Actoon got aground & was set on fire by her own people but did not blow up before a Mr. Milligan a Marine officer had boarded her brought off her Colours her ships Bell, Sails, Stores, etc. The Thunder Bomb shatter’d her Bed in the Firing so much that she must go into Dock to refit before she will be able to cut—this my dear Friend is as much as I can relate of a Defense which must redound to the Honour of our valiant Countrymen. I think it will have most happy Consequences, not to that Colony alone, but to all Amer ica, it will fill her with a Spirit of Emulation & go far I hope towards over throw ing opposition.” Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog, The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (February 17, 1947), pp. 30-31. James Wilson to John Montgomery and Jasper Yeates Gentlemen Philada. July 20th. 1776 Doctor Franklin and I have been favoured with your Letter of the 14th instant. At his Request I write this Answer for him and myself. I believe the Congress have no particular Views which they would wish to accomplish at the ensuing Treaty. 1 Their Intention and their earnest Desire is that Peace and Friendship may be preserved and cultivated between the United States and the Indian Tribes. Presents


[Page 537]
July 21, 1776 505 greater danger to their Persons and Property from Toryism than Whiggism, the same Avarice and Pusillanimity will make them Whiggs. A Treason Law is in Politicks like the Article for Shooting upon the Spot, a Soldier who shall turn his back. It turns a Mans Cowardice and Timidity into Heroism, because it places greater danger behind his back than before his Face. While you are attending to military Matters, dont forget Salt Petre, Sulphur, Powder, Flints, Lead, Cannon, Mortars. It grieves me to hear that your People have a Prejudice against liberal Education. There is a Spice of this every where. But Liberty has no Enemy more dangerous than such a Prejudice. It is your Business, my Friend, as a Statesman to soften and eradicate this Prejudice. The surest Mode of doing it is to perswade Gentlemen of Education to lay aside Some of their Airs, of Scorn, Vanity and Pride, which it is a certain Truth that they Sometimes indulge themselves in. Gentlemen cannot expect the Confidence of the com mon People if they treat them ill, or refuse hautily to comply with some of their favorite Notions which may often be most obligingly done, without the least deviation from Honour or Virtue. Your Delegates behave very well: but I wish for you among them. I think however, that you judged wisely in continuing in Convention —where I believe you have been able to do more good, than you could have done here. I should be obliged to you for a Line now and then. Mr. S. Adams reed, your Letter from Bristol. 2 You will See the new Delegates for Pensilvania. What is the Cause, that Mr Dickinson never can main tain his Popularity for more than two or three years together, as they tell me has ever been the Case! He may have a good Heart, and certainly is very ready with his Pen, and has a great deal of Learning, but his Head is not very long, nor clear. I am LB (MHi). 1 Sergeant sent Adams news of the latest political developments in New lersey in his luly 19 letter. “I am told You are alarmed at Philada. with the last clause in our charter. That & another respecting Judges was hard fought; especially that of Reconciliation, upon a Motion to defer printing the Copy ’till it could be reconsidered. ‘‘However we have formally ratified Independency & assumed the Stile of the Convention of the State of New Jersey—this very unanimously, & the Votes go down by this Express to the printer. "We are mending very fast here. East Jersey were always firm; West Jersey will now move with Vigour. The Tories in some parts disturbed us, but they have hurt us more by impeding the Business of the Convention & harassing with an Infinity of Hearings. But for this we have provided a Remedy by our Ordinance for trying Treasons, Seditions & Counterfeitings. And now we shall apply our chief Attention to Military Matters, for which End we remove to Brunswick on Monday, after delaying it too long.” Adams Papers, MHi. 2 See Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton, July 4, 1776, note.


[Page 544]
512 July 21, 1776 Line. 3 I mean an oppinion that it is the duty of every Individual to Act his part in whatever Station his Country may Call him to, in times of difficulty, danger & distress. Whilst I think this a duty I must submit, altho the Councils of America have taken a different course from my Judgements & wishes. I think an individual that declines the Service of his Country because its Councils are not conformable to his Ideas, makes but a bad Subject; a good one will follow if he cannot lead. Untill the good News from Carolina raised our Spirits, they were constantly depressed by every Account We received from the North ern Army. Such scenes of mismanagement, misconduct and Ill success as have been exhibited in that quarter ever since the loss of the Brave Montgomery have no paralei. There is a Committee of Con gress appointed to inquire into the Causes of our Ill Success in Canada. Probably it may be no difficulty to ascertain the cause in a general point of light, but it may not be easy to saddle individuals with their just share of reproach for it seems to me that every officer & other person that has been connected with our operations in that Country have on their return given different 8c contradictory Ac counts, some blaming one party, some another, but all Complaining of mismanagement in every department. I don’t know Genl. Schuyler personally but he holds an able pen and his clear intelligent manner of writing, with an apparent Anxiety expressed in all his letters for the good of the Service had gained my entire Confidence and I cannot help feeling a reluctance to receive unfavourable impressions, yet if that Man is sacrificing the interest of America to his ambition or avarice he must be a Wretch indeed. I hope this will not prove to be his Case, but at any rate as he is more of a Commissary 8c Quarter Master than a General, it may probably be best to shift his Station that Gates may be left at liberty to put our affairs at the Lakes in the best posture that can be. I hope you are or will be properly Strengthened and Supported at New York. For my own part I dont like your situation there, but think you had better give up that City to the Enemy than let them get behind 8c pen you in there, as they were cooped in Boston last year. However, I dont pretend to any Judgement in this matter nor to have Considered the Subject. My Confidence in the abilities of Genl. Washington is entire. His Life is the most Valuable in America 8c whenever an engagement happens I sincerely hope he will think how much depends on it and guard it accordingly. The Public papers will Anounce to you the New appointments 8c Changes here, and as I have not much unemployed time I am always ready to spare the use of my pen. This being Sunday morning 8c in the Country I have spun out this letter to a length not common with me nowadays. I beg my Compts to the Genl. I dined in Company with Mrs. Washington yesterday at Colo Harrisons 8c expect her here at dinner


[Page 547]
July 22, 1776 515 ing an underwater “Machine” to attack British ships, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 4:650-52, 654, for proposals he had made to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety in September 1775. The result of Belton’s application to Washington is not known. It appears that the timing of the proposal was unfortunate for Belton because David Bushnell, with a submarine that had been tested, was already preparing such an attack. For an account of the unsuccessful attempt, on September 6, 1776, by Bushnell’s submarine Turtle to afix a mine to the hull of Lord Howe’s flagship Eagle, see Frederick Wagner, Submarine Fighter of the American Revolution, the Story of David Bushnell (New York: Dodd, Mead & Co., 1963), pp. 50-65. See also Clark, Naval Documents, 6:1499-1511. John Hancock to Samuel Griffin Sir, Philadelphia July 22d. 1776. The Congress, in Consideration of your Merit, and uniform At tachment to the Liberties of the American States, have been pleased to appoint you, Deputy Adjutant Genl, to the Flying-Camp, with the Rank of Colonel. 1 I enclose your Commission with the greatest Pleasure; being fully persuaded, your Abilities, and Attention, will enable you to dis charge the Duties of your Department with Reputation to yourself, & Advantage to your Country. As it is necessary this important Department should be immedi ately filled, you will please to repair, for that Purpose, to the Flying Camp, as soon as possible, and put yourself under the Direction of the Commanding Officer in that Quarter. I Am, Sr., your most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (InU). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. Addressed: "Colo. Griffen, Depy. Adjt. Genii, to the Flying Camp.” 'See JCC, 5:592. John Hancock to Charles Lee Sir, Philada. July 22d. 1776. Your Favour of the 2d Inst, containing the very agreeable Intelli gence of the Success of the American Army under your Command, I had the Honour of receiving, and immediately laid the same before Congress. 1 It affords me the greatest Pleasure to convey to you, by their Order, the most valuable Tribute which a free People can ever bestow, or a generous Mind wish to receive, the just Tribute of Gratitude for rendering important Services to an oppressed Country. The same enlarged Mind, and distinguished Ardor in the Cause of Freedom, that taught you to despise the Prejudices which have


[Page 550]
518 July 22, 1776 Samuel Huntington to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia 22d July 1776 This will be handed you by Mr Thomas Bedwell the person who has Contracted to manufacture Sulphur at Middletown. He is now on his way for that place, & expects a small box or two containing necessary articles for carrying on his business will soon be Sent for ward by Land from hence to New York. I am to desire you in his behalf to point him to Some Suitable person who will receive those boxes at N York & Immediately forward them to New Haven, or Middletown by water if it may be done with safety; it being of Importance to the public they should be forwarded as soon as possible. Mr Bedwell being a perfect Stranger at York & the peculiar Situation of that place at present is my only excuse for giving you this trouble in the multiplicity of your business. Give me leave to Congratulate you on the Success of American arms at S. Carolina & be so kind as to advise me of any material Occurrences as often as is convenient. Be assured I am with Esteem &: Consideration, your Humble Servant, Sami Huntington RC (CtHi). Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council Gentlemen, Philad. 22 July 1776 The five thousand Dollars granted by Congress for raising the four German Companies in our Province have been paid into our Hands and retained by us for the Purpose of exchanging it for our Maryland Convention Money and by this means to give our Currency Credit & Circulation here. 1 Had we not taken this Measure our Emissions would have been useless here & the Commercial Connection between this & our Province would have been greatly if not totally obstructed. [We] had exchanged the whole Sum with the merchants & Shop keepers and we have advanced as per Account enclosed. Mr. Hughes having obtd. a large Sum of Continental Money he exchanged with us as far as we had our Convention Currency in our Hands. 2 This gives us a fresh fund to keep up the Credit of our Money here. Youll be pleased to advise us whether this Measure of ours meets with your approbation. If not we will remit the whole immediately to you. Capt. Stricker being appointed Lt. Col. of the German Battalion and being desirous to proceed immediately to Frederick County to forward with all Expedition the raising of the Companies, we thought proper to advance him 1520 Dollars of the Sum appropri ated for that Purpose; and we also have taken the Liberty of ad-


[Page 556]
524 July 23, 1776 has obliged me for some time past to make an excursion or two into the Country. I propose to return to North Carolina shortly where I mean to retire from public business for a month or two. I have laid your accounts before the marine Committee and shall see that they are properly setled. I have not seen the person in whose favour you drew, and your Brother is not in Town. To whom must the money be paid? I do not hear of any person that has been recommended as Lieutenant for the Ship you are building, nor have I as yet received your recommendations. Please to send me the Names of Three Gentlemen in the order that you 8c Capt. Nicholson would wish them to stand. I have mentioned Doctor Budd to the Committee. He is not yet appointed. I have no doubt but he will be, at the same time the Lieutenants are appointed. 2 I am with much respect, Dr Sir, your mo. Obed hum Sert, Joseph Hewes RC (MdHi). 1 On the previous day Samuel Hughes had written to Purviancc: “I have con tracted with Congress for 1000 tons of Cannon at £36.10.0 to be delivered again the 1st January 1778.” Clark, Naval Documents, 5:1182. 2 On this point, see also the extract from Purviance’s July 27 letter to Hewes, ibid., pp. 1246-47. Francis Hopkinson to Samuel Tucker? Sir, 1 Philada. 23d July 1776 I beg leave to submit to the Consideration of your House the Propriety of passing an Ordinance for the Regulation of Elections in our Province. What I have principally in View is the collecting of Votes by Ballot only, and providing effectual Means for the Prevention of Fraud in Elections. This is undoubtedly the most equitable way of ascertaining the Choice of the People, and I am confident would be very acceptable to our Constituents. Elections are now of greater Importance, if possible, than heretofore; because by your late excellent Constitution the Source of all Government originates with the People at large. I thought it my Duty to suggest this Hint & hope it will be deemed worthy the attention of the House. I have further to request that the House would be so good as to furnish their Delegates with printed Copies of your new Constitu tion, & with such other Ordinances & Regulations as you may pass from Time to Time. We should likewise be glad of a Copy of that part of your Minutes which ascertains what Number of Delegates shall represent the Province in Congress. I am told you have made one Delegate sufficient for this Purpose; but as I have no good Authority for this opinion & was the other Day the only member from Jersey attending in Congress, I was in great Doubt as to the Propriety of giving my vote. 2


[Page 557]
July 23, 1776 525 With great Respect to the Honble Convention, I am sir, Your very humble servant, Fras. Hopkinson RC (MeHi). 'The contents of this letter demonstrate conclusively that Hopkinson wrote it to a member of the New Jersey Provincial Congress; and Samuel Tucker, as presi dent of this body, would appear to have been the most likely intended recipient. 2 On June 22, 1776, the New Jersey Provincial Congress had declared that any one of New Jersey’s five delegates in Congress "shall have power to vote.” Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1628. Thomas Jefferson to Francis Eppes Dear Sir Philadelphia, July 23, 1776. We have nothing new here now but from the southward. The successes there I hope will prove valuable here, by giving new spirit to our people. The ill successes in Canada had depressed the minds of many; when we shall hear the last of them I know not; everybody had supposed Crown Point would be a certain stand for them, but they have retreated from that to Ticonderoga, against everything which in my eye wears the shape of reason. When I wrote you last, we were deceived in General Washington’s num bers. By a return which came to hand a day or two after, he then had but 15,000 effective men. His reinforcements have come in pretty well since. The flying camp in the Jerseys under General Mercer begins to form, but not as fast as exigencies require. The Congress have, therefore, been obliged to send for two of our battalions from Virginia. 1 I hope that country is perfectly safe now; and if it is, it seemed hardly right that she should not contribute a man to an army of 40,000, and an army too on which was to depend the decision of all our rights. Lord Howe’s fleet has not yet arrived. The first division sailed five days before he did, but report says it was scattered by a storm. This seems probable, as Lord Howe had a long passage. The two other divisions were not sailed when he came away. I do not expect his army will be here and fit for action till the middle or last of August; in the meantime, if Mercer’s camp could be formed with the expedition it merits, it might be possible to attack the present force from the Jersey side of Staten Island, and get rid of that beforehand; the militia go in freely, considering they leave their harvest to rot in the field. I have received no letter this week, which lays me under great anxiety. I shall leave this place about the 11th of next month. Give my love to Mrs. Eppes, and tell her that when both you and Patty fail to write to me, I think I shall not be unreasonable in insisting she shall. I am, dear sir, Yours affectionately, Th. Jefferson


[Page 558]
526 July 23, 1776 MS not found; reprinted from Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:472-73. 1 See John Hancock to Andrew Lewis, July 22, 1776. Francis Lewis to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir, Phila 23d July 1776 By Order of Congress I am directed to transmit you the inclosed four drafts upon Persons in Albany for Nineteen Hundred & One pounds twelve Shillings &: 3d New York Currancy. When honoured please to furnish me with a Certificate of your receiveing the amount that I may be enabled to receive the money here, and you’l please to Account with Congress for the same. I am respectfully, Sir Your very Humble Servt. Frans Lewis [P.S.] Inclosed you have Letters of advice. RC (CtHi). Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia July 23rd 1776 Yesterdays Post brought Us your Letter of the 19th Inst. 1 The Copies of the Letters from Colonels Barnes and Jordan You omitted to enclose. 2 We hope the Necessity of recalling the Captains Thomas and Hindman will soon be removed, and that they will be permitted to march to the flying Camp as soon as possible. It is of the last Consequence to collect a sufficient force to oppose the British Army which may be hourly expected at Staten Island. General Washington has not above 15,000 Troops. Two Battalions of the Virginia Regu lars are ordered to N York. Four Battalions in this province and two more in New Jersey are ordered to reinforce the flying Camp. We agree with You that it will be useless to send Men without arms. We have had no opportunity to consult Congress relative to the Subsistance of the Men during the Time they are collecting. We doubt not the Expence will be continental. If they should be em ployed on your Works it would contribute to their Health, & defray the Expence of provisions. A Man who professes to be an Adept in the Refining Sulphur has applied to Us & enclosed are his Terms. We are ignorant whether any Quantity of Sulphur has been discovered in our Colony, & do not know whether You want such a Man.


[Page 561]
July 23, 1776 529 mittee of inspection. The Audience is truly respectable. Dr. Franklin alone is eno to confound with his presence a thousand such men as myself. I hope however in a little time to experience the same freedom &: confidence in speaking that I Observe in other members. I find even our illustrious body is marked with features of human nature. We can talk nonsense now & then as well as our neighbours. This reconciles me to myself. I wish you would return with your Papa the latter end of this, or the beginning of next week. I cannot support the burden of public & private business which now lays upon my Shoulders with out you. You Shall go to Morven Again with your Papa when he goes to take charge of the governmt. of New Jersey an event which all parties say is inevitable. Think my love how long our house must be left without a head in my necessary attendance upon Con gress. Wm fell asleep as usual this evening—Betsey walked out—& I was Obliged to wait near an hour before I could go out to visit a patient—and at last got one of the neighbours to watch the door. My business suffers from the want of you. My prentices are young & Betsey too much out of the way to give answers. Do come home as soon as possible, or I tremble at the consequences. I languish for want of company. All our neighbours &: friends you know are in the country or the camp. I shall execute all your commissions. God bless you! How I long to tell you how much I love you. I shall have a regiment of prentices, having had an application this day from a lad in the Jerseys—but the Jews house in the alley will make an excellent barrack for them. I am pleased with taking Johney Pintard into the house. I suppose you told him the fee was 100 guineas. This Sum with what we have by us, &: what I expect soon to receive will enable us to realize our money in a house or a plantation. It is impossible now to put money out to interest. Heaven requires only the heart. I was willing to be poor, that my country might be free. The latter I hope will be granted, and contrary even to my wishes I find I am growing rich. My Attendance in Congress does not hurt my business having as much to do as ever. My wages in Congress are 20/ per day. Good night my charming Girl. I shall close my letter in the morning. Wednesday morning. Have just read in the paper a list of the committee of Safety. A majority of them are good men. Cannon & Matlack are among them!!! Much love to every body. Mama must part with you. The condi tion of this Obligation remember is that you are to pay another visit for a week, or two next month. Yours my dearest, B Rush P.S. No letter from James since he went away.


[Page 564]
532 July 23, 1776 RC (MHi). ‘This resolution was passed the next day. JCC, 5:606. “George King, Portsmouth, N.H., merchant, had refused to accept an appoint ment as justice of the Inferiour Court of Common Pleas for Rockingham County, and he was replaced by Samuel Penhallow. N.H. State Papers, 8:110, 194-95, 500. “See JCC, 5:567; and John Hancock to George Washington, July 18, 1776, note 1. John Adams to Nathaniel Barber, Jr, Sir Philadelphia July 24. 1776 Your Letter of the 15th instant came duely to Hand by yesterdays Post. 1 I shall be happy to render you any Service in my Power. But I conceive the most regular Method will be for you to make applica tion to General Ward, and request him to make a Representation of your affair to Congress, either directly, or through General Wash ington. In this Mode, I conceive there will be no difficulty in obtaining Captains Pay for yourself and fifteen dollars per Month for the two Conductors under you. If I were to move in Congress, or in the Board of War, for these Establishments, for Want of Sufficient Information of the Nature and Duties of your office, I should not be so likely to succeed, as if the Proposition comes from the Commander in Chief in your de partment. I am, your humble Servant LB (MHi). Addressed: "To Nathaniel Barber Junr, Conductor of Military Stores, Boston.” 1 Nathaniel Barber, Jr. (1728-87), was commissary of military stores at Boston until 1781 and later state naval officer. Massachusetts Centinel (Boston), October 20, 1787; and JCC, 19:232. His July 15 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia July 24. 1776 Yours of the 10th instant, came by Yesterdays Post. 1 This I Suppose will find you, at Boston, growing well of the Small Pox. This Distemper is the King of Terrors to America this Year. We shall Suffer as much by it, as We did last Year by the Scarcity of Powder. And therefore I could wish, that the whole People was innoculated. It gives me great Pleasure to learn, that Such Numbers have removed to Boston, for the Sake of going through it, and that Innoculation is permitted in every Town. The plentifull Use of Mercury is a Dis couragement to many: But you will see by a Letter from Dr Rush which I lately inclosed to my Partner, that Mercury is by him wholly


[Page 565]
July 24, 1776 533 laid aside. He practices with as much success and Reputation as any Man. 2 I am much grieved and a little vexed at your Refusal of a Seat on a certain Bench. Is another appointed? Who is it? Before now you have the Result of our Proceedings the Beginning of this Month. A Confederation will follow very soon and other mighty Matters. Our Force is not Sufficient at New York. Have Suffered much Pain, in looking over the Returns, to see no Massachusetts Militia at N. York. Send them along, for the Lands sake. Let Us drubb Howe, and then We shall do very well. Much depends upon that. I am not much concerned, about Burgoine. He will not get over the Lakes this year. If he does he will be worse off. I rejoice at the Spread of the Small Pox, on another Account. Having had the Small Pox was the Merit which originally recom mended me to this lofty Station. This Merit is now likely to be common enough, and I shall Stand a Chance to be relieved. Let some others come here, and see the Beauties and Sublimities of a Continental Congress. I will stay no longer. A Ride to Philadelphia, after the Small Pox, will contribute prodigiously to the Restoration of your Health. 3 I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 'Warren’s July 10 letter to Adams is in the Warren-Adams Letters, 1:258-60. 2 See Adams to Abigail Adams, July 23, 1776, note 1. 3 This day Adams also wrote a brief letter to Thomas Cushing, Suffolk County probate judge, declining Cushing’s request to serve as the executor of the will of Josiah Quincy, Jr. Both Cushing’s July 15 letter to Adams and the letterbook copy of Adams’ response are in the Adams Papers, MHi. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. July 24th. 1776. The enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of trans mitting, are so explicit, that I need only refer your Attention to them. The Congress are extremely concerned to find there should be a Necessity of recommending Harmony to the officers and Troops of different States under your Command. At a Time like this, when the greatest Confidence is so essentially required, Nothing can show greater Weakness or Wickedness than to throw provincial Reflections on one another, which must have a direct Tendency to impede the public Service, and to weaken the Union of the American States. I am therefore to request, you will discountinance and suppress, by every Means in your Power, such ungenerous & base Practices, and


[Page 566]
534 July 24, 1776 promote Discipline, Order, and Zeal in the Army as much as possible. 1 The Commissioners appointed to audit the Accounts of the Army in the Northern Department, have been with me. They are preparing to set out immediately, and I expect, will be in New York in a few Days. 2 The Congress having empowered the Commander in Chief in each Department to negotiate an Exchange of Prisoners, you will please to conduct the Business agreably to the enclosed System. 3 In Consequence of a Flag from Lord Howe with a Letter directed to George Washington Esqr which he declined receiving as an im proper Direction considering his Rank &: Station, the Congress came to a Resolution, not only expressing their approbation of his Con duct, but ordering for the future, that no Commander in Chief, or other the Commanders of the American Army, should receive any Letters from the Enemy, but such as are directed to them in the Characters they sustain. 4 You will please to enquire into the Complaints of the Soldiers as soon as possible; and give strict Orders, that the Goods furnished them, shall not be charged at a higher Price, than the first Cost of them, and an Allowance of 5 per Cent for Charges. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Re spect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Genl. Schuyler, Albany—or elsewhere.” 1 Congress passed this resolve “recommending Harmony” on July 19 after learn ing of the opposition among many of General Schuyler’s officers—especially those from New England—to the July 7 decision of a council of war of the northern army to abandon Crown Point and pull back to Ticonderoga, but this was only the latest in a long series of disputes between officers and soldiers from different states under Schuyler’s command. See JCC, 5:575, 591; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:232- 35, 650-51; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:289-97, 302-7. See also Jona than G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), chaps. 4 and 7. For an account of Schuyler’s defi ciencies from the perspective of a Massachusetts delegate, see Elbridge Gerry to John Adams and Samuel Adams, July 21, 1776. Hancock also sent Schuyler an other July 19 resolve about curbing the exorbitant costs of supplies for his men as well as a resolve of an earlier date "prohibiting any officer from holding more offices than one.” 2 See JCC, 5:564-65. 3 See JCC, 5:599. ‘ See JCC, 5:567. John Hancock to the Governor of South Carolina and the Convention of Georgia Sir, Philada. July 24th. 1776. The Congress being of opinion, that the Service of the United


[Page 569]
July 24, 1776 537 are only defending their Just rights and Liberties and have com mitted no Offence they have nothing to ask pardon for, consequently cannot negotiate with his Lordship. No Late accounts from England or France. My Compliments to your Family. I Am with much respect, Dear Sir, your mo. Obed Servt, Joseph Hewes N.B. Mr. Hooper came to Town last evening. I have not yet seen him. RC (PHi). Benjamin Rush to Benjamin Franklin Wednesday, 3 oClock [July 24-August 7? 1776] 1 Dr. Rush begs leave to inform Dr. Franklin that the members of the Canadian Committee will wait upon him this afternoon at 6 oClock at his own house. RC (PPAmP). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. J This undated note was obviously written after the appointment of “the com mittee on sundry Canadian petitioners” and before the submission of its report on August 10, 1776. The date the committee was appointed is not known, because the entry in Secretary Thomson’s manuscript journal pertaining to its appointment was erased and amended after it was originally written. That entry appears under the date July 17, the day a petition from “Jean Baptiste de Vidal, of Canada,” was presented to Congress and referred to committee, but examination of Thomson’s manuscript reveals that Congress subsequently redirected Vidal’s petition from the committee originally indicated to a new “committee of five.” Since Rush did not attend Congress until July 22 and since the names of the committee members were later written into the journal with a different pen and a slightly bolder stroke than the rest of the July 17 entry, it seems clear that the committee was appointed no earlier than the 22d. Therefore this note must have been written on July 24, 31, or August 7, one of three Wednesdays that fell between Rush’s appointment to the committee and the submission of its report to Congress. See JCC, 5:572, 645-46; and PCC, item 1, 3:143. Although Rush’s note contains no information on the subjects discussed by the committee with Franklin, it does provide a glimpse into the manner in which committees of Congress conducted business after hours and a reminder that the journals must occasionally be studied with care to resolve apparent anomalies that survive in the printed texts. Willing, Morris & Co. to William Bingham Sir Philada. July 24th. 1776 We were much Concerned to find you were so long detained at Cape May, but as you did at last escape clear of the Men of Warr on this Coast, we hope you will arrive safe at Your destined Port and


[Page 572]
540 July 25, 1776 John Adams to John Avery Sir Philadelphia July 25. 1776 I find myself under a Necessity of applying to the Honourable the general Court for Leave to return home. 1 I have attended here, so long and so constantly, that I feel myself necessitated to ask this Favour, on Account of my Health, as well as on many other Accounts. I beg Leave to propose to the Honourable Court an Alteration in their Plan of Delegation in Congress, which, it appears to me, would be more agreable to the Health, and Convenience of the Members and much more conducive to the public Good, than the present. 2 No Gentleman can possibly attend to an incessant Round of thinking, Speaking, and writing, upon the most intricate, as well as important Concerns of human Society, from one End of the Year to another, without Injury both to his mental and bodily Strength. I would therefore humbly propose, that the Honourable Court would be pleased to appoint Nine Members to attend in Congress, Three or five at a Time. In this Case, four, or Six, might be at home, at a Time, and every Member might be relieved, once in three or four Months. In this Way, you would always have Members in Congress who would have in their Minds, a compleat Chain of the Proceed ings here as well as in the General Court, both Kinds of which Knowledge are necessary for a proper Conduct here. In this Way, the Lives and Health, and indeed the sound Minds of the Delegates here, would be in less Danger than they are at present, and in my humble opinion the public Business would be much better done. This Proposal, however, is only Submitted to the Consideration of that Honourable Body, whose Sole Right it is to judge of it. For myself, I must intreat the General Court to give me Leave to resign, and immediately to appoint some other Gentleman in my Room. The Consideration of my own Health, and the Circumstances of my Family and private Affairs would have little Weight with me, if the Sacrifice of these was necessary for the Public: But it is not, because those Parts of the Business of Congress, for which (if for any) I have my Qualifications, being now nearly compleated, and the Business that remains, being chiefly military and commercial, of which I know very little, there are Multitudes of Gentlemen in the Province, much fitter for the public Service here than I am. With great Respect to the General Court, I am, sir, your most obedient servant, John Adams. RC (M-Ar). Addressed: “The Deputy Secretary.” 1 Adams did not leave for home until October 13, 1776; and he remained a mem ber of Congress until his appointment as a commissioner to France on November 28, 1777. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:251; JCC, 9:946-47. “Adams’ plan to rearrange the Massachusetts delegation in Congress arrived in Boston during the general court’s August adjournment. When the court returned


[Page 576]
544 July 25, 1776 made to the application and to answer the arguments which had been advanced against it. We observed that this property should be looked upon as belong ing to the King of Great Britain and not to the East India Company, as the latter had been divested of it, both by the seizure which the Custom House officers had made of it and by the indemnification of the Parliament, that the Congress had therefore no more right to apply this tea to the use of the Continent at large than they had to dispose of the cannon in our forts or the Crown lands within the limits of the Colony. But that, if it was the East India Company’s property, they had occasioned such an expence to the State of Caro lina as to justify them fully in the seizures. That it would be re pugnant to the principles of justice to insist that this tea should be sold for the benefit of those whose property had been, or might be, seized in England in exclusion of those whose property had been seized in America, and that it would be impracticable to bring every species of loss into one common account. That the seizure of property had been a common misfortune of which, as well as of public expences, we have had our full propor tion, and that therefore it would be injurious to our State not to be permitted to make use of the advantage in this instance which the possession of the tea had given. It was confessed that we had a right to sell it if we chose and apply the profits as we pleased, but as we had asked the opinion of the House upon the subject, we should now be governed by the disposition which they should think proper to make, and that they should take time to consider of it. The Dele gates, being by this time fully convinced that there were many in the House who wished to dispose of it in a manner injurious to the interest and the right of our State, agreed to withdraw the motion for which they obtained the leave of Congress, and we now, with one voice, advise you to recommend to your Assembly immediately to sell the same and apply the profits thereof to Colonial purposes. Indeed we were not a little surprized at your requesting us to lay the same before Congress, and we hope that you will determine for yourselves in future in all causes where the concern is of a Provincial and not of a Continental nature. We are, with regard, your Excellency’s most obedient humble servants, Thomas Lynch Arthur Middleton Edward Rutledge Thomas Heyward, Junior Thomas Lynch, Junior MS not found; reprinted from William E. Hemphill et al., eds., Journals of the General Assembly and House of Representatives, 1776-1780 (Columbia: University of South Carolina Press, 1970), pp. 79-80. ‘For further references to the subject of this letter, see Richard Smith’s Diary, January 12, 1776, note 2.


[Page 578]
546 July 26, 1776 keep them at Peace. The Emoluments of the Trade are not a Com pensation for the Expence of donations. Rutledge differs from Walton in a Variety of Points. We must look forward with extensive Views. Carolina has been run to an amazing expence to defend themselves vs. Indians. In 1760 &c. fifty thousand Guineas were spent. We have now as many Men on the frontiers, as in Charlestown. We have Forts in the Indian Countries. We are connected with them by Treaties. Lynch. Congress may regulate the Trade, if they will indemnify Car. vs. the Expence of keeping Peace with the Indians, or defending Us vs. them. Witherspoon. Here are two adjacent Provinces, situated alike with respect to the Indians, differing totally in their Sentiments of their Interests. Chase. S. Carolina claims to the S. Sea. So does North, Virginia, and Massachusetts Bay. S. Carolina says they have a Right to regulate the Trade with the Indians. If so 4 Colonies have all the Power of regulating Trade with the Indians. S.C. alone could not stand alone vs. the Indian Nations. Sherman moves that Congress may have a Superintending Power, to prevent Injustice to the Indians or Colonies. Willson. No lasting Peace will be with the Indians, unless made by some one Body. No such language as this ought to be held to the Indians. We are stronger, We are better. We treat you better than another Colony. No Power ought to treat, with the Indians, but the united States. Indians know the striking Benefits of Confederation— they have an Example of it in the Union of the Six nations. The Idea of the Union of the Colonies struck them forcibly last Year. None should trade with Indians without a Licence from Congress. A perpetual War would be unavoidable, if every Body was allowed to trade with them. Stone. This Expedient is worse than either of the alternatives. What is the meaning of this Superintendency? Colonies will claim the Right first. Congress cant interpose untill the Evil has happened. Disputes will arise when Congress shall interpose. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:243-44. 1 Debate this day in the committee of the whole centered on the clause in article 18 of the July 12 draft articles of confederation granting Congress exclusive rights for “Regulating the Trade, and managing all Affairs with the Indians.’’ JCC, 5:550. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia July 26. 1776 My Health has lasted much longer, than I expected but at last it fails. The Increasing Heat of the Weather added to incessant ap-


[Page 582]
550 July 27, 1776 Fifteen days since, you were all inocculated, and I have not yet learned how you have fared. But I will suppose you all better and out of Danger. Why should I torture myself when I cant relieve you? It makes me happy to hear that the Spirit of Inocculation prevails so generally. I could wish it, more universal. The small Pox has done Us more harm than British Armies, Canadians, Indians, Negroes, Hannoverians, Hessians, and all the rest. We must conquer this formidable Enemy without Hesitation or delay. Sullivan is here, and in a Miff, at the Promotion of Gates, has asked Leave to resign his Commission. 2 I am sorry for this inconsid erate Step. It will hurt him more than the Cause. It is conjectured at New York, I am told, that he expects to be first Man in New Hampshire. If this is really his Motive, he ought to be ashamed of it, and I hope he will be dissappointed. The Ladies have not half the Zeal for Precedence, that We find every day among the Gentlemen. The Judge Advocate 3 came in this Evening, in fine Health and gay Spirits. The Army is the Place for Health—the Congress the Place of Sickness. God bless you all. Adieu. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:63. 1 Suspension points in MS. 2 See John Hancock to George Washington, July 26, 1776, note 3. ’William Tudor. John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philadelphia July 27. 1776 I have directed a Packett to you, by this days Post, and shall only add a few Words by Fessenden. I assure you the Necessity of your sending along fresh delegates here, is not chimerical. Paine has been very ill for this whole Week and remains in a bad way. 1 He has not been able to attend Congress, for several days, and if I was to judge by his Eye, his Skin, and his Cough, I should conclude he never would be fit to do duty there again, without a long Intermis sion, and a Course of Air, Exercise, Diet, and Medicine. In this I may be mistaken. The Secretary, 2 between you and me, is compleatly worn out. I wish he had gone home Six months ago, and rested himself. Then, he might have done it, without any Disadvantage. But in plain English he has been so long here, and his Strength, Spirit and Abilities so exhausted, that an hundred such delegates here would not be worth a Shilling. My Case is worse. My Face is grown pale, my Eyes weak and inflamed, my Nerves tremulous, and my Mind weak as Water. Fevourous Heats by Day and Sweats by Night are returned upon me, which is an infallible Symptom with


[Page 583]
July 27, 1776 551 me that it is Time to throw off all Care, for a Time, and take a little Rest. I have several Times with the Blessing of God, saved my Life in this Way, and am now determined to attempt it once more. You must be very Speedy in appointing other Delegates, or you will not be represented here. Go home I will, if I leave the Massa chusetts without a Member here. You know my Resolutions in these Matters are not easily altered. I know better than any Body what my Constitution will bear, and what it will not, and you may depend upon it, I have already tempted it, beyond Prudence, and Safety. A few Months Rest and Relaxation will remit me. But this is abso lutely necessary for that End. I have sent a Resignation to the General Court and am determined to take six Months rest at least. I wish to be released from Philadelphia forever. But in Case the General Court should wish otherwise, which I hope they will not, I dont mean Surlily to refuse them. If you appoint Such a Number, that We can have a Respit, once in Six Months at furthest, or once in three if that is more convenient, I should be willing to take another Trick or two. But I will never again undertake upon any other Terms, unless I should undertake for a Year, and bring my Wife and four Children with me, as many other Gentlemen here have done, which, as I know it would be infinitely more agreable, and more for the Benefit of my Children, so in my sincere opinion, it would be cheaper for the Province, because I am sure I could bring my whole Family here, and maintain it, as cheap as I can live here Single at Board with a servant and two Horses. I am &c. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Paine had recorded the start of his sickness on July 19: “Taken very ill with a fever.” Robert Treat Paine’s diary, July 19, 1776, MHi. 2 Samuel Adams. Samuel Adams to Benjamin Kent My dear friend Philad July 27 1776 I must beg you to impute to the true Reason my not having yet acknowledgd & answerd your very obliging Letter of the 24 May 1 — The Want of Leisure often prevents my indulging the natural In clination of my Mind to converse with my distant Friends by familiar Epistles; for however unequal I feel my Self to the Station in which our Country has placed me here, I am indispensibly obligd to attend the Duties of it with Diligence. It has been difficult for a Number of persons sent from all parts of so extensive a Territory and representing Colonies (or as I must now call them States) which in many Respects have had different Interests & Views, to unite in Measures materially to affect them all.


[Page 584]
552 July 27, 1776 Hence our Determinations have been necessarily slow. We have however gone on from Step to Step, till at length we are arrivd to perfection, as you have heard, in a Declaration of Independence. Was there ever a Resolution brot about, especially so important as this, without great internal Tumults & violent Convulsions! Th? Delegates of every Colony in Congress have given their Voices in favor of the great Question, & the People I am told, recognize the Resolution as though it was a Decree promulgated from Heaven. I have thot that if this decisive Measure had been taken six months earlier, it would have given Vigor to our Nothern Army & a differ ent Issue to our military exertions in Canada. But probably I was mistaken. The Colonies were not then all ripe for so momentous a Change. It was necessary that they shd be united, 8c it required time 8c patience to remove old prejudices, to instruct the unenlightened, convince the doubting and fortify the timid. Perhaps if our Friends had considerd how much was to be previously done they wd not have been, as you tell me some of them were “impatient under our Delay.” New Govts are now erecting in the several American States under the Authority of the people. Monarchy seems to be generally ex ploded—and it is not a little surprising to me, that the Aristocratick Spirit which appeard to have taken deep Root in some of them, now gives place to that of Democracy. You justly observe that “the Soul or Spirit of Democracy is Virtue.” No State can long preserve its liberty “where Virtue is not supremely honord.” I flatter my self you are mistaken in thinking ours is so very deficient, and I do assure you, I find relief in supposing your Colouring is too high. But if I deceive my self in this most essential point I conjure you and every Man of Influence by Example and by all Means to stem the Torrent of Vice, which, as a celebrated Author tells us, “pre vailing would destroy, not only a Kingdom or an Empire, but the whole moral Dominion of the Almighty throughout the Infinitude of Space.” I have Time only to add that I am very affectionately yours, S A FC (NN). 1 Kent’s letter is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, Pha. 27th July 1776. The vessels mentioned in my last dated in Congress landed Some highlanders: we know not how many. The enemy’s fleet has had a


[Page 602]
570 July 30, 1776 length, I fear, is departing. Increase of Heat in the Weather, and of Perplexity in Business, if that is possible, have become too much for me. These Circumstances, added to my Concern, for those other Parts of myself in Boston, would certainly have carried me there be fore now, if I could have got there: But I have no servant, nor Horse. I am now determined to go home: but the precise Time, I cannot fix. I know not how to go. I have been deliberating whether to go by the stage to New York, and trust to the Chapter of Acci dents to get from thence to Boston; or whether to hire, or purchase an Horse here, or whether to get along some other Way, with Coll. Whipple, or Mr. S. Adams. But am still undetermined. If I knew that Bass was at Leisure, and if I knew where you could get Horses, I should request you to send him here, to bring me home. But I dont know what to say. If he should come, he must keep a good look out, and make a strict Enquiry all along the Road, for me, least he should miss me, least I should pass by him on my Way home. After all, I cannot reconcile myself to the Thoughts of staying here so long as will be necessary for a servant and Horses to come for me. I must get along as well as I can by the Stage or by procuring a Horse here. The Conspiracy, at New York, betrayed the Ignorance, Folly, Timidity and Impotence of the Conspirators, at the same Time, that it disclosed the Turpitude of their Hearts. They had no Plan. They corrupted one another, and engaged to Act, when the Plan should be formed. This they left for an After Consideration. The Tory Interest in America, is extreamly feeble. Your Successes by Sea, give me great Pleasure, and so did the heartfelt Rejoicings at the Proclamation of Freedom. Mr. Bowdoins Sentiment did him Honour. Adieu. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:70-72. ’Abigail’s letter of July 21 and Richard Cranch’s of July 22 are in Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:55-58. Samuel Chase to Richard Henry Lee My Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 30th. 1776 Your Letter of the 14 Inst, followed Me to this City, and your other favour of the 21st was delivered by yesterdays Post. I hurried to Congress to give my little assistance to the framing a Confederacy and a plan for a foreign alliance, both of them Sub jects of the utmost Importance, and which in my Judgment de mand immediate Dispatch. The Confederacy has engaged our close


[Page 605]
July 30, 1776 573 and are to be governed by the following Instructions during the present Voyage or untill you receive others from Congress or from this or some other Committee of Congress. Mr Bradford will require bills of Loading from you for the entire Cargo on board the Dis patch Consigned to the above mentioned John Philip Merkle Esqr (who is to go passenger in the Brigt.) At her discharging Port in Europe, such bills of Loading you are to sign, receive Mr Merkle on bd., assist him in providing Sea Stores and then proceed with the utmost dilligence for the Coast of France avoiding most carefully all Vessells at Sea, and put into the first convenient Port you can make in that Kingdom; Nantes or Bourdeaux may perhaps be the safest, and you must there deliver to Mr. Merkle any part of the Cargo he may find it convenient to sell or the whole if he chuses it. We inclose to Mr Bradford by this Conveyance a Packet directed to Messrs. Sam. & J. H. Delap, Merchts. in Bourdeaux. Mr Bradford will deliver that Packet to you and we require your utmost Care of it, shoud you have the Misfortune to be taken you must throw it overboard slung with a weight that will sink it, for on no Account must this fall in the Hands of our Enemies. On the contrary if you get safe into Bourdeaux deliver it yourself to Messrs. Sam. & J. H. Delap, Merchts. there. If you go into any other Port forward it to them by Post or special Messenger as you may be advised is safest & best. You must also advise these Gentlemen what other ports or places Mr. Merkle intends to order you for, and desire them to write you a few lines telling you how to direct letters to Silas Deane Esqr. so that they will certainly fall into his Hands. We expect Mr Merkle will direct you to proceed from France to Amsterdam, and you must obey his Orders delivering to him the rest of the Cargo at any Port or Ports he may desire. He is not to pay any freight but will supply you with all things necessary for the Brigt. &: Money to pay Charges. For all you receive in Money, Stores, Outfitt 8cc you’ll grant him proper Receipts and when you have discharged entirely the present Cargo, you are to receive from him all such Goods, Wares, Merchandize, Arms &: Ammunition as he may think proper to ship granting him bills of Loading for what he puts on board. We also give you liberty to Arm the Brigt. in the most compleat Manner with as many four Pounder Cannon, Swivells, Blunder busses, Musquets, Cutlasses &c. as may be proper for such a Vessell. You may also ship as many good Seamen as you can conveniently accommodate obtaining them on the best Terms in your power. Lay in a suitable Stock of Provisions, a sufficient quantity of Ammu nition &c, the Cost & Charges of all which Mr Merkle will defray taking your Receipts. Whilst this business is transacting you will write immediately after your Arrival at the Port where it is to be done to Messrs. Sam. & J H Delap of Bourdeaux & also to Silas Deane Esqr. if you obtain


[Page 613]
July 30, 1776 581 ness it has given me to think you shoud suffer Inconvenience for the Want of it, we must avoid such things in future. I know nothing of the Fish Col. Gerry spoke to you about, but as Mr. Gerry of the Congress is now gone Home and it must have been bought by his Order I presume he will do the needful therein. Pray present my Comp’ts to him and accept the same yourself as I am very truly, Sir, Your Obed’t hble Servant, Rob’t Morris Tr (ViWC). Addressed: ‘‘John Bradford Esq’r, Continental Agent for Prizes etc, Boston." Transcriber’s notation: ‘‘Address in Robert Morris’ autograph.” 1 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to Stephen Cleveland, this date. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 29 [i.e. 30] 1776 1 This morning in Consequence of a letter from Governour Rutlege informing the Congress that the Cherokee nation had begun Hostili ties, a Resolve has passed recommending to the Provinces of Virginia, North Carolina and Georgia to assist and cooperate with South Caro lina in carrying on a War with all possible vigor against those savages. This however is by no means intended to alter the plan of military operations which you have begun or to draw off the Strength of our back Country to a distant part merely for the sake of acting in the same place with the South Carolinians, if the Opposition can be made as effectually in any manner devised by yourselves and from a part of your province from whence hostilities may successfully be carried into the bosom of the Cherokee Country. In fact nothing is meant but to subdue the Cherokees. We intended to have wrote you the other day by Capt Tool but his precipitate departure prevented it. Nothing very material has occured since he left this—what before you will find by having recourse to the newspapers which by him We inclosed to your Council of Safety. General Washington is at New York with a large army—G e n Howe on Staten Island with about 10,000 men and ex pecting every day reinforcements. Some slight skirmishes have hap pened but nothing decisive. We expect soon to hear that the Armies are in contact & then We shall write you again. We have taken advantage of a moments leisure from the Business of New York to call the Attention of the Congress to the State of North Carolina. This Evening they meet & from the disposition of the congress We flatter ourselves the very reasonable requisitions signified in your Letter & some other matters which have occurred


[Page 614]
582 July 30, 1776 to us since as necessary for the safety of our Colony will be duely attended to. 2 Pray make our best respects to your honourable Board & believe us to be, with great Regard Your most Obedt Hum Serts, Wm Hooper Joseph Hewes John Penn RC (Nc-Ar). Written by Hooper and signed by Hooper, Hewes, and Penn. 1 Since the resolves mentioned in the first paragraph were passed by Congress on July 30, this letter must have been dated July 29 by mistake. JCC, 5:616-17. 2 Letters from the North Carolina Council of Safety to Hancock, June 24, and to the North Carolina delegates, June 24 and July 7, setting forth the state's military requirements, are in N.C. Colonial Records, 11:299-302, 308-9. The letter to Han cock was presented to Congress on July 24. PCC, item 72, fols. 17-20; and JCC, 5:608. On July 30 Congress appointed a committee to consider the condition of North Carolina, and, on the basis of the committee's report, adopted several re solves pertaining to the state’s defense on the following day. JCC, 5:617, 623-24. See also the resolves passed on August 6 and 12 concerning military supplies for North Carolina. JCC, 5:633, 647. Benjamin Rush to Walter Jones Dr Walter, 1 Philada. July 30. 1776. Col. Lee has just now whisperd to me that he had given you reason to expect a long letter from me. I have stole a few minutes from the congress into a committee room to drop you a few lines, not to inform you of any news, but to convince you that in my political as well as medical line I am still your friend. What shall I say of the august assembly of our States? It is a wide field for speculation. Here we behold the strengths and weak ness of the human Understanding and the extent of human virtue & folly. Time will meliorate us. A few more misfortunes will teach us wisdom & humility, and inspire us with true benevolence. The republican soil is broke up—but we have still many monarchical & aristocratical weeds to pluck up from it. The history of the Congress that will sit in the year 1780 will be the history of the Dignity of human nature. We have knocked up the substance of royalty but now & then we worship the shadow. O’ liberty—liberty— I have worshipped thee as a substance, and have found thee so. The influence of the declaration of independance upon the senate & the field is inconceivable. The militia of our state pant for noth ing more than to avenge the blood of our brave countrymen upon our enemies on Staten Island.


[Page 615]
July 30, 1776 583 Adieu my dear sir. Continue to enlighten your fellow citizens in the doctrine of a free government. Make them wise & virtuous, and they will be happy. Yours sincerely, B Rush RC (DLC). Addressed: “Dr. Walter Jones, Physician, Richmond, Virginia.” 1 Walter Jones (1745-1815) had been Rush’s friend since 1766 during their stu dent days at Edinburgh, where both men received their medical degrees. He re turned to his native Virginia to practice medicine but eventually accepted an active public role and held several elective offices, 1785-1811. When Jones was elected “physician general of the hospital in the middle department” in April 1777, he declined the appointment and Rush was elected to the position in his stead. JCC, 7:253, 8:490, 518; and Bio. Dir. Cong. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila. July. 30. 1776. We shall endeavour to procure the Instruments desired by yours of the 25th but they are not easily procured, 1 the Demand for the Continental Army being great and many of the Cutlers of this City having gone to Jersey with the Militia. The Powder and Arms were sent some days ago to Annapolis which we hope will be attended with no Inconvenience. 2 We have not the least Doubt but every thing in your Power will be done in the best Manner for the publick Service and the preservation of every part of the united States. Maryland to be sure must be a principal Object of your Attention, and we hope considering the Spirit and Alacrity which all ranks of men have shewn when our Province required their Service, that our Coast will be secured against the Dangers of Dunmore and his ras cally Gang of Pirates. We have Nothing lately from Ticonderoga. The Enemy do not stir from Staten Island. 8 Ships arrived there a few days ago but whether they brought Soldiers or not we have not heard. Genl Washington has now a considerable Strength at N. York, but there are only 3000 Men in Jersey, where there ought to be at least 10,000. Col. Smallwood is at N. York. We have no Doubt but the Subsistance Money will be readily paid. And we wish every Necessary which can be had may be furnished the Militia before they march. Money will be advanced to them here if they need it. Hunting Shirts will be a convenient & good uniform if they can be had. We shall at all Times give you the earliest Information of all important Occurrencies and shall with pleasure execute your Com mands, and have the Honour to be, Yr most obt Sert., T. Stone [P.S.] My Brothers are engaged in other Business, and the Post is going so that their signatures must be dispensed with. T. S.


[Page 616]
584 July 30, 1776 RC (MdAA). 1 A reference to the council’s letter of July 26 to the Maryland delegates. See Md. Archives, 12:119-20. “See Maryland Delegates to the Maryland Council of Safety, July 23, 1776, note 3. John Witherspoon’s Speech in Congress [July 30, 1776] 1 The absolute necessity of union to the vigour and success of those measures on which we are already entered, is felt and confessed by every one of us, without exception; so far, indeed, that those who have expressed their fears or suspicions of the existing confederacy proving abortive, have yet agreed in saying that there must and shall be a confederacy for the purposes of, and till the finishing of this war. So far it is well; and so far it is pleasing to hear them ex press their sentiments. But I intreat gentlemen calmly to consider how far the giving up all hopes of a lasting confederacy among these states, for their future security and improvement, will have an effect upon the stability and efficacy of even the temporary con federacy, which all acknowledge to be necessary? I am fully per suaded, that when it ceases to be generally known, that the delegates of the provinces consider a lasting union as impracticable, it will greatly derange the minds of the people, and weaken their hands in defence of their country, which they have now undertaken with so much alacrity and spirit. I confess it would to me greatly diminish the glory and importance of the struggle, whether considered as for the rights of mankind in general, or for the prosperity and happi ness of this continent in future times. It would quite depreciate the object of hope, as well as place it at a greater distance. For what would it signify to risk our possessions and shed our blood to set ourselves free from the encroachments and oppression of Great Britain—with a certainty, as soon as peace was settled with them of a more lasting war, a more unnatural, more bloody, and much more hopeless war, among the colonies them selves? Some of us consider ourselves as acting for posterity at present, having little expectation of living to see all things fully settled, and the good consequences of liberty taking effect. But how much more uncertain the hope of seeing the internal contests of the colonies settled upon a lasting and equitable footing? One of the greatest dangers I have always considered the colonies as exposed to at present, is treachery among themselves, augmented by bribery and corruption from our enemies. But what force would be added to the arguments of seducers, if they could say with truth, that it was of no consequence whether we succeeded against Great Britain or not; for we must, in the end, be subjected, the greatest


[Page 617]
July 30, 1776 585 part of us, to the power of one or more of the strongest or largest of the American states? And here I would apply the argument which we have so often used against Great Britain—that in all history we see that the slaves of freemen, and the subject states of republics, have been of all others the most grievously oppressed. I do not think the records of time can produce an instance of slaves treated with so much barbarity as the Helotes by the Lacedemonians, who were the most illustrious champions for liberty in all Greece; or of prov inces more plundered and spoiled than the states conquered by the Romans, for one hundred years before Caesar’s dictatorship. The reason is plain; there are many great men in free states. There were many consular gentlemen in that great republic, who all considered themselves as greater than kings, and must have kingly fortunes, which they had no other way of acquiring but by governments of provinces, which lasted generally but one year, and seldom more than two. In what I have already said, or may say, or any cases I may state, I hope every gentleman will do me the justice to believe, that I have not the most distant view to particular persons or societies, and mean only to reason from the usual course of things, and the preju dices inseparable from men as such. And can we help saying, that there will be a much greater degree, not only of the corruption of particular persons, but the defection of particular provinces from the present confederacy, if they consider our success itself as only a prelude to a contest of a more dreadful nature, and indeed much more properly a civil war than that which now often obtains the name? Must not small colonies in particular be in danger of saying, we must secure ourselves? If the colonies are independent states, separate and disunited, after this war, we may be sure of coming off by the worse. We are in no condition to contend with several of them. Our trade in general, and our trade with them, must be upon such terms as they shall be pleased to prescribe. What will be the consequence of this? Will they not be ready to prefer putting them selves under the protection of Great Britain, France or Holland, rather than submit to the tyranny of their neighbours, who were lately their equals? Nor would it be at all impossible, that they should enter into such rash engagements as would prove their own destruction, from a mixture of apprehended necessity and real re sentment. Perhaps it may be thought that breaking off this confederacy, and leaving it unfinished after we have entered upon it, will be only postponing the duty to some future period? Alas, nothing can exceed the absurdity of that supposition. Does not all history cry out, that a common danger is the great and only effectual means of settling difficulties, and composing differences. Have we not ex perienced its efficacy in producing such a degree of union through


[Page 618]
586 July 30, 1776 these colonies, as nobody would have prophesied, and hardly any would have expected? If therefore, at present, when the danger is yet imminent, when it is so far from being over, that it is but coming to its height, we shall find it impossible to agree upon the terms of this confederacy, what madness is it to suppose that there ever will be a time, or that circumstances will so change, as to make it even probable, that it will be done at an after season? Will not the very same difficulties that are in our way, be in the way of those who shall come after us? Is it possible that they should be ignorant of them, or inattentive to them? Will they not hcve the same jealousies of each other, the same attachment to local prejudices, and particular interest? So certain is this, that I look upon it as on the repentance of a sinner— Every day’s delay, though it adds to the necessity, yet augments the difficulty, and takes from the inclination. There is one thing that has been thrown out, by which some seem to persuade themselves of, and others to be more indifferent about the success of a confederacy—that from the nature of men, it is to be expected, that a time must come when it will be dissolved and broken in pieces. I am none of those who either deny or conceal the depravity of human nature, till it is purified by the light of truth, and renewed by the Spirit of the living God. Yet I apprehend there is no force in that reasoning at all. Shall we establish nothing good, because we know it cannot be eternal? Shall we live without govern ment, because every constitution has its old age, and its period? Because we know that we shall die, shall we take no pains to pre serve or lengthen out life? Far from it, Sir: it only requires the more watchful attention, to settle government upon the best principles, and in the wisest manner, that it may last as long as the nature of things will admit. But I beg leave to say something more, though with some risk that it will be thought visionary and romantic. I do expect, Mr President, a progress, as in every other human art, so in the order and perfec tion of human society, greater than we have yet seen; and why should we be wanting to ourselves in urging it forward? It is certain, I think, that human science and religion have kept company together, and greatly assisted each other’s progress in the world. I do not say that intellectual and moral qualities are in the same proportion in par ticular persons; but they have a great and friendly influence upon one another, in societies and larger bodies. There have been great improvements, not only in human know ledge, but in human nature; the progess of which can be easily traced in history. Every body is able to look back to the time in Europe, when the liberal sentiments that now prevail upon the rights of conscience, would have been looked upon as absurd. It


[Page 619]
July 31, 1776 587 is but little above two hundred years since that enlarged system called the balance of power, took place; and I maintain, that it is a greater step from the former disunited and hostile situation of kingdoms and states, to their present condition, than it would be from their present condition to a state of more perfect and lasting union. It is not impossible, that in future times all the states on one quarter of the globe, may see it proper by some plan of union, to perpetuate security and peace; and sure I am, a well planned con federacy among the states of America, may hand down the blessings of peace and public order to many generations. The union of the seven provinces of the Low Countries, has never yet been broken; and they are of very different degrees of strength and wealth. Neither have the Cantons of Switzerland ever broken among themselves, though there are some of them protestants, and some of them papists, by public establishment. Not only so, but these confederates are sel dom engaged in a war with other nations. Wars are generally between monarchs, or single states that are large. A confederation of itself keeps war at a distance from the bodies of which it is composed. For all these reasons, Sir, I humbly apprehend, that every argu ment from honour, interest, safety and necessity, conspire in pres sing us to a confederacy; and if it be seriously attempted, I hope, by the blessing of God upon our endeavours, it will be happily accomplished. MS not found; reprinted from John Witherspoon, The Works of John Wither spoon . . ., 9 vols. (Edinburgh: J. Ogle, 1815), 9:135-41, where it appears under the heading: "Part of a Speech in Congress, upon the Confederation.” 1 Thomas Jefferson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, July 12-August 1, and John Adams’ Notes of Debates, July 30, 1776, strongly suggest that this is the speech Witherspoon delivered in Congress on the 30th. Edmund C. Burnett as signed the date November 25, 1778, to this speech, but in doing so he admitted that “It is not known when this speech was made” and that it “might have been appropriate at almost any time when the Confederation was under discussion.” Burnett, Letters, 3:5O8n.2. In addition to the summaries of Witherspoon’s remarks by Adams and Jefferson, there is also internal evidence justifying an earlier date for this document. Witherspoon’s frequent use of the term “colonies” is suggestive of a period not long after independence had been declared, and his reference to the general situation then facing Congress as one of “danger . . . yet imminent . . . coming to its height” seems more appropriate to the summer of 1776 than the fall of 1778. John Hancock to Benjamin Flower Sir, Philada. July 31t. 1776. The enclosed Commission of Commissary of military Stores for the Flying Camp has been ready for you ever since the Date of it. 1


[Page 628]
596 August 1, 1776 We are engaged in very important business. I am in hopes jus tice & true policy will at last prevail over distinct & separate in terests. If it should not, I will predict that a confederation formed on partial & interested views will not be lasting. I was disappointed in not receiving a letter from you by this day’s post. My love to Molly, little Poll & Mrs Darnall. I hope to be with you the 11th instant. This place is insupportably hot. As there will not be a representation, even if I should not be chosen into Convention I shall return home. Mr. Chase desires to be re membered to all the family. Wishing a long enjoy [men] t of yr. health I remain, yr. affectionate Son, Ch Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). Abraham Clark to James Caldwell Dear Sir, 1 Philaa. August It. 1776. Your favour of the 24th Ulto. & of Mr. Daytons of the 25th I this day had the Pleasure of receiving. The frequent miscarriage of Letters sent your way makes me more indolent in the Writing way than I should otherwise be. The State of the British Army on Staten Island is uncertain. They at first amounted to between 8 to 10 thousand, but Vessels are daily Arriving. 2000 highlanders got there some days past, & since that 15 or 16 Vessells came in at a Time, but as the Forces Occupy All parts of the Island it is difficult for us to know their Strength, but I am Persuaded they will soon be 20,000 Strong. A flying Camp is forming in the Jerseys from Amboy to Eliza. Town Point, when full it is to consist of About 16 Thousand, but at Present there is not I believe 5 thousand, tho’ they Are gathering fast. They have fortifications at all the Principal passes on the Island, as we have on the Jersey Shore. I can’t learn there is any design to Attack the Forces on the Island, they have become too Numerous. I expect we shall have Serious work with them soon. Such a Numerous force as they have or soon will have will induce them to make a push soon. We have 8 field pieces belonging to the Jerseys and 6 brass field pieces carried by the Phila. battalio[ns], and 10 More went yesterday or this morning from this City but not mounted, the Carriages are to make. Phila. is almost Striped of Inhabitants, all the City battalions are in the Jerseys. The Country battalions are now on their March, every day comeing into this Town on their way. Our Congress have now under Consideration a Confederation of


[Page 634]
602 August 1, 1776 to above 100, encrease the proportion of people who are to send a member. This is not the most perfect that can be wished; is certainly much better than the worst that can be contrived. MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. Endorsed: “Notes of Speeches delivered in Convention in 1776, in Congress in 1776 & in Convention of Pennsya 1776.” 1 It is clear from the notes of debates of both John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, this date, that Rush delivered this speech on August 1, 1776. 2 The abM Raynal (Guillaume Thomas Francois) discussed the government of the Dutch Republic in book 19 of his Histoire philosophique et politique des etablissemens et du commerce des Europeens dans les deux Indes. See Philosophical and Political History of the Settlements and Trade of the Europeans in the East and West Indies, trans. J. O. Justamond, 6 vols. (London: J. Mundell & Co., 1798; reprint ed., New York: Negro Universities Press, 1969), 6:265-68. 3 At this point, Rush attached a small sheet of paper to his notes with sealing wax, masking over the following passage, which he probably ignored when he delivered his speech. "One right excepted which belong [to] States—boundaries— this perhaps by colony Voting. The rest are all the rights of individuals—no state can alienate them.” ‘Here Rush attached a second insert, containing the next paragraph, which overlays the following lined out passage. "Let us remember our number [is] small— 300000 [3000000?] of people a small nation." ’Rush interlined four words between this paragraph and the next: "in 9 bind ing 13.” 3 According to Montesquieu, who cited book 14 of Strabo’s Geography, the Lycian Confederation consisted of 23 cities. Montesquieu, The Spirit of Laws, bk. 9, chap. 3. 7 Here Rush attached a third insert, containing the next two paragraphs, which overlay the following passage. “Our Confederation will partake of the infirmities of men. But let it be slight disordered. Dont let us [. . .] it that will ‘grow with its growth, strengthen with its strength’—& finally ending its ruin.” The biological metaphor Rush developed here undoubtedly rests upon his reading of Alexander Pope. "The young disease, that must subdue at length, Grows with his growth, and strengthens with his strength.” Essay on Man 2.135. Secret Committee to George Washington Sir In Secret Committee. Philada August 1st. 1776 We have the honor to transmit you five Tons of Musquet Pow der by the bearer hereof agreable to an order of Congress passed yesterday 1 and as our Stock here is not considerable We beg to remind you that three Powder Mills are now employed in making Con tinental Powder near New York, Vizt. Mr. Livingston & Mr. Wisners Mills in N York Government and Colo Fords in the Jerseys from whence this supply might have been drawn and when more is wanted it will be found there. By order of the Secret Committee, I have the honor to be Your Excellencys Most obedt. hble servt. Robt Morris, Chair Man


[Page 635]
August 2, 1776 603 RC (Cabell Gwathmey, Berkeley, Calif., 1950). Written and signed by Robert Morris. 1 See JCC, 5:623. John Adams’ Notes of Debates Aug. 2d. [1776] Limiting the Bounds of States which by Charter &c. extend to the South Sea. 1 Sherman thinks the Bounds ought to be settled. A Majority of States have no Claim to the South Sea. Moves this Amendment, to be subsituted in Place of this Clause and also instead of the 15th Article. No Lands to be seperated from any State, which are already settled, or become private Property. Chase denys that any Colony has a Right, to go to the South Sea. . . 2 Harrison. How came Maryland by its Land? but by its Charter: By its Charter Virginia owns to the South Sea. Gentlemen shall not pare away the Colony of Virginia. R. Island has more Generosity, than to wish the Massachusetts pared away. Delaware does not wish to pare away Pensilvania. Huntington. Admit there is danger, from Virginia, does it follow that Congress has a Right to limit her Bounds? The Consequence is not to enter into Confederation. But as to the Question of Right, We all unite against mutilating Charters. I cant agree to the Principle. We are a Spectacle to all Europe. I am not so much alarmed at the Danger, from Virginia, as some are. My fears are not alarmed. They have acted as noble a Part as any. I doubt not the Wisdom of Virginia will limit themselves. A Mans Right does not cease to be a Right because it is large. The Question] of Right must be deter mined by the Principles of the common Law. Stone. This Argument is taken up upon very wrong Ground. It is considered as if We were voting away the Territory of particular Colonies, and Gentlemen work themselves up into Warmth, upon that Supposition. Suppose Virginia should. The small Colonies have a Right to Happiness and Security. They would have no Safety if the great Colonies were not limited. We shall grant Lands in small Quantities, without Rent, or Tribute, or purchase Money. It is said that Virginia is attacked on every Side. Is it meant that Virginia shall sell the Lands for their own Emolument? All the Colonies have defended these Lands vs. the K. of G.B., and at the Expence of all. Does Virginia intend to establish Quitrents? I dont mean that the united States shall sell them to get Money by them. Jefferson. I protest vs. the Right of Congress to decide, upon the


[Page 642]
610 August 2, 1776 1 Cornelius Harnett was president of the council of safety. For the council's “two last letters” to the North Carolina delegates, which were carried by William Hooper, who arrived in Philadelphia on July 23, see North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, July 30, 1776, note 2. 2 For the resolve on sending “four tons of gunpowder and six four pounders” to North Carolina, which was passed by Congress on July 31, see JCC, 5:623. 3 See ibid. ‘See North Carolina Council of Safety to the North Carolina Delegates, July 7, 1776, in N.C. Colonial Records, 11:308-9. John Adams to Abigail Adams Aug. 3. 1776 The Post was later than usual to day, so that I had not yours of July 24 till this Evening. You have made me very happy, by the particular and favourable Account you give me of all the Family. But I dont understand how there are so many who have no Erup tions, and no Symptoms. The Inflammation in the Arm might do, but without these, there is no small Pox. I will lay a Wager, that your whole Hospital have not had so much small Pox, as Mrs. Katy Quincy. Upon my Word she has had an Abundance of it, but is finely recovered, looks as fresh as a Rose, but pitted all over, as thick as ever you saw any one. I this Evening pre sented your Compliments and Thanks to Mr. Hancock for his polite offer of his House, and likewise your Compliments to his Lady and Mrs. Katy. Aug. 4. Went this Morning to the Baptist Meeting, in Hopes of hearing Mr. Stillman, but was dissappointed. He was there, but another Gentleman preached. His Action was violent to a degree bordering on fury. His Gestures, unnatural, and distorted. Not the least Idea of Grace in his Motions, or Elegance in his Style. His Voice was vociferous and boisterous, and his Composition almost wholly destitute of Ingenuity. I wonder extreamly at the Fondness of our People for schollars educated at the Southward and for southern Preachers. There is no one Thing, in which We excell them more, than in our University, our schollars, and Preachers. Particular Gentlemen here, who have improved upon their Education by Travel, shine. But in general, old Massachusetts outshines her younger sisters, still. In several Particulars, they have more Wit, than We. They have Societies; the philosophical Society particularly, which excites a scientific Emulation, and propagates their Fame. If ever I get through this Scene of Politicks and War, I will spend the Remainder of my days, in endeavouring to instruct my Countrymen in the Art of making the most of their Abilities and Virtues, an Art, which they have hitherto, too much neglected. A philosophical


[Page 643]
August 3, 1776 611 society shall be established at Boston, if I have Wit and Address enough to accomplish it, sometime or other. Pray set Brother Cranch’s Philosophical Head to plodding upon this Project. Many of his Lucubrations would have been published and preserved, for the Benefit of Mankind, and for his Honour, if such a Clubb had existed. My Countrymen want Art and Address. They want Knowledge of the World. They want the exteriour and superficial Accomplish ments of Gentlemen, upon which the World has set so high a Value. In solid Abilities and real Virtues, they vastly excell in general, any People upon this Continent. Our N. England People are Aukward and bashfull; yet they are pert, ostentatious and vain, a Mixture which excites Ridicule and gives Disgust. They have not the faculty of shewing themselves to the best Advantage, nor the Art of concealing this faculty. An Art and Faculty which some People possess in the highest degree. Our Deficiencies in these Respects, are owing wholly to the little Intercourse We have with strangers, and to our Inexperience in the World. These Imperfections must be remedied, for New England must produce the Heroes, the statesmen, the Philosophers, or America will make no great Figure for some Time. Our Army is rather sickly at N. York, and We live in daily Ex pectation of hearing of some great Event. May God almighty grant it may be prosperous for America. Hope is an Anchor and a Cordial. Disappointment however will not disconcert me. If you will come to Philadelphia in September, I will stay, as long as you please. I should be as proud and happy as a Bridegroom. Yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:75-76. John Adams to William Heath Dear Sir Philadelphia Aug. 3. 1776 Yours of the 20th Ult. is before me. 1 1 am much obliged to you for it, and most heartily wish for a more free and intimate Communica tion of Sentiments, upon the State both of our Councils and Arms. I should be happy, in a few Hours Conversation, but as this cannot be, I must be content with a Letter. We have now a Nation to protect and defend; and I can easily see the Propriety of the observation you quote from the Prussian Hero, that the Prosperity of a State depends upon the Discipline of its Army. This Discipline reared the Roman Empire and the British: and the American will Stand or fall, in my opinion, according as it adheres to or deviates from the Same Discipline.


[Page 644]
612 August 3, 1776 If there is not Wisdom and Vigour enough in the civil Government to Support the military officers, in introducing and establishing Such a Discipline, it must be owing to the Advantages of Soil and Climate, and our extream Distance from our Enemies, not to our own Strength, Virtue, or Wisdom, if We do not fail. The Army must be well officered, Armed, disciplined, fed, cloathed, covered, and paid. In these Respects We do as well as We can. Time, I hope, will assist Us, and every officer of the Army, would do well to suggest to his Friends and Correspondents in Congress, and in the Legislatures of the Several States, every defect, and every Im provement in those Particulars, which occurs to him. I am in more Anxiety for Cloaths and Tents than any Thing, because the Health as well as Discipline of the Army, depend much upon them. We shall never do well, untill We get a regular Army, and this will never be, untill Men are inlisted for a longer Duration, and that will never be effected untill We are more generous in our Encourage ment to Men. But I am convinced that Time alone, will persuade Us to this Measure: and in the mean Time We shall, very indis creetly waste a much greater Expence than would be necessary for this great Purpose in temporary Calls upon Militia, besides risquing the Loss of many Lives, and much Reputation. Congress has not determined to have no Regard to the Line of Succession in Promotions, but only that this Line shall not be an invariable Rule. Caeteris paribus, the Line will be pursued. But they mean to reserve a Right of distinguishing extraordinary Merit, or Demerit. This Rule may be abused. But is it not necessary? All good Things are liable to abuse. I am afraid, nay I know it will be abused, in particular Instances. But if We make the succession an invariable Rule, will not the Abuse be greater? Is it not common in the British Army, to promote junior officers, over the Heads of their Superiours? Nay even officers in the same Regiment and on the same Command? I have been told of several Instances. This however is wrong. Your opinions of Men and Things, I wish I knew in more detail, because I have a good opinion of your Judgment of both, and I fear, situated as I am, many Things relating to both may not have come to my Knowledge, that I ought to know. As the first officer in the Massachusetts Service, you have in some sort the Patronage of all the officers of that State. I hope you will recommend the best Men for promotion. I confess myself very ignorant of the military Characters from that State. By some Expressions in the Close of your Letter, I conclude you were not perfectly Satisfyed with a late Promotion. Be assured, Sir, if that was raising a junior officer, over the Head of any Superiour, it was not considered in that light by the Gentlemen who did it. The


[Page 645]
August 3, 1776 613 Person promoted was thought to be the oldest Brigadier, and in tituled to Advancement’ by the Line of Succession. And it is my opinion he would have been made a Major General much sooner if his Experience had not been thought indispensible in the Adjutant Generals Department. 2 I am, Sir, with great Respect, your affection ate Servant, John Adams RC (MHi). ’Heath’s July 20 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi, and Collections of the Massachusetts Historical Society, 7th ser. 4 (1904): 11-13. 2 A reference to Horatio Gates. Heath was promoted to major general on August 9, 1776. JCC, 5:641. John Adams to Daniel Hitchcock Sir Philadelphia August 3. 1776 Your obliging Favour of the 22 Ult. came duely to Hand, 1 and I thank you for it. A free Correspondence between the Members of Congress and the officers of the Army will probably be attended with Advantages to the public by improving both the Councils and Arms of America. The Burthen of contracting for Cloaths, Arms, and accoutrements for the Regiments ought not to lie upon the collonells. A Pay master for each Regiment has been ordered by Congress, and if this officer is not enough, if a Representation was made of it, another would be appointed. But I suppose a Pay master would answer all the Purposes. If not be so good as to point out to me, what other Regulation is needfull. There is some ground for your observation that Officers are ad vanced faster to Posts of Honour, to the Southward than Northward. But I cannot think that the Instance you have mentioned, is a Proof of it, or that in that Case the Promotions were exceptionable. You say that every one who was Coll there last year, has been this year made a General. This in two illustrious Instances, Henry & Gadsden, did not hold. But in the other Cases it was not Wrong. Mercer, Lewis, More, and How were not only Men of Fortune, and Figure, in their Countries and in civil Imployments, but they were all veteran Soldiers, and had been Collonells in a former War. It is true, their Provincial Legislatures had made them only Collonells last year, and the Reason was because they only raised Regiments, not Brigades. But as soon as those Colonies came to raise Brigades, it was but reasonable these officers should be appointed Brigadiers. These officers stood in the Light of Thomas, Fry, Whitcomb, Put nam, &c &c with this difference, that the Gentlemen themselves were Superiour in Point of Property and Education. Besides, it has been


[Page 646]
614 August 3, 1776 our constant Endeavour, that each State should have a reasonable Number of General officers in Proportion to the Number of Troops they raise. It should be considered that We have constituents to satisfy as well as the Army, and Colonies to rank as well as Collonells and Generals. Massachusetts has most Cause of Complaint upon this Head. That there have not been many Promotions of Collonells to the Northward, is true. But how can it be avoided. If I were left to myself, to my Judgment and Inclination, I should not hesitate a Moment. But We must not deviate from the Line of Succession. If We do, We are threatened with Disgust and Resignations. And how can We follow the Line? Wooster, Heath and Spencer ought to be made Major Generals, But is this the opinion of the Army? Reed, Nixon, Prescott and others, the oldest Collonells, and veteran soldiers and undoubtedly brave officers. But there is not one Gentleman in this Congress, I believe who knows the Face of any one of them except the last, or that ever received a letter from any one of them. What are their Educations, their Abilities, their Knowl edge of the World, their Sentiments? Have they that Authority and Command, which a General Officer ought to have, and which is so essential to the Discipline of an Army, upon which according to the K. of Prussia the entire Prosperity of every State depends. My own opinion is, that it is safest to promote those officers in Succession, but I fear it will never be done. It never will unless the General recommends it, and I dont believe he will do it. Besides the Colonies must and will have their Shares of Generals, except the Massachusetts. Such is the Nature of Mankind in Society, especially in Armies, that I believe it is best to pursue the Line of Succession in Promo tions excepting extraordinary Cases of Merit and Demerit. But if it would not occasion Confusion, I think a General Officer ought to be a Man of Letters, Taste and Sense, and therefore Parsons, Varnum, Hitchcock, and others of the like Character would certainly have my Vote. But then you know that old officers would tare up the ground, if such Youths, and inexperienced People, as they would express themselves were put over their Heads. 2 I have written with great Freedom, in Confidence that no ill use will be made of it. I wish your Sentiments upon these subjects with the Same Candor. The affair of the Bounty, has given me Uneasiness enough to no Purpose. 3 I see We shall never get a regular, permanent Army, but must go on patching up an Army every 3 Months, with fresh Militia, at double the Expence. Reason and Experience are some times lost upon the wisest and the best of Men. LB (MHi). Addressed: “Coll Daniel Hitchcock, Camp in Long Island.” 1 The July 22 letter from Daniel Hitchcock (d. 1777), commander of the Eleventh Continental Regiment, is in the Adams Papers, MHi.


[Page 647]
August 3, 1776 615 * On August 9 Congress appointed four major generals—William Heath, Joseph Spencer, John Sullivan, and Nathanael Greene—and six brigadier generals—James Read, John Nixon, Arthur St. Clair, Alexander McDougall, Samuel H. Parsons, and James Clinton. JCC, 5:641. “In his July 22 letter Hitchcock had complained that the ten dollar bounty voted by Congress on June 26 for “every non-commissioned officer and soldier, who will inlist to serve for the term of three years’’ would not be sufficient to induce men from New England to enlist. See JCC, 5:483. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear Sir Philadelphia August 3. 1776 Your Favour of 24 Ult. is before me. 1 Your observations concern ing the Encouragement We ought to give to soldiers to inlist, I think, are just; but a Wisdom Superiour to mine determined other wise, and therefore I must take it for granted, that it is Superiour Wisdom to live from Hand to Mouth, to trust to temporary Ex pedients, and to depend upon fresh Reinforcements of raw Militia every 3 Months instead of a regular, well disciplined Army. The Rule of Promotions is still unsettled, and I believe will continue so. The Time will soon arrive, when every state will appoint its own officers, and fill all Vacancies, under the Generals. For my own Part I have sometimes thought the best Rule would be to make the Promotion of Captains and Subalterns Regimental, and of Field officers Colonial. To make it continental is impracticable. The Case of Coll Tyler and Coll Durkee, will be considered by the Board of War, this Evening. 2 How they will determine, I know not. It will be determined with Integrity, I am very sure, I hope with Judgment, and in a Manner that will give Satisfaction. But this I am fully convinced of, that every Promotion, almost without Ex ception, that ever will be made, let it be done with ever so much Skill and Integrity and let us observe what Rule We may, will give Discontent, open or secret, to somebody, or other. There is no Possibility of giving universal Satisfaction to great Numbers of Men. Your Memorial has been duely attended to, and is under the Consideration of a Committee. 3 It is a difficult Case. I am, with Respect, and Esteem, your most obedient servant. John Adams RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang photostat, 1972). “Parsons’ July 24 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, MHi. “John Tyler and John Durkee were promoted to colonel on August 10. JCC, 5:644. 8 Parsons’ memorial asked for the arrest of Bazil Bouderot, a Canadian prisoner, for the murder of Parsons’ brother. It was read in Congress on July 25 and com mitted to a committee of which Adams was a member. On August 21 Congress ordered that Bouderot be imprisoned in Massachusetts until his trial or removal to Nova Scotia. See JCC, 5:609, 692-93; and Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:407-8n.l.


[Page 650]
618 August 3, 1776 neglected to send me the dates of their Commissions or appointments in the Militia. I have therefore wrote to them 1 to return me the dates before Commissions Can be made out. As to the Subalterns, there being placed with an Older or Younger Captain does not affect their Rank as that will be preserved by the Commission made out for them, and as that Will be the Case it is better they Should be fixed in Such Companies as best please them. I Showed Captain Gordon the return made me by the Field-Officers Showing the order in which they Chose to be placed with respect to the Companies, Which Mr. Gordon Said was agreable to their desire so far as he had knowledge in it. That he was shure it was right as to Caldwell’s Company. With Respect to the Choice of a Convention, I would Submit it to you and Your friends Whether (when you have fixed on Such Ticket as meets with your approbation) it would not be best to persue and Endeavour to impress the Utility of Such Choice being made by the people (Especially at a time when the Establishing their Rights and priviledges as freemen depends on Such Choice) Upon Your former plan, I mean of true Whiggism, True patriotism. This plan if persued with diligence and such Cool argument & reasoning as the Cause will point out & justify, I think Must Carry with it Persuation and Conviction. It Certainly will with all such as are not Governed by a party Spirit. If any person or persons be proposed in oposition to your ticket who have heretofore been unfriendly to the Cause, point out to the people their former Conduct, and Submit to them the propriety of trusting to Such men, at Such an Important Crisis. Your Scheme ought to hold out to the people more of the Patriot than of party-man. I will again Submit as before, Whether the Enquiry & Examination proposed to be had before the Committee will not tend so to irritate As to occasion many people by taking Sides in that matter To loose sight of the Cause, their true interest, for if they are lead to believe that you and Your friends are Governed more by party Sperit than by the true Interest of America, they Will hold you in the Light of all other party-men and deal with you Accordingly. You say the Committee are about to make this Enquiry. Are there a Sufficient Number of Patriots in that Committe to answer Your Expectation? Are there a Considerable Majority of them that Wish the Enquiry should be had? Will they (if matters turn out as you Expect) publish their opinions to the County So that the friends to Liberty may benefit by it? It is an Enquiry that ought to have been made but it is an Enquiry that ought to be made by men of Understanding only. Do Such make a Majority of the Committee tho good men? By What authority do they take it up? Are not many of the members principals in the matter of Enquiry? All these things I Submit to the Good Sense and prudence of You and Your friends. Tho you Seem to have


[Page 658]
626 August 6, 1776 of Comissions of any Continental Troops raised in your State and the Time for which they were enlisted. RC (MdAA). In a clerical hand and signed by Peters. Addressed: “Honble Con vention or Committee of Safety of the State of Maryland at Annapolis. Free. E. Rutledge.” Texts of this letter in M-Ar and N. C. Colonial Records, 10:726, indicate that it was a circular letter to all the states. 1 This resolve had been passed by Congress on May 21, 1776. JCC, 4:372. The board was prompted to write this letter by an August 5 resolve instructing it "to furnish the Committee of Treasury with the names of the British officers and other prisoners, who are entitled to the allowance made by Congress of two dollars per week, with the times of their captivity and the places where they are quartered.” JCC, 5:632. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton My Dear Friend, Phila. Augst 6th. 1776. Your favour of the 25 July & Mr Caldwells of the 26 from the German Flatts, I reed. A few days ago, which I Answered in a Letter to Mr Caldwell, having the day before wrote to you 1 by a Doctor going through Albany to the Army at Ticonderoga. Yours of the 20th of July from Fort Stanwix I reed yesterday. I have frequently informed you of the Situation of Our Army in the Jerseys Watching that under Genii. Howe on Staten Island. Could I believe my Let ters would come Safe to you, my Pleasure in Writing would be Equal to that you express in receiving them. The Kings Army re main on the Island fortifying every Pass, their Numbers unknown, but we with reason believe they are daily receiving reinforcements. 40 Vessels great & small arrived a few days ago. The Numr. of our Forces in Jersey I am not able to inform you of; they are to consist of at least 16 Thousand when Compleated. The greater part of the Militia of Pennsylva. were either there or going, who are to stay till the Army is Compleated. They form a Chain from Amboy to Eliza. Town Point where strong works are erected at an Amazing expence of labour Chiefly effected by our Militia before the Pennsylvanians arrived to their Assistance. The Jersey Militia upon the Arrival of other Forces returned home to get in their harvest, since which they are again taking the field. What works are thrown up at Amboy, blazing Star &c I am not able to say. I know nothing of any design to Attack the Kings Forces on the Island, it rather seems An Attack from them is waited for, and it is said such an Attack is soon ex pected to be made above N. York near Kings Bridge to which place the Ships that went up the River I hear are returned. Eliza. Town was in great Consternation upon Genl. Howes taking possn. of the Island, but at present I believe they are very easy. I frequently in-


[Page 659]
August 6, 1776 627 formed you Mrs. Dayton had sent the Chief of her goods to Spring field. Many that moved away from E. Town have since returned. You no doubt have been informed by the Papers of the Flags sent by Lord How to Genii. Washington with Letters he refused to re ceive as they were only directed to George Washington &c. You have also I suppose seen the Printed Narative of what passed in Conver sation between Genl. Washington & Colo Patterson who came with a flag from Lord Howe. 2 We lately sent a flag to his Lordship to settle An Exchange of Prisoners. He received the Officer with great Politeness, manifested a deep concern that he had not Arrived be fore Independency was declared, professed a great regard for Amer ica especially the Massachusets Bay that had so Signally honoured his family. He gave Genii. Washington the Title of Genii, and called us the United States. He consented to the exchange of Prisoners, proposed immediately to Set all his prisoners at liberty relying upon the honour of the American States to return him An equal Number when in their Power. By a Flag to Genii. Howe an Exchange of Prisoners was also Agreed upon so far as fell within his department, Canada being he said out of it. An Indian War hath broke out to the Southward. The Over Hill Cherokees have commenced Hostilities in the back part of Carolina, killed 30 or 40 in one Settlement and had about 120 beseiged in a Fortress which it was thought must Surrender before Succours could Arrive. Forces were Marching against the Indians. Genii. Clintons Fleet and Army remain inactive below Charles Town since his de feat, his Forces Sickly. No News from Lord Dunmore since he left Guins Island and went up Potomack River. Last Saturday our Gondolas Attacked the Kings Ships Near Doobs Ferry. They fought About 11/2 hours, hulled the Man of War several Times, and fared in the same manner themselves; they lost but few Men, several wounded, and I believe came of[f] the second best, tho’ the Commander Writes that he hopes soon to give the Kings Ships Another drubbing. 3 This days Post since I began this Letter brings Accounts of more of the Enemy Arriving in the Narrows—an Addition to what I have mentioned of at least 20 Transports. And by the last Accounts bro’t this day I find our Force in the Jerseys were by no means Equal to what I Supposed from former information, as above mentioned. I Spoke to our President for the Commissions you desire may be sent, he tells me you must Apply to Genii. Schuyler who hath got Spare Commissions and can Supply your Regt. I dare Say you have a good Regiment, and hear their Commenda tion with pleasure, but had you seen a Regiment that went near two Weeks ago to New York raised in Maryland, and Another Paraded this day in the Statehouse Yard from the Deleware Government,


[Page 662]
630 August 6, 1776 deliver as many Arms as are necessary for your Battalion, Robert Morris Esqr. will give the orders for the Delivery. And I have it in Charge from Congress to Direct that as soon as the Arms are Rec’d, you do without loss of time March your Battalion to Amboy in New Jersey, &: Acquaint Genl. Washington of your Arrival there, and follow such orders as you shall Receive from him. 1 I am Sir, Your very hum sert, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To The officer Commandg. the Battalion of Continental Troops at the Barracks, Philada. Col. Haslet’s Battalion.” ’See JCC, 5:631. William Hooper to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Dear Sir Philadelphia August 6. 1776 Col Williams obligingley gave me a sight of a letter from you. I am sorry to find you so much in the plaintive strain and that you have such just occasion for it. You mention that you had wrote me. Be assured that I have not received a line from you, or I should have used my small abilities to lessen the difficulties with which your department is go grievously embarrassed. Congress is not well informed of the state of the Northern Army. The distance of that Station, the variety of Impediments which Sickness, Climate, the failure of duty in officers and men have thrown in the way have been insurmountable even to the most spirited and well meant intentions of this Congress. Unless some measures are immediately taken to strengthen your post I augur that Burgoygn will soon set foot in Albany. The Stars in their courses seem to fight against our attempts in your Quarter. And What the enemy and desertion have spared seem to be reserved only for the horrid depredations of Sickness. Heaven watch over the remains of what from its numbers was once formidable. I flatter myself that I shall hear from you frequently. You never can want a subject, whatever concerns the publick or you privately or officially will be interesting and important to me as a publick officer and as your friend. I wish to know very minutely the state of the Army in your quarter, and should there be any part of information which you mean to trust only to my own private ear, I shall most faithfully obey your Injunctions in this respect. A large body of Troops Regular Militia are on their way from this to New York. I wish they may arrive seasonably. A Capt Weeks has taken 3 prizes valued at 45,000 and sent them here; they have already arrived. No other Intelligence worth Scribbling, which can be an excuse


[Page 663]
August 6, 1776 631 for trespassing longer upon your patience than to subscribe myself with Truth and regard, Your Friend and Obedt Servant, Will Hooper Tr (DLC). Addressed: "Jonathan Trumbull esqr, Paymaster etc, etc, Albany.’’ Marine Committee to John Bradford Sir, In Marine Committee, Philada. August 6th. 1776 The Government of Great Britian during their Tyrannic sway thought proper to mark the Port of Boston for Vengeance 8c descending still more minutely they prohibited any business being transacted at our Worthy President’s wharfe. 1 In order to shew one mark of our Contempt for their Authority We hereby desire you will order all the Continental Prizes that arrive in your Port to that wharfe 8c transact the whole of their business there or so much of it as can conveniently be Confined to that place. We are sir, Your Obedt hble servts. Robt Morris Geo Walton Joseph Hewes Geo. Read Benja Harrison Frans Lewis Fras Hopkinson Arthur Middleton Wm. Whipple Tr (MHi). 1 Bradford was the Continental prize agent in Massachusetts. Marine Committee to John Paul Jones Sir In Marine Committee, Philada. August 6th. 1776 We have ordered the Provisions 8c Stores you requested, to be sent onboard the Sloop Providence which you Command under Authority of the United States of America, so that the said Sloop being now ready for Sea You are to proceed immediately on a Cruize against our Enemies 8c we think in 8c about the Lattitude of Bermuda may prove the most favourable ground for your purpose. Herewith we deliver you an extract from the Journals of Congress respecting the Navy Prizes 8cc by which you will know with pre cision what Vessells can be made Prizes 8c which not. 1 You have also herewith a list of the Continental agents in each State 8c to some of them your Prizes must be addressed according to the Port they arrive in. 2 Your Cruize may be for Six Weeks, two or three


[Page 664]
632 August 6, 1776 Months just as Provisions, Water & other Circumstances point out to be best. If you gain any material Intelligence You must put into the nearest port of the Continent & dispatch an Express to us with the same. You must by all opportunitys transmit us an Account of your proceedings & of such Occurrences as you meet with. You are to be particularly attentive to protect, aid & assist all Vessells & property belonging to these States or the Subjects thereof. It is equally your duty to Seize, take, Sink, Burn or destroy that of our Enemys. Be carefull of the Sloop, her Stores and Materials, use your People well thereby recommending the American Naval service to all who engage in it, and we also recommend Humane kind Treat ment of your Prisoners. These things duely observed will recom mend You to the attention 8c regard of this Committee. We are, sir, Your hble servants, John Hancock Robt Morris Joseph Hewes Geo. Read Geo Walton Arthur Middleton Fras. Lewis Fras. Hopkinson Wm. Whipple RC (DNA: PCC, item 58). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Hancock, Hewes, Hopkinson, Lewis, Middleton, Read, Walton, and Whipple. Addressed: “To John Paul Jones Esqr, Commander of the Sloop Providence.” 1 See JCC, 4:253-54. “See JCC, 4:300-301. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia August 6, 1776 We have this morning obtained an order upon the Continental Magazine for half a Ton of Gun powder for the use of the back Inhabitants of North Carolina. 1 A Mr McDonald an Inhabitant of the County of Rowan being on his way home with a Waggon has engaged to take in that quantity 8c proceed immediately to Salisbury with it. We shall direct him to deliver it to General Ruthufurd, in his Absence to Mr Matthew Lock, in case of both being absent to Mr Hugh Montgomery. We induced to this measure from infor mation which we have obtained that the Indians have fallen upon the frontiers of the Colony 8c that our people are in the most distressed and defenceless situation from the want of Ammunition.


[Page 666]
634 August 7, 1776 Adams or Myself, which is not the Case—he knows my Esteem & Friendship for him. Adieu. Your affectionate 8c obedt. Servt. Sami. Chase [P.S.] In what State is our Navy on the Lakes? RC (NHi). RC damaged; recipient and missing words taken from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:810-11. 1 None of Chase’s letters to Arnold mentioned in this paragraph have been found. ’See Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates, August 9, 1776. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell My Dear Friend, Phila. Augt 7th. 1776 Your favour of the 26 July from the German Flats I reed and the next day after wrote you by Post, at the same Time reed, a letter from Colo. Dayton of the 25th & since that I reed, one the Colo. Wrote the 20th from fort Stanwix, to which I wrote a Long answer Yesterday Which I have yet by me, as the President will Write this day to Genii. Schuyler and hath engaged to send it in his Packet, in which I purpose to get this a place. If this Should find you at the German Flats, and the Colo, is at Fort Stanwix, I hereby Authorize you to Open & read his Letter 8c then forward it to him, as I Expect my Letters to Either of you will be considered as intended for both. We have no News to day. This morning one of our Large Frigates was Launched, 1 two others of 24 8c 26 Guns were some Time ago Launched 8c are Rigging. I regret my being moved to this Congress. I think I could have been of more Service in our own Province than here. I remember what Cesar Said in passing the Alps, “That he had rather be the first in a Small Village in the Alps, than the Second in Rome.” This will not exactly apply to myself, as I did not Esteem myself the first in the Jersey Conven tion, and I am sure I am far below the Second here. It is however in some degree Applicable. In your Letter you tell me of our feasting here. Indeed we have plenty, but I dare say you have the best feast. My want of health will not suffer me to relish delicacies. News as far as my present Station will permit I have given in the Letter to the Colo. More I might in confidence Say were either of you Present, but I dare not Risk more in a Letter. I think I informed you in my last that Money to pay your Regiment was sent forward—and the matter relative to your Regiments returning to the Jerseys in the fall was not proper to mention yet, from


[Page 667]
August 7, 1776 635 the uncertain issue of the War to the Northward. I am Dear Sir, most Affectionately Yours, Abra. Clark P.S. I don’t recollect the Death of any of your hearers since you left us but Thos. Williams who died two Weeks ago or something more. RC (MeHi). 1 Robert Treat Paine’s diary entry for this date reads: “Very hott, Sultry. The Frigate Washington launched.” MHi. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane Dear sir Philadelphia August 7th 1776 The above is a Copy of our last, which went by the Dispatch, Captain Parker. 1 The Congress have since taken into consideration the heads of a Treaty to be proposed to France, but as they are not yet con cluded upon we cannot say more of them per this conveyance. You will see by the News papers which accompany this, that the expidition against South Carolina is foiled by the gallant resistance made there. The Enemy, much diminished by Sickness, it is thought will attempt nothing farther in those Parts. The People of North Carolina, who at first had taken up their Bridges, and broken the Roads to prevent the Enemys penetrating their Country, have since, being ready to receive him, repaired the Roads and Bridges, and wish him to attempt making use of them. Gen. Howe is posted now on Staten Island near New York with the Troops he carried to Halifax when he was driven out of Boston. Lord Howe is also arrived there with some reinforce ments, and more are expected, as the great push seems intended to be made in that Province. Gen. Washington’s Army is in pos session of the Town, about which Many entrenchments are thrown up, so as to give an opportunity of disputing the possession with G. Howe, if he should attempt it, and of making it cost him some thing, but it is not so regularly fortified as to Stand a Siege. We have also a flying Camp in the Jerseys, to harrass the Enemy if he should attempt to penetrate through that Province to Philada. In the different Colonies we have now near 80,000 Men in the pay of the Congress. The Declaration of Independence Meets with universal approbation, and the people every where Seem more an imated by it in defence of their Country. Most of our Frigates are


[Page 671]
August 8, 1776 689 that City, and the Junction of the two Armies under Generals Howe & Burgoyne, seem to be the grand objects they have in View, to the Attainment of which they give up every inferior Considera tion. In this Situation of our Affairs, the Congress being of Opinion your Services in the Middle Department will be necessary, I have it in Command to direct, that you repair as soon as possible to the City of Philadelphia, there to receive such Orders as they may think proper to give you. 2 The Attack at New York being hourly expected, and the Event of it uncertain, I am to request, you will use the greatest Expedition on the Way. With the best Wishes for your Health 8c Prosperity, I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Genl. Lee, South Carolina.” 1 Washington’s second letter to Hancock of August 7, containing intelligence about the recent arrival in New York of “General Clinton . . . and the whole Southern Army.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:382-83. 2 See JCC, 5:638. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Aug. 8. 1776 Your letters of the 7 with the papers enclosed are received and now under consideration of Congress. 1 Enclosed I send you a resolution passed respecting lieutenant Josiah. He was first lieutenant of captain Nicholas Biddle 8c was taken in a ship capt Biddle had made prize of, by the Cerberus frigate. By a letter which he found means to convey he informs that “he is used worse than he ever thought one Englishman could use another—that he was sent before the mast with the rest, but upon refusing to do duty was given under the charge of three boatswains mates & expects the gangway soon as he is daily threatened.” 2 An Order is this moment pass’d for calling general Lee from the Southward, 8c to morrow is appointed for electing a number of major generals 8c brigr. generals. I am, Sir, your very huml Servt, John Hancock Presit [P.S.] You will please to mention the matter of Lieut. Josiah as real information, but not discover that it was by Letter, as it may prove injurious, in case he is not exchang’d.


[Page 675]
August 9, 1776 643 Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates Dear Sir. Philadelphia Augst. 9th. 1776 Mr. J. Adams shewed Me your Letter to him from Tyonderoga, of the 17th of July, 1 Wherein You write “I desire if Chase is re turned to Congress, he may know how much I have been deceived & disappointed in being removed from a Place where I might have done the public Service & fix’d in a Situation where it is exceeding doubtful if it will be in my Power to be more than the wretched Spectator of a ruined Army.” “Mr. Chase passed too speedily through this Country, he saw superficially, & like a sanguine Man, drew Con clusions from the Consequence, and not the Cause. Tell him, if he and I meet, he must expect to be called to a serious Account, upon this Matter. I know he is my sincere Friend, but I also know he has deceived himself and his friend. I am not angry. I am only vexed with him.” After this Recital of so unkind, so unfriendly, so in jurious a Letter, permit Me to ask you a few serious Questions. Why not write to Me if You conceived yourself injured or deceived? How have you been deceived and disappointed by your Removal from N York to the Command in Canada, in what particulars and by whom? Did I ever make a Profession, or communicate an opinion or relate a fact in which I was not sincere & faithful? When did I pass too speedily through the Country in going or returning from Canada, and to what does this Relate? What Things did I see superficially? Deal in the particulars &: point out where I was mistaken, as to Men, Things & Circumstances. I admit that I am constitutionally warm & sanguine, but be pleased to Name the Instances in which I drew Conclusions from the Consequence and not the Cause? If ever You & I should meet, I will with Candor & Integrity &: as a Friend, answer you in all your Inquiries, or I will with pleasure by Letter give you full Satisfaction. I will now only ask you one more Question. In what Instance have I deceived Myself or You? I will not be angry with you, but I am not only vexed, but morti fied, chagrined & exceedingly hurt by your Suspicious and very unfriendly Expressions. You have held up your Friend as a Man who had deceived and disappointed you, as a superficial observer & of so warm & weak a Constitution as to draw Conclusions from the Con sequence and not the Cause. An Imputation on my Understanding I can forgive, A charge that I have disappointed & deceived You, from want of Knowledge &: without Design, I can forget. I will add no more, but that I always was, and still am, with Sincerity, Your affectionate and Obedt. Servant, Sami. Chase RC (NHi). ’For Gates’ letter of July 17 to John Adams, see Bernhard Knollenberg, ed„


[Page 680]
648 August 10, 1776 pleased to let me know what you hear of the Situation of our friends on the Eastward part of Long Island, what is become of General Woodhull, Mr Hobart, Tredwell, Mr. Smith and others. Have you heard any thing from my family, has any of our friends Got off the Island with their families, or what must they Submit too; Despotism or Destruction I fear is their fate. We have nothing new here; all Important News is with you. Is our Convention Siting, are they forming Goverment, where are the two armies, what are their prob able Intentions, is New York to be Evacuated as well as Long Island with out fighting, or will our army like the Romans of old Consider the Invaluable prize for which they are Contending and with their fortitude attack the Enemy where Ever they can find them; knowing that Death is Rather to be Chosen than life upon the terms our Enemies will Suffer us to hold it. If our Convention is not Sitting please to Inform me who I can Draw upon for money to pay my Expences, And youl very much oblige, Sr., your very humble Servt, Wm Floyd RC (WHi). 1 Floyd probably wrote this letter to a member of the New York Convention, but the recipient has not been identified. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 10th. 1776. Conceiving it highly necessary you should be informed as soon as possible of the Promotions the Congress were yesterday pleased to make in the Army of the American States, I do myself the Honour to enclose you a List of the same by Express. 1 The Continental Battalion, commanded by Colonel Haslet, will begin their March this Day for the Jerseys; where, on their Arrival at Amboy, the Colonel has Orders to acquaint you of the same. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most hble Serv. J°hn Hancock Presidt [P.S.] The Inclos’d Letters please to order to be Deliver’d. 3 The Commiss[ion]s [are] Inclos’d in each. RC (DLC). In the hand of lacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:641, 644. 2 See Hancock to lohn Haslet, August 6, 1776. ’These were Hancock’s letters of this date to William Heath, loseph Spencer, John Sullivan, and Nathanael Greene, informing them of their promotions to the rank of major general; to James Read, John Nixon, Arthur St. Clair, Alexander McDougall, Samuel Holden Parsons, and James Clinton, apprising them of their promotions to the rank of brigadier general; and to William Tudor, telling him of his promotion to the rank of lieutenant colonel. PCC, item 12A; and Am.


[Page 681]
August 10, 1776 649 Archives, 5th ser. 1:883. See also JCC, 5:641, 644-45; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:372, 379-81. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. August 10th. 1776. 6 o Clock P. M. I am this Minute honoured with your Favour of the 8th and 9th inst. per Post. 1 Having sent off an Express this Morning, at which Time, I forwarded Commissions for the General officers appointed yesterday by Congress, I shall not detain the Post to send the Com missions ordered by the enclosed Resolve. 2 In the mean Time, you will please to direct the Persons to do such Duty as you shall think proper. Their Commissions shall be transmitted by the first oppor tunity. I will lay your Letter before Congress on Monday Morning, and immediately inform you of the Result. I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 2:363-70, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 5:402-6. 2 See JCC, 5:644. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen Philadelphia Aug. 10 1776 We wrote you yesterday 1 by express to General Lee with dis patches requesting his immediate return to the Eastern Colonies. We then mentioned to you that Congress in order to encourage the completion of the Continental Regiments had offered a consider able bounty to all non commissioned officers & Soldiers who would enlist for the space of three years. Congress are deeply impressed with the necessity of making inlistments if possible during the War but at any rate for the space of three years; as frequent enlistments prevent Soldiers ever becoming expert in discipline and often put it in their power to quit their Station at a time when their Services are most necessary for the publick safety. We recollect that our State hath given a bounty of 40s to every man who has engaged in the Continental Regts raised in No Carolina. By way of ceconomy & to save that Bounty to the Colony in part by making it a continental charge We would propose that 5 dollars more be given to every non


[Page 683]
August 10, 1776 651 of[f] Sc recomitted. 3 However on the Tryal for Maj Gs. he carried six votes twice agst the same No. per Heath, & one for Sullivan with much opposition. A 3d ballot was had & Heath carried it by 7 vs 6. The other Majr Genlls were all unanimously chosen. There was no intention to make more than three, but as it was thot neces sary to take them in succession, Green was so worthy & high in Esteem, that on motion He was added with an eager unanimity. Reed carried 10 votes, Nixon 8, St Clair 8, McDougal 7, Parsons 11 & Clinton 7. Thus a Door is opened, a fine parcel of Promotions. I know not whether any thing will be done about them at present. Nothing yet moved. I hope in God, they & all will acquit them selves like Men &: be strong in the Day of approaching Conflict, & may the Lord of Hosts be on our Side 8c vindicate our rightious Cause agt our most unjust 8c more than Savage Foes. I am Dear Sir your affecte Friend 8c Brother, W Williams [P.S.] Genl Gates has wrote a more favorable Acco of our Nothem Army. 4 It is talked out of Doors of adjourning to the Jerseys. Please to let me know Cap. Dyers best arguments for a majority, his present Rank 8cc. I wod gladly serve him. 8 RC (Ct). ’See JCC, 5:641. a For further criticism of Samuel Chase’s handling of Canadian affairs, see John Adams to Horatio Gates, August 13, 1776, note 2. 3 On August 17 Congress approved the report of this committee, which found “nothing censurable or blameworthy” in Gen. David Wooster’s conduct. JCC, 5:664-65. 4 Gen. Gates’ July 29 letter to John Hancock, which was read in Congress on August 8, is in PCC, item 154, 1:19-21, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:649. 3 See Williams to Joseph Trumbull, August 20, 1776. James Wilson to Jasper Yeates and John Montgomery Dear Gentlemen Philada 10th Augt 1776 In my Letter to you and the other Commissioners I have inclosed a Resolution of Congress mentioning a Matter to be enquired into by you and them. 1 I enclose to you Major Blaine’s Proposals upon the Subject. 2 You know, as well as I do, his peculiar Activity and Fitness for an Employment of this Kind. He is now at the Camp in New Jersey, where I expect to be in a few Days. The Recollection of my own Feelings about a Year ago tells me how anxious you are about News and Politics. I will embrace a small Interval of Leisure to gratify you a little. Our Convention has


[Page 684]
652 August 10, 1776 been sitting a considerable Time; but I believe they are not yet nearly arrived at an End of their Business. Our Friends Ross and Smith seem sometimes pretty well pleased with what is going on; but, at other Times, not entirely so. The legislative Power, I am told, will be vested only in one Body, to be annually elected. A Ro tation in this Body is suggested as a Check upon it and upon its Members. A septennial or Decennial Convention, with Powers to correct and amend the Errors discovered in the Constitution or Administration, is proposed. Such a Convention, to support its own Importance, will, in my Opinion, either find or make Mischief. To make it salutary, the Constitution should be a bad one. Perhaps, however, such a Convention, to meet at very considerable Distances of Time, such as 50 Years, might be of Service. By that Time, some of the Wheels of the Machine, tho’ well made and properly put in Motion at first, may be out of Repair. A Governour and Council are proposed as the executive Power. I have heard very little con cerning the Judges. I would not close this Letter before the Post came from New York. I have been with the President, and have seen his Letters from General Washington. The Intelligence contained in them is very interesting, and gives Reason to look out for something in a short Time that will be still more so. You have heard, I presume, that the British Troops to the Number of eight Thousand under General Howe landed some Weeks ago on Staten Island. They have been since joined by the Forces under General Clinton and Lord Cornwallis, who have been drove from South-Carolina; by Part of the Hessians and of General Fraser’s Regiment. Their Number, by this Time, probably amounts to fifteen thousand. More are every Day expected by the Enemy. Our Force at New-York and its Neighbourhood is 17,000, but many of them are sickly; and from the Nature of the Country are much detached from one another. The Militia now in New-Jersey under the Command of General Mercer may, I presume, be about eight thousand. Their Numbers are hourly increasing. The Evening before last an hundred Boats were discovered carrying Troops from Staten-Island on Board the Ships that lie near it. Some of those Ships were falling down to wards Sandy Hook. All Appearances indicated a general Embarka tion; and the Design of that Measure, in all Probability, is a general Attack. General Washington writes that the Spirits of our Men are by no Means depressed at this Prospect. The Crisis is approaching. God grant that it may be fortunate. I think all Things considered, we have no Reason to despair. The Enemy, after having allowed our Troops so much Time to fortify themselves, must make the Attack under every Disadvantage. Our northern Army is now in a much better Situation than it has


[Page 685]
August 11, 1776 653 been in for some Time past. We are augmenting, with much Ra pidity, our naval Force upon Lake Champlain. Part of General Burgoyne’s Army is at St John’s, and is likewise busied in making naval Preparations. Colonel St Clair was yesterday made a General Officer. His Character stands deservedly high. It will give me Pleasure to hear from you. I am, Dear Gentlemen, Your very humble Servant, James Wilson RC (PHC). 1 For Congress’ resolution of August 6 inquiring of the commissioners whether “the garrisons on the Ohio and its waters, should be supplied with provisions by contract or by a commissary,” see JCC, 5:634. Wilson’s brief letter of transmittal, dated August 10 and addressed to the “Commissioners for Indian Affairs in the Middle Department,” is at MH, 2 Not found. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear sir Philadelphia August 11. 1776. Last Evening I reed yours of 7 July. It should have been August I suppose. 1 I am perfectly of your opinion of the Policy, and the Necessity of offering Land to inlist Soldiers. There is a difficulty attends it. Some Colonies have no Lands to give. However this might be got over, if the General would recommend the Measure—but it seems to me it never will be done, untill he does. Congress has already ordered a Paymaster to every Regiment. 2 Whether these officers have been appointed or not I cant say—if proper Persons were recommended to Congress, they would be ap pointed at once. I can now inform you that We have made a great Number of Promotions, and give me Leave to assure you that none ever gave me more Pleasure than yours. 3 I had the Pleasure of doing Justice to your Character upon the occasion, at least as far as my Voice and Testimony would go, from an acquaintance of about 24 years. Tyler is Coll of your Regiment and Prentice Lt Coll, Durkee Coll of the twentyeth and Knowlton Lt Coll. 4 Whether the Promotions We have made of General officers, will allay the Discontents you speak of, or increase them I know not. Let the Rank of officers be as deli cate a Point as it will, the Rank of Colonies is equally delicate and of more Importance. The Massachusetts Bay has not its Proportion of General officers. And the Mass. Colls I expect will be discon tented. I cant help it. They are brave Men I doubt not. But whether they are Gentlemen of liberal Education, of any Knowledge of the World, of any Spirit of Command, of any Extent of Capacity, I


[Page 690]
658 August 11, 1776 Funds in Europe, it will not be thought strange that we shou’d under such circumstances seek for Credit, and if our Cause is Crowned with success (which I think must be the case sooner or later) there is little danger in trusting us or indeed none at all, & that on the Contrary if we shou’d be unsuccessfull the Goods may be stopped in the West Indies for you may be sure we will not order them from thence unless we see perfect security in so doing. I say when these things are attended to, not half the danger will appear that may at first be immagined. Now if the Goods arrive safe we can sell them instantly for ready Money at very high prices and wou’d immediately Invest the Money in the pur chase of Tobacco, Indigo, Flour, Wheat 8c such other produce as may suit the French Market. If Insurance can be made on these Products against all Risques the Remittances will thereby be ren dered Certain 8c the payment for the Goods Speedy. I hope there fore you will exert yourselves to the utmost to Effect this plan and if any French or Dutch Houses choose to join you in it they may be a third, you a third 8c we a third or in any other proportion you like better. At Martinico Wm Bingham, Esqr. 8c Mr. Richd Harrison will receive 8c forward the Goods, at Cape Francois Mr. Stephen Ceronio or in his absence Mr. Jno. Gaignard. Tom knows Ceronio 8c indeed so do you. He is capable 8c faithful to the last degree but if any better Method occurs to you, do therein as you think best. If any Character of our House is wanted to gain the necessary Credit Tom knows where to apply for it. You may depend that the pursuit of this plan deserves your utmost exertion 8c at tention so farr as your Mind is engaged in the making of Money for there never was so fair an opportunity of making a large Fortune since I have been Conversant in the World and You may assure yourself and all Concerned in this matter that I will manage what ever comes here to the utmost advantage and make the most im mediate returns for the Value, therefore I hope you will execute something Considerable without delay. I am sorry to tell you that Coll Harrison is now left out of Congress 8c set off for Virginia Yesterday. Mr Dickenson is also out 8c at present none of the Committee here but Dr. Franklin 8c myself. We must move for an addition to this Committee as Mr. Jay stays in New York 8c Mr. Johnston in Maryland. There are many changes in Congress since you left us some for the better & some Worse. Our Frigates are really fine ships and the Marine Committee have it in charge to report ways 8c means for increasing it and this can be done with great facility 8c dispatch, so that you may expect these States to become very formidable on the Seas next Summer or sooner. However I must referr you to the Public papers for News as I have sent a good many to Messrs. Delap 8c wrote to Jno. Bradford Esqr. at Boston to send more from thence.


[Page 691]
August 12, 1776 659 They will deliver or forward them to you, and with sincere Esteem, I remain, Dear Sir, your affectionate Friend & mos. hble servt. Robt Morris RC (CtHi). John Adams to Abigail Adams Aug. 12. 76 Mr. A[dams] setts off, to day, if the Rain should not prevent him, with Coll. Whipple of Portsmouth: a Brother of the celebrated Miss Hannah Whipple, a sensible and worthy Man. By him I have sent you two Bundles of Letters, which I hope you will be carefull of. I thought I should not be likely to find a safer opportunity. By them, you will see that my private Correspondence alone, is Business enough for a lazy Man. I think I have answered all but a few of those large Bundles. A French Vessell, a pretty large Brigantine, deeply loaden, ar rived here yesterday from Martinique. She had 50 Barrells of Limes, which are all sold already, at such Prices, that the Amount of them will be sufficient to load the Brig with Flour. A Trade We see, even now, in the midst of summer is not totally interrupted, by all the Efforts of our Enemies. Prizes are taken in no small Numbers. A Gentleman told me a few days ago that he had summed up the sugar, which has been taken, and it amounted to 3000 Hdds. since which two other ships have been taken and carried into Maryland. Thousands of schemes for Privateering are afloat in American Imaginations. Some are for taking the Hull ships, with Woolens for Amsterdam and Rotterdam—some are for the Tin ships—some for the Irish Linnen ships—some for outward Bound and others for Inward Bound India Men—some for the Hudsons Bay ships— and many for West India sugar ships. Out of these Speculations many fruitless and some profitable Projects will grow. We have no News from New York. All is quiet there as yet. Our Expectations are raised—the Eyes of the World are upon Washington and How, and their Armies. The Wishes and Prayers of the virtuous Part of it, I hope, will be answered. If not, yet Virtues grow out of Affliction. I repeat my request, that you would ask some of the Members of the Gfeneral] Court if they can send me Horses, and if they cannot that you would send them. I can live no longer without a servant, and a Horse. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:88-89.


[Page 692]
660 August 12, 1776 John Adams to Abigail Adams Aug. 12 76 Mr. A. and Coll. Whipple, are at length gone. Coll. Tudor went off with them. They went away, about Three o Clock this afternoon. I wrote by A and Coll. Whipple too. By the latter I sent two large Bundles, which he promised to deliver to you. These middle States begin to taste the Sweets of War. Ten Thousand Difficulties and wants occur, which they had no Con ception of before. Their Militia are as clamorous, and impatient of Discipline, and mutinous as ours, and more so. There has been seldom less than four Thousand Men in this City at a Time, for a fortnight past, on their March to New Jersey. Here they wait untill We grow very angry, about them, for Canteens, Camp Ket tles, Blanketts, Tents, Shoes, Hose, Arms, Flints, and other Dittoes while We are under a very critical Solicitude for our Army at New York on Account of the Insufficiency of Men. I want to be informed of the State of Things with you. Whether there is a Scarcity of Provisions of any Kind, of West India Articles, of Cloathing. Whether any Trade is carried on, any Fishery. Whether any Vessells arrive from abroad, or whether any go to sea, upon foreign Voyages. I wish to know likewise, what Posture of Defence you are in. What Fortifications are at Nantaskett, at Long Island, Petticks Is land &c. and what Men and Officers there are to garrison them. We hear nothing from the Massachusetts, lately, in Comparason of what We did, when the Army was before Boston. I must not conclude without repeating my Request, that you would ask some of the Members of the General Court to send me Horses—and if they cannot, to send them yourself. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:89-90. Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Conduct Aug. 12. 1783 [i.e. 1776]* I The Commodore’[s] excuse for not going to Southern colonies agree able to orders. 2 Before he left capes of Delaware, he heard the Liverpool was joined to Ld. Dunmore, which made enemy an overmatch, & many of his men sea sick.


[Page 693]
August 12, 1776 661 Commodore Esek Hopkins


[Page 694]
662 August 12, 1776 He did not go to N. Carolina because [Ac] received intelligence the enemy’s force had gone from there & from S. Cara, to Georgia. (His men recovered as he got to the Southward). He did not go to S. Carolina for the same reason & because had no pilots. He did not go to Georgia because enemy’s ships as he heard were all there & too strong. He app[ointe]d Abaco as a rendezvous, 8c to wait there 15 days for each other; he chose that place because nearer to Georgia than to S. Carolina. He got there with all his fleet except the Fly 8c Hornet, 8c as he was to wait 15 days for them he thought he might as well form [an] expedition somewhere. He heard from (a whaler I be lieve) that there was 200 barrels of powder cannon 8cc. at [New] Providence belonging to king. He therefore went there. But the night he arrived the Governor removed the powder. He took the cannon. He did not go to Savanna because while at Providence he heard all the enemy’s fleet had assembled there 8c were too strong for him. On his return Northwardly he took a bomb brig for which [he] received thanks of Congress. He carried [the] cannon to Rhode Isld. rather than to the Caro linas because [they were] not wanting in the Carolinas, 8c he thot he could get more safely into Rhode Isld. He did not deliver them to Govr of Connecticut as ordered by Congress, because he had them as ballast, and found he could not get ballast at N London without sending to N. York, a delay which he could not admit, as Gen. Washington wrote him he apprehended the enemy would attempt to block him up in N. London. He delivered them to Govr. Cook of Rh. Isld. because he offered him pig iron as ballast in lieu of them, 8c Govr. Cook undertook to deliver them to order of Congress. After he returned from Providence he was not at liberty to go to the Carolinas because his instructions directed him to go to Rh. Isld. Had not pilots to carry him into inlets of N. Carolina or over Charles town bar. Commodore did not send vessel for intelligence into Southern colonies because both Fly 8c Hornet parted with him within 2 days after sailed, in bad weather 8c the Hornet never joined him, the Fly not till he got to Providence. A clause in his instructions authorized him to depart from his instructions if in his discretion he thought it for the public good. If he was mistaken then it was no crime.


[Page 695]
August 12, 1776 663 Instructions are never given positively & it is right they should not be, because of change of circumstances. II. The Commodore had a premeditated design not to go to the Southern colonies but to Providence Because he did not send into Chesapeak for certain intelligence. Because he did not send his vessel of intelligence into N. Caro lina, but only sais he heard enemy had left that place whereas in truth the Cruiser remained there alone & had above 50 prizes with her. Because he did not send into So Carolina for intelligence. He had better gone there for rendezvous than to Abaco be cause Gadsden had promised him on seeing signals to send out Pilot boats. because he might have crossed the bar because it was nearer to Georgia than Abaco was. Because 2 days before he got to Abaco he told Major Nicholas he was to go to Providence, whereas he sais in his defence he did not intend to go there till he reached Abaco, (the rendezvous ap pointed) & then finding the Fly & Hornet separated he thought he might as well employ the time of 15 days which was agreed on to wait there, in some expedition. The not meeting the Fly & Hornet could not prevent him from going to Savannah because they were mere vessels of intelligence, not of force. They only carried, one of them swivels, the other 3. or 4 Ibers. There was no cannon in N. Carolina, so were much wanting there. He was furnished with 2 vessels on purpose to procure sure in telligence to direct his motions, particularly the Fly a very swift vessel was bought & fitted out on purpose. After the expedition to Providence why did not he then go to Carolinas or Southern colonies, that being not only the main object of his expedition, but in truth the object of equipping the Navy. His management of engagement with Glasgow shews he wanted skill & activity. Cannon not wanting for ballast because two of his officers say she had still ballast with which she had gone to Providence & returned. He ought to have obeyed Congress in delivering cannon. Tho’ he was come out of the harbor of New London with the cannon on board, he ought to have returned with them. Objection that he had no pilots to carry him into inlets of N. Carolina and bar of Charles town not good, because he knew that


[Page 702]
670 August 13, 1776 you an answer. I have exactly the same Idea of him, which you express. He had the good of the Service at Heart, but was too Sanguine, and had too little Experience in such Scenes, and too little Penetration into the Characters of Men. 2 I lament the wretched State of your Army: but am happy to find by your last Letter to Congress, that Things are getting into a better Train. The Small Pox must be cleansed out of the Army, or it will be undone. A Circular Letter went, Sent to you or to General Schuyler, for a compleat Return of every Thing in your Depart ment to the War Office. We have as yet reed no answer. Let me beg of you to transmit it as soon as possible. The Want of regular Returns has ruined our affairs in Canada, and without them from every Department, We shall ever be in Confusion. Since the Receipt of your Letter, I have procured Resolutions to be past that regular Returns shall be made at least once a Month, by the Commanding officer, the Pay master, the Quarter Master, Muster Master, and Commissary, 3 and if these Returns are not now made, I think there will Inquiries [be?] made, into the Cause of the [Neglect?], which will not be very pleasant to the Negligent. We shall know who is General, who Qu[arte]r M[aste]r, who Paymaster, who Commissary and who Muster Master, impor tant secrets in Canada, which all our Penetration was never able to discover. We are very anxious, for you and your Army, as well as for the General and his at New York. We expect some bold strokes from the Enemy, but I dont believe that How and Burgoigne will unite their Forces this year. Aug. 14. Since the above was written We reed your Return. It is the most Systematical that I have seen. Your letter gives us great Joy- 4 LB (MHi). ’These letters are in Bernhard Knollenberg, ed., “The Correspondence of John Adams and Horatio Gates,” Proceedings of the Massachusetts Historical Society 67 (March 1942): 145-48. For Samuel Chase’s angry response to Gates’ July 17 letter, which was critical of Chase, see Samuel Chase to Horatio Gates, August 9, 1776. ’According to Benjamin Rush’s later recollection, Adams once sharply attacked Chase “in a debate in which Mr. C insinuated the New England troops, as the principal cause of the failure of the expedition into Canada.” Although Rush’s account contains no information on precisely when this caustic exchange took place, it seems likely that it was during July or August 1776 when the report of the committee “to enquire into the cause of the miscarriages in Canada” was discussed in Congress. Adams, Rush wrote, replied that “the cause of the failure of that expedition was chiefly to be ascribed to the impudence of the gentleman from Maryland who has fomented jealousies and quarrels between the troops from the New England and Southern States in his visit to Canada, and (said Mr. Adams) if he were now penetrated, as he ought to be, with a sense of his improper and


[Page 703]
August 13, 1776 671 wicked conduct, he would fall down upon his knees upon this floor, and ask our forgiveness. He would afterwards retire with shame, and spend the remainder of his life in sackcloth and ashes, deploring the mischief he has done his country.” Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton Uni versity Press, 1948), pp. 140-41. ’These resolves were adopted August 2, 1776. JCC, 5:627-28. * Gates’ August 5 letter to Hancock, which was read in Congress on August 15 and contained “a general return of this army,” is in PCC, item 154, 1:27-43. The “general return” has not been found, but Gates’ letter has been printed under the date August 6, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:795-97. John Adams to Henry Knox Dear sir Philadelphia August 13. 1776 Yours of July 29, I duely received—But had not the Pleasure of Seeing Mr Byers the Cannon Founder. Mr. Paine who is upon the Cannon Committee, I suppose has attended to him. 1 He informs me that the Committee of which he is one are taking Measures to procure Copper as well as sulphur to be made in New Jersey. I have obtained from a Gentleman here, very particular Directions concerning Fire ships and Rafts, and Receipts for all the Compositions. They are long and will be some trouble to transcribe. But if this Business lies within your Department, and you have any Curiosity to see it, I will send it you. I am very much chagrined that the Massachusetts has not its Proportion of General officers. I wish I was better acquainted with the Persons and Characters of the Colonells from that State. It will never do, for the Massachusetts to furnish so many Men, and have so few Generals while so many other States furnish so few Men and have so many Generals. I am, sir, your humble servant, John Adams RC (MHi). ’For additional information on James Byers’ activities, see Robert Treat Paine to Henry Knox, July 27 and August 22, 1776. Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philadelphia Aug. 13. 1776. Yours of Aug. 3 came to hand yesterday. 1 Having had no mo ment to spare since, I am obliged to sit down to answer it at a Committee table while the Committee is collecting. My thoughts therefore on the subject you propose will be merely extempore. The opinion that our lands were allodial possessions is one which I have very long held, and had in my eye during a pretty consider-


[Page 704]
672 August 13, 1776 able part of my law reading which I found alwais strengthened it. It was mentioned in a very hasty production, intended to have been put under a course of severe correction, but produced afterwards to the world in a way with which you are acquainted. 2 This opinion I have thought and still think to prove if ever I should have time to look into books again. But this is only meant with respect to the English law as transplanted here. How far our acts of assembly or acceptance of grants may have converted lands which were allodial into feuds I have never considered. This mat ter is now become a mere speculative point; and we have it in our power to make it what it ought to be for the public good. It may be considered in two points of view 1st. As bringing a revenue into the public treasury. 2. As a tenure. I have only time to suggest hints on each of these heads. 1. Is it consistent with good policy or free government to establish a perpetual revenue? Is it not against the practice of our wise British ancestors? Have not instances in which we have departed from this in Virginia been constantly condemned by the universal voice of our country? Is it safe to make the govern ing power when once seated in office, independent in it’s revenue? Should we not have in contemplation and prepare for an event (however deprecated) which may happen in the possibility of things; I mean a re-acknolegement of the British tyrant as our king, arid previously strip him of every prejudicial possession? Remember how universally the people run into the idea of recall ing Charles the 2d after living many years under a republican government. As to the second was not the separation of the property -from the perpetual use of lands a mere fiction? Is not it’s history well known, and the purposes for which it was introduced, to wit, the establishment of a military system of defence? Was it not afterwards made an engine of immense oppression? Is it wanting with us for the purpose of military defence? May not it’s other legal effects (such of them at least as are valuable) be performed in other more simple ways? Has it not been the practice of all other nations to hold their lands as their personal estate in absolute do minion? Are we not the better for what we have hitherto abolished of the feudal system? Has not every restitution of the antient Saxon laws had happy effects? Is it not better now that we return at once into that happy system of our ancestors, the wisest and most perfect ever yet devised by the wit of man, as it stood before the 8th century? The idea of Congress selling [our?] unlocated lands has been sometimes dropped, but we have alwais met the hint with such determined opposition that I believe it will never be proposed. I am against selling the lands at all. The people who will migrate to the Westward whether they form part of the old, or of a new colony will be subject to their proportion of the Continental debt then un paid. They ought not to be subject to more. They will be a people


[Page 705]
August 13, 1776 673 little able to pay taxes. There is no equity in fixing upon them the whole burthen of this war, or any other proportion than we bear ourselves. By selling the lands to them, you will disgust them, and cause an avulsion of them from the common union. They will settle the lands in spite of every body. I am at the same time clear that they should be appropriated in small quantities. It is said wealthy foreigners will come in great numbers, and they ought to pay for the liberty we shall have provided for them. True, but make them pay in settlers. A foreigner who brings a settler for every 100, or 200 acres of land to be granted him pays a better price than if he had put into the public treasury 5/ or 5£. That settler will be worth to the public 20 times as much every year, as on our old plan he would have paid in one paiment only. I have thrown these loose thoughts together only in obedience to your letter. There is not an atom of them which would not have occurred to you on a moment’s contemplation of the subject. Charge yourself therefore with the trouble of reading two pages of such undigested stuff. By Saturday’s post the General wrote us that Ld. Howe had got (I think 100) flat bottomed boats along side, and 30 of them were then loaded with men; by which it was concluded he was preparing to attack. 3 Yet this is Tuesday and we hear nothing further. The General has by his last return, 17000 some odd men, of whom near 4000 are sick and near 3000 at our posts in Long Island &c. So you may say he has but 10000 effective men to defend the works of New York. His works, however are good and his men in spirits, which I hope will be equal to an addition of many thousands. He had called for 2000 men from the flying camp which were then embarking to him and would certainly be with him in time even if the attack was immediate. The enemy have (since Clinton and his army joined them) 15,000 men of whom not many are sick. Every influence of Congress has been exerted in vain to double the General’s force. It was impossible to prevail on the people to leave their harvest. That is now in, and great numbers are in motion, but they have no chance to be there in time. Should however any disaster befall us at New York they will form a great army on the spot to stop the progress of the enemy. I think there cannot be less than 6 or 8000 men in this city and between it and the flying camp. Our council complain of our calling away two of the Virginia battalions. 4 But is this reason able. They have no British enemy, and if human reason is of any use to conjecture future events, they will not have one. Their Indian enemy is not to be opposed by their regular battalions. Other colonies of not more than half their military strength have 20 battalions in the feild. Think of these things and endeavor to reconcile them not only to this, but to yield greater assistance to the common cause if wanted. I wish every battalion we have was now in New York. We yesterday received dispatches from the Commissioners at Fort Pitt. I have not


[Page 706]
674 August 13, 1776 read them, but a gentleman who has, tells me they are favorable. The Shawanese and Delawares are disposed to peace. I believe it, for this reason. We had by different advices information from the Shawanese that they should strike us, that this was against their will, but that they must do what the Senecas bid them. At that time we knew the Senecas meditated war. We directed a declaration to be made to the six nations in general that if they did not take the most decisive measures for the preservation of neutrality we would never cease waging war with them while one was to be found on the face of the earth. They immediately changed their conduct and I doubt not have given corresponding information to the Shawanese and Delawares. I hope the Cherokees will now be driven beyond the Missisipi and that this in future will be declared to the Indians the invariable consequence of their beginning a war. Our contest with Britain is too serious and too great to permit any possibility of avocation from the Indians. This then is the season for driving them off, and our Southern colonies are happily rid of every other enemy and may exert their whole force in that quarter. I hope to leave this place some time this month. I am Dr. Sir Your affectionate friend, Th: Jefferson P.S. Mr. Madison of the college and Mr. Johnson of Fredsbgh. are arrived in New York. They say nothing material had happened in England. The French ministry was changed. RC (MeHi). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:491-94. 1 For Pendleton's August 3 letter, as well as his August 26 response to this Jefferson letter, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:484-85, 507-8. 2 In Jefferson's draft instructions for Virginia’s delegates to the First Continental Congress, published as A Summary View of the Rights of British America, he had argued that “our Saxon ancestors held their lands, as they did their personal property, in absolute dominion, disencumbered with any superior.” Ibid., p. 132. s Washington’s August 8 letter to Hancock, which was read in Congress on the 12th, is in PCC, item 152, 2:363-67, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:402-6. 4 See the Virginia Council’s August 3 letter, which was read in Congress on the 12th, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:736. See also John Hancock to Andrew Lewis, July 22, 1776. Francis Lewis to Elizabeth Gates Dear Madam 1 Phila. 13 Augt. 1776 I was favoured with your letter of the 6th Instant, wch. gave me the greater pleasure as it was delivered me by your son. He set of[f] this morning for PrinceTown in order to settle some matters with Mr. Wetherspoon. In my conversation with Bob upon the present


[Page 716]
684 August 15, 1776 much concern. The Massachusetts, which furnishes so many Men, has only two Generals, When other Colonies, which furnish very few Troops, have many more Generals. This I much fear will give disgust and discontent both to the People of the Colony and to the officers and Soldiers from that State. That Province never did and never will desire more than its just Proportion of the good Things of this Life, but I am vastly deceived in its Character if it can bear to have less. Will you drop me a Line now and then? There is a Person who has been in some Place under you, whose Honesty, Diligence and Capacity for Business, intitle him to some thing much better than he has ever had. He has the Additional Claim of Suffering to a large amount, having been robbed in Boston of his all which was something handsome too. His Name is Na thaniel Cranch. If any Thing could be given him, better than what he has, it could not be more honestly bestowed. 3 I am LB (MHi). 1 Thomas Mifflin’s August 5 letter is in the Adams Papers, MHi. 2 See JCC, 5:656; and John Hancock to George Washington, July I, 1776, note 1. 3 See John Adams to Richard Cranch, August 2, 1776. Philip Livingston to Robert R. Livingston Dr. Sir Phila. 15th Augt. 1776. I reed, yours of the 11th Inst, this Day in Congress. The Post was gone before the house broake up, which put it out of My power to return you an Answer by him as you requestd. The N. York repre sentation at Congress is reduced to three which renders the Con stant Attendance of Every one here necessary. The Question, whether I would Accept of the Office of Govr. If the Convention Shd. Chuse me, is Important. I will give you my Ansr. with the utt- most Candour. I would much rather the Convention would not make Choice of me, for this only reason, that I am Concious of my unfitness for that Important office wch. will undoubtedly require a person of more Activity in business than I fear I should be. I trust you Know me too well to Suppose that this is a Sort of Nolo Episcopari. I have no Clerical Hypocricy abt. me, at Least I believe not. I Shall not however refuse to Accept, If the Convention Shd. think it for the Public Interest to Appoint me, Least my refusal Shd. be Construed by Some As A desertg the righteous Cause in which this Country is So deeply Engaged, at a Most dangerous Crisis, when the Enemy are, with a powerfull fleet & Army, Stareing us in the face, ready to devour us & Consequently the Most Stren uous Efforts 8c the utmost Exertions of Every Membr. of the Com munity are become Absolutely & Immediately Necessary. At so


[Page 717]
August 15, 1776 685 Critical a moment it might have a bad Effect to have it Even sup posed that any one who has had an Early part to Act in this Contest Shd. not remain Ready to Step forward when Called upon by the Public. I shall therefore think it my duty to Acquiece in Whatever the Convention Shall determine, but Most heartily 8c Sincerely wish that this Matter Might Appear to them in Such a Light, that they might See it More for the Public Interest to appoint some Other person. 1 I shall to Morrow with the Other deligates write to the Conven tion which Ought to have been done Some time Ago, but our Apol ogy is a True One, We have really been Exceeding busy. Your Most Obedt servant, Phil. Livingston RC (N). 1 George Clinton was elected the first governor of New York under the new state constitution in July 1777. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Augt. 15. 1776. Come. met. Present Messrs. Morris, Lewis, Bartlett, Hewes & Livingston. Ordered that Captains Read 8c Falconer be requested to measure the bales of Canvass imported in the ship Morris from Havre de Gras in order that the freight may be ascertaind, wch. by contract is to be pd. in proportion to 10s sterlg. for a barrel of pow der. 1 The Come, considerg. the favorable opportunity that now presents for shipping off produce from this port, 8c other places to the Southward, the Enemy’s men of war being gone, Agreed that the sum of 80,000 dlls be advancd Mr. Morris to be by Him laid out in produce 8c exported on continental acct. Accordingly an order was drawn on the Treasurer in his favor for that Sum. The Committee have agreed with G. Meade 8c Co. Owners of the Brigantine Two Friends, Capt. Vickorey, to charter sd. vessel, for a voyage to Hispaniola 8c back, at the rate of 7s 6d Currency per bar. of flour outward, 10s cury. per bar. powder inward. The vessel to be insurd by Come, valued £1200. Issued order on the Treasurer in favor of G. Meade 8c Co. for 619 73/90 dollars being the amount of their Acct, for sundry charges 8c one month’s freight of the Brigne Friendship. Order on the Trea surer in favor of Robt. Briges for 340 being for freight of G. powder from St. Eustachia. Do. in favor Messrs Willing, Morris 8c Co. for 4442 66/90 in full of a ballance due to them as per Acct, dated 14 Inst. Order on the Treasurer for 4266 2/3 dlls in favor of Bayard, Jackson 8c Co. being value of the Snow Dickenson charterd 8c insurd by the Come., carried into Bristol on her passage to Nantes by the


[Page 718]
686 August 15, 1776 Seamen; where She was seizd & condemnd. 2 Do. in favor of Isaac Ruckless for 792 dlls being the amount of 1080 wt. powdr. at 5s per lb &: 6 stand Arms at 90s per Stand purchasd from him this date. MS (MH). 1 For additional information on the ship Morris, which apparently made this voyage pursuant to a February 5, 1776, contract of the Secret Committee with her owners, Willing, Morris & Co., see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, February 5, 1776; and Clark, Naval Documents, 4:581, 6:387. See also Secret Com mittee Minutes of Proceedings, September 5, 1776. 2 For further information regarding this contract and the ill-fated voyage of the Dickenson, see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, December 26, 1775; and Clark, Naval Documents, 4:1023-25, 1027-29. James Smith to Eleanor Smith My dear Elinor, Philada. Augt 15th. [1776] I received your Letter two days since which gives me much plea- usure to find your Thumb was got well. I blame myself for not writing oftener but if you knew how much I am hurried between Attending the Congress, Convention 1 & Assisting the Militia in getting Necessaries here, for ’tis expected from the Militia of York County & Cumberland that I should Assist them. If this excuse wont pass I Cant frame a better. I am glad however I did not write yesterday morning as I intended being then in a bad humour, hav ing lost a New Cane at a Turtle Feast with Mr Hancock 8c the Delegates last Week, 8c my new Hat 8c 37 Dollars in Paper money all which I got safe yesterday. I got my Cane at the New Tavern, Genl Worster had taken my hat in a Mistake 8c the Negro woman found the money in my bed room amongst some old Papers. I have pre vailed on my Land Lord to rent Littles New House, next Door to the Tavern where I have an genteel bed room 8c 2 Closets with locks 8c keys 8c a small Parlour below to do business in, so that I am quite out of the hurry of the Tavern. I have got a touch of the Rheuma tism in my Shoulder by Sleeping with my Windows open. Mr Adams says I very well deserve it, for being so Careless. I told him as Mr Duchee prays for us every Day I thought there was no need to take Care of ourselves. He told me God helps them who help them selves. Mr Hancock is a better Doctor, as he has something of the Gout himself 8c has promised me some Pine buds to make Tea, how ever I have shut my Windows these 2 Nights 8c the Pain is almost gone off, it never hurt my eating 8c Drinking. I dont like your Notion of Coming here. The Horse trots rough, 8c the Mare is skittish, 8c all your Male friends are at Camp 8c all your female ones in the Country. Besides as you Can’t bring the Children with you it woud distress them to be left behind. [Howev]er if you


[Page 726]
694 Index Bradford, William, Jr.: letter to, 231; mentioned, 258 Braintree, Mass., holds elections, 219-20 Braxton, Carter: letter from, 18; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; on preamble to resolve on assuming government, 19-20; on independence, 19-20; not reelected to Congress, 341, 366, 471, 538; debates articles of confederation, 545; signs Declaration of Independence, 580; accounts, 580; mentioned, 343, 455, 579 Braxton, Carter, Address to the Convention of . . . Virginia, 20, 21, 228 Braxton, Judith Robinson (Mrs. Carter), 20 Brent, William, 559 Bridges, Robert, 156, 208, 437, 485, 685 Brimer (Brymer), Mr., 560, 561 British army: reinforcements, 7, 25, 27, 105, 558-59; strength, 50, 52, 58, 418, 430, 432, 452, 565, 579, 581, 596, 645, 652, 673, 675, 677, 682; uses Indian threat to obtain Cedars cartel, 83-84, 173-74, 462-63; British-Indian attack planned on southern colonies, 264; Highlanders captured, 307, 322, 332-33, 342, 351, 366; transports arrive at Sandy Hook, N.J., 346-47, 350-51, 366-67, 369-70, 451; troops land at Staten Island, N.Y., 379-83, 390, 413, 416, 421, 447, 451-52, 457; Clinton repulsed at Sullivan’s Island, S.C., 450, 459, 489-91, 493, 498, 502-3, 516, 528, 624, 638; Highlander troops arrive, 552, 554; mentioned, 378, 401, 639; see also Bur goyne, John; Carleton, Guy; Forster, George; Howe, William; Prisoners of war British navy: engaged by Pennsylvania navy vessels, 12, 154; fleet near Charleston, S.C., 349-51, 368, 421; Lord Howe arrives in New York, 448-49, 451, 455-57, 462, 470-71, 497, 500; fleet arrives at New York, 523, 558-59, 571, 623, 626-27, 633; Dunmore and Clinton reportedly join Howe, 625; ships defeated near Dobbs Ferry, 627; ships damaged by American galleys, 645-46; mentioned, 401, 472, 486, 496, 525, 552-53, 638, 645, 652; see also Howe, Richard, 4th Viscount Howe Briton, William, 129, 131 Brown, John (of frigate Boston), 230 Brown, John (of Rhode Island), 15 Brown, Margaret L., "William Bingham,” 129 Brown, Nicholas, 15 Brown, Weldon A., Empire or Independence, 53 Brunswick, N.J., gathering point for militia, 379-83 Bruyn, Jacobus, 312, 327 Buchannan, Mr., 422 Bucks County, Pa., Committee, letter to, 376 Budd, Dr., 524 Budden, William, exchange, 62, 99-100 Buksminster, Mr., 72 Bulfinch, Thomas, 373, 375 Bull, John, elected to Pennsylvania Convention, 422 Bulloch, Archibald: letter to, 345; elected to Congress, xvi; appointed president of Georgia, 345-46, 423; mentioned, 264 Burbank, Mrs., 34 Burgoyne, John: arrives in Canada, 318, 326, 332-34; defeats Americans at Trois Rivieres, 327-28, 332, 342; pursues Sullivan, 365-66; sent report on Cedars pris oner cartel, 558; mentioned, 147, 411, 432, 448, 471, 474, 533, 558, 565, 630, 637, 639, 653, 670, 675 Burke, Thomas, 411 Burnett, Edmund, C., ed„ Letters, 587 Burrall, Charles, 81 Burrows, Mr., 367 Bushnell, David: identified, 638; submarine, 515, 638 Butler, Capt., 545 Butler, Richard, 504, 545


[Page 727]
Index 695 Butterfield, Isaac: criticized, 300; cashiered from army, 301; mentioned, 255, 348, 462 Butterfield, Lyman H., "Dr. Rush to Governor Henry on the Declaration of Inde pendence . . .,” 475 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed., .Adams Family Correspondence, 680 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed.. Diary and Autobiography of John Adams, 636, 680 Butterfield, Lyman H., ed., Letters of Benjamin Rush, 530 Byers, James, 473, 555, 671 Byrd, Francis Otway, 528 Cabot, Mr., 88 Cabot (Continental brig), 351 Cadwalader, John: speaks at Philadelphia town meeting, 41; mentioned, 460, 477 Cadwalader, Lambert, 99 Calbiac, baron de, 683 Caldwell, Hannah Ogden (Mrs. James), 597, 605 Caldwell, James: identified, 598; letters to, 596, 605, 634; mentioned, 379, 453, 626, 628 Caldwell, Jonathan, 618 Calef, John, 124 Campbell, Donald, 23, 81 Canada: attitude toward colonies, 24, 49, 281; strategic importance, 67-68, 228-29; rights under draft articles of confederation, 250; see also Canada, American invasion of Canada, American invasion of: provisions, 4-5, 21-22, 69, 76, 81-82, 87-88; rein forcements, 4-6, 24, 87-88, 124-25, 136-39, 141-43, 153, 173, 213-14, 228, 268, 312, 317-18, 324, 326-28, 330, 367-68; retreat from Quebec, 4-5, 21-25, 28, 30-32, 36-40, 58, 118, 175, 181-82; military conduct criticized, 23-24, 50, 76-77, 80-83, 93-94, 105, 175-76, 255-56, 296, 300, 307; discipline poor, 23, 76-77, 81, 176; short enlistments detrimental, 23, 76, 81, 283-84; withdrawal to Sorel, 25, 80-81; funds for, 32-33, 36, 38-39, 66-68, 76, 81, 88, 133, 213-14, 218, 231, 257-58, 262-64; prospects poor, 49, 105-6, 136-37, 139; congressional action to halt retreat, 61, 66-68; defeat at Cedars, 77, 83, 120, 126, 150-52, 173, 181, 186; key positions vacant, 82, 176; smallpox, 82, 87-88, 105, 139, 176, 182, 227-28, 297, 323, 332-34, 342, 345, 365-66, 375-76, 405, 574; Cedars prisoner cartel, 83-85, 173-74, 462-63; council of war, 88, 105-6; Gen. Wooster recalled, 158, 170, 286; causes of failure discussed, 176-77, 220, 323, 365, 594-95, 616; Gen. Gates appointed commander, 181, 201-3, 219, 227-28, 261-62, 264, 266, 286, 312-13, 549; committee on mis carriages, 222, 263-64, 284-87, 512, 565-66, 595, 637, 671; committee on medicine and clothing, 262; Trois Riviferes attack ordered, 303-4; defeat at Trois Rividres, 312, 318, 321-22, 326-28, 332-34, 342, 463; retreat to Isle aux Noix, 332, 350-51, 365; decision to retreat supported, 335-36; retreat to Crown Point, N.Y., 342, 365-66, 390, 462; bounties considered for New Hampshire troops, 348, 350; com mittee on Cedars prisoner cartel, 463, 558; Gen. Arnold returns to Montreal, 463; Gens. Arnold and Montgomery praised, 474; Gen. Gates’ power to appoint officers, 605-6, 675; Gen. Wooster absolved of blame, 650-51; mentioned, 25, 90, 147, 178, 188, 191, 197, 207, 259, 267, 347, 378, 409, 415, 446, 447, 452, 470, 484, 496, 507, 527, 589, 590; see also Arnold, Benedict; Commissioners to Canada; Gates, Horatio; Northern military department; Schuyler, Philip; Sullivan, John; Thompson, William (Pa.) Cannon, James: elected to Pennsylvania Convention, 422; mentioned, 414, 529 Cannon: manufacture, 44-45, 107, 277, 473, 555, 608; price, 45, 172, 524; for Massachusetts, 89; casting ordered, 109-10, 197, 523; for frigates, 116-17, 260, 413; proof, 223; for Philadelphia, 269; foundry planned, 339; in New London,


[Page 729]
Index 697 Chase, Samuel (continued) replies to Gates’ criticism, 643; returns home, 644, 667; on achieving confedera tion, 644; criticizes Gen. Wooster, 650-51; opposes taxation article of confedera tion, 667; criticized by John Adams, 670-71; mentioned, 53, 262, 497, 553, 559, 596, 637 Chauncy, Charles, 494 Cheever, Ezekiel, 78 Cherokee Indians: southern attack planned with British, 264; hostilities against Carolina backcountry, 577, 581-82, 622-24, 627; condemned by North Carolina delegates, 640-41; mentioned, 674 Chester County, Pa., Committee, letter to, 376 Chetwood, Mr., 452 Chevalier, John, 270, 485 Chevalier, Peter, 71, 270, 485 Choiseul, Etienne Francois, due de, 645, 646, 665 Church, Benjamin, released on bail, 7-8, 290-91 Civil rights; under draft articles of confederation, 234-36; prohibitions against slavery deleted from draft declaration of independence, 359, 362; clergy excluded from Virginia legislature, 474; religious freedom for public officeholders estab lished in Pennsylvania, 560; equal representation in Congress, 599-602; see also Slaves Clark, Abraham: letters from, 378, 379, 391, 417, 451, 596, 605, 626, 634; elected to Congress, xviii, 379; attends Congress, xviii; distributes Declaration of Inde pendence, 391; returns home, 451; debates articles of confederation, 568; on independence, 628; on serving as delegate, 634; mentioned, 382, 418 Clark, William Bell, ed., Naval Documents, 333 Clarke & Nightingale, 530, 682 Clarkson, Matthew, 208 Clergy: Presbyterian, view troops, 99; role in revolution discussed by John Adams, 279; Jacob Duch^ appointed chaplain to Congress, 418, 605; excluded from Vir ginia legislature, 474; Jacob Duchd composes prayer for Congress, 623; military chaplains, 650 Cleveland, Stephen: letter to, 572; -ft instructed on voyage to France, 572-75; men tioned, 580 Clinton, Cornelia Tappen (Mrs. George), 312 Clinton, George: letters from, 311, 324, 329, 372; elected to Congress, xviii; at tends Congress, xviii; cautions New York on appointment of officers, 311-12; withholds assent to congressional appointment of New York officers, 329-30; accounts, 338; requests instructions on independence, 372; mentioned, 59, 141, 338, 685 Clinton, Henry: arrives off Charleston, S.C., 349-51, 368, 421; repulsed at Sullivan’s Island, S.C., 450, 459, 491, 502-3, 516; joins Gen. Howe at Staten Island, N.Y., 625, 638-39, 645, 652, 655, 673; mentioned, 87, 432, 486, 513, 627, 640, 641, 664 Clinton, James, appointed brig, gen., 615, 648, 650-51 Cloth, importation, 657 Clothing: manufacture, 107; military, 267-68, 283, 285, 293, 315, 508, 607-8, 640; for prisoners, 507 Clymer, Mr., 208 Clymer, George: elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx; elected to Pennsyl vania Convention, 422 Coal, 109 Coale, Ann Hopkinson (Mrs. Samuel S.), 590, 591 Coale, Samuel Stringer: identified, 591; letter to, 590 Coates, William, elected to Pennsylvania Convention, 422 Cobb, David, 264 Coin; see Specie


[Page 730]
698 Index Colden, Cadwallader, 55 Coleman, John M., Thomas McKean, Forgotten Leader of the Revolution, 210, 642 Columbian Centinel (Boston), 522 Columbus (Continental ship), 217 Collins, Capt., 102 Collins, Mr., 367 Collins, John, 173 Collins, Varnum Lansing, President Witherspoon: A Biography, 567 Commissary general: organization of department, 152; salary raised, 171, 264; Joseph Trumbull authorized to supply northern army, 267, 314-15, 419, 617; sent resolves on clothing, 293; Joseph Trumbull’s actions approved, 314-15; Walter Livingston criticized, 507; sent drafts, 526; salary of Boston conductor of military stores, 532; ordered to supply frigates, 553, 576; Benjamin Flower appointed commissary for flying camp, 587-88; regular returns ordered by Con gress, 616, 637, 670; Joseph Trumbull advised by Samuel Adams about Walter Livingston, 616-17; mentioned, 93, 320, 406, 409, 590, 604, 606 Commissioners to Canada: letters from, 4, 22, 25, 69, 75, 80, 87; letters to, 66, 85; request supplies, 4-5, 25, 69, 76, 87-88, 105; recommend using commissaries, 23; criticize military conduct, 23, 76-77, 80-83; 255-56; on futility of mission, 23-24, 49; directed to stabilize American position in Canada, 66; letters consid ered, 66-67; advise recall of Gen. Wooster, 81; criticize British use of Indians, 83-84; recommend troop placement, 88; leave Chambly, 105; arrive in Phila delphia, 191; report to Congress, 201, 203, 264, 286, 486; mentioned, 36, 37, 86, 156, 177, 207, 219, 311 Committee for Indian affairs: letter from, 106; instructs George Morgan, 106 Committee of Congress (on New Jersey and Pennsylvania defense): letter from, 379; letter, illustrated, xxv, 380; directed to confer with Philadelphia officers and committees, 379, 381, 386; asks Pennsylvania militia to gather in Brunswick, N.J., 379-83 Committee of secret correspondence: letters from, 126, 129, 130, 405, 426, 427, 572, 575, 635; -ft appoints William Bingham Continental agent at Martinique, 126-29; orders purchase of muskets, 127; instructs William Bingham, 129-30, 185; as signed Reprisal, 184-85; origins of, 415; commercial transactions, 426-28; in structs Peter Parker, 427-29; forwards dispatches to France, 572; instructs Stephen Cleveland, 572-75; seeks to import goods, arms, and seamen, 573; mentioned, 146, 658 Confederation: delegate instructions, 40, 158, 379; John Adams on, 122; Vir ginia proposal in Congress, 158-60; congressional debate, 174-75; Samuel Chase on, 570-71, 644; John Witherspoon on, 584-87; mentioned, xxiii, 17, 38, 97, 117, 135, 151, 178, 224, 263, 278, 295, 304, 313, 337, 355, 416, 417, 557, 596 Confederation, Articles of: Bartlett draft, 233; Dickinson draft, 233; committee to draft appointed, 163-64, 187, 251, 256-57, 286, 297, 299, 307-8; influence of plan of United Provinces, 199, 598-99; considered by committee, 199-200, 242, 251, 349; influence of Albany plan of union, 200; draft submitted to Congress, 200-201, 458-59; Benjamin Franklin’s contributions, 201, 252; evolution of com mittee draft, 251-55; Edward Rutledge criticizes Dickinson draft, 338; debated in Congress, 438-45, 514, 538-39, 545, 555-59, 561, 568, 570-71, 584-87, 592-94, 596-604, 637-38, 642, 665, 667; Thomas Jefferson criticizes committee draft, 470; mentioned, xxiv, 374, 420, 486, 533 Congress: chronology of, xxi; reply to Lord Howe, illustrated, xxvii, 488; recom mends assumption of government by colonies, 3-5, 13, 16-17, 30, 34, 38, 47, 53, 58, 302; authorizes additional troops, 3-4, 6, 14-16, 21, 38-40, 334-35; requests conference with Washington, 8-9, 26, 66; divides on preamble to resolve on assuming government, 19-21; Maryland delegates withdraw, 19, 47, 53, 69-70; cannon committee, 44-45, 110, 172, 278, 523-24, 671; authorizes military use of Indians, 59, 173, 183-84, 266, 409, 606; confers with Washington, Gates, and


[Page 731]
Index 699 Congress (continued) Mifflin, 60-61, 66, 68, 78, 80, 90, 120, 125, 147; confers on Canada, 61, 66-68; committee on letters concerning Canada, 66-67; reviews troops at Philadelphia, 71, 99; hosts Six Nations deputation, 78, 87, 95, 99, 148; committee of conference, 90-91, 147, 313; committee on foreign mercenaries, 111-12; committee on address to American people, 111-12; committee on fortifying ports, 113, 149; orders militia raised, 124-25, 136-38, 153, 228; thanks Washington, 132; urges local lead mining, 156; recalls Gen. Wooster, 158, 170, 286; debates declaring independence, 158-69, 174-75, 342-43, 345-47, 349, 351-59, 370-72, 388; debates foreign alliances, 160-64, 174-75, 635; committee to draft declaration of independence, 163, 192, 194, 260, 286, 297; committee on plan of confederation, 163-64, 187, 199-201, 242, 251-57, 286, 297, 299, 307-8, 349; committee on plan of foreign treaties, 163-64, 187, 286, 299-300, 405-6, 458; debates confederation, 174-75; fluctuates in support of Canada invasion, 176; orders Gen. Gates to Canada command, 181, 201-3, 219, 227-28, 261-62, 264, 266, 286, 312-13, 549; postpones independence debate, 187, 192-94; restricts export of salted beef and pork, 211, 214, 218, 258; orders inquiry into naval officers’ conduct, 212-13, 216-18, 368; committee on prisoners, 215; establishes board of war, 217, 280, 286; committee on mis carriages in Canada, 222, 263-64, 284-87, 512, 565-66, 595, 637, 671; powers under draft articles of confederation, 235-49; requests civil authorization for Washington to call militia, 264-65, 269; halts exchange of captured seamen, 265-66; confirms Joseph Trumbull as commissary for northern army, 267, 314- 15, 419, 617; orders colonies to provide clothing for Continental enlistees, 267- 68, 283, 285; sends William Franklin to Connecticut, 270, 308-9, 333; James Wilson’s conduct certified, 271-74; takes no action in Pennsylvania militia affair, 276-77; appoints John Langdon prize agent for New Hampshire, 283, 310, 459, 655; considers problems in Canada, 286; adjournment rule, 290; rejects Maryland motion to postpone independence vote, 304; appointment of regimental pay masters, 313-14, 613, 653; recommends punishment for treason, 313, 316-17; cers for New York regiment, 324-26, 329-30; committee on rules, 345; approves declaring independence, 359, 374, 378, 388; considers Declaration of Independence, 359-65, 378, 388, 391-92; revises Declaration of Independence, 359-64, 412; ap proves Declaration of Independence, 359-60, 381-82, 386, 388, 390-92, 399, 410, 417, 420-21, 458; attendance on July Fourth discussed, 364-65; calls militia, 367-68, 469, 478-79, 491; committee on harbor fortifications, 368, 409; July Fourth order of events discussed, 381-82; appoints Indian commissioners, 383; orders Declaration of Independence printed, 388, 390; establishes New York-Philadel phia express, 391; clarifies Schuyler-Gates command dispute, 406-8, 457, 594, 675; plot against rumored, 411; committee on design of U.S. Sedl, 415, 678; appoints Jacob Duch6 chaplain, 418, 605; debates articles of confederation, 438-45, 514, 538-39, 545, 555-59, 561, 568-69, 584-87, 592-94, 596-604, 637-38, 642, 665, 667; mode of voting discussed, 438, 441-45, 556, 568-69, 592-94, 598-602; passes retalia tory measures for prisoners’ treatment, 448; convenes on Sunday, 449, 455-56; debates South Carolina sale of East India Company tea, 453-54; committee on Cedars prisoner cartel, 463, 558; modifies seniority rule in appointing army officers, 475-76; offers to place Virginia forts on Continental establishment, 475- 76; committee on Philadelphia prisoner escape plan, 479; distributes Lord Howe's proclamation, 485, 489, 492-93, 497-98, 513, 531, 563; thanks officers in Sullivan’s Island attack, 492, 515-16; exempts paper and powder mill workers from militia call, 496; reads letters from London, 497-98, 563; approves Washington’s con duct, 531, 534; recommends harmony in northern army, 533-34; orders army audit, 534-35; authorizes rangers for southern department, 535; committee on Canadian petitioners, 537; debates dates of convening, 539; Charles Lee’s indem nity for confiscated English property, 547-48; sends report on Cedars prisoner cartel to British officers, 558; committee on condition of North Carolina, 582;


[Page 733]
Index 701 Continental Navy: appointment of officers, 54-55, 150, 173, 201, 230, 287, 294, 320-21, 370, 460, 520-21, 524, 576; cannon for frigates, 116-17, 260, 413; wages, 120, 519; sickness in crews, 136; investigation of officers’ conduct ordered by Con gress, 212-13, 216-18, 368; seamen for, 294, 427-28; captures British transports, 332-33; John Barry ordered to command cruise of Lexington, 371; frigates launched, 449, 454-56, 459, 477, 634-36; supplies for frigates, 553; investigation of Esek Hopkins, 660-64; mentioned, 148, 178, 478, 658; see also Marine commit tee; Naval committee Cooke, Nicholas: letters to, 172, 211, 286, 396; mentioned, 397, 629, 662 Cooper, Catherine Wendell (Mrs. William), 395 Cooper, John, elected to Congress, xviii Cooper, Judith, 395 Cooper, Samuel: letters to, 101, 175, 368, 423, 493, 501; mentioned, 522 Cooper, William, letter to, 394 Copley, John Singleton, xxvi Copp, David, 31 Corbet, Michael, 90 Corbutt, C„ xxviii Cornelia (brigantine), 155, 207, 208, 485 Cornelia ir Molly (brigantine), 437 Corner, George W., ed., Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, 671 Cornwallis, Charles, 2d earl of: attacks Sullivan’s Island, S.C., 491; mentioned, 652, 655 Counterfeiting: New Jersey law passed, 504-5; North Carolina paper currency, 609; mentioned, 317 Covenhoven, John, 378 Craft, Thomas, 32 Craig, James: letter to, 205; -fr offers captured specie to Congress, 205; mentioned, 62 Cranch, Nathaniel, 604, 605, 684 Cranch, Richard: letter to, 604; mentioned, 556, 611 Crawford, John, visits British prisoners at Reading, Pa., 206 Creek Indians, hostilities against Holston River settlers, 622-24 Crown Point, N.Y.: Americans retreat to from Canada, 342, 365-66, 390, 462; army conditions poor, 401, 403, 411, 469, 471; army moves to Ticonderoga, 487, 496, 525, 534, 579, 594, 636; mentioned, 390, 414, 415, 422, 447, 470, 478, 483 Cumberland County, N.J., Committee, 149 Cumberland County, Pa., informed of James Wilson’s position on independence, 273-74 Cumberland County, Pa., Committee, letters to, 203, 376 Cushing, Deborah Fletcher (Mrs. Thomas), 26 Cushing, Thomas: letters to, 26, 108, 153, 201, 229, 575; sent funds for frigates building in Massachusetts, 229; mentioned, 9, 533, 547, 553 Cushing, William: identified, 179; letter to, 177; mentioned, 79 Cutts, Mr., 328 Dana, Francis: letter to, 198; elected to Massachusetts Council, 196; mentioned, 177, 547 Darby, Henry, 619 Darnall, Rachel Brooke, 497, 533, 559, 596 Dartmouth, 2d earl of (William Legge), 90, 92 Dawson, Samuel, 480 Dayton, Elias: letters to, 378, 379, 451, 626; mentioned, 202, 597, 598, 605, 634 Dayton, Mrs. Elias, 452, 597, 626 Dayton, Elias, Jr., 452


[Page 734]
702 Index Dean, Benjamin, 460 Deane, Silas: letters to, 146, 154, 405, 635, 655; -ft recommends outfitting privateers in Bermuda, 149; ordered to distribute Declaration of Independence in Europe, 405; remittances to delayed, 655-56; asked to advise Thomas Morris, 656; com mercial transactions, 657—58; arrival in France, 665; mentioned, 127, 128, 129, 356, 357, 426, 427, 429, 573, 575 Deards, William, 523, 553 DeBerdt, Dennis, Jr.: identified, 489; mentioned, 513 Declaration of Independence: draft, 360; -ft committee to draft appointed by Con gress, 163, 192, 194, 260, 286, 297; drafted by Jefferson, 164; reported to Congress, 164, 345; Jefferson requests Franklin’s comments on draft, 286; committee draft praised by Bartlett, 351; considered by Congress, 359-65, 378, 388, 391-92; revised by Congress, 359-64, 412; approved by Congress, 359-60, 381-82, 386, 388, 390-92, 399, 417, 420-21, 458; congressional attendance on July Fourth discussed, 364-65; signing discussed, 364-65; order of events in Congress on July Fourth discussed, 381-82; printed, 388, 390; distributed, 389-90, 391-94, 396-97, 405-7, 410, 412, 417, 420; considered foundation for government, 392-93, 396, 433; proclaimed in Philadelphia, 406, 413-14, 430; signed, 414, 509, 580; opposed by Robert Morris, 511; consequences of, 527-28, 582, 635; unanimously approved by colonies, 666; mentioned, xxv, 14, 165, 261, 281, 347, 374, 384, 402, 411, 413, 414, 432, 453, 459, 466, 473, 490, 498, 506, 520, 552, 555, 565, 604, 622, 624; see also Independence Defense, coastal: Massachusetts, 3-4, 60, 101, 112-13, 169, 221, 295, 297, 345; Vir ginia, 37, 40, 43-44; committee on fortifying ports, 113, 149; militia engaged for, 124-25, 136-37; plan for militia reinforcement criticized by Oliver Wolcott, 143-44; removal of stock and grain, 156, 487; suggestions by John Adams, 198-99; Delaware, 265, 331; British transports captured, 307, 322, 332-33, 342, 351, 366, 368-69, 373, 389; recognition signals reportedly discovered, 342; New Hampshire, 350; Connecticut, 367-68; North Carolina, 409-10; submarines, 514-15, 638; Maryland, 583; see also New Jersey; New York City De Haas, John, 77, 82, 83, 202 De Hart, John: elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii De Hart, Samuel, 451 De Haven, Mr., 418, 419 Delap, John H.: letters to, 426, 575; mentioned, 127, 134, 154, 428, 572, 573, 656, 658 Delap, Samuel: letters to, 426, 575; mentioned, 127, 134, 154, 428, 572, 573, 656, 658 Delaware: possible secession discussed, 160, 163; militia called, 173, 383; loyalists assemble in Sussex County, 204-6, 208; aided by Pennsylvania militia, 204-6; coastal defense, 265, 331; Continental troops, 265, 619-20, 627, 633, 641; militia mobilizing, 383, 397, 430, 434, 451, 456; Kent County loyalists’ involvement in Sussex County, 432-33, 618-19; internal affairs discussed by Caesar Rodney, 432- 33, 617-19, 681-82; elections for convention, 617-19, 681-82; militia officers ap pointed, 618; map listed, 669 Delaware (Continental frigate), launched, 449, 455-56, 477 Delaware Assembly: letters to, 136, 383; fa instructs delegates on independence, 210, 264 Delaware delegates: instructed on independence, 210, 264; divide on declaring inde pendence in committee of whole, 359, 388; vote for independence in Congress, 359, 388 Delaware Indians, believed peaceful, 673-74 Delaware River, fortifications, 325, 331 Delegates: residences in Philadelphia, 14; alignment on preamble to resolution on assuming government, 20-21; instructions on independence, 40-41, 69-70, 93-94, 140, 158, 160-62, 164, 166, 168, 171, 182, 192-95, 210, 213, 264, 273, 275-76, 304, 316, 347, 372, 417, 419-21; support assumption of government in Pennsylvania, 92; remuneration, 207, 214, 322-23, 373, 399, 529; selection under draft articles


[Page 747]
Index 715 Livingston, Robert R.: letters from, 28, 59, 92, 140, 171, 222, 258, 379, 382, 398; letters to, 59, 398, 502, 684; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; arrives in Philadelphia, 5; on assuming government, 29; debates independence, 160-61; committee to draft declaration of independence, 163; requests instruc tions on independence, 171; on fatigues of delegate service, 222; committee on Oswell Eve’s powder, 222-23; committee of Congress on New Jersey and Pennsyl vania defense, 379-83; mentioned, 35^ 175 Livingston, Walter: Joseph Trumbull’s authority over confirmed by Congress, 419; criticized by Elbridge Gerry, 507; criticized by Samuel Adams, 616-17; mentioned, 170, 315, 406, 510 Livingston, William: letter from, 98; letters to, 391, 436; elected to Congress, xviii, attends Congress, xviii; committee on letters concerning Canada, 66-67; committee on foreign mercenaries, 111; not reelected to Congress, 379; declines New Jersey militia command, 379, 391; letter quoted, 437; offends New Jersey Provincial Congress, 461; mentioned, 45, 460, 507 Lock, Matthew, 632 Lockwood. Richard, 681 Loller, Robert, elected to Pennsylvania Convention, 422 London, “Address and Petition of the Lord Mayor . . to king, 118-19, 126, 139-41, 146, 149, 151-53, 274 Long, Nicholas, appointed deputy quartermaster general, 11 Long Island, N.Y., 648 Longacre, J.B., xxv Lockerman, Mr., 681 Lovell, James: exchange for Philip Skene, 507, 509-10; mentioned, 177 Lowell, John: identified, 198; letter to, 196; -fr elected to Massachusetts legislature, 196; mentioned, 547 Lowther, William, 27, 77, 139 Loyalists: Moore’s Creek Bridge, N.C., prisoners imprisoned in Philadelphia, 77-78, 138-39; in Boston, 108-9; assemble in Sussex County, Del., 204-6, 208; restricted in New York, 211-12; New York City plot discovered, 301, 310, 322, 333-34, 342- 43, 366, 410, 452, 570; resolves on punishment for treason and spying; 313, 316-17; gather in Monmouth, N.J., 377-78; in Kent County, Del., 432-33, 618-19; on Staten Island, N.Y., 447, 452, 629; John Alsop, 468; New Jersey law on treason, sedition, and counterfeiting, 504-5; impede New Jersey Convention, 505; Albany, N.Y., conspiracy discovered, 523; mentioned, 299, 430, 527, 558 Lucretia (sloop), 191, 192 Lundin, Thomas, Lord Drummond, 115 Lux, William, 116 Lyman, Samuel: letter to, 16; mentioned, 114, 194 Lynch, Thomas Sr.: letters from, 420, 543; elected to Congress, xxi; mentioned, 415 Lynch, Thomas, Jr.: letters from, 420, 543; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; debates articles of confederation, 545-56, 568-69 McCall, George, 30 McCall, Mark, 100 McCarty, William: appointed deputy quartermaster general, 24; mentioned, 69, 76, 202 McClenachan, Blair, 270, 485 McCleur, Mr., 260 McClurg, James, 13, 14, 28 McCord, John, 22, 25 McCullough, W., 437 McDonald, Mr., 632


[Page 748]
716 Index McDonald, Allen, 138 McDougall, Alexander, appointed brig, gen., 615, 650-51 McFadden, William, 154 McFinie, Mr., 21 Mcllvaine, Fergus, 156, 208, 485 McIntosh, Lachlan: identified, 259; letter to, 259 McKay (William?), 142 McKean, Thomas: letter from, 131; letters to, 204, 682; elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi;. speaks at Philadelphia town meeting, 41, 55; secret com mittee, 78-79, 102, 155-56; petitions Congress for Philadelphia, 92; returns to Philadelphia, 210; credibility of statements on independence votes discussed, 364-65; letter on independence quoted, 365, 388; mentioned, xxvi, 99, 460, 642 McKesson, John, letters to, 311, 324 McLean, Mr., 100 McLean, Neil, imprisonment, 215-16 McLeod, Capt., 452 McNeill, Hector, assigned to Boston, 230 Macaulay, Catherine Sawbridge, 521 Madison, James, xxiv, 164 Madison, James, Papers (Hutchinson and Rachal, eds.), 130 Madison, James (Rev.), 645, 674 Magaw, Robert: ordered to New York, 191; mentioned, 99 Manley, John, 230, 575 Manufacturing: cannon, 44-45, 107, 109-10, 197, 277, 339, 473, 555, 608; arms and ammunition, 64, 65, 107-8; tents, 65; clothing, 107; powder, 147, 222-23; salt petre, 305; flints, 404; linen, 409, 536; sulphur, 518, 527; in cottage industries, 536; salt pans, 608-9 Maps, collected by board of war, 668-69 Marblehead, Mass., defense, 169 Marine committee: letters from, 12, 109, 184, 191, 371, 445, 464, 631; -ft orders vessels to Cape May, 12; orders coal shipped, 109; nominates frigate captain, 125; ordered to outfit ships at Bermuda, 149; instructs Lambert Wickes, 184-85; re ports navy discontent to Congress, 212, 216, 218; investigates complaints against Capts. Saltonstall and Whipple, 217; authorizes seamen for Raleigh, 294; orders provisions for New Hampshire vessel, 310; nominates John Langdon prize agent, 310; orders John Barry to command cruise of Lexington, 371; requests returns on prizes, 464; accounts, 524; John Hancock wishes to clear accounts, 575-76; John Hancock’s service criticized by Josiah Bartlett, 576; designates John Han cock’s wharf to receive prizes, 631; instructs John Paul Jones, 631-32; ordered to devise plan for augmenting navy, 636; reports to Congress on Esek Hopkins, 664; mentioned, 96, 116, 173, 229, 282, 320, 321, 329, 337, 350, 368, 455, 541, 658 Marines; see Continental Navy Maritime rights, under draft articles of confederation, 242 Marshall, Christopher, diary quoted, 381 Martin, Josiah, 664 Martinique, W. L: Continental agent appointed, 126-29; mentioned, 134 Mary, 336 Maryland: opposed to independence, 34, 69-70, 333-34; inhibitants discussed by John Adams, 41, 96, 209-10; sentiments on assuming government requested, 47-49, 53; opposes assumption of government, 69-70; politicians criticized by Richard Henry Lee, 86; militia called 124-25, 137, 173, 192, 194, 223, 335, 383, 402; abolishes oaths of allegiance, 135; possible secession discussed, 160, 163; requests return of arms, 192; method of mobilizing militia unclear, 192, 194, 223; inhabitants dissatisfied with convention, 305; ship building, 320-21; Continental troops, 334, 627; German battalion, 334-35, 384, 388-89, 518-19, 571; militia mo bilizing, 397, 400-401, 413, 430, 434, 451, 456, 458, 460-61, 480, 496, 583, 677-78;


[Page 749]
Index 717 Maryland (continued) value of paper currency supported, 518, 559; Christopher Richmond appointed militia paymaster, 554; arms for militia, 554; elects convention deputies, 559-60; coastal defense, 583; map listed, 669 Maryland Convention: letters to, 136, 317, 334, 383, 396, 625; censures Samuel Purviance, 53; appoints delegates, 54; approves Maryland delegates’ dissent on assumption, 69-70; passes resolves on militia, 194; seeks delay in congressional vote on independence, 224; request for delay of independence question rejected by Congress, 304; votes for independence, 305; empowers delegates to concur on independence, 343, 347; election of deputies, 559-60; meets to frame government, 560, 667; mentioned, 514, 554 Maryland Council of Safety: letters to, 192, 223, 446, 518, 526, 554, 571, 583, 677; -ft convenes convention, 194; appoints Christopher Richmond militia paymaster, 554 Maryland delegates: letters from, 192, 223, 321, 518, 526, 554; withdraw from Congress, 19-21, 47, 53, 69-70; resent Virginia Convention’s criticism of Maryland officials, 192; seek instructions on independence, foreign alliances, and confeder ation, 192-93, 223; to confer on completing army companies, 336; authorized to vote for independence, 343, 347; vote for declaring independence, 359; absent from Congress, 447, 497, 667; exchange paper currency, 518; mentioned, 335 Mason, Bernard, The Road to Independence, 172 Mason, George, 14, 90 Mason, Jonathan, Jr.: identified, 483; letter to, 481; mentioned, 465 Massachusetts: Continental troops, 3-4, 7, 14, 228, 402, 409, 633; powder loan re paid, 88-89, 133; Continental cannon, 89; holds elections, 97, 101, 196, 198, 219; defense, 112-13, 169, 221, 295; militia called, 124-25, 137, 143, 173, 189, 213-14, 228, 262, 317-18, 469, 478-79, 533; accounts, 133, funds for, 213; local policies criticized by John Adams, 299-300; tents detained by New York, 316, 320; militia expedition against men-of-war, 368-69, 389; rotation of delegates proposed by John Adams, 434-35, 540; John Bradford as prize agent, 541; shipbuilding, 576; people characterized by John Adams, 610; Continental officers, 654, 680; map listed, 668; militia mobilizing, 683; see also Boston Massachusetts Assembly; see Massachusetts House of Representatives Massachusetts Centinel (Boston), 532 Massachusetts Council: letter to, 132; instructs delegates, 213; Benjamin Church paroled to, 290-91; Samuel Adams’ service as secretary, 344 Massachusetts delegates: letters from, 14, 133; request assignment of Gens. Gates and Mifflin to Boston, 14-15, 121; meet with Gen. Washington, 121; re ceive instructions, 213; request remuneration, 214; vote for declaring indepen dence, 359; health, 550-51 Massachusetts General Court: reapportions house, 97; appoints committee to cor respond with delegates, 230; considers John Adams’ plan for rotating delegates, 540-41 Massachusetts House of Representatives: letters to, 7, 136, 189, 213, 283, 317, 396, 468; seeks approval for military bounties, 8; reapportioned, 97; pays delegates, 214; elects council, 221; postpones action on Perez Morton’s pay, 344; mentioned, 394 Massachusetts Superior Court, John Adams appointed to, 177 Masserano, prince de (Filipe Ferrero de Fiesco), 353, 355, 356, 357 Matlack, Timothy: speaks at Philadelphia town meeting, 41; elected to Pennsyl vania Convention, 422; mentioned, 99, 414, 445, 529 Matthews, David, imprisoned, 301, 322, 333, 410, 452 Maxfield, Mrs., 495, 523 Maxwell, William, 21, 80, 105, 202, 487 May, Florine Charles, 642 Mayo, Lawrence S„ John Langdon of New Hampshire, 521


[Page 753]
Index 721 New Jersey delegates: instructed on independence, 224, 316, 379; appointed, 316, 351, 379, 458; vote for declaring independence, 359; committee of Congress on New Jersey and Pennsylvania defense, 381-82, 386; request copy of New Jersey constitution, 524; quorum set, 524-25 New Jersey General Assembly: called by Gov. Franklin, 118-19; forbidden to meet, 261 New Jersey Provincial Congress: letters to, 136, 189, 264, 308, 377, 392, 460, 468; -fr denounces Gov. Franklin, 119, 210-11, 224; instructs delegates to Congress, 224, 316, 379; forbids meeting of General Assembly, 261; arrests Gov. Franklin, 270; appoints delegates to Congress, 316, 351, 379, 458; recommends Rowland Cham bers as paymaster, 447; offended by Gen. Washington and William Livingston, 461; mentioned, 46, 309, 391; see also New Jersey Convention New London, Conn., cannon at, 367-68 Newton, Mr., 553 New York: urged to delay assuming government, 34-35; shipbuilding, 44-45; militia called, 124-25, 140-41, 143, 173, 189-90; New Hampshire Grants dispute, 140-41, 328; possible secession discussed, 160, 163; people not consulted on independence, 171; restricts loyalists, 211; requested to delegate militia authority to Washing ton, 264-65, 269; Continental troops, 283-84, 311; criticized by John Adams, 292-93, 296, 298; detains Massachusetts tents, 316; Continental officers appointed by Congress, 324-26, 329-30; militia mobilizing, 413; Highlands defense, 507, 555; Albany loyalist conspiracy discovered, 523; Dobbs Ferry naval battle, 627; naval action on Hudson River, 645-46; map listed, 669; see also New York City; Northern military department; Staten Island, N.Y. New York City: mechanics meeting supports independence, 135; American army at, 147, 189, 191, 213-14, 400-403, 409, 413-15, 434, 502-3, 512, 590-91, 602, 605, 611, 633, 635, 660; British attack expected, 189, 213, 400-403, 639, 645, 652, 655, 668, 673, 675, 677, 682-83, 687; loyalist conspiracy discovered, 301, 310, 322, 332-34, 342-43, 366, 410, 452, 570; Thomas Hickey executed, 342-43, -366, 410; express to Philadelphia established, 391; George III statue melted down, 477; fortifica tions, 506 New York Convention: letters to, 136, 171, 189, 190, 264, 283, 317, 325, 396; urged to support independence, 135; sent resolves on salted beef and pork ex port ban, 218; instructs delegates, 258-59, 372; accepts congressional appointment of Continental officers, 326; approves declaring independence, 359, 372, 417, 456, 458, 466-68; removes to White Plains, 372, 398; accepts John Alsop’s resignation as delegate, 468, 622, 666; mentioned, 172, 392, 399, 410, 420-21, 509, 514, 648, 684 New York delegates: letters from, 171, 258, 329, 371; -fr refused instructions on independence, 171, 468; abstain from voting on independence, 171-72, 342-43, 359, 391-92, 399, 410, 417, 420-21, 458; withhold assent to congressional appoint ment of New York officers, 229-30; receive instructions on independence, 258-59, 372; request more instructions on independence, 372; committee of Congress on New Jersey and Pennsylvania defense, 381-82, 386; number reduced, 684 New York Provincial Congress: letters to, 258, 329, 371, 373, 466; refuses to instruct delegates on independence, 171, 468; seeks equal pay for troops, 190; bans exportation of salted pork and beef, 211; cautioned on appointment of army officers, 311-12; mentioned, 399 Newberry, Eunice Ely, 144 Newberry, Roger: identified, 144—45; letter to, 142 Niagara, expedition to proposed, 58-59 Nicholas, Samuel, 663 Nicholson, James: engages frigate officers, 320-21; mentioned, 370, 524 Nicholson, John, 81, 285, 311 Nightingale; see Clarke & Nightingale Nixon, John: letter to, 264; appointed brig, gen., 615, 648, 650-51; mentioned, 614, 621, 654


[Page 764]
732 Index Steward, Stephen, 446 Stewart, D., 192, 193 Stiles, Ezra: identified, 498; letters to, 485, 497; -ft diary quoted, 498 Stiles, Henry R., The History and Genealogies of Ancient Windsor, Connecticut, 145 Stillman, Samuel, 610 Stirling, Lord; see Alexander, William Stockbridge Indians: prohibited from army, 319-20; military employment au thorized, 606 Stockton, Richard: letter from, 491; elected to Congress, xviii, 379, 458, 521-22; attends Congress, xviii; receives letter from London, 497; mentioned, 529, 530, 666 Stone, Thomas: letters from, 46, 192, 446, 519, 583, 677; letter to, 527; elected to Congress, xvii, 54; attends Congress, xvii; portrait, xxii, 48; on independence, 47, 49; withdraws from Congress, 47, 53; describes situation in Canada, 49-50; on dilemmas of delegate service, 51-52; requests recall from Congress, 51; seeks instructions on independence, 192-93, 223; resents criticism by Virginia Con vention, 192; certifies James Wilson’s conduct, 271-74; attests to Robert Morris’ memorandum, 277; criticizes Staten Island inhabitants, 447; debates articles of confederation, 546, 603; mentioned, 384, 554, 667 Strabo, Geography, 601, 602 Stricker, George: appointed It. col., 447, 518-19; mentioned, 446, 571 Stringer, Samuel, 158 Stuart, Henry, letter intercepted, 264 Submarines, 514, 515, 638 Sugar, captured, 622, 659 Sullivan, James: identified, 75; letter to, 72; mentioned, 107 Sullivan, John: letter to, 296; -ft evaluated by Samuel Chase, 105; entrenching at Sorel, 303; retreats to Isle aux Noix, 332, 350-51, 365; asks leave to resign from army, 549-50, 557-58, 562; withdraws resignation request, 549, 557-58, 561, 563, 589, 675; appointed maj. gen., 615, 648, 650-51; mentioned, 28, 30, 33, 40, 86, 88, 126, 152, 182, 202, 219, 256, 267, 270, 281, 286, 312, 321, 332, 496, 566 Sullivan’s Island, S.C., British repulsed, 450, 459, 489-91, 493, 498, 502-3, 516, 624, 627-28, 638 Sulphur, 197, 340, 400, 518, 527 Summary View of the Rights of British America (Thomas Jefferson), 674 Sussex County, Del., loyalists assemble, 204-6, 208 Syren (H.M.S.), 207 Tash, Thomas, 31 Taxes: under draft articles of confederation, 238-39, 245; method of setting state quotas for Continental treasury, 438-41, 444, 568-69, 592, 596-97; from western land, 672-74; mentioned, 295, 424, 667 Tayloe, John, 58 Taylor, George: elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx Taylor, Robert J., Western Massachusetts in the Revolution, 97 Tea: price, 70; right of South Carolina to sell confiscated East India Company’s, 543-44 Tents: manufacture, 65; needed for army, 446 Thatcher, Oxenbridge, Jr., 482 Thayer, Mr., 124 Thomas, John: letters to, 68, 75; -ft retreats from Quebec, 21-22, 25; directed to hold Canada, 68; contracts smallpox, 75, 81, 105; criticized by commissioners, 80-82; death, 227-28, 256, 286; mentioned, 40, 86, 147, 219, 262, 613, 620, 654 Thomas, John Allen, 526, 677


[Page 765]
Index 733 Thompson, Archibald, 422 Thompson, Thomas: appointed frigate captain, 55, 125-26, 149-50, 181, 185; men tioned, 54 Thompson, William (Pennsylvania): identified, 303; letter to, 301; -ft reinforces Sorel, 4; ordered to attack Trois Rivieres, 303-4; taken prisoner in Trois Rivitres defeat, 312, 318, 321-22, 326-28, 332-34, 342, 463; mentioned, 80, 82, 86, 105, 202, 305, 329, 620 Thompson, William (South Carolina): thanked by Congress, 492, 516; mentioned, 502, 503 Thomson, Charles: letters from, 309, 562, 563; on republican honor, 562; men tioned, 204, 251, 252, 270, 382, 537, 566, 640 Thornton, Matthew, 328 Thoughts on Government (John Adams), 79, 80, 122, 123, 228, 423 Thwing, Nathaniel, 520 Ticklenburg, price, 65 Ticonderoga, N.Y.: army moves from Crown Point, 487, 496, 525, 534, 579, 636; strategic advantage described, 594; mentioned, 553, 557, 561, 567, 571, 583, 623, 626, 675 Tileston, Mr., 188 Tilghman, Matthew: letter from, 192; letter to, 321; elected to Congress, xvii, 54; attends Congress, xvii; withdraws from Congress, 47, 53; seeks instructions on independence, 192-93; resents criticism by Virginia Convention, 192; leaves Philadelphia, 223; attends Maryland Convention, 224; unable to attend Congress, 497 Tillinghast, Daniel, letter to, 393 Tilton, James, 30, 100 Tokeley, William, letter to, 35 Tompkins, Samuel: appointed to command ship, 173; appointed commander of Providence, 287 Tool, Capt., 581 Tort, Capt., 609 Towers, Robert, 71 Townsend, Mr., 542 Trade: British regulations discussed, 112-13; prospects for European, 113, 163; supplies imported, 120, 124-25, 659; arms imported, 120, 124-25, 595, 597, 604-5, 621-22, 624, 628, 680, 683; foreign West Indian, 124-25, 133-34, 537-38; Willing, Morris & Co. foreign transactions, 133-34, 537-38, 657-58; British West Indian to be disrupted, 149-50, 153; opening of American ports discussed, 187-88; ex portation of salted beef and pork restricted, 211, 214, 218, 258; regulation under draft articles of confederation, 236-37, 243; sales commissions on imported goods, 315; grain exchange for arms, 509; with Indians under draft articles of confederation, 545-46; Portuguese ports closed to American shipping, 629; con signments to Europe diverted in New York, 656; goods for Indians to be im ported, 656; international credit, 657-58; mentioned, 52, 154, 297, 299, 568, 636; see also Alliances, foreign; Committee of secret correspondence; Secret committee Treason: punishment recommended, 313-14, 316-17; New Jersey law passed, 504—5; see also Hickey, Thomas Treasury; see Board of treasury; Interest Treasury notes; see Paper currency Treaties; see Alliances, foreign; Indian affairs, middle department Tredwell, Thomas, 648 Trois Rividres, Quebec: attack ordered, 303-4; Americans defeated, 312, 318, 321-22, 326-28, 332-34, 342, 463 Trott, George, 32 Trumbull, John, xxv


[Page 767]
Index 735 Virginia Council: letter to, 469; John Page elected to, 472; approves chevalier de St, Aubin as cadet, 580 Virginia delegates: letters from, 37, 464, 475; instructed on independence, 94, 99; propose independence, foreign alliances and confederation, 158-60; to confer on completing army companies, 336; reduced from seven to five, 341; elected to Congress, 341, 366; vote for declaring independence, 359; present boundary proposal to Pennsylvania, 464; accounts, 580; credentials delayed, 623-24; seek funds for Virginia, 677 Virginia Gazette (Purdie), 43 Visscher, John, 285 Voting: discussed by John Adams, 73-75, 96, 122; mode in Congress debated, 199-200, 256, 438, 441-45, 556-57, 568-69, 592-94, 596-97; delegate selection under draft articles of confederation, 241, 245; mode in Congress under draft articles of confederation, 242, 251; New Jersey delegates quorum set, 524-25 Wages; see Income Wagner, Frederick, Submarine Fighter of the American Revolution, the Story of David Bushnell, 515 Wales, Nathaniel, 400 Walker, Mr., 152 Walker, Thomas, 85 Walker, Mrs. Thomas, 85 Walton, George: letters from, 259, 631; elected to Congress, xvi; attends Con gress, xvi; secures recruitment privileges for Georgia in Virginia, 259; debates articles of confederation, 545-46 Wanderwoordt, Jean, 103, 104 War Office; see Board of war Ward, Andrew, 578 Ward, Artemas: resigns army commission, 547; mentioned, 4, 15, 89, 133, 181, 390, 397, 532, 654 Ward, Henry, 287 Ward, Jonathan, 654 Ward, Joseph: letters to, 390, 425, 477; mentioned, 32, 425 Ward, Samuel, 172 Warder, John, 191 Ware, Francis, 519 Warner, Seth, 23 Warren, James: letters to, 31, 40, 42, 90, 150, 151, 179, 187, 220, 228, 316, 370, 391, 404, 457, 466, 478, 532, 546, 550; nominated to Massachusetts Superior Court, 32-33; declines appointment to Massachusetts Superior Court, 374-75, 533; men tioned, 80, 97, 107, 177, 647, 654 Warren, James, Jr., 227, 228 Warren, Joseph, 116, 287, 654 Warren (Continental frigate), 174, 287 Washington, George: letters to, 8, 14, 15, 56, 132, 145, 156, 183, 191, 217, 258, 266, 269, 279, 280, 284, 319, 326, 335, 358, 384, 397, 398, 408, 431, 435, 448, 461, 480, 484, 490, 494, 501, 514, 535, 548, 560, 577, 578, 589, 602, 605, 639, 648, 649, 682; portrait, xxii, 10; asked to Philadelphia, 8-9, 26, 56; confers with Congress, 9, 60-61, 66, 68, 78, 80, 90, 120, 125; sits for portrait, 9; authorized to employ Indians, 59, 173, 183-84, 266, 409, 606; reviews troops at Philadelphia, 71, 78, 99; sidesteps arms distribution issue, 97—98; meets with Massachusetts delegates, 121; thanked by Congress, 132; establishes headquarters at New York, 147; praised by Samuel Adams, 180-81; requests export ban on salt pork, 211; expects British attack at New York City, 213; seeks militia authority, 264-65, 269; ordered to enquire into conduct of officers in Canada, 284-86; ordered to stop military use


[Page 768]
736 Index Washington, George (continued) of Mohegan and Stockbridge Indians, 319-20; attempted murder rumored, 332-34, 342-43, 410; asked to recommend officers, 336; letter quoted, 336; recommends withdrawal from Canada, 336; offends New Jersey, 461; advises against William Goddard’s appointment, 495; refuses Lord Howe’s letter, 497, 531, 534, 536, 627; confers with Elbridge Gerry, 506; on military bounties, 508; rejects conference with Howes, 523; conduct approved by Congress, 531, 534; requests additional aides-de-camp, 549; medal for, 678-79; mentioned, xxvi, 202, 203, 204, 206, 219, 231, 263, 282, 325, 350, 351, 391, 393, 396, 399, 402, 404, 406, 408, 412, 413, 421, 431, 433, 447, 448, 449, 451, 453, 455, 456, 459, 462, 469, 470, 471, 472, 496, 507, 509, 512, 525, 526, 532, 541, 553, 554, 556, 557, 558, 559, 563, 571, 579, 581, 583, 588, 625, 630, 635, 638, 640, 641, 645, 646, 650, 652, 656, 659, 662, 666, 670, 673, 676, 683, 688 Washington, Martha Custis (Mrs. George), 8, 9, 56, 184, 512 Washington (Continental frigate), launched, 634-35 Wasp (Continental schooner), 102, 116, 117, 185, 664 Watson, Moses, 106 Way, Dr., 455 Wayne, Anthony, 202 Weare, Meshech: letters to, 15, 30, 93, 141, 194, 211, 327, 419; mentioned, 186, 219, 350 Wells, James, 432 Wells, John, 202 Welsh; see Duff & Welsh Wendell, John: identified, 189; letters to, 187, 281; seeks appointment as New Hampshire vendue master, 188-89, 281-82 Wendell, Mary Jackson (Mrs. Oliver), 395 Wendell, Oliver, 395 Wentworth, Benning, 328 Wentworth, Joshua, 189, 260, 261, 281, 283 West Indies, British; disruption of trade, 149-50, 153; confiscation of captured property, 531; mentioned, 406, 622 West Indies, foreign: Continental agent at Martinique, 126-29; trade with, 124-25, 133-34, 537-38 Wharton, Mr., 315, 622 Wharton, John, 455 Wharton, Francis, ed., Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States, 636 Wheat: scarcity, 21; effect of war on crops, 411 Wheeler, Mr., 450 Wheelwright, John, 120, 520 Whipple, Abraham: letter to, 216; ordered to report to Congress, 212, 216-18, 368; cleared of charges, 217 Whipple, Hannah, 659 Whipple, Joseph, letter to, 565 Whipple, William: letters from, 15, 30, 38, 54, 93, 94, 119, 120, 141, 149, 184, 185, 194, 219, 259, 294, 300, 309, 327, 412, 413, 419, 476, 519, 531, 564, 565, 624, 631; ■ft elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; criticizes New England regiments, 93-94; nominates ship captain, 94-95; on need to be prepared for battle, 119; seeks instructions on declaring independence, 194; opposes John Langdon’s resignation as delegate, 260-61; certifies James Wilson’s conduct, 271-74; committee on miscarriages in Canada, 285, 565-66; criticizes officers’ actions at Cedars, 300; distributes Declaration of Independence, 412, 420; re ceives instructions on independence, 419; on neutrality, 531; on building a republic, 564; on duty as delegate, 564; returns home, 564, 624, 655, 659-60; on


[Page 770]
738 Index Witherspoon, John, Dominion of Providence over the Passions of Man, 567 Wolcott, Laura Collins (Mrs. Oliver), letters to, 17, 71, 114, 194, 224, 322 Wolcott, Oliver: letters from, 16, 17, 71, 114, 142, 194, 224, 322, 367, 666; -ft • elected to Congress, xv; attends Congress, xv; on assuming government, 16-17; on son’s lodgings, 71-72; opposes reinforcing middle states with Connecticut militia, 143^4; on independence, 226; leaves Philadelphia, 322-23, 368; accounts, 322-23; health, 368 Wolcott, Oliver, Jr., 71, 72, 114, 195 Wolcott, William, 144 Women’s rights, John Adams on voting qualifications, 73, 75 Wood, Joseph, 543 Woodhull, Nathaniel: letters to, 171, 258; mentioned, 648 Wooster, David: letter to, 69; recall advised by Canada commissioners, 81; leaves Chambly, 105; recalled from Canada, 158, 170, 286; cleared of blame in Canadian affairs, 158, 650-51; character assailed, 650; mentioned, 32, 36, 40, 47, 58, 76, 84, 285, 325, 507, 637, 686 Wright, William, detained on suspicion, 436-37 Wroth, L. Kinvin, et al., eds., Province in Rebellion, 65, 293 Wuibert (Wiebert, Wybert), Antoine: appointed It. col., 358; appointed assistant engineer, 683; mentioned, 509 Wyatt, Mr., 555 Wythe, George: draft address, 110; letter from, 106; elected to Congress, xxi, 341; attends Congress, xxi; drafts address to foreign mercenaries, 110-12; com mittee on address to people, 111-12; debates independence, 161-63; on confedera tion, 200-201; leaves Philadelphia, 207; account with Virginia, 207; mentioned, 14, 112, 145, 412, 579 Wythe, Thomas, 471 Yard, Sarah, 465, 466 Yates, Mr., 579 Yeates, Jasper: letters to, 383, 434, 503, 545, 651; -fa appointed Indian commis sioner, 383 York County, Pa., Committee, letter to, 376 Yorke, Thomas, contracts with secret committee, 271, 330 Young, Samuel, abandons Fort St. Ann, 83 Zubly, John, 346


[Page 771]
Advisory Committee Library o£ Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts His torical Society Jack P. Greene Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen Editor of The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Consti tution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia Univer sity George C. Rogers, Jr. Yates Snowden Professor of American History, University of South Carolina 739
