Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 25, March 1, 1788 to December 31, 1789 with Supplement, 1774-87
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_25/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 5]
March 1, 1788-July 25, 1789 with Supplement, 1774-87 Paul H. Smith, Editor Ronald M. Gephart, Associate Editor LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON 1998


[Page 6]
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data (Revised for volume 21) Letters of delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 Includes bibliographical references and indexes. Supt. of Docs, no.: LC 1.34:14 Vols. 21- : Ronald M. Gephart, associate editor. 1. United States. Continental Congress—History- Sources—Collected works. I. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931- JK1033.L47 973.3’12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set: alk. paper) ® The paper used in this publication meets the requirements for permanence estab lished by the American National Standard for Information Sciences Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials” (ANSI Z39.48-1984). The Supplement, 1774-87, begins on page 547 of this volume. For sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office Superintendent of Documents, Mail Stop: SSOP, Washington, DC 20402-9328


[Page 10]
Editorial Method and Apparatus PHarH Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg PHi Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PP Free Library of Philadelphia PPAmP American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PPL Library Company of Philadelphia PU University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PWacD David Library of the American Revolution, Washington Crossing, Pa. R-Ar Rhode Island State Archives, Providence RHi Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence RNHi Newport Historical Society, Newport RPJCB John Carter Brown Library, Providence ScCoAH South Carolina Department of Archives and History, Columbia ScHi South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViHi Virginia Historical Society, Richmond ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ViW College of William and Mary, Williamsburg, Va. Vt-Ar Vermont State Archives, Montpelier VtU University of Vermont, Burlington WHi State Historical Society of Wisconsin, Madison ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Adams, Diary (Butterfield) Adams, John. Diary and Autobiography of John Adams. Edited by Lyman H. Butterfield et al. 4 vols. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1961. Adams, Papers (Taylor) Taylor, Robert J., et al., eds. Papers of John Adams. Cambridge: Har vard University Press, Belknap Press, 1977-. Bartlett, Records of R.I. Bartiett, John R., ed. Records of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England. Vols. 8-10. Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1863-65. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the United States Congress, 1774-1989. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1989. Bowling, “Good-by ‘Charle’” Bowling, Kenneth R. “Good-by ‘Charle’: The Lee-Adams Interest and The Political Demise of Charles Thomson, Secretary of Congress, 1774-1789.” Pennsylvania Magazine of History and Biogra phy, 100 (July 1976): 314—35. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36.


[Page 17]
Chronology of Congress xiii May 27-29 Debates western land ordinance amendment. May 30 Debates Kentucky statehood in committee of the whole. June 2 Receives committee of the whole report recom mending Kentucky statehood. June 3 Elects grand committee on Kentucky statehood. June 5 Fails to achieve quorum. June 6 Authorizes survey of New York-Pennsylvania boundary preparatory to granting Pennsylvania greater access to Lake Erie. June 9 Directs treasury to submit 1788-89 fiscal esti mates. June 12 Receives report on land reserve for French set tlers in the Illinois country. June 13 Responds to French protest against Virginia’s harboring a French pirate. June 17 Receives war office report on manpower and re cruitment. June 18 Receives report opposing state inspection of the mails. June 19 Debates western land ordinance amendment. June 20 Elects Joseph Martin Continental agent to the Cherokees; authorizes negotiation of western land contract with George Morgan associates. June 24 Authorizes three-month extension of Continen tal claims. June 25 Abolishes office of inspector of Continental troops. June 27 Debates report on Georgia-Creek Indian af fairs. July 2 Debates western land ordinance amendment; receives notification of the ratification of the Constitution by the ninth state (New Hamp shire) ; appoints committee “for putting the said constitution into operation.” July 3 Postpones action on Kentucky statehood until proceedings shall commence under the new Constitution.


[Page 18]
xiv Chronology of Congress July 7-8 Debates western land ordinance amendment. July 9 Refers fiscal estimates to committee; adopts “supplement” to western land ordinance. July 14 Debates report on implementing the Constitu tion. July 15 Rejects terms of Georgia’s western land cession, but accepts responsibility for southwestern fron tier defense. July 17 Directs resumption of western land surveys; re jects proposed Virginia western land reserve for military bounties. July 21 Receives report on Continental Army man power needs. July 25 Orders deployment of Continental troops to pacify Luzerne County, Pa. July 28 Debates report on implementing the Constitu tion; rejects motion to establish capital at Philadelphia. July 30 Rejects motion to establish capital at New York. August 1 Extends term of northern superintendent of In dian affairs. August 4 Extends term of southern superintendent of In dian affairs. August 5-6 Debates motions on the location of the capital. August 7 Debates status of delegates from states that have not ratified the Constitution. August 12 Plans mobilization of frontier militia against western Indians. August 13 Debates report on implementing the Constitu tion. August 20 Adopts 1788 requisition. August 26 Debates report on implementing the Constitu tion; seeks Spanish cooperation for apprehend ing fugitive slaves fleeing to Florida. August 28 Revises George Morgan associates western land contract.


[Page 19]
Chronology of Congress xv August 29 September 1 September 2 September 3 September 4 September 8 September 13 September 16 September 18-24 September 26-29 September 30 October 1 October 2 October 6-7 October 8 October 10 October 13-16 October 21- November 1 November 3 Confirms land titles of French settlers in the Illi nois country. Condemns settler encroachments on Cherokee lands. Debates report on implementing the Constitu tion. Reserves Ohio lands of Christian Delaware Indi ans; rejects motion to establish capital at An napolis. Debates report on implementing the Constitu tion; confirms land contract giving Pennsylvania large tract bordering Lake Erie. Receives John Jay report on negotiations with Spain concerning the Mississippi question. Adopts plan for implementing the Constitution. Recommends that states ban importation of felons; directs suspension of negotiations con cerning the Mississippi question. Fails to achieve quorum. Fails to achieve quorum. Receives report on treasury department inquiry. Rejects Silas Deane setdement of Beaumarchais’ accounts. Receives report on war department inquiry. Fails to achieve quorum. Receives communications on Indian relations in the western territory. Suspends the work of the commissioners ap pointed to settle the states’ Continental ac counts’ adjourns what proves to be its final ses sion under the Articles of Confederation. Fails to achieve quorum. Fails to achieve quorum. Assembles for the new federal year—only two delegates attending.


[Page 20]
xvi Chronology of Congress November 15- March 2,1789 Secretary Charles Thomson records occasional attendance of 17 additional delegates. July 25,1789 Secretary Thomson delivers papers and records of the Confederation to new federal govern ment.


[Page 28]
Illustrations Plan of the City of New York endpapers This plan was drawn by John McComb in 1789. Federal Hall, where Congress met from 1785 to 1789, is located at the intersection of Wall and Broad Streets, one block southeast of Broad Way. Geography and Map Division, Library of Congress. G3804.N4 1789.M3. Benjamin Contee 18 Contee (1755-1815), a Maryland merchant, was bom and reared in Prince Georges County, Md., where he attended private schools and entered public life as an officer in the Third Maryland Battalion in 1776, before setting himself up in trade at Nottingham. He was elected a delegate to Congress in 1787 and 1788, and a representative to the First United States Congress, 1789-91, but refused to stand for reelec tion. Contee later turned to the study of theology, and was ordained an Episcopal priest in 1803. He was pastor of the Episcopal Church of Port Tobacco, Md., for several years and served for a time as judge of the Charles County Orphans Court before his death in 1815. In Congress, Contee was particularly interested in obtaining the removal of the federal capital from New York to Baltimore or Philadelphia, ar guing that the country’s harmony depended upon a more central loca tion. He also submitted a formal protest to Congress in March 1788 over alleged mail tampering by the Post Office, which he regarded as a reflection on his “patriotism and love of his country,” an “insinuation” that wounded his feelings “both as a citizen and a man.” “From a miniature” owned by a descendent. From Clarence W. Bowen, The History of the Centennial Celebration of the Inauguration of George Washington as First President of the United States (New York: D. Ap pleton and Co., 1892). Cyrus Griffin 25 Griffin (1748-1810), a lawyer of Richmond County, Va., studied law at the Middle Temple and in Edinburgh, where he met Christina Stu art, eldest daughter of the earl of Traquair, with whom he eloped without the earl’s consent. A political moderate, Griffin was somewhat active in the Virginia resistance to the North ministry’s colonial poli- xxiv


[Page 29]
Illustrations XXV cies. Before acquiescing in the reality of war, however, he returned to London in 1775 where in December he proposed a “Plan of reconcili ation” to the earl of Dartmouth, secretary of state for the colonies. He later served in the Virginia Assembly in 1777, the Continental Congress in 1778—80, and as judge of the Continental Court of Ap peals, 1780-87. He was reelected to the Virginia Assembly in 1786-87 and to Congress 1787—88, where he served as its last president from January to October 1788. In 1789, President Washington appointed Griffin a commissioner to negotiate with the southern Indians and later the same year a federal judge for the District of Virginia, a post he held until his death in 1810. In Congress Griffin was a member of the standing committee of commerce, a critic of paper money poli cies, a defender of Virginia land claims, and an advocate of America’s right to navigation of the Mississippi. He was also aligned against the party of the Lee family of Virginia and supported Dr. John Morgan in his efforts to prosecute Dr. William Shippen, Jr., husband of Alice Lee, for misappropriation of medical supplies as director general of Continental hospitals. Drawing from a portrait by Thomas Sully. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-22728). Abraham Baldwin 34 Baldwin (1754-1807) was born and raised in Connecticut, gradu ated from Yale College in 1772, studied for the ministry, and began to preach in 1775. He was also a tutor at Yale from 1775 to 1779, when he entered the Continental Army to serve as a chaplain. Baldwin re jected the offer of a position as professor of divinity at Yale in 1781 to begin the study of law, and he was admitted to the Connecticut bar in 1783, practicing briefly at Fairfield before moving to Georgia in 1784. There he was quickly accepted as a public leader, being elected to the Assembly in 1785, as a delegate to Congress in 1785 and 1787-88, and as a member of the Constitutional Convention of 1787. Baldwin was also a driving force behind the founding of the University of Georgia, whose charter he drafted, and he served as its titular president from 1786 to its actual founding as Franklin College in 1789. He continued to serve Georgia under the new federal government, as a United States representative from 1789 to 1799 and as a senator from 1799 until his death in 1807. In Congress, Baldwin served on a number of committees concerned with western land policy and Indian affairs, is sues of particular concern to Georgia, and he was a member of the committee appointed to implement the new government under the Constitution that he helped to draft. Pencil on paper by Robert Fulton. National Portrait Gallery, Smith sonian Institution.


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii Jeremiah Wadsworth 228 Wadsworth (1743-1804), a Connecticut merchant, was the son of a Hartford minister who died when Jeremiah was four, and he was sub sequently placed in the care of an uncle who was a Middletown shipowner. He took to the sea as a young man, rising to the rank of captain, and at the outbreak of hostilities in 1775 was appointed com missary to Connecticut troops. Wadsworth was elected deputy commis sary of purchases of the Continental Army in 1777, and served as com missary general in 1778—79, but resumed his mercantile trade during the later stages of the war. He served at various times as a delegate to Congress, 1787—88, and a member of the Connecticut ratifying con vention, 1788, of the United States House of Representatives, 1789-95, and of the Connecticut Assembly in 1795. He ended his pub lic career on the executive council of Connecticut, 1795-1801. Wadsworth was also a founder of the Bank of North America and of the Bank of the United States, and a promoter of the Hartford Manu factory Company. He spent his final years engaged in scientific agri culture and livestock breeding. He vigorously supported ratification of the Federal Constitution, and in Congress was a member of commit tees appointed to report on Indian affairs, western land policy, and the improvement of the Post Office. Painting by James Sharples, Sr. Independence National Historical Park. John Armstrong, Jr. 255 Armstrong (1758-1843), son of Gen. John Armstrong of Carlisle, Pa., was a student at College of New Jersey in 1775, when he left in his junior year to take up arms himself. Within a year he was appointed an aide to Gen. Hugh Mercer, who was killed at the battle of Prince ton, and subsequently as aide-de-camp with the rank of major to Gen. Horatio Gates, who remained a long-time patron and friend. Arm strong acquired notoriety in March 1783 as author of the “Newburgh Letters,” in which he urged officers to take matters into their own hands to obtain the arrears of their pay from Congress. When the Army disbanded a few months later he became secretary to the Penn sylvania Executive Council, 1783-87. He commanded a militia detach ment instructed to restore order between Connecticut and Pennsylva nia setders in the Wyoming Valley in 1786, and was thereafter elected to Congress in 1787 and 1788. While in New York, Armstrong began courting Alida Livingston, sister of Chancellor Robert R. Livingston. They married in 1789, subsequently moving to her estate in Dutchess County, N.Y., where he farmed for eleven years. Though originally a Federalist, Armstrong returned to politics as a Republican, like the


[Page 32]
xxviii Illustrations Livingston clan, and was elected to the United States Senate in 1800. He subsequently served as minister to France at Napoleon’s court, 1804-10, as commander of New York City defenses in 1812, with the rank of brigadier general, and as President Madison’s controversial secretary of war, 1813-14. As a member of Congress, Armstrong fo cused on the development of western land policy, worked to obtain payment of the unsetded claims of former Continental officers such as Baron Steuben, and struggled unsuccessfully for a decision to return Congress to Philadelphia. Painting by Rembrandt Peale. Independence National Historical Park. Theodore Sedgwick 265 Sedgwick (1746-1813) was born in Connecticut and studied for the ministry at Yale but turned to the study of law with a relative in Great Barrington, Mass., gaining admission to the bar in Hampshire County in 1766. He played an active role in the resistance movement to coer cive British policies during the early 1770s, and served as military sec retary to Gen. John Thomas early in 1776, though he abandoned sol diering following the general’s death in Canada. Sedgwick served in the Massachusetts House of Representatives in 1780, 1782-83, and 1787-88, the state senate, 1784—85, and as a delegate to Congress, 1785-86 and 1788. He was also elected as a Federalist to the United States House of Representatives, 1789-96 and 1799-1801, serving as speaker of the Sixth Congress, and to the United States Senate, 1796-99. He ended his public career as judge of the supreme court of Massachusetts, 1802-13. In Congress, Sedgwick worked to strengthen the authority of government, urged forceful measures against Shays’ Rebellion in 1786-87, and vigorously advocated ratification of the Federal Constitution. Mezzotint by Charles Balthazar Julien Fevret de Saint-Memin. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-64711). Jonathan Dayton 357 Dayton (1760-1824), the son of Col. Elias Dayton of Elizabethtown, NJ., was commissioned in his father’s Third Newjersey Battalion soon after his graduation from the College of Newjersey in 1776. He be came aide-de-camp to Gen. John Sullivan in 1779, was captured and exchanged the following year, and saw service as a captain at York town in 1781 before his discharge in 1783. Dayton subsequendy stud ied law and was admitted to the bar, served in the Newjersey Assem bly in 1786-87, and at age 27 was the youngest member of the Constitutional Convention, playing an active role in its proceedings


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix from the beginning of his attendance in June 1787. He also served as a delegate to Congress in 1787-88, the New Jersey Council in 1789, and the New Jersey Assembly in 1790. He was a member of the United States House of Representatives in 1791-99 (speaker of the Fifth Congress), and the United States Senate, 1799-1805. In 1807, Dayton was arrested on charges of conspiring against the United States with Aaron Burr, but was never brought to trial, and though his political career was essentially ruined he returned to the New Jersey Assembly for two terms in 1814-15 before his death at Elizabethtown in 1824. In Congress, Dayton was particularly interested in the nation’s military needs, Indian affairs, and western land issues ranging from veterans’ bounty lands to the large land contract of his friend John Cleves Symmes. Through his association with Symmes, Dayton eventually ac quired tide to over 200,000 acres between the Big and Little Miami Rivers, which led to his interest in the building of a canal around the Falls of the Ohio and the naming of the town of Dayton, Ohio, for him. Painting by Henry Harrison. Architect of the Capitol of the United States. Peleg Arnold 435 Arnold (1751-1820) was educated at Rhode Island College in Provi dence, studied law, and entered into practice at Smithfield, R.I., where he also operated a tavern for a number of years. He served in the Rhode Island Assembly, 1777-78, 1782-83, and as a colonel of Providence County militia, and he was elected to Congress four times, 1786-89, attending in 1787-88. Arnold was chief justice of the Rhode Island supreme court from 1795 to 1812, and returned to the state as sembly in 1817-19. He was also a charter member of the Providence Abolition Society in 1790, and was elected president of both the Smithfield Bank in 1803 and the Smithfield Academy in 1810. Elected to Congress during a period of Rhode Island’s estrangement from the union because of the state’s paper money policies, Arnold worked to counter attacks against the state by Peter Edes’ Newport Herald, and successfully urged the intervention of the state of New York against New York publisher Francis Childs for repeating Edes’ libellous at tacks. After Rhode Island rejected the Constitution in March 1788, Arnold reflected the state’s frustration as he considered measures taken to implement the new federal government, and puzzled over what course Rhode Island should chart to try to share in the benefits of future western land sales and the settlement of Continental ac counts. Etching by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Li brary of Congress (LC-USZ62-54663).


[Page 38]
4 March 1,1788 Charles Thomson to Richard Winn Sir, Office of Secy of Congress, March 1. 1788 I have the honor to inform you that the United States in Congress assembled have appointed you Superintendant of Indian affairs in the Southern department, in the room of Mr White who has re signed. The situation of affairs in that quarter requiring an immedi ate appointment to that Office and Congress being uncertain whether a long continuance therein would be agreeable or conve nient for you they have confined the appointment to the space of six months 1 having principally in view the setdement of a peace with the southern Indians. Inclosed I send you the resolution under which you are appointed together with your commission & instructions on the present Occa sion, 2 and for your further information I also transmit herewith en closed the Ordinance for the regulation of Indian affairs, 3 the resolu tion empowering the states of North Carolina, South Carolina & Georgia to appoint each one commissioner to act in conjunction with you for the purpose of negotiating a treaty to establish peace between the United States & the tribes of Indians in the southern district and a copy of the letter I wrote to those states on the occasion. 4 The oath & bond required by the Ordinance you will be pleased to forward to me by the first opportunity. 5 Heartily wishing you success in your negotiations, I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sr, Yr Most Obt & M h S, C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this February 25 resolution, see JCC, 34:57. 2 A copy of Winn’s commission is in PCC, item 182, fol. 49. For his instructions, see JCC, 33:708-11. s See JCC, 31:490-93. 4 See Thomson to Certain States, October 27, 1787. 5 Winn’s March 31 response to Thomson and enclosed oath of allegiance are, respec tively, in PCC, item 78, 24:603-6, and item 195, fols. 350-51. Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin New York 2d March 1788. Your Excellency will find enclosed a report of The Board of Treasy. on a Motion made by the Delegates of Pennsylva. “for placing the Sum of 78,642 Dols, of the bills of Credit of -81 to the debit of the Gen. Account of said State with the United States.” 1 The Board reports against the motion, & the presumption is that some Act of Congress will soon follow. 2 It will be our Object to prevent


[Page 40]
6 March 3, 1788 Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons Dear Sir March 3. 1788. My little woman has forgotten to write to me about a change of lodgings, and I was so negligent to omit an answer to your former very obliging and friendly letter. I shall be very happy that you advise lady C. 1 what is the better plan to be adopted; I do not like my family to be in a house with boarders; nor do I know any thing of the other situation; but to your Judgment we shall submit implicidy and with satisfaction—if the family come to N. York it may not be convenient untill the last of April, perhaps not at all. We expect a packet every day which may possibly bring us some In telligence from abroad—in the mean time we are told that the King has consented to the Protestant Edict in France, which not only toler ates all non-Catholics, but gives them admission into Government &c. This important change has been effected principally by the Arch bishop of Toulouse and the parliaments: France is hastening by this and other great affairs already in agitation to adopt the real principles of freedom & human Nature, and will in all probability be exhibited as one of the most illustrious nations the world has ever seen. N. Hampshire, I am very sorry to tell you that the convention have seper- ated without taking a question upon the important business of the constitution; it seems that the federal Members were apprehensive of a negative, and therefore came into the measure of an Adjournment untill June. 2 I consider this price of conduct as very unfortunate in deed, for nine states will not have agreed to the system before Virginia shall be assembled; this will make her in fact the preponderating state of the union; and being so placed I fear the consequences; perhaps Rhode Island may take up the discussion and accord with the plan, the best men of the country are very busy to that purpose, but as yet they appear a minority—we are parting with our valuable friend Madi son to Virginia from Congress, but still I am doubtful that all his virtues and abilities will avail nothing. Be so kind as to make my best regards to Mrs. Fitzsimons—I hope she continues in good health this very severe season—the weather fret’s my constitution to atoms almost—it is too cold for a southern fabrick. I am dear sir, With the highest esteem & consideration, Your most obedient C Griffin RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 That is, Griffin’s wife, Lady Christina Stuart, eldest daughter of the 6th earl of Traquair. DAB. 2 For the impact on other states of the adjournment of the New Hampshire conven tion from February 22 to June 18, see Doc. Hist, of Ratif, 16:179-85.


[Page 41]
March 3,1788 7 James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir N. York Mar. 3. [17] 88. The Convention of N. Hampshire have disappointed much the gen eral expectation. Instead of adopting the Constitution they have ad journed without any final decision until June; this expedient being found necessary to prevent a rejection. It seems that a majority of 3 or 4 members would have voted in the negative, but in this majority were a number who had been proselyted by the discussions, but were bound by positive instructions. These concurred with the federalists in the adjournment, and carried by a majority of 57 agst. 47. It is not much doubted that in the event N. Hampshire will be among the adopting States. But the influence of this check will be very consider able in this State (N. York) and in several others. I have enquired whether June was preferred for the 2d meeting, from any reference to Virga, or N. York, and am informed that it was merely an accommoda tion to the intermediate annual elections & Courts. I am just setting out for Virga, and shall not write again from this place. 1 I wish you every happiness & am Dr Sir, Yr Affe friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:554. 1 By November 1787 Madison had become convinced that he must return to Virginia to stand for election to the Virginia ratifying convention from Orange Co., for which see Madison to Ambrose Madison, November 8, 1787. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York Mar. 3. [17]88. The Convention of N. Hampshire have disappointed the general expectation. They have not rejected the Constitution, but they have adjourned without adopting it. It was found that on a final question there would be a majority of 3 or 4 in the negative but in this number were included some who with instructions from their Towns against the Constitution, had been proselyted by the discussions. These con curring with the federalists in the adjournment, carried it by 57 agst. 47 if I am rightly informed as to the numbers. The second meeting is not to be till the last week in June. I have enquired from the Gentle man from that quarter what particularly recommended so late a day, supposing it might refer to the times fixed by N.Y. & Virga. They tell me it was governed by the intermediate annual elections and Courts. If the opposition in that State be such as they are described it is not probable that they pursue any sort of plan, more than that of Massts.


[Page 42]
8 March 3, 1788 This event whatever causes may have produced it, or whatever conse quences it may have in N.H. is no small check to the progress of the business. The opposition here which is unquestionably hostile to every thing beyond the federal principle, will take new spirits. The event in Massts. had almost extinguished their hopes. That in Pena, will proba bly be equally encouraged. Col. Heth arrived a day or two ago with the proceedings of the Commissrs. They will be laid before Congs, to day. 1 I have been de tained from setting out for Virga, by this circumstance having fixed on yesterday for the purpose. I shall probably get away tomorrow, and possibly this afternoon. Yrs. Affey., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 10:554-55. 1 This day Madison submitted to Congress the January 7 report adopted by the Vir ginia House of Delegates based on the enclosed proceedings of the three commission ers charged with settling Virginia’s Continental claim for expenses incurred in captur ing and administering the northwest territory during the war. Virginia had included a stipulation in its original land cession of 1781 for reimbursement for George Rogers Clark’s expeditions, and Congress agreed, when it accepted the state’s renewed cession in 1784, to submit the issue to three commissioners—one appointed by Congress, an other by Virginia, and a third by the other two commissioners. When William Heth re placed Edward Carrington as Virginia’s representative in December 1785, he and Ed ward Fox, Congress’ appointee, chose Col. David Henley as the third commissioner. It was not until commissioner for army accounts John Pierce replaced Fox in April 1787, however, that negotiations began in earnest. Despite the loss or destruction of many of Clark’s vouchers, Heth argued for a settlement in equity of £200,000, though he would accept £150,000, while Henley supported an award of £120,000. But the parsimonious Pierce created a stalemate by reducing the sum to £50,000 and refusing further en treaties. In frustration Heth turned to the Virginia legislature, which appointed a com mittee chaired by George Mason whose January 1788 report called for the suspension of negotiations until the state could submit a protest to Congress. In the meantime, Vir ginia would withhold payment of its fiscal quota until fully reimbursed. Heth was then ordered to carry Virginia’s objections with supporting documentation to New York. Sub mitted this day by Madison, the voluminous papers were referred to a committee of five—Abraham Clark, Nathan Dane, William Irvine, Dyre Kearny, and Jeremiah Wadsworth. See JCC, 31:737, 741, 886n, 32:165-66, 171-72, 34:77n.l; PCC Miscella neous Papers, M332, reel 7, fols. 195-602, reel 10, fols. 211-14; Hening, Statutes, 10:564-66; Cal. ofVa. State Papers, 4:84, 346-47, 414-16; Journals of the Virginia Council, 4:67, 209; these Letters, 22:304, 502-3, 23:237; Mason, Papers (Rutland), 3:1027-37; Madison, Papers (Rutland), 8:343n.l, 9:329n.5, 10:353n.l; and George Rogers Clark Papers, 1771-1784, ed. by James Alton James and Theodore C. Pease, 2 vols. (Springfield, Ill.: Illinois State Historical Library, 1912-26), 2:277-82. For the resolution of Virginia’s claims, see Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph, March 23, and Virginia Delegates to Heth, April 20. James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir N. York. March 3d. 1788 The Convention of N. Hampshire has afforded a very disagreeable subject of communication. It has not rejected the Constitution; but it


[Page 49]
March 17,1788 15 sachusetts adopted it in the manner She did—both parties seemed rather to consider the question as setded—that it must be adopted also by the other States, and amended afterwards. But the unexpected Con duct of New Hamshire and late intilligence from Virginia and North Carolina, appear to make the adoption of the Constitution much more doubtful—and all parties here consider the great question far from being dicided—the opponents in this State, in Virginia and North Car olina I find say they have a very considerable majority—the Supporters of the Constitution are doubtful. I confess it is my opinion, notwith standing, that all these States will adopt it—recommending amend ments—perhaps, some in addition to those recommended by Massa. I need not mention to you how important it is to keep the minds of men Cool and temperate at this time, particularly by keeping up the forms of Government and the appearances of Tranquility. Matters seem to be in a state of quiet in Europe at present, but I do not think they will remain so long. We hear nothing from that quarter that respects us particularly—except that our friends the Dutch are very pressing for their interest money, and I expect Congress will make a short statement to the States on this subject. The States must apply some small sums at least to the use of the Union or the Federal Government must be dissolved. I am at a loss to know how the board of Treasury have done so well as they have to pay the civil list, the Dutch interest and troops in a considerable part. I believe the Union has been Supported almost wholly for a year or two past on the pay ments of New York, the gleanings of new Emission money, and a litde tobacco from North Carolina. We have as usual much said about an Indian war. I doubt whether there will be anything more than party disputes among the plunder ing individuals. Kentucky and Virginia have form [al] ly applied to Congress to ac knowledge the Independance of the former and to admit it into the Union. Nothing of importance has yet been done in Congress relative to the subject and, probably, there will not be at present. With the highest sentiments of esteem and respect I am dear sir, Your obdt servant, N. Dane RC (CCamarSJ: Edward J. Doheny Signers Collection). 1 Although Congress did not adjourn, it was unable to convene a quorum from March 27 to May 2. See JCC, 34:115-19. John Brown to Janies Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge New York March 17th. [17]88 I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 12th of Feby & am happy to find that you are still disposed to continue a Correspon-


[Page 50]
16 March 17,1788 dence from which I promise myself much pleasure & information dur ing my stay in this place; where from the remoteness of my situation & the difficoulty of Conveyance I am cut off from all communication with my Relations & even from any intilligence respecting them ex cept through you. I expect that Brother James 1 has before this time bid adieu to Wm. & Mary & set out for Kentucky big with the prospect of making money & of receiving that reward which so many years spent in a painful course of study Justly merit. He has my warmest wishes for his favorable reception & Success in the world. I flatter my self that his Genius & acquired Knowledge will enable him to make his way good at least in that Country where as yet he will not meet with powerful opponents. I have at length presented the Kentucky address to Congress & from the apparent disposition of Congress at present relative to that Business I fear I shall meet with no small difficoulty in obtaining the Independence of that District. 2 The Objections are the want of power by the Articles of Confederation to admit a new State into the Union. That the admission of Kentucky is contrary to the Eastern Interest as it would throw another Vote into the Western or rather Southern Scale—that therefore it would affect the adoption of the New Plan of Govt, in Eastern States. The reasonableness of the request of the Dis trict is admitted by all—but the policy of the measure is disputed. I shall spare no pains or Arguments in my power to effect this measure which I have much at heart—as I am fully convinced that the future tranquility & Glory of that Country very much depend upon the event. Knowing you to be much interested in the issue of this Business I shall from time to time give you a particular account of its progress. It now stands refered to a committee of the Whole. I am sorry that I have it not in my power to give you a favorable Account relative to the Success of the New Constitution. The Convention of N. Hampshire adj’d. without adopting it ‘till June next a majority of the members having been instructed to reject it; there is little doubt but that it will finally be adopted in that State, yet I fear the present failure will be productive of bad consequences as it will give fresh spirits & Confi dence to the Malcontents who were begining to dispair & relax in their opposition. Although Penselva, has adopted it yet there is a very powerful party opposed who are growing very tumultuous—having been exasperated by the intemperate zeal of the friends to the Plan. I really dread the Consequences of its rejection—It has already damn’d the present Govt, in the estimation of the World, it cannot, it will not drag on much longer, & should the new be rejected God only knows what will be the event. From the present Situation & disposition of the States there is little foundation to hope that any new plan can be brought forward less exceptionable than that now proposed. I hope Virginia will not be so blind to her own Interest & that of the Union as


[Page 57]
March 23, 1788 23 to make the proposed promotion and forward me a Commission as soon as may be convenient I beg leave to observe—that, at this time it would be very acceptable. Though I had always a grateful sense of your Excellys. politeness in proposing the appointment, it was never a favorite object. I am now prompted to it by the Spirit of the times and have taken the liberty to communicate my Sentiments that Your Ex cellency may view the affair in its connexion with the public good and determine as may seem most conducive thereto. With sentiment of the most sincere Respect, I have the Honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obedient and Most Humble servant, N. Gilman RC (DLC: Peter Force Miscellany). 1 Notwithstanding Edmund C. Burnett’s speculation that Gilman was referring to Patrick Henry and George Mason, it seems clear that Gilman’s concern here was the opposition to the Constitution in New Hampshire, and that he had in mind two of the most formidable opponents of the document in that state, Nathaniel Peabody and Jonathan Moulton. Cf. Burnett, Letters, 8:709n; and Jere R. Daniell, Experiment in Repub licanism. New Hampshire Politics and the American Revolution, 1741-1794 (Cambridge: Har vard University Press, 1970), pp. 184r-85, 197, 203, 212. Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph Sir New York March 23d. 1788 The Claim of Virginia arrising from the N Western Territory is still before a Committee of Congress. Colo. Heath is right in Opinion that more advantageous terms may be obtained by Negotiation than after a well digested report. At present we think it a reasonable expectation that if the Commis sioner on the part of Virginia was Authorised to enter again upon the Business it might be Adjusted fully as much to the Satisfaction of the Commonwealth as the Nature, Circumstances, & Situation of things will Warrant. 1 We have the honor to be with profound respect & esteem Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Hble Servants, Cyrus Griffin J. Brown RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Brown and signed by Brown and Griffin. 1 For the “Claim of Virgininia arrising from the N Western Territory” and the com missioners' negotiating stalemate, see James Madison to Randolph, March 3, note 1. William Heth, the Virginia commissioner, had already ascertained from committee members appointed March 3 to study the state’s claims that they were reluctant to issue a report. In fact, Heth reported to Gov. Randolph on March 9 that chairman Jeremiah Wadsworth thought “it would be a damnd disagreeable piece of work to bring before Congress.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. In his diary Heth recorded meetings and


[Page 58]
24 March 23,1788 conversations with members of Congress while in New York between February 29 and May 16, and on March 21 he noted that “the Virga. Delegation, thinking with me, that there is a chance of negotiating the business on better terms, than if it should be re ported, have wrote this day to the Governor on the Subject of investing me with powers to enter again thereon. Wrote myself very fully to the Governor on the nature, & critical situation of the business.” William Heth Diary, DLC. The delegates enclosed Heth’s March 21 letter with this of the 23rd and on April 7th the Virginia Council responded by directing Heth to enter again “on the settlement and adjustment of said accounts... either in conjunction with the two present Commissioners or with such other Commissioners as may be appointed for that purpose.” See Journals of the Virginia Council, 4:226; and Cal. o/Va. State Papers, 4:406, 414-16. For the resolution of the state’s claims, see Virginia Delegates to Heth, April 20. Jeremiah Wadsworth to Mehitable Wadsworth My dear friend New York March 23. 1788 I am not able to leave New York so soon as I intended—the ill health of Col Cook prevents. The Children are very well & in good Spirits—on Monday the last of March I shall leave this place. My love to sisters & Harriet. 1 I am, Your Affectionate Husband, J Wadsworth RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). 1 Wadsworth also wrote to Harriet this day, reporting the change in his plans to re turn home and requesting that she send him some seeds for a friend. Ibid. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir N. York 24 March 1788. Before the date of this letter I hope you are gotten safe to Orange, and found all things in a situation the most agreeable. We are still going forward in the same tract of Seven states, of course not a great deal can be done, and indeed not a great deal to do. A prospect of the new Constitution seems to deaden the activity of the human mind as to all other matters; and yet I greatly fear that con stitution may never take place; a melancholy Judgment most cer tainly—and would to heaven that nothing under the Sun shall be more erroneous! The adjournment of N. Hampshire, the small majority of Mas- sachusets, a certainty of rejection in Rhode Island, the formidable op position in the state of N. York, the convulsions and Committee meet ings in Pennsylvania, and above all the antipathy of Virginia to the system, operating together, I am apprehensive will prevent the noble


[Page 59]
March 24, 1788 25 Cyrus Griffin


[Page 60]
26 March 24, 1788 fabrick from being enacted. The constitution is beautiful in Theory—I wish the experiment to be made—in my opinion it would be found a government of sufficient energy only. Neither of the packets have yet arrived, and what has detained the french no one at this place can determine. Not a word from our Ministers abroad. Congress have taken final leave of the Chavalier by a very polite and friendly letter. 1 The Marchioness is recovering rapidly, and the Count in good health; I mention them because they entertain a very exalted [opinion] of you and talk much upon that subject. Daniel Shays and Eli Parsons have petitioned the Legislature of Massachusets for pardon—and will succeed. 2 The frequent attacks upon the post-office has produced the en closed performance. 3 The customary papers are sent to you within this cover. I am, my dear Sir, with friendship and Sincerity, your obedient Servant, C Griffin RC (DI.C: Madison Papers). 1 Congress’ March 18 letter to the chevalier de La Luzerne was in response to the minister’s undated letter transmitting Louis XVI’s September 30 letter of recall. Both were read in Congress on February 1 and referred to secretary for foreign affairs John Jay to report. Jay’s March 13 report included a response to La Luzerne, adopted the 18th, and answers to two September 30 letters from the French king which were not adopted until June 2. See JCC, 34:24, 30n.3, 93, 194—96; PCC, item 80, 3:367, item 81, 3:47-48, 71-73, item 96, fols. 390, 394-97, item 190, fol. 187; and Diplomatic Correspon dence, 1783-89, 1:246-49. 2 Shays and Parsons had presented their petition to the legislature on March 10 and it was printed on the 15th in Benjamin Russell’s Massachusetts Centinel. The General Court did not grant an unconditional pardon, however, until June 25. Marion L. Starkey, A Little Rebellion (New York: A. Knopf, 1955), pp. 248-50. 3 The enclosure was apparently postmaster general Ebenezer Hazard’s defense of his conduct (New York Journal, March 21) in response to publisher Eleazar Oswald’s charge (Philadelphia Independent Gazetteer, March 12) that Hazard had precipitously stopped the distribution of antifederalist newspapers through the post office. These and other accusations levelled at Hazard at this time were the result of longstanding attempts to reform the postal service and the dissatisfaction of supporters and opponents of the Constitution with frequent irregularities in mail delivery. After the war Congress began actively to support the transportation of mail by stage coaches and ordered Hazard on September 7, 1785, to let contracts for the conveyance of the mail by stages from Portsmouth, N.H., to Savannah, Ga., and from New York to Albany, for which see these Letters, 22:578n.4. Hazard, however, had always opposed the use of coaches as too expensive and inefficient and in October 1787 succeeded in wringing from Congress a concession to encourage the use of coaches provided he could employ postriders “as he may judge most expedient and beneficial.” See Madison to Eliza House Trist, January 27, 1788, note 4. At the same time, Congress had been struggling since 1782 with postal reform but the committee assigned to draft a new or dinance did not have its report entered on the journals until February 14, 1787, for which see these Letters, 23:202n.6. A provision in the ordinance that alarmed newspaper publishers was the elimination of free postage for the delivery of newspapers to sub-


[Page 61]
March 24, 1788 27 scribers, though the ordinance still allowed printers to exchange single copies of news papers postage free. Already aroused by the new ordinance, printers were further aggrieved when Hazard’s new system using postriders north of Philadelphia began to break down as riders refused to carry newspapers, threw them away, or sold them en route. By March 1788 publishers from every state complained that they had ceased to receive traditional exchanges, and antifederalist printers such as Thomas Greenleaf in New York and Eleazar Oswald in Philadelphia asserted that the new postal arrange ments were specifically aimed at them. Opponents of the Constitution further con tended that their letters were often lost, stolen or tampered with. (See, for example, Benjamin Contee to Congress, March 17.) For the accusation that “the Postmaster Gen eral through his chain of patronage—postmasters and postriders—had cut America’s vital link of communication" by preventing antifederalist printers and politicians from disseminating their message to the people, see Doc. Hist, of Ratif., 16:540-96, especially p. 541. See also Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher, April 13, note 2. On February 20 a committee appointed on the motion of New Jersey’s Jonathan Day ton was directed to propose methods “for preventing irregularities in the transportation of the mails.” The committee was expanded on March 27 and further assigned consid eration of the ordinance for regulating the post office, but it failed to report. On July 7 a number of committees were appointed to inquire into “the several departments in conformity with the resolution of June 17, 1782,” and the committee investigating the post office issued a general report on August 27 reviewing its personnel, conduct of business, receipts, and estimated costs of transportation. On September 30, however, the committee was permitted to take back its report, which was not resubmitted since Congress ceased to conduct business after October 10. See JCC, 34:52n, 116n, 300n.l, 462-65,572n.l, 599n.l, 619. Nonetheless, Hazard had by this time begun to fear that he would be replaced or forced to resign. He reported to Jeremy Belknap on September 13 that Paine Wingate, who would soon leave for New Hampshire, “has seen a good deal of manoevering, and has gone so far as to tell me that he has been sounded about the P.M.G.; but, as he was not more communicative, delicacy prevented my being particular in my enquiries, but you may.” Interviewing Wingate when he passed through Boston, Belknap informed Hazard on September 23 that “there has been an attempt in Congress to get you dis placed, and W. says that he prevented it. His colleague [Nicholas Gilman] was for it, and, had he agreed with him, there would have been seven States on that side. The States against you are Massachusetts, Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware, and Georgia, and I am uncertain whether Rhode Island or North Carolina; but it originated in Connecti cut, and the person pitched upon for your successor, is Jonathan Trumbull. Baldwin, of Georgia, is against you. Your fault is not enough favouring the stages in carrying the mails, and giving indulgence to post-riders.” In his October 2 reply, Hazard confessed “I never heard, before you informed me, that my removal had been seriously agitated in Congress; or rather, that any vote had been taken about it. North Carolina must have been the 6th State. A friend has intimated to me that a member from that State wanted the office for himself. I am pretty confident that Rhode Island would have been in my favour.” He expressed surprise “that Massachusetts voted as she did, and cannot account for it. For some of the rest I can conjecture the reason." Hazard accused Jonathan Day ton of seeking “revenge” for his brother-in-law, Col. Matthias Ogden, a New Jersey mail contractor against whom Hazard had brought suit. But he agreed with Wingate’s assess ment that “there will not be a full representation before the new Government takes place. . .so that it is possible I may yet weather out the storm.” Writing again on October 14, Hazard issued what he hoped was a corrective: “I am well informed that no vote has been taken on the removal of the P.M.G., but that it is probable his opponents may have been calculating their chance of success, and supposed that 6 States would be with them.” See The Belknap Papers, 3 vols. Massachusetts Historical Society Collections, 5th ser., v. 2-3; 6th ser. v. 4. (Boston: Massachusetts Historical Society, 1877-91), 2:63-69. Notwith standing, Hazard was one of the few Confederation officers not reappointed under the new government, being replaced by Samuel Osgood.


[Page 64]
30 March 29, 1788 communicate to you. The subject which engages the general attention at this time is the New Constitution. What will be the fate of it is yet uncertain, but those who are well wishers to their country & best know the situation we are in, are the most sensible of the necessity of its adoption, and great pains are taken to obtain the end. On the other hand there are powerful opposers to it, who avail themselves of some popular objections & they are too successful with the less know ing part of the country. In New Hampshire when the Convention met, there was a majority prejudiced against the plan. They were chiefly from the interior parte of the state & many of the delegates were in structed to vote against it. The most distinguished Characters were in favor of it & after debating it for sometime there were a few converts made, who did not think themselves at liberty to go against their in structions and therefore obtained an adjournment. There is I think a probabity that it will finally be adopted in New Hampshire, altho con siderable danger that it will not. New York is very doubtful but it is not despaired of. Virginia & North Carolina are much in the same situa tion. Maryland & South Carolina are supposed to be foederal. Those two states will decide before the others & if they should agree to adopt there will be but one of the dubtful ones necessary to make up the nine. The important decision upon the subject cannot be known before the last of July, & at any rate I do not see that the new constitu tion can be got to go as early as Dec. next. Nothing but the hope of a new can I fear keep the old Constitution from dissolution long—Sed nunquam de Re publica desperandum. The news papers are so filled with lyes that no dependance can be put on any account you receive in them respecting the Constitution. I hope I shall soon have the plea sure of hearing from you by letter, which direct to me in Congress at New York. If you have any letters which you wish at any time to for ward to Salem or to any friends Eastward if you will put them under cover to me, I will take the care of them & send them without hazard or expence to the place of destination. If Congress should not ad journ which yet is uncertain, it is likely that I shall remain in this place until Oct. next. I am dear Sir with sentiments of particular esteem & affection your friend & brother, Paine Wingate N.B. I desire my love to Mrs. Pickering. RC (MHi: Pickering Papers). 1 Pickering’s brother John, although a man of some local prominence and a Salem representative in the Massachusetts General Court, is not to be confused with John Pickering (1738-1805) of Portsmouth, N.H., the first federal judge impeached and re moved from office in 1804. Cf. Gerard H. Clarfield, Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1980), p. 13; and DAB. 2 Wingate had been married to Pickering’s sister Eunice since 1765.


[Page 65]
March 30, 1788 31 Jeremiah Wadsworth to John Chaloner Dear Sir New York March 30th 1788 I This morning received your letter by Mr Colt and I never was more surprised. 1 Is it possible you should have applied so large a Sum of Money to your own use and have no part of it ready for us, what am I to think. By the Packet to Sail the next Thursday instead of a large remittance I must send Mr Church a Sketch of the Ac counts. My letter in the most possitive terms not to sell our goods on Credit has been disregarded and a large sum is in out standing debts—and much of it with those Who have no visible property, and every shilling that is collected made use of. It distresses me more than I can express that a Man in whom I placed all my confidence should treat me thus. For God Sake let me know imediately what you have done with the Money and fix on times as early as possible to re turn it. Tell me the periods at which I may depend on its being re mitted to Col Hamilton and do not disappoint me. I am alarmed that your letter does not tell me in particular what your funds are from whence this great Sum is to come. Mr Church has long since been alarmed as is Col Hamilton. I dare not Shew him the Accounts or letter—till I hear from you again. I have met with so many losses and disappointments that my embarrassments are great but this is a stroke I was totally unprepared for—and I shall be very uneasy till I have a clear and explicit account from you of the means that are in your power to do us justice. I can hardly persuade my self I read right When I view the great Bal lance and that you could not pay one Shilling to Mr Colt—how can you justify this transaction to yourselfe [to] your friend, or how is it compatible with the character of a Merchant. I will not add but wait impatient[l]y your answer which I wish may be such as will restore you to the place you have ever held in the heart of your injured Friend, Jere Wadsworth RC (PHi: Chaloner & White Collection). FC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). 1 Wadsworth also wrote Chaloner the following letter on March 17. “In Consequence of late Letters from Mr Church, I send on Mr Colt to Make a Settle ment of our Accounts with you and he will either Sell or Ship the remaining Goods of the Company. I was in hopes to have had it in my Power to come on my self; but find it impossible. I can hear Nothing from MCarty—neither letters or Account Sales—is their any thing to be had with You—my love to Mrs Chaloner & the Children.” Chaloner & White Collection, PHi.


[Page 67]
March 31,1788 33 you to cultivate the ornaments of the mind which will afford you the most substantial pleasure. I bid you a very affectionate adieu, P Wingate RC (MH-H: Wingate Papers). 1 Wingate’s correspondence also contains the following “Supplement to Letter dated Ap. 2d. 88,” which he wrote to his daughter Polly, Mary Wingate Wiggin. “I shall enclose a couple of little Books. One of them I desire you will present to your daughter which of them she pleases; & the other you will give to my Betsy. I hope that you will make a prudent & discreet mother & that you will be happy in loving & being beloved by her. Tell Polly that the book comes from her Grandpapa as his first mark of paternal notice. I have enclosed some scraps out of a newspaper for George. The Camels I have seen as a curiosity, also the dancing on a rope &c which you will find ad vertised in the News paper. This sight exceeded the descrip[tion] given. Adieu.” Wingate Papers, MH-H; and Charles E. L. Wingate, Paine Wingate's Letters to His Children (Medford, Mass., 1934), p. 9. Abraham Baldwin to Joseph Clay Dear Sir 1 New York 31st March 1788 Your favour by Capt Burnham with the cask of Indico were duly received. I was much obliged by your very particular information respecting Indian affairs, the greater part of the time we are without any infor mation from Georgia. I have written the Governor constantly, ever since I left the state, and have never received a line, or known whether any of my letters arrived. 2 Our situation with our near neighbours on both sides, has been for some time critical, and a ground of very just uneasiness. The inten tions of the majority of congress respecting our Indian affairs, I am convinced, has been very good, merely to adopt a system of measures, in their own nature suited to preserve the peace of the United States. There are some here who are constandy passionate, and provoking on the subject. Our back territory has been considered as a very enviable possession, particularly by the lack-land states. I have assured them, it is want of experience on that subject, that makes them think so. I have seen by the papers that uneasy apprehensions have been entertained of the conduct of the Spaniards. I had several times in free conversa tion with Mr Gardoqui, who is a very free and friendly man, hinted to him, that I feared, we should loose that respect that we had enter tained for their good policy, by some of their late proceedings; he al ways has denied every such suggestion. A few days since, on the arrival of the Spanish packet, he called on me, and said he was very glad to have it in his power to inform me, and he did inform me officially,


[Page 75]
April 6,1788 41 I have called three times at Mr. Gaines to deliver your Message re specting the Trees and could not see him, have yesterday left an ex tract of your Letter at his House, with direction where I could be found, to morrow I expect young Prince in Town and will furnish him with your request, if possible the Trees will go by Schuyler. Your Brother Phil is not yet come to Town. I wish to see him very much. Contrary to all expectation Westchester & Queens it is now thought will elect federal Characters to represent them in Convention, Kings is decidedly well disposed to a Man, and from Suffolk we hear that Floyd & LHommedieu are very active. The federal Cause gains ground fast to the Southward and from Rhode Island we learn that the federalists disatisfied with the Method adopted by their Legislature, instead of polling themselves in favor of the Constitution have remonstrated against the Method, hence all the Votes taken in the different Towns are for its rejection, and tho’ it is conceded that a Majority of the Electors in that State are opposed to the plan, yet a very respectable Number composed of the Wealth & abilities in that State are warm Advocates for it. I thank you for the Trouble you have taken to prevail upon Mrs. Gansevoort to come down and am sorry You was not more successful. The Commissions for Thomas Barritt, Dirck Hilton, John Veeder & Jonathan Hilton as Cutters of Staves, Henry J. Bogert as Measurer of Boards, Timber &c. and Jellis Winne as repacker of Beef & Pork, I will send up per M. McClallen, good Use may be made of them as they were severally appointed by our recommendations—it will be well to let Maus R Van Vranken know that in consequence of his application to me he was recommended and is now actually appointed a Justice of the Peace as I have seen by the Records of the Council. Jonathan Hilton I believe know nothing about it but I considered him as a friend to your Family and an honest & industrious Man & therefore added his Name—have you taken care to apprize Dd. V Rensselaer, Jacob Fort Junr., Philip Conyne & Thos. Tobias that they are ap pointed Coroners through the same Channel, this should not be ne glected, their Commissions will also go up with the rest—it may give a Spur to Action. I think it would be well to suggest to Genl. Schuyler the propriety of writing official Letters to the newly appointed Jus tices, their Commission will go up soon Mr. Scot has promised me that he will attend to it. Mr. Gross will go up soon with an Address from the German Society he is warmly federal and I promise myself much good from his Excur sion. I have endeavoured to promote a similar Measure by the St. An drews Society in this place which consists of near 300 Members of all which Number there is but one Antiman, to wit, Genl. Malcom, our friend James Caldwell has seconded this application to Wm. Maxwell


[Page 76]
42 April 6,1788 the Vice president and the Society will meet to Morrow for the pur pose, they cannot believe that the Scotch in Albany differ so widely from them in sentiment, many of the leading Members of that Body have promised to give their Attendance and promote this necessary Measure, they will at least write to the Scotch in the Upper Counties as well as in Albany. Coll North has assured me that he will go up this Week. I have im pressed his Mind with the absolute Necessity of affording all the assis tance in his Power. Palmer in Ballston has been written to by Dirck Lefferts per post, but fear his Letter will remain in the post office unless some step is taken to forward it, can’t you procure some unsuspected Person to take it up & forward it to him. Hamilton says others have written Palmer on the same Subject. Yours very sincerely &c, Leonard Gansevoort RC (N: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Addressed: “Stephen Van Rensselaer Esqr., Water Vleit near Albany.” 1 Stephen Van Rensselaer (1764-1839) was the eighth patroon of the vast Rensselaer- wyck estate in Albany and Rensselaer Counties, New York. He graduated from Harvard College in 1782, married Gen. Philip Schuyler’s daughter Margaret in 1783, and was elected as a Federalist to the New York Assembly, 1789-90, to the state Senate, 1791-95, and as lieutenant-governor, 1795-1801. DAB. 2 That is, Federalist “prospects” in the approaching Albany County election for dele gates to New York’s ratifying convention. Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher Dear Sir [April 6? 1788] 1 In making up my weekly packet should I omit to direct a Letter to you it might be attributed to a cause very far from reality, a want of es teem & attention, Not with any credit of saying anything new, or com municating entertainment, but merely to cover a letter & a New York paper & evince my wish by every oppoy to cultivate a correspondence on any side very agreeable is the design of this my No 2.1 have a wish to hear from you, to know what communications you made to the House, How you get along—What the temper of my Countrymen is Who is to be in & who out—We are here in the old Style, Six States only. Reed & Wadsworth gone home about the time or since your de parture; yet it will not do to abdicate the Government. I have reason to fear no adoption will take place this year, and I am informed the people of Massachusetts are very uneasy, That R I have & N Hamp shire certainly will reject. At this moment all hands are parliamenteer- ing. By the time you wish the result may be known. Detail every cir cumstance, For Trifles are important in connexion with our Country.


[Page 77]
April 7, 1788 43 Your friend & Hum Sert, Sam A Otis 2 [PS.] Present me to friend Hill, Nason, Coney, Wiggery & all my friends federal & Anti. MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine, 2d ser. 6 (December 1869): 353. 1 Thatcher had returned home March 25 and Otis wrote to him Saturday March 29. This is his second “weekly” letter to Thatcher, to whom he also wrote on Sunday April 13, and it was undoubtedly written on April 5 or 6. It has been placed here at the latter date because it may have gone with the same post that carried Nathan Dane’s April 6 letter to Manasseh Cuder. 2 Otis also wrote the following brief letter to George Morgan the following day. “Soon after I had the pleasure of a conversation with you upon the subject of husbandry I met with the enclosed upon raising Carrots, Which I think will amuse you. “As the author is a very particular friend, & [I] am upon a footing of intimacy, with several of our very best farmers, should you furnish me with any communications in re turn, it would oblige.” Logan-Dickinson Collection, PPL. Morgan forwarded this letter to John Dickinson at Wilmington, Del., to whom he explained that Otis’ enclosure was “On the Culture of Carrots, by Tristam Dalton.” Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear Sir N.Y. April 7th [1788] Colonel Wadsworth has thought proper to leave us—and his state being unrepresented we are again reduced to six only—and probably may continue in that situation a week or two longer. The N. York dele gates do not attend—it seems to me the period is fully arrived to close the Confederation. As no french packet has yet appeared or been heared of the minis ter is inclined to think that a prohibition was made to their sailing during the winter months—or perhaps some change in that depart ment may have occasioned it. Rhode Island have in fact rejected the constitution—so that only eight states can have adopted the system before the Session of Vir ginia. We all much rejoiced to hear of your election, especially as your being present, we are told, was absolutely necessary to counter-act some unwarrantable proceedings. I do not know whether you are acquainted with a Mr Paradise from London who came to Virginia in October last with the strongest rec ommendations as a man of understanding and a good American—he is now in this City and will embark for Paris in the first french packet—if you have any confidential letters to Mr. Jefferson I am sure he will take the best charge of them—he is very intimate with that Minister and will go immediately to his house.


[Page 78]
44 April 7,1788 At some convenient hour I hope you will give me your opinion upon the prospect of the new-Constitution—the Elections now fin ished &c. News papers enclosed. I am, my dear Sir, with the highest respect & friendship, your obedient Servant, C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). John Brown to James Madison Dear Sir New York April 9th. 1788 I herewith inclose two Letters which were this Morning brought for you to our Lodgings—also the News Papers of this day which contain all intelligence in circulation here worthy your Notice. The French Packett arrived a day or two ago (being the first since you left us). I hear she has brought some public Dispatches but am not yet inform’d of their Contents. 1 Nine States have not appeard on the floor of Con gress since you left N. York which has prevented any further Consider ation of the Kentucky Address. 2 No Report has been made as yet upon the remonstrance of Virginia relative to Illinois Accounts 3 —indeed scarce any thing has been done—for ten days past we have not made a Congress being reduced to six States. We have had the pleasure to be inform’d of Your Election for the ensuing Convention—from the returns which I have seen my hopes are somewhat revived—should the Back Country be in favor success I think is certain. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). In the hand of John Brown, signature clipped. 1 For the foreign dispatches received at this time but not read in Congress until a quorum was reached on May 2, see JCC, 34:128-31. 2 See Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson, November 10, 1787, note 3. 3 See James Madison to Edmund Randolph, March 3, note. John Brown to James Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge New York April 11th. 1788 I this day reed, your’s of the 1st Instant & find from your Statement that I am two Letters in arear in my Correspondence with you—my memory does not enable me to correct the error but am fully of opin ion that I am intided to larger Credits than you have given me—how ever I shall not contend about it for I assure you that the pleasure I take in writing to you is only exceeded by that of perusing your’s in re turn, the contents of which are ever to me both amusing & interest-


[Page 82]
48 April 12,1788 is in favor of its being adopted. You know my opinion of the necessity & importance of this, for the safety & welfare of the country under our present circumstances. I shall trouble you no more on this sub ject. Congress have had application made to them from Kentucky, to be made an independent state, This is a large Tract of Country on the westward part of Virginia. It is situated between the Allegany Moun tains & the river Ohio, on the East of that river. These mountains lie in a chain from North to South & are impassable except in two places. It is six hundred miles from the center of this Country, to the seat of government in Virginia, And cannot be travelled in less than 21 days, & that with great peril in fording or rafting over the rivers, & climing over the rocks & mountains, where there is no road, & never can be inhabitted for the distance of 5 days journey. Notwithstanding those difficulties, so tempting is the soil that there are said to be not less than 60 thousand souls settled there already. There is a member in Congress from that Country, 2 a Clergymans son, who gave me this ac count. He says that the winters are so mild, that the cattle in the spring will be as fat as at any time, without the trouble of feeding them. That it is a very hea[l]thy climate. That there are a number of salt springs where the people can boil the water & make salt as we do out of sea water. It is only crossing over the river & there is the western country where the Ohio company & others are about to make their settlements. It is said that where the Ohio emptieth itself into the Mis sissippi so flat is the country & such floods come down in the spring season, that there is a space of forty miles distance laid under water. Which forms the appearance of a sea, out of which a forest of trees rises. The vast country north west of the Ohio was ceeded by Virginia to the united states upon condition that they should be reimbursed for their expences in defending of it during the late war. This Con gress agreed to & commissioners were appointed by mutual consent to ascertain the sum. The commissioners have not yet reported, & cannot easily agree either two of them. One supposes that 60 Thousd. pounds LM would be eno, another 150 Thousd pounds & the other would give them 220 Thousd pounds for their expences. This would be a dear purchase of that Country to the united states. I intended to have given you some account of the City of New York in this letter, but have dwelt so long on the New Constitution, & the western country, that I find I shall not have room. Boston is not more than two thirds as large as this City in buildings & numbers, and I suppose are much the same in proportion of commerse & wea[l]th. The continual in crease is very great, & I think its situation is very favorable to its being the center of business & wealth in the union. As for news I will enclose a paper to give you that. We have nothing remarkable in Congress. I shall be glad to hear from you when it is convenient. I cannot take much pains in writing, having considerable of it to do. If you can read


[Page 83]
April 13, 1788 49 it & find any amusement there from my end is answered, especially if you will consider it as a token of that esteem and friendship with which I am yours &c, Paine Wingate P.S. If I should not write by this post to my family please let them know that I am well & desire my affectionate regard to all friends. RC (MH-H: Wingate Papers). 1 Samuel Lane, a New Hampshire farmer, tanner, and shoemaker, and a deacon of the Stratham Congregational Church, had long been a neighbor of Wingate. Charles E. L. Wingate, Life and Letters of Paine Wingate, 2 vols. (Medford, Mass.: Mercury Printing Co., 1930), 1:112, 165, 192, 2:355. 2 That is, John Brown. Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher Dear Sir New York 1 Sth April 1788 Altho I can only enclose you a barren paper I cannot suffer the post to go without directing to you. The No of Gentlemen present has hardly been sufficient since your absence to affect the smallest busi ness; of course am unable to give friend Gerrey such an answer upon the extension of posts as he wishes, but in answer to his, have written him upon the Subject. 1 I think Hazzard is in a bad box. The federal ists frown upon him for being anti. The opposers of federalism charge him hard with stoping the papers, & “muzzling the process” to facilitate the purposes of despotism. 2 I hope they will not oust him, but a little shaking will put him right. The officers of Congress will re ceive no injury by shaking. The parties are hard at it here, and in Virginia. Tis said Clinton will be candidate for the City, & will carry it for Ulster County. Mrs P enquires frequently after you, and Mr D is so studious he sel dom times his muscles to a smile, We miss you at meal times, which if ever is a season for hilarity. My Compliments to all friends Mr Hill, Nason &c, being fellow La borers, particularly, from, Your friend & H. Sert, Sam A Otis Sunday Evening. Not expecting amongst so many acts of friendship from Dear Chumm, a letter from Boston, altho I expected one dated from Biddeford soon after you got home, I cannot seal, without thank ing you for yours of 6th. I am particul[ar]ly obliged for your attention to my dear family and as I always telled you, you are better than your principles, so I have no reason to suppose you telled Mrs O any stories abot me, to my prejudice—For am sure if you had, I should have heard of them. Whether the Ladies are fond of a fatt man have not particularly enquired, but as you coupled “fatt & handsome,” they may


[Page 86]
52 April 14,1788 whether decent postilions could be hired for the Journey. As to the woman I shall write lady C. 1 The chariot would be too much crouded & she not wanting upon the Journey. But, my dear sir, how does the money hold forth—and if not, can you negotiate a Bill upon me. Be so kind to answer this letter and I will trouble you upon the sub ject with only one more letter. By the last vessels from Europe we are told that the Netherlands are still in great confusion—that Russia is carrying on the war against the Turks with uncommon vigor, and perhaps will be powerfully assisted by the Emperor—that in all probability the horrid flame may be ex tended much farther—and that in Truth the peace between France and England will not continue any considerable length of time—and say our ministers the conduct of the united states should be a system of neu trality. Be so good to send the enclosed letter; and with my affect respects to your kind lady believe me with the utmost sincerity & regard Your most obedient servant, C Griffin RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). 1 Although “the woman” referred to has not been identified, “Lady C” was Griffin s wife, Lady Christina Stuart, daughter of the 6th earl of Traquair. Cyrus Griffin to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir New York. April 14th. 1788. The Congratulations of so kind a friend I receive with the utmost pleasure. Accept my thankfull acknowledgements for your Excellencies very Obliging Letter and very polite Attention. 1 By the last Vessels from Europe we are told that the Netherlands are Still in Great Confusion—that Russia is Carrying on the war against the Turks with uncommon Vigour, and perhaps will be powerfully as sisted by the Emperor—that in all probability the horrid flame may be extended much further—and that in truth the Peace between France & England will not continue any considerable time. 2 This being the Appearance of things abroad, I hope the United States at home will adopt a Constitution beautifull in theory and which will be found a Government of Safety, and of Energy. I have the honour to be Dear Sir, with profound Esteem & regard, Your Excellencys most Obedient servant, Cyrus Griffin Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Johnston’s letter is not in the PCC or N. C. State Records. 2 See the following entry, note 4.


[Page 87]
April 14, 1788 53 Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir N.Y April 14th. [1788] The french packet has at length arrived—but after a passage so long nothing new and material could be expected. Mr Jefferson writes a very short letter, but not a wored of Intelli gence 1 —perhaps the enclosed to you may contain somewhat more sat isfactory. 2 He has also sent a letter to your attention for Ben. Lewis near Richmond, and George Clymer of Philadelphia—five french pamphlets for Mr Bannister of Virginia, and a small package for your self containing something valuable perhaps; what shall be done with them be kind enough to direct. The Captain of a vessel from some port of france has just told me of three or four large boxes on board of him, for you, George Wythe, and other gentlemen, directed to your care. 3 I shall have them brought to my house, and shall pay the freight, port duties &c. Give directions about those also. Mr Adams has written a letter by the british packet of December 16th. 4 He is preparing to leave England and seems to regret that Colo Smith could not be honored with some appointment from Con gress—he tells us that the Netherlands are still in great confusion— that the Russians are carrying on the war against the Turks with great vigor, and perhaps will soon be assisted by the Emperor—and that in all probability the war may extend a good deal farther, that the peace between France and Britain may not continue a long time, & that our essential business will be neutrality. He approves highly the proposed Constitution. Publius has not appeared since my last enclosure. I thank you for the favor of March 25th. 5 We all rejoice greatly at your election; indeed, my dear sir, we consider you as the main pillar of the business on the right side; but from the elections hitherto sent to us there is certainly a majority against the system, but the western members will preponderate the scale. In point of virtues and real abil ities the federal members are much superior. Henry is weighty and powerful but too interested—Mason too passionate—the Governor by nature timid and undecided—and Grayson too blustering. Brown begs his best respects to you—nothing yet done with Ken tucky, or the Illi, matters. 6 Accept the enclosed paper—and consider me with real friendship &c, Cyrus Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Apparently Jefferson’s three-page letter to John Jay of February 5, although Griffin’s description of it is odd, for which see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:563-65. 2 For this February 6 letter to Madison, see ibid., pp. 568-70; and Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:22-23.


[Page 88]
54 April 14,1788 3 For these “large boxes,” see ibid., 10:357n.2. 4 John Adams’ letter is in PCC, item 84, 6:591-94; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 2:824-26. 5 Not found. 6 For which see John Brown to Madison, April 9, notes 2 and 3. Charles Pettit to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philadelphia 14th. April 1788 After my Return from New York in May last, I presented an Account to the Comptroller General in order to obtain a Warrant from Coun cil for a few Weeks Pay as a Member in Congress. Considering it as a Business of course I neglected farther Application for some Time, but was at length told that Doubts had arisen in Council whether I was in titled to the Pay stated in the Account or not. These Doubts seem to have arisen on one or other of the two following suppositions. 1st. That the Assembly, by the Election of Genl. Armstrong, in tended to supercede my Appointment, or 2dly. That the Time limited by the Constitution for my Continu ance, was expired before I gave the Attendance for which I have claimed Pay. As to the first, I am far from questioning the Bight of the Assembly to supercede any one of their Delegates whenever they think proper: But having never received any Intimations of their Disapprobation of my Conduct as a Delegate, I cannot suppose they intended to brand me with so unusual a Mark of Displeasure. As to the second—The federal Constitution limits the Service of Members to three Years. It was for some Time doubted whether the three Years should be computed from the Time of their respective Appointments, or the Time of taking their Seats in Congress; but the Words being that “no Person shall be capable of being a Delegate for more than three Years in any Term of six Years,” the former Construc tion has prevailed. The Words of Limitation in the Constitution of Pennsylvania are “No Man shall sit in Congress longer than two Years successively.” Hence it has been generally understood that the two Years, so far as this Limitation applies, commence at the Time a Dele gate takes his Seat in Congress, and this Construction has prevailed in Practice. 1 Those who best know me will do me the Justice to believe that altho’ I was duly sensible of the Honor conferred upon me by the Appointment, I was far from soliciting it, and that I should have been equally far from obtruding my Services in this last Period of At tendance if I could have supposed they would have been either deemed unacceptable or founded on doubtful Authority. I therefore take the Liberty of stating to Your Excellency and the honble. the


[Page 89]
April 14, 1788 55 Supreme Executive Council my View of the Subject at the Time of the Transaction. In April 1785 The Legislature did me the Honor to elect me a Dele gate. Being a Member of the House at the Time, I had some Doubts, in point of Delicacy of accepting the Appointment, and had actually refused at a former Session to permit my Name to remain in the List of Nominations; but it was again urged so warmly that I did not abso lutely refuse, neither did I announce an Acceptance till some Time after the Session ended. In May I received the Credentials of my Ap- poinmtment, and on the 27th of that Month I presented them and took a Seat in Congress. In the November Session following I was again appointed for the ensuing Year. In November 1786 I received a third Appointment. As the Constitutional Limitation would admit but a few Months Continuance under this Appointment, it was to me both unexpected & undesired; but being at New York at the Time, and con sidering it as an honorable Testimony of Approbation which de manded my Gratitude, I accepted and continued to act under it till the Arrival of a sufficient Number of my honorable Colleagues en abled me to retire for some Time without leaving the States unrepre sented. This had so seldom happened before, that I felt the strong Oc casion to avail myself of the Relief, and remained absent from Congress till the beginning of April 1787, during which Time so many States were unrepresented that little Progress was made in Business. Considering that the Time limited by the Constitution for my Contin uance in the Delegation would expire on the 26th of May, I began to decline the Thought of returning to that Duty; but there were then but two Delegates from this State at New York, one of whom was by his Station precluded from the ordinary Duties of a Member, 2 and the other having signified to me his Desire to be relieved by a partic ular Day at which he must withdraw himself for a Time: recollecting moreover that some Matters of Business were likely to be resumed in Congress which my honorable Colleagues had had less Opportunity of investigating than myself, I thought it my Duty to give my Atten dance tho’ it should be but for a few Weeks. On the Day of my Arrival in Congress, General Irvine, who had been impatiently waiting for a Relief, departed. I had heard that General Armstrong was elected & supposed that the Intention was to guard against a Vacancy when my Time should be expired, but had no Reason to suppose it was de signed to affect my Continuance during that Time, nor did I receive any Notification of such Election otherwise than from common Re port, neither did I know till sometime after I went to Congress that the Gentleman elected had determined to accept the Appointment. On his Arrival at New York sometime afterwards, I obtained a Sight of his Credentials and consulted with him & the President of Congress on the Occasion, intending to retire immediately if I should discern the least Intimation that such had been the Design of the Legislature;


[Page 91]
April 17, 1788 57 w Thomas Tudor Tucker


[Page 92]
58 April 17, 1788 felt himself at liberty to give of these wonderful Discoveries, with the Source from whence they were derived. But I cou’d not venture to ex press a Doubt of the reality of every thing he asserted. In all my sober Moments I acknowledge the Superintendance of a Divine Power, & suppose that he acts by general Laws contrived to effect the Happiness of all sentient Beings. How far these general Laws may in the Moral as in the physical World produce Phoenomena that to our Understand ings seem irregular & not resulting from the general principle, & therefore often term’d miraculous, I am not qualified to determine. A general propensity to Religion in Mankind, I have consider’d as Evi dence of the Deity’s Existence. The Tenets of all the different Sects ap pear to me to abound with Absurdities, as far as I have Knowledge of them. Not because I cannot explain every thing, but because many things seem to be contradictory to that Reason which has been given by God for our Guide. He cou’d not give us Reason & then take pains (if I may so express myself) to confound it’s Operation. June 13th. I know not how I have been prevented from continuing the Subject. I was going to add many other Observations, but shall rather proceed to Facts. I reced a very long Letter from N. in Answer, with a full Account of what had happen’d to him, & accompanied with several of Swedenborg’s Books which I have not been able yet to read with Attention. I find he has sent them also to you & to our Friends in Bermuda. Our dear Sister B. sent them also to me by Mr. D. Tucker, without many remarks upon them, but N. says she reads them with Intelligence & Conviction. He is impatient to hear from you, & is also so earnest with me that I am perfectly at a loss how to write to him. Pray, help me out, if you can. Perhaps you have read those Books, & can form a better Judgment of them than I can. I shou’d be glad to have your Sentiments as fully as possible upon this very ex traordinary Change. I must confess I was for some time even afraid to enquire about him, but am now happy to find that he goes on with his Business, & with rather better Prospects than formerly. Heaven bless you, my dear St. George. Yrs. most truly & sincerely, Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 That is, their brother Nathaniel, a Charleston physician, who was exploring the the ological writings of Emanuel Swedenborg (1688—1772), a proponent of a “new Chris tianity” of gradual redemption through the personal regulation of spiritual states. Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My dearest Brother New York. Hall of Congress Api. 17th. 1788. I have this Minute receiv’d your favor of the 7th Inst, by Colo. Car-


[Page 96]
62 April 19,1788 loss, having been prepared in a way which costs much time and attention and requires great skill to accomplish. “On Monday morning the mob assembled again, and increased thro’ the day to an alarming size. Vengeance was denounced against the faculty in general, but more par ticularly against certain individuals. Not a man of the profession thought himself safe. An innocent person got beat and abused for being only dressed in black. Two of the young tribe were unfortunate enough to fall into their hands, but the Mayor obtained them upon a promise of sending them to gaol—a measure to which in their rage they submit ted, not reflecting that sending them to goal would secure them from their violence and resentment, and therefore, as soon as they found themselves thus defeated in their furi ous intentions respecting their captives, they repaired to the goal and commenced their attack (with all that intemperance and folly which ever marks the conduct of people as sembled in that way), vainly endeavouring to break in, when they could do nothing more than break windows, &c., which they will be taxed to repair. The militia were or dered out, small parties were sent to disperse them, but they instantly disarmed those attachments, broke their guns to peices, and made them scamper to save their lives. The evening advanced apace, and the affair became very serious. The Governor, after trudging about all day, first with the mob in the morning, endeavouring to pacify and accommodate, and in the afternoon to assemble a body respectable enough to preserve the goal and to restore peace and good order, advanced about dusk with a number of the Citizens, but without any kind of order or without any other than a few side arms and canes, while the Adjutant-Gen’l of the militia, about 300 yards in his rear, led up in very good order about 150 men, tho’ not more than half with firearms, among whom were many gentlemen of the city and strangers, volunteers. This body were not long before the goal before the bricks and stones from the mob provoked several to fire, and per haps their might, on the whole, have been 60 guns discharged, but this is mere guess. This body made their way into the goal where a party remained all night, but a sally of 60 or 70 were defeated. Three of the mob were killed on the spot, and one has since died of his wounds, and several were wounded. One of them was bayonetted on at tempting to force into a window of the prison which he saw filled with armed men, a proof of the astonishing lengths to which popular rage will sometimes carry men. Num bers on the Governor’s side, besides himself, are severely bruised. Baron Steuben rec’d a wound just above the corner of his left eye and nose, from which he lost a great deal of blood. Mr. Jay got his scull almost cracked, and are both now laid up. Gen’l Arm strong has got a bruised leg, but is able to go out. Yesterday the militia turned out again, and made a respectable appearance, and paraded about exceedingly, both Horse and Foot, but it must be observed that the enemy were not be heard of. In truth numbers who were in the mob on Monday evening turned out yesterday to support government." 3 Not identified. Charles Thomson to James McHenry Dear Sir NewYork April 19. 1788 I am sorry I have not been able sooner to answer your letter of the 19 of last month. I happened to be in Philadelphia when it reached New York. It was transmitted to me and when I received it I was in hopes I should have finished my business & returned in a few days. Therefore I immediately sent back the letter which was enclosed therein to be forwarded by the packet and deferred writing to you until I returned. My stay was longer than I expected, and after my re turn here I reed, your second letter of the 12 of this Month and at the


[Page 103]
April 23, 1788 69 Edward Carrington to James Madison My dear Sir, New York Api. 23. 1788 I have the pleasure to forward herewith two packets which came by the last French Packet. The business of the constitution as referred to the Town meetings of Rhode Island, is over without producing any effect. Three of the Towns were decidedly for calling on the Legislature to appoint a con vention according to the mode prescribed, and this it seems from freindly views to the measure. The remaining Towns have done noth ing decisive of their sentiments—a few of them have apparendy voted against it, but it is said & I beleive with Truth, that the reason votes do not appear in favor, is that the Freinds objected so directly against the mode of proceeding, that they would not act at all. In some others there are votes both for & against & at the same time propositions for insisting on the Legislatures calling a Convention. Upon the whole it is a pretty decided matter that Rhode Island will not be amongst the adopting States by June. We have no Congress but it is expected we shall have one in a few days—this a triffling business which I long to see an end of. I am Yrs. afftlly., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Paine Wingate to John Sullivan Sir New York April 23d. 1788 I am honoured with your favor of the third Instant, and am happy to find that your sentiments respecting the Independency of Ken tucky, as a State distinct from Virginia, coincide with those I had ad vanced in a committee of Congress. There is one Idea which your Ex cellency suggests, sufficient I think to evince that the present confederation does not provide for the erecting new states out of those already in the Union, namely, “because nine states are compe tent to determine any question before Congress,” and upon this sup position, a minority of the states in the union might be so circum stanced as to decide upon the most important matters. This business of Kentucky has not been before Congress but once yet, and I believe there will be some very decent excuse found, for deferring the deter mination at present, without exciting the resentment of Kentucky. That country is encreasing surprizingly. An Officer, who has lately


[Page 108]
74 April 24, 1788 Samuel A. Otis to James Warren Dear Sir New York April 24th 1788 Your favr 23d March have before me, And attributing your silence to the pressure of public business without suspecting a want of atten tion from you, anticipated your apology. Last Evening reed, also yours 13th Instant & to both shall make the necessary reply. Elections were under the first article. Upon which did I not recollect some striking instances of their precarious nature I should feel a greater dissap- pointment. By what I can learn there does not appear to be a choice of L Govr by the people, of course the same ground is to be traversed in General Court. Mr H carries all before him, 1 and altho I supposed he could be elected, I had great expectation, from what you observed, that his competitor would have stood higher. The sale to Messrs. Gorham & Phelps is estimated by some of my friends as an advanta geous one. 2 I confess, if they are so obligated as to make the payments sure and punctual, it appears to be a good sale, Under all circum stances. There is a glutt of Land at Market of which the USA hold two hundred million acres. I am obliged for your attention to my particular finances. As to adjourning farther South it will not probably take place under the present Confederation. What a new Year may effect, or the New System you have so much at heart may produce, depends upon vari ous contingencies. In regard to the accumulated and increasing debt of the Union, some people give broad hints that it will be paid with a sponge; which I think under our present weak & resourceless circumstances, will be a natural Consequence. Under a new energetic Government, I hear some politicians say, our inability is an insuperable bar to payment. The same men say resources might be pointed to of importance suffi cient to pay an interest of 3 per Cent; And I am of opinion could the debt be funded at 3 per Cent, the holders of securities left at their op tion to reloan at three, or take their chance of unfunded securities at six, the bulk of the debt would be reloaned. To this it may be said the cry of injustice will be sett up; As it would indubitably at a sponge. Upon which I reply. In the first place that, upon the whole, which will effect most extensive justice, to the greatest number of individuals, must be done. In the second place whats done by consent takes away error. And lastly, If it shall appear impracticable to effect more than three per Cent, will not necessity, which is paramount to all law, justify the measure? You will reply let this necessity be made apparent prior to such proceeding; In which I am perfectly agreed. Before I go from the subject, I am induced to think that under our present impover ished circumstances, could any measure be devised to fund our debt, & make sound appropriations for the interest at even less than three


[Page 109]
April 24, 1788 75 per Cent, it would reanimate a dead mass of useless paper & instantly make it an efficient Capital for the farmer, the Merchant, the manfac- turier, & every man in the Community. Whether “regeneration” is necessary to induce N England, my hon ored Country, to adopt the New System or not, you who are in one of its largest states can form the best judgment; But am confident with out that miraculous change, They will find the necessity of that, or one very like it. For as to the old wheel it wont budge an inch, & seems shattered to pieces. That some of the old spokes, & perhaps felloes, may do again I have no doubt but that the nave must be taken out, & the whole worked over again appears to me indispensible. I do not form my judgment altogether upon what information I get from Boston, but compare it with that from my friends at Milton, & other parts of the state. Ruling all which together the result seems to be that N Hamshire are divided, & so is N J. The majority of one, I am con vinced are against foederal measures & possibly of both. As to N Y one party are sure of adoption, another as positive it will be rejected. So no judgment can be formed. Some think Govr Clinton will be elected for the City, which I doubt. He will come in however by a handsome majority for Ulster County. Maryland by a very large majority will ac cede; So will So Carolina. N Carolina will probably operate as Virginia, which State I think will be nearly divided; But I rather think from the best information attainable, the majority will carry it for adopting, with amendments, upon the plan of Massachusetts. I have heard in the Circles here, you, or Sister W have written the Columbian patriot. 3 I suspect you, but wish to have it Ascertained; for the purposes only of curiosity believe me. To your demand to know what we are doing in Congress I answer— Nothing. To your enquiry what have we done? I answer—almost noth ing. Yet I dont know that those who have attended, which Mas sachusetts have incessantly, are to be blamed. The States have been in such a flutter about the New, that they have hardly paid attention to the old Government. One week we have nine States, Then again we have only four or five; For to my surprise the Members are under no kind of control & take themselves away whenever they think proper. The State of N York particularly altho there are sometimes two or three members in Town have for weeks together, had only a single member present. What is to be done? Massachusetts, & I presume oth ers have written to their Legislatures upon the Subject. Is more in their power? Most of the members are either of the Convention, or just before election dance down to the Hustings, And whether they are successful candidates or not, their attendance upon Congress is withdrawn. We have a prospect however of a full House in May, 4 when we shall soon finish the more important business, & if the States agree, follow our instructions in organizing the new Government, & so


[Page 117]
April 28, 1788 83 With my affect, respects to Mrs. Fitzsimons, I am dear sir, Yours sin cerely, C Griffin [PS.] I suppose my troublesome folks can hard[l]y set out so soon as I once mentioned. RC (St. Maty of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, Ill.). Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir N. York April 28. [1788] I am favored by your friendly letter of April the 10th. 1 How it happened that No. 69 of Publius should have been omitted I can hardly imagine; the neglect shall be done away if any acquain tance or the printer are in possession of that paper. 2 The marchioness is perfectly upon her feet—for she walks five miles every day—and with great pleasure I will execute your Commands to her, and the Count—who are going to Philadelphia on Thursday next. I am very sorry to hear that your calculations render the adoption of the constitution so uncertain—I did once think that my conclusion upon the matter was erroneous—but alas! my dear sir, without a change of opinion when the members assemble I fear the system will be lost; however if it shall depend upon Kentucky Brown is deter mined to exert all his Influence in favor of it. This morning your letter is sent to Charleston by a proper con veyance. 3 My two last packets to you contained letters from Europe—by this post I do myself the pleasure to enclose others, and the paper of today. The Emperor having declared war against the Turks—and being de termined to act with vigor—in all probability the flames will extend farther. His Ottoman Majesty does not discover the least Inclination for peace upon the Conditions offered by Russia, and France being in strict union with the Porte cannot remain idle. Colonel Carrington has gotten amoung us again—but does not seem to be in good spirits—whether from love matters, or from the loss of his election in Virginia, 4 or from what other Cause I do not know. We expect to make nine states in the course of this week—tho at present the weather is very bad. What am I to do with the boxes and packages under your direction. Your very affet. and obedient humble servant, C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Not found.


[Page 119]
May 3,1788 85 express great Afflixion & Sympathy, & desire to be tenderly remem ber’d to yourself, the Children & the three young Gentlemen. It is said that Maryland has already adopted the new Constitution by a very great Majority, but the official Accounts have not yet reach’d us. We have a Letter from the Governor of Rhode Island informing of the Proceedings of that State upon the Business & it’s Rejection, which you have seen in the public Prints. They alledge that the Singularity of their Mode proceeded from no Disrespect either to the general Con vention or to Congress but from a Regard to pure republican Princi ples. I understand that in your State there is a clear Majority of the Delegates Friends to the new System. I suspect the same will be true of both the Carolinas, so that we shall have an Opportunity of seeing what wonderful Effects will be wrought. Except Rhode Island there is no State but this that seems at all doubtful of accepting the Constitu tion, & I even am inclined to think it will pass here, but not by any considerable Majority. The Federalists (as they style themselves) have been extreamly busy in endeavouring to swell their Number of Votes as much as possible in this City, not for the sake of carrying their Elec tion (for of that they were perfectly secure by a vast Majority) but to make it appear, if possible, that a Majority of the Inhabitants of the State are federal. I believe that a great Number have been encouraged to vote who are either Citizens of other States or not Citizens at all. But this will make no Odds except in Appearances. Will my good Friends Richard & Theodorick excuse me at present for neglecting to write. I am a little busy. My best regards to them, to Johny & the rest of my young Friends &c. I am, My dearest Brother, Yr. most truly affect. Thos Tud. Tucker RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers). 1 For these “Arrangements,” see Tucker’s second letter to his brother of April 17, note 3. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Dear Sir New York May 3d 1788. I am honored with your obliging favor of the 14th ultimo and most heartily Sympathize with the good Citizens of your place in their pre sent depressed situation; but at the same time rejoice with you in the hope of relief under the new System of government. The flame of opposition enkindled by the adjournment of our Con vention is daily decreasing and the prospect of a general adoption be gins to brighten. The enclosed paper announces the ratification by a large Majority of the Convention of Maryland; which is confirmed by


[Page 120]
86 May3, 1788 authentic letters from a number of Gentlemen. The federal ticket for members to represent this City in Convention is carryed by a very large Majority; and accounts of several Elections in the neighbouring Counties (that have come to hand) are much more favourable than was generally expected. The latest accounts from Virginia are favourable. Pennsylvania is in a State of tranquility and the general op position seems to be once more on the decline. The State of Georgia has made a large Cession of Western lands to the United States on condition that the new System is adopted and that they be allowed thirty thousand dollars for expences in defending that Country. 1 In haste, I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Re spect and Esteem, Dear Sir, your Most Obedient Servant, N. Gilman P.S. All the bells in this City are now ringing to Celebrate the news from Maryland. RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 This Georgia act of cession was not actually laid before Congress until May 29, per haps because the state was not fully represented until May 26 when William Few joined his colleague Abraham Baldwin. See PCC, item 76, fols. 290-302; and JCC, 34:179. Their motion for congressional acceptance of the cession with the conditions contained in the Georgia Act was immediately referred to a committee which submitted a report on July 9 that was read on July 14 and adopted the following day, when Congress rejected Georgia’s conditions and specified those under which it would accept a new cession. JCC, 34:188, 320-26. Charles Thomson to the States Sr. Circular to the other states 1 [May 3, 1788] I have the honor to transmit to yr. Excy herewith enclosed to be laid before yr Legislature a state of the representation in Congress for the Months of March & April, 2 & am With the greatest respect yr Exy’s &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 That is, other than Rhode Island and North Carolina. To his letters to the governors of those states, Thomson added the following opening sentences acknowledging letters that he had recently received from them. To Gov. John Collins of Rhode Island he wrote: “I have the honor to inform you that your Letter of the 5 of April with the papers enclosed has been rec’d & communicated to Congress." To Gov. Samuel Johnston of North Carolina: “I have rec’d. & communicated to Congress the Letters you did me the honor to write to me on the 19 of March last.” And to both he lamented that he was “sorry to observe that during the course of the present federal year your State has hith erto been unrepresented.” PCC, item 18B, fol. 145. 2 For these enclosures and the six other monthly attendance lists sent to the states during the Congress of 1788, see Appendix, pp. 537-46.


[Page 121]
May3, 1788 87 Paine Wingate to John Sullivan Sir New York May 3d. 1788 By the last post I received a letter from a friend of mine dated Bal timore April 26, informing me that the convention of Maryland had that day ratifyed the new constitution—yeas 63, nays 11 only. This in telligence, so agreeable to your Excellency’s wishes, I have taken the first opportunity of communicating. The state of New York have this week had their elections for delegates to their convention. In this city the votes are generally in favor of federalists, and it is said that they are so in other counties beyond expectation. It is now the opinion of those who are well acquainted with the sentiments of the people thro’ the state that the probability is in favor of adopting the constitu tion here. The latest accounts from Virginia are, that from the re turns of the delegates, which are now generally made, a majority will be for the new government. South Carolina does not seem to be doubted. Upon the whole the encouragement of having a peaceable & good government soon established is dayly encreasing. 1 I hope we shall not be disappointed. Georgia have made a considerable cession to the united states of their Western lands upon condition that the new constitution shall be adopted & that they be allowed thirty thou sand dollars for their expences in defending that territory during the late war. We have not had a congress until yesterday for some time past, owing to two or three members going out of Town. 2 Other members are expected on dayly. There have been no very material dispatches to Congress since I wrote to your Excellency last. I have the honor to be with the most respectful esteem your Excel lency’s most obedient and humble Servant, Paine Wingate P.S. Mr. Gilman desires his most respectful compliments. RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 Wingate also reported recent ratification news to his friend John Wendell in a letter of May 5, from which the following extract was printed in The Collector, 63 (December 1950): No. D2337. “I shall also enclose a newspaper by which you will See the determination of Mary land, and the [prosp]ect from Virginia, respecting the new [Con]stitution. This intelli gence is confirmed by various letters. The elections in the State of New York are more favorable for the n[ew] plan than was generally expected, and there is dayly an in creased probability of its being adopted. I hope we Shall not be disappointed, as I con ceive that it is of the utmost importance in our present critical Situation.” 2 Congress failed to muster a quorum between March 27 and May 2. See JCC, 34:114-19.


[Page 124]
90 May 8, 1788 lamented “that our application relative to the seperation [from Virginia] is so long sus pended.” But he quickly turned his letter into a catalog of death and destruction from marauding Indians who did not consider Kentuckians to be “a part of the thirteen fires” and charged that Congress failed to heed Kentucky’s repeated appeals for protection. Indeed, the federal troops on the Ohio under Col. Josiah Harmar “never were intended for our protection, but to prevent Settlements on the Foedral lands.” What was worse to Kentuckians, moreover, was the attempt of a majority of the states in 1786 “to barter away the Navigation of the Mississippi, our unalienable right. . .for a term that few of us would live to see expire.” Innes concluded that “the District of Kentucky as a part of the United States is entitled to protection—it hath been asked for—in a constitutional man ner—but hath it been granted—no it hath not. The reverse hath taken place—restric tion upon restriction.” He well knew how his letter to a member of Congress could be interpreted—“that those expressions which are construed into threats” could give rise “to the Idea of a revolt.” Innes Papers, DLC. Cyrus Griffin to Certain States Sir New York May 8 1788. I do myself the honor of transmitting to your Excellency a Resolu tion of Congress upon the subject of the Delegation. Most ardently do I wish and request that the Gentlemen from your State would attend upon the national business, and particularly at this interesting period. I have the honor to be Sir with profound Respect & regard, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, C Griffin ENCLOSURE Resolved, As the sense of Congress that the President write to the Governors of the States not now represented urging them to send for ward their respective Delegates, as business of the utmost importance to the Union is delayed for the want of an adequate representation. 1 CG RC (InHi: Mitten Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Georgia, Augusta.” 1 No such resolution is found on the journals of Congress. As Rhode Island, Connecti cut, New York, and North Carolina were also not represented at this time (see Appendix, p. 542), Griffin may have sent the same letter to the governors of the first named states; that to Gov. Samuel Johnston of North Carolina is in N. C. Slate Records, 21:471. There are no Griffin letters in the presidential letterbooks in the PCC (item 16). Samuel A. Otis to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir New York 8th May 1788 I have been pretty much taken up with variety of attentions, &: noth-


[Page 125]
May 8, 1788 91 ing of importance having taken place except what was in the papers, I have much against my inclination, defered replying to your last of . But I assure you nothing on my part shall be wanting to cultivate a correspondence which at once gratifies my vanity, & promises me improvement. Congress have not been idle, altho they have been so interrupted by the appointment of its members to Con vention, in one place & another that much less has been effected than could be wished. It was however the general, & invariable opinion that it would be more expedient that Congress should continue in session, during this uncertain & agitated year, even if nothing very important was effected, Than to leave the States without any bond of Union, or even the semblance of a federal Government. Indeed the frequent returns of the states who have been wise enough to adopt the new Constitution, renders it amongst other things expedient that Congress should continue in sessions. Maryland ratification is now reading, And I have no doubt we shall soon have that of So Carolina. I presume from what intelligence is stiring that No. Carolina will follow the lead of Verginia where the opposition has gained no ground of late, & will be weakened by the unanimity of Maryland. Verginia remains doubt ful however—yet I can hardly suppose She will refuse to adopt, as I am informed, upon the plan of Massachusetts. N. York are nearly equally divided. The federalists are very positive, so are the opposition. Govr. Clinton is pitted at all events against it & indeed it is with him a very great stake; for if he is in the minority upon this question I think he must lose his election. The supporters of the measure are however powerful. The City almost unanimously, & all the commercial interest, The Schylers & great proprietors, a large number of farmers &c. Clin tons friends pushed him very injudiciously for the City. What is our omen of success in my view is, that the most steady opposers in this quarter begin to dispair, and say it must be adopted with amend ments. I hear a suggestion that N. York opposers have no hope of re jection, but only hold up a good countenance, in order to effect amendments, upon the Massachusetts plan. Upon the whole I recollect no period at which the prospect looked more bright than the present. I can form no judgment of N Hamsh. Their adjournment into the Wilderness augurs ill, but Langdon & Sullivan, the great leaders are both agreed in federal measures, altho I presume their cordiality is not very perfect in other points. R Island will be overwhelmed with ar gument & influence, and their own minority exerting, I think may be brot to their senses. I exceedingly rejoice at the unanimity of Massachusetts & congratu late her upon the honor she is about to acquire, in her elections. The people who are united in electing a Governor, a Lieut Governour, 1 & Senate, who have evinced steady measures & good policy, can hardly fail of making a good election of Representatives.


[Page 127]
May 10, 1788 93 We beg leave to recommend that the Commissioner on the part of the State immediately tender the Accounts to the district commis sioner in their original forms, if he has not time to re-state them, & should this produce a difficulty let that arise with the adverse party. Should there be any particular facts or circumstances putting it out of the power of the States Commissioner to render the Accounts accord ing to this advice, it will be well for him to state them fully to your Ex cellency, to be transmitted to Congress, where we will endeavour to make them a ground for obtaining such extension of the time as you may think it necessary to ask for. 2 We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellen cies Most Obt. Servts., Ed. Carrington J Brown C Griffin RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Carrington and signed by Carring ton, Brown, and Griffin. 1 For Governor Randolph’s March 13 request, see Virginia Delegates to Randolph, April 3, note. 2 For commissioner Andrew Dunscomb’s lengthy justification of a deadline extension for Virginia and the reversal of the board of treasury’s negative response to the gover nor’s initial appeal, see Edward Carrington to Randolph, June 9, 19, and 25. Nathan Dane to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, New York May 10. 1788. Yesterday were sent to me inclosed—the inclosed pamphlet and printed letter 1 with a request to convey them to you, which I do myself the honor to transmit accordingly. So far as my information extends the sentiments expressed by this writer, very generally meet the appro bation of those who aim at Just and uncorrupt Government on repub lican principles—nor do I perceive any thing in this publication in the least inconsistent with the determination of the Massa. Convention—a determination, in my opinion, by far the wisest & best that has been made on the Subject—for tho the situation of the Country made it prudent to adopt the Constitution, and put it into operation; yet, clear I am, that we ought not to relax a moment in our attention and vigilance for further guarding and checking the exercise of powers given by the Constitution, and for securing the liberties of America, and an honest administration of Government on known and certain principles. My fears and apprehensions do not arise altogether from a consideration of the faults in the new Constitution, but, in a consider-


[Page 128]
94 May 10, 1788 able measure, from a full persuasion that we have many men, and able ones too, in this Country, who have a disposition to make a bad use of any government, and who, if not well checked and restrained by the forms of the Government, will, so far as they can have influence pro duce a wicked and corrupt administration—and you may, Sir, be as sured that the jealous advocates for the adoption of this Constitution, and who are pretty numerous, artful and active, do not intend that any amendments shall be adopted, even after the Constitution shall be put into operation, if they can any way prevent it—at least they will oppose all amendments which, I believe, the republican and honest part of the Community will contend for—however, I think the true Federalists, or true freinds of a genuine federal republic, are extend ing their influence and connections very considerably; and tho a large proportion of them considering our situation agree to adopt the sys tem as presented, they are determined with candor and firmness, to endeavour to establish in these States governments on principles of freedom and equality—whether the friends of honest measures—or the friends of influence and corruption will succeed time only can de termine. Sure I am, the former will have the support and advice of your self and many others who have steered the political ship through the late Storm. Eight States have now determined relative to the Constitution pro posed. I can give you no certain information respecting the other five—our accounts respecting the Sentiments of the men elected for the State Conventions are various—but, on the whole, I am inclined to believe they will adopt with recommending amendments as in Massa. In this State, Virga. & N.C. the numbers for and agt. are pretty equal, as well as abilities. Your freind Mr. Lee I understand, declined going to the State Convention, principally, on account of the un- bealthiness of the place where the Convention is to meet. I mentioned to you in my last the application of Kentucky for an ad mission into the union—I am Just informed a gentleman has arrived in this place from Vermont, to make enquiries, &c respecting her ad mission into the Union. I understand the State has appointed a Com mittee and given them power to apply to Congress whenever they shall see a fair opportunity for again bringing under consideration the independance and admission of that state into the Union. I have been wishing for sometime that this subject might again be brought into veiw—for I am well persuaded if these States do no[t] unite in their infancy, and cement the union, they will not do it hereafter. With sentiments of the highest esteem, I am, Sir, Your most obedt. humbl. servant, N. Dane RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Not identified.


[Page 129]
May 12, 1788 95 John Brown to Janies Madison Dear Sir New York May 12th. 1788 I have had the honor to receive your favors of the 9th & 21st of April 1 for which accept my thanks. My hopes respecting the Success of the new Constitution in Virginia are in some measure revived by the information you have given me upon that Subject but am still sorry to find that the number of friends & foes are so nearly divided as to ren der the Vote of Kentucky of critical importance for I fear nothing friendly is to be expected from that quarter. I yesterday reced. letters from Colo. Muter & Mr Innes 2 who inform that it has few or no Sup porters in that Country. Muter from a warm friend has become a vio lent enemy to the Plan & that upon general principles. They enclosed me a list of members chosen to represent that District in Convention & further advise that on the 1st Monday in April a Convention was to meet at Danville expressly to take into consideration the new Consti tution & instruct & charge their representatives with the Sentiments of the District upon that Subject. 3 This measure almost precludes all hope that any good effect will result from a communication of my Sentiments to their Delegates, as I am apprehensive that they will con ceive themselves religiously bound to observe Instructions framed & given with such Solemnity. However as I am personally acquainted with the Men & fully possess their confidence I shall at all events haz ard the Attempt. I have not of late been able to discover any great change in the Sen timents of the people of this State with respect to the New Govern ment. Both parties appear equally confident & have equal expecta tions from Virginia. Their Elections for Convention are over but the returns are not yet made known. I believe Federalists only are elected for this City. We have done very little in Congress since you left us—Nine States have not appeared since that time & for a month previous to Tuesday last we could not even muster Seven; Nine are again shordy expected upon the floor, as soon as this is the case I shall endeavour to obtain the Determination of Congress upon the Kentucky Application. I flat ter myself that it will be in favor ‘tho’ still have great reason to fear the effects of Eastern Jealousy. My Anxiety upon this Subject daily in creases, should not a dete[r]mination be had before the expiration of the Act of Seperation—or should Congress refuse to grant this re quest; in either case I fear the consequences may be unfavorable to the Union especially as that District entertains such prejudices against the New Constitution which I hope & believe will be adopted. Let the event of their application be what it may I am convinc’d they will pro ceed in establishing their Independence. They have already chosen


[Page 132]
98 May 12, 1788 Charles Thomson to the States Sir, Circular to the States Office of Secy of Congress, May 12. 1788. Congress anxious to bring to a close the public accounts as far as they relate to the late quarter master, commissary’s, hospital, marine & cloathing departments, have passed the resolutions, which I have the honor to transmit to your Exy herewith enclosed. 1 As the order to the Commissioners to commence suits may affect some of the citizens of your State, I have to request that your exy will be pleased to cause it to be published for the information of all concerned. With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Exys h s LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For the enclosed May 8 resolutions, see JCC, 34:147-48. See also Thomson to the States, May 26; and these Letters, 23:181n.l, 233n.4. John Brown to James Breckinridge Dear Breckinridge New York May 14th. 1788 I reed, your letter containing the agreeable intilligence that my dear friend J. Smith had returned in safety from the Western Country. My anxiety on his behalf has been great—am also happy to hear that he has been successfull in accomplishing his Business. I wish he may acquit himself of the Contract he entered into last fall with Credit & Profit. He ought to be very particular in his Rects. or discharges. He has not yet written to me, am in daily expectation of receiving a letter from him which will certainly contain something interesting & amus ing to me. Am sorry to find that New Constitution is still in great Jeop ardy in Virga. The event is doubtful in S. Carolina. Anarchy will be the Consequence if it is rejected. ‘Tis with great difficulty that we can keep the Old Machine in Motion—without the prospect of the adop tion of the new it would be impossible. We have not yet been able to parade nine States—therefore have done nothing for Kentucky—can not think myself Justifiable in returning without—must give up the Idea of being in Kentucky at June Court—shall stay here ‘till August— therefore write on. I enjoy great health & am very happy—having heard that my Business is going on Smoothly in Kentuckey. Shall pay Boston a Visit before I return. Have you heard any thing from Brother James. Adieu in great haste Yours, J Brown RC (ViU: Breckinridge Papers in the collections of the Albemarle County Historical Society).


[Page 134]
100 May 14, 1788 posed, by Messrs. Madison, Jay & Hamilton. The Numbers run to as many more, the remainder are to form a second Vol. which will be published in a few weeks, & I will do myself the pleasure to send it to you as soon as it is done. 4 Mr. Madison, in a letter which he wrote me a few days ago, 5 re quested me to obtain the first & second volumes of the Philosophical Transactions of the society in Philada. & forward them to you. Upon enquiry I find that the 1st Vol. is not in print having been destroyed during the War. The second, I have got the favor of Mr. Barlow to take with him for you. I am told the 1st is to be reprinted. When it is done we will take care to forward it to you. During Mr. Madisons absence in Virginia I am aware of your dependance upon me for regular infor mation upon the progress of the business of the constitution and shall omit no opportunity of writing. I have the Honor to be, My dr. sir with the most sincere regard, Yr. Friend & Hl St., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 That is, Joel Barlow (1754-1812), poet and author of The Vision of Columbus (1787), who sailed for Europe on May 25 as agent for the Scioto Company. The land venture soon failed, but he remained abroad for 17 years continuing to publish and serving as consul to Algiers. DAB. 2 That is, George Washington Greene, the oldest of Gen. Nathanael Greene’s five children, for whom Carrington also wrote Jefferson the following letter of introduction on May 17. “My particular Friend Master George Washington Greene will have the Honor to deliver you this letter. Your acquaintance with his illustrious Father renders it unnecessary for me to solicit for him your Attention & Countenance. He is sent to France at the age of about 12 years, to be educated under the direction of the Marquis De La Fayette.” Jefferson Papers, DLC. 3 Actually, April 24. 4 Barlow carried with him the first volume of The Federalist, which had been published in New York on March 22. The second volume was published on May 28 and was for warded tojefferson by Carrington on August 10. See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,127; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 16:466-71. 5 Not found. Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book [May 14-30, 1788] May 14th.transmitted to the Office for foreign Affairs Letters—from Mr Adams— Deer. 11th. 1787—enclosing Mr. P. Millers paper of experiments in Navigation. Novr. 30th, 1787, Deer. 16th, 1787. 1 Letters—from Mr Jefferson— Deer. 21st, 1787


[Page 136]
102 May 14, 1788 1 These John Adams letters to John Jay are in PCC, item 84, 6:575-94; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783—89, 2:817-26. 2 For these Thomas Jefferson letters, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:447-49, 479-83, 563-65. 3 These letters from Thomas Barclay and Benjamin Franklin recommending John Bondfield are in PCC, item 91, fols. 447-48, item 82, 3:281-82. 4 Undoubtedly Claude Boniface Collignon’s L'avant-coureur du Changement du monde entire par l'aisance, la bonne education & la prosperite generale de tous les hommes; ou, Prospec tus d’un memoire patriotique, sur les causes de la grande misere qui existe par-tout, & sur les moyens de Vextirper radicalement (London, 1786). 5 For Mayor James Duane’s letter and the documents concerning Pieter Johan van Berckel’s “complaint” submitted to Congress by John Jay on March 24, see PCC, item 80, 3:376-405; and JCC, 34:109-11. For the letter of the Aiderman, John Wylley, see also JCC, 34:128. 6 Not in the PCC. 7 For these letters from Charles W. F. Dumas to John Jay, see PCC, item 93, 3:315-39; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783—89, 3:597-605. 8 This Oliver Pollock letter to John Jay is in PCC, item 50, fols. 481—84. 9 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:671-76. 10 For these letters from Diego de Gardoqui and Charles III, see PCC, item 97, fols. 218-20, 270-72. 11 This letter from William V to Congress is in PCC, item 59, 4:379-81. 12 Josiah Harmar’s letter is in PCC, item 150, 2:477-84. 13 See JCC, 34:184; and Thomson’s Memorandum Book, July 7-28, 1788, note 2. 14 Not identified, but for the papers related to Francis Cazeau’s claim that were deliv ered to the board of treasury February 25, 1785, see PCC Miscellaneous Papers, M332, reel 9, fols. 169-70. 15 These documents of Robert Morris, James Milligan, and John D. Mercier are in PCC, item 137, 3:507-21. 16 For this August 29, 1785 report, see JCC, 29:671-72. 17 Not identified. Following this entry concerning papers relating to Cazeau’s claims, Alden wrote: “NB. These papers returned & transmitted to the Bd. of Treasury June 9 th, 1788.” 18 See PCC, item 84, 6:631-33; and Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783—89, 2:833. 19 For these two Jefferson letters, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:661, 671-76. 20 This letter from William Short tojohn Jay is in PCC, item 87, 2:73-76. 21 There are actually two Dumas letters of January 22, and one of February 2, with a long postscript, in PCC, item 93, 4:7-42. The translations printed in Diplomatic Corre spondence, 1783-89, 3:605, 607-8 include both of the former but only the postscript (im properly represented) of the latter. Edward Carrington to William Short My dear Sir, New York May 17. 1788 Mr. Barlow a Gentleman of Connecticut who is distinguished as a Man of literary Merit, and a Patriot, will do me the pleasure to deliver this letter. 1 May I solicit your Attention to him? The Eldest Son of our illustrious Friend General Greene attends him to be placed under the Care of the Marquis de La Fayette for his education—for hirti I need


[Page 137]
May 18, 1788 103 not ask you any thing, you know the character of his Father & that is enough to ensure him your tenderest care and attention. I have enclosed to Mr. Jefferson a Pamplet containing a Number of papers written in this City upon the occasion of the Constitution which you will see. 2 I now inclose to you an address to the people of N. York lately published. 3 I also inclose you several papers—you & Mr. Jefferson will doubtless exchange the reading of what is addressed to each. Mr. Barlow is upon the point of departure and therefore I must conclude with assurances of the great regard with which I am my dr. sir, Your sincere Friend & Hl St., Ed Carrington RC (DLC: Short Papers). 1 See Carrington to Thomas Jefferson, May 14, notes 1 and 2. 2 See ibid., note 4. 3 For John Jay’s An Address to the People of the State of New-York, on the Subject of the Consti tution (New York: Samuel and John Loudon, 1788), which was first published in April, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,175. Itwas reprinted in The American Museum in June^ Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher My Dear Sir New York 18 March [i.e., May] 1788.... I think I have not written you since the accession of Maryland to the new System 1 —the accounts are favorable from the South and unless Virginia does, I hardly apprehend a negative from the Southern States. Gore is here & goes for Philadelphia to morrow—He is going to lay hold of some of our great ones, and will mak[e] O. I dance to the music of £3700—sub rosa—King & other friends frequently ask after you, But I dont let them know I have but once heard from you. After several applications to Greenleaf he has paid me ten pounds & lid currency which wants your order. It was paid in paper and the difference between that & Specie is about seven pr Cent. In Congress we go on with seven States as usual, but I think nine are like to be upon the floor this week—The most deficient State is New York, 2 which is very extraordinary. There is a Doctr Williamson arived who seems to have got with him from No Carolina a quantum of self consequence. Kentucki business I think must unavoidably be agitated this week—Brown who by the way improves upon acquaintance is in cessant in his application. The New England members with [will?] cer tainly be in opposition—King tell me we are not empowered in his opinion, and if we were it is extremely improper in the present State of affairs. I find it is the general opinion that the New wheel will revolve—N Carolina, our pompous brother Williamson thinks there will be no


[Page 138]
104 May 18, 1788 fear of, nor perhaps will there be of S C, and Virginia with all stateli ness, will be very unwilling to stand alone; For N York will accede with the worst possible grace, I think she will be bullied into it. I think the people of Massachusetts, by what I have heard of their elections, are in a state of tollerable union & tranquility—This rejoices me, because N England united, will forever counterpoise any cabals & manoeuvres of the South.... Yours very truly, Sam A Otis 20th May. So great a favor as yours of 9th can by no means pass unno ticed. I am glad you found all things well in Massachusetts. I think their elections shew they are in pretty good Temper. I am doubtful how it will go with Lincoln 3 —Cochran 8c Gale were out of the ques tion in the other days uproar, whether the[y] were fortunate eno [ugh] not to discover themselves or really innocent, is not easily to be determined. They however escaped censure.... Your most Huml Sert, Sam A Otis MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine, 2d ser. 6 (December 1869): 345-46. 1 News of Maryland’s ratification of the Constitution on April 26 was received by Con gress May 8. See JCC, 34:149n; and PCC, item 70, fols. 557-60. 2 New York’s representation was the subject of the following letter between two of the state’s delegates, Ezra L’Hommedieu to Leonard Gansevoort dated “Suffolk County May 15. 1788.” “Last Evening I received your favour of the 24th of last Month in which you request me to releive you in your Attendance at New York. Had I received your letter Timely, I should have so arranged my Business as to have attended in your stead for the Time you request: but at present it is impracticable for me to leave home before next month, and it is then probable I shall not be able to attend Congress. If I am elected to attend the Convention, I do not see how it will be possible for me to attend at New York next month except a few Days, & as I propose after the Convention to attend the proposed Treaty, in Case it should take place, I beleive it will be best to send on, or rather request Mr. Yates to take his seat, he having no public Business to divert him (as I know of) from the same. Mr. Gelston informed me about Ten Days ago that you proposed leaving New York the first of May but receiving no word from you I concluded there either would be a Representation of the State, or that so little Business was done, the same might be not necessary at present. I hope no Inconvenient [Inconvenience] will attend our States not being represented for a short Time, and am sure no blame will be laid to you for attending to your urgent Business at home after having been so long abroad.” Gratz Collection, PHi. 3 See Otis to Benjamin Lincoln, May 8, note. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir N. York May 19th. [1788] I am honored with your two letters of May 1 & 3. 1 Paradise was embarked—and carried to Mr Jefferson the debates you mention, and other publications worth attention.


[Page 140]
106 May 21, 1788 present & had effected a Riot. In this State of Intelligence & being thoroughly chagrined by a Story so obviously calculated to injure a very respectable Character & with him to injure the general Charac ter of the State I thought it my duty to prepare a Paragraph and cause it to be published which is thought by the Readers to put the Matter in a very different or in a new Point of Light. 2 The inclosed paper contains the Paragraph which if you think worth while you will for ward to Govr. Caswell. As I had no particular Information concerning the circumstances of the Dobbs Riot you may presume that I could not direcdy and pointedly contradict every assertion of Mr Martin, I was therefore obliged to account for the Riot by reference to private disputes which otherwise I should have had no desire to mention, but even under this necessity you see that I have taken Care to cast no shade on the Character of any individual. I conceive that I am pos sessed of some Philosophy & Patience but still I have not patience suf ficient to be silent or unconcerned when I conceive that the Charac ter of a friend is injured. I am Dr sr, Your obedt servt, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Blount Papers). 1 That is, Martin’s North Carolina Gazette, published by Francois Xavier Martin at New Bern since January 1786. Clarence S. Brigham, History and Bibliography of American News papers, 1690—1820, 2 vols. (Worcester, Mass.: American Antiquarian Society, 1947), 2:771. 2 Williamson’s “Paragraph” on the “Dobbs Riot,” which was published in the New York Daily Advertiser of May 20 and the Independent Journal of May 21, emphasized the private character of the “fracas” between Col. Benjamin Shepard and William Barfield “relative to the proposed Constitution” which resulted in Shepard’s death. Paine Wingate to Sarah Wingate My dear Sally New York May 21. 1788. I received your’s of the tenth Instant last evening, and as you think I have neglected writing to you as often as to some others, I shall now discharge my debt to you before any body else. You will not expect that I shall write to you as frequendy as to your mother, But you may depend on your share in common with the rest of the children. Your letter gives me a good deal pleasure. It is very well expressed & perti nent. You need not feel uneasy in writing a letter to any body. It is true there are defects in spelling which I could wish you knew how to mend, but these are very fashionable errors in young ladies. I have observed that you are apt to be too diffident of yourself & of what you say & do. This may proceed from a good cause. It may proceed from an anxious desire to appear well. But it should never be indulged in bashfulness. This is very unfashionable. A young lady should be very


[Page 142]
108 May 22, 1788 South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Pinckney Sir New York May 22d. 1788 The frequent Interruptions that have happen’d in the Sitting of Congress prevent us from being able to communicate any Proceed ings of a very interesting Nature. Since our last Letter to your Excellency, Congress has receiv’d the Ratifications of the new Constitution by the States of Georgia and Maryland, and also a Letter from the Governor of Rhode Island in forming that the Legislature of that State had referr’d the new Consti tution to the Consideration & Decision of the People at large in their Town Meetings, and that a Majority of Votes were against the Adop tion of it. 1 This important Question being now before the Convention of our State, we have only to express our Hopes that Wisdom will guide it’s Deliberations & Decision. An Arret of the King of France of the 29th December 1787, giving farther Encouragement to the Trade of the United States has been transmitted to Congress by Mr. Jefferson, and a Copy of the same will be forwarded to your Excellency from the Office of Foreign Affairs. 2 It was expected that a Treaty wou’d have been effected with the sev eral Nations of Indians in the Neighbourhood of the Muskingum some time in the current Month, but the latest Advices from the Su perintendant of Indian Affairs there, 3 give reason to suppose that it will be a Month or two longer before the Chiefs of the Nations will be in Readiness to assemble. With respect to the Claims of Compensation for the Services of the Ship South Carolina, nothing can yet be done by us, no farther Ad vices of the Success of Mr. Carmichael’s Application being receiv’d. On Enquiry of Mr. Gardoqui Charge des Affaires of Spain, we find that he has no Instructions from his Court upon that Subject. 4 We have the Honor to be with due Respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. Servts., DI. Huger John Parker. Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). Written by Tucker and signed by Tucker, Huger, and Parker. 1 January 5 and May 1 letters of the governors of Georgia and Maryland enclosing their states’ ratifications had been read in Congress on May 5 and 8 respectively. An April 5 letter of Gov. John Collins reporting the yeas and nays of the Rhode Island town meetings was also read May 5. See JCC, 34:131n, 140n, 149n. 2 This arret, which had been discussed by Thomas Jefferson in his December 31, 1787, letter to John Jay (Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:466-71, 479-83], had actually been transmitted to Jay by William Short in his letter of January 1. Short also enclosed a printed letter of December 29 to Jefferson from the French comptroller general of fi nance, Claude Guillaume Lambert. They are in PCC, item 87, 2:35-46. Both were sent


[Page 146]
112 May 26, 1788 Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons My dear sir May 26th. [1788] I have the pleasure to write you a few lines to inform the kind fam ily that lady C. and the children are in good health; to make enquiry about yourself and our amiable friend Mrs. F. and also in the name of us all to make our sincere acknowlegements for the many favors received. I hope that Mr OConner was safely landed in the City—we are greatly obliged to him for the care and attention he shewed to my helpless family. Being indebted to you also in the money way I beg to know the amount that such balance may be discharged with many thanks. Messrs. Jefferson and Adams have been able to borrow for the united States another million of florins in Holland, upon the prospect of the new Constitution being established, but as Congress have not yet ratified the Contract it may remain with You. 1 Mr. Jefferson seems to think that the War in Europe will be gen eral—but no positive Judgment can be drawn from such a Chaos of politics as that part of the world now exhibits. The british Courtiers are ridiculing our situation very much—and tell Mr Adams in a sneering manner when America shall assume some kind of Government then England will speak to her. Accept the en closed paper—with our affections & best wishes to all—do believe me, yours &c, C Griffin RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Thomas Jefferson’s brief letter of March 13 explaining his trip to Amsterdam was read in Congress this day, but his March 16 letter detailing the negotiations he and John Adams had concluded with the Dutch for a new loan of one million guilders had been read May 22. The latter was referred on the 23rd to a committee of five chaired by Abraham Baldwin whose May 28 report in favor of the loan was agreed to the following day. The board of treasury also gave its approval, submitting “an attested notarial Copy” of the contract on June 25 which Congress considered the 27th and ratified on July 2. See JCC, 34:174-77, 185-86, 266-67, 282-83; PCC, item 87, 2:51-72, item 185, 4:33, 35; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:661, 671-76. See also Abraham Yates to George Clin ton, June 27 and July 2. Cyrus Griffin to James Madison My dear sir NY. May 26th. [1788] I have the pleasure to write you by this post to make a thousand en quiries concerning your health from the marchioness &c to enclose you the debates of the Massachusetts convention under seperate covers.


[Page 147]
May 26, 1788 113 Contrary to expectation it so happens that we cannot bring nine states to act upon the floor of Congress, and this day one of the Mary land Gentlemen 1 is going away which will throw us aback probably for some weeks. Messrs. Jefferson and Adams have lately met at Amsterdam, and have been able to borrow for the united states another million of florins from the dutch, upon the prospect of the New constitution being established, but Congress have not yet ratified the contract yet certainly will do it without a single objection. 2 They seem to think that the war in Europe will be general, but con fess that no positive Judgment can be formed from such a chaos of politics as that part of the world now exhibits. Colonel Smith is just arrived from England, but has told us nothing of a secret or interesting nature. 3 The Courtiers are ridiculing our sit uation very much, and say upon all occasions in a laughing manner that when the united states shall assume some sort of Government then England will speak out. Gentlemen are perpetually calling to know what will be the event of the Constitution in Virginia—do, my kind friend, at this particular cri sis write to me from time to time that I may give the best information upon the subject. Accept the enclosed papers—and accept too the best wishes & re gards of your affet friend and obedient Servant, C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 That is, David Ross. See JCC, 34:179, 184. 2 See the preceding entry. 3 That is, William Stephens Smith, secretary of the American legation in London. Charles Thomson to William Ellery New York May 26. 1788 I have received your favour of the 18 & agreeably to your request transmit you herewith a list of the members now in Congress. It might have been expected that even the crooked wisdom of your Know ye men would before this have pointed out to them the necessity of altering their conduct, not from a conviction of the iniquity of their past measures but with a view to secure their wicked gains. But it seems as if they were destined to be examples, and to warn the other states against the evils and mischiefs, of pure democracy. I hope the good people of your state will be awakened to a sense of their situa tion & the contempt to which they have exposed themselves by suffer ing themselves to be guided by unprincipled designing men.


[Page 148]
114 May 26, 1788 I am sorry for your losses. We have encountered together a severe storm. We have been surrounded with dark blackening clouds and have seen them dispelled and followed by a bright sky & clear sun shine. I confess it is enough to try the patience of Job to have passed safely the tempestuous Ocean and be in danger of drowning in a duck puddle. The sentiment you allude to in the close of your letter was not “That it was a pity that the war had not continued longer” but that too speedy a termination of the war was not to be wished—And that I was more afraid of peace than of a continuance 1 of the war. Sensible of our inexperience in the art of government and of the self sufficiency of those who would probably take the reins I dreaded the mischief that might flow from the wanton abuse of power and liberty too easily acquired. I confess we have escaped better than I expected. I am therefore encouraged to hope for a favorable issue and to conclude with “forsan et hac olim enemissi juvabit.” 2 RC (Christie's Catalog, June 8, 1990, item 49, illustration). 1 Remainder of text from Christie’s Catalog transcript, ibid. 2 Cf. Virgil, Aeneid 1. 203, “forsan et haec olim meminisse juvabit’’—“Perhaps it may one day be a pleasure to remember these sufferings.” Henry T. Riley, A Dictionary of Latin and Greek Quotations, Proverbs, Maxims and Mottos (London: George Bell and Sons, 1876), p. 129. Charles Thomson to Thomas Hutchins Si r Office of Secretary of Congress. May 26th. 1788. I embrace the earliest opportunity to transmit to You herewith en closed an extract from the Journals of Congress, by which You will be informed that the United States in Congress Assembled have been pleased to reelect You Geographer of the United States & that Your Commission is to continue in force for two Years unless sooner revoked. 1 I beg leave to congratulate You on the occasion, and to assure You of the sincere esteem with which I am, Sir, Your Obedient Humble servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For the enclosed May 26 extract, seeJCC, 34:180. Charles Thomson to the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress, May 26th. 1788 I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith en-


[Page 153]
May 27, 1788 119 loaned. Should the New Constitution be put into operation, as soon as it can be reasonably expected, good Judges seem to be of opinion that no considerable sums of money can be collected under it, ‘till we shall get far into the year 1790. In this situation of things, we cannot think the states will Judge it proper wholly to omit payments into the federal Treasury in the mean time, and suffer the demands upon the union to accumulate as they must—or the present Government to cease until another shall be adopted. The State of Virginia and the District of Kentucky have applied to Congress for the Admission of that District into the union as an inde pendant State. This subject involves in it several considerations, and particularly this, whether the admission of Kentucky into the Union ought not to be contemplated, at least for the present, in connexion with the admission of Vermont. It does not clearly appear that Congress have the power under the Confederation to consent to the division of a state, and to the admis sion of a part of it, as an independant state, into the Confederacy. We doubt whether it is expedient at this time to decide on a Subject of this nature, or whether the admission of a State would be of any avail to it. But situated as these two districts are we think it advisable, that no discouragements to their admission into the Union, as independent States, hereafter, ought to be hove in the way. We think it proper thus briefly to State this subject to your Excellency, and our sentiments rel ative to it, and to observe, that it is our opinion at present, that we ought to Act in conformity to them, unless otherwise instructed by the legislature. With Sentiments of the highest esteem & respect, We are Your Ex cellency’s Most humble Servants, N. Dane Sam. A. Otis RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Dane and signed by Dane and Otis. 1 For which see Samuel A. Otis to James Warren, February 6, note 6; and Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book, February 7-29, note 14. 2 For this May 19 congressional resolution, see JCC, 34:158-59. 3 Congress was in the process of revising the land ordinance of May 20, 1785, to expe dite the sale of western lands. A committee of five chaired by Abraham Clark had been appointed for that purpose on February 22 and their report was read for the first time on March 19 and ordered printed. Congress debated the report March 24-27 and, for lack of a quorum, not again until May 26-29. On June 19 it referred the amended re port to a committee chaired by Nathan Dane that brought in a new draft (which is in the Peter Force Miscellany, DLC) on July 2 which was debated and amended July 7-8. The final “supplement” to the land ordinance adopted on July 9 incorporated earlier modifications in the system (for which see these Letters, 24:236-37n.3, 382n.4), altered the method of satisfying military bounties, and made the place and manner of payment more convenient. See JCC, 34:55n.3, 95-100, 107, 113-14, 180, 184-85, 187, 241-46, 277-81, 297, 301—3, 305-10. For published versions of the “supplement,” cf. ibid., pp. 631, 633-34; and Evans, Am. Bibliography, nos. 20,788, 21,515, 21,533. See also Payson J.


[Page 154]
120 May 27, 1788 Treat, The National Land System, 1785-1820 (1910; reprint ed., New York: Russell & Rus sell, 1967), pp. 41-47. 4 See Charles Thomson to the States, May 26. 5 Actually $276,641. Joseph Nourse’s annual report of “Monies which have been paid by the several States into the Treasury of the United States from 1st January 1787, to 1st January 1788,” dated “Register’s Office 9th May 1788,” is in the Peter Force Miscellany, DLC. Contributions from 10 states are reported in the following amounts: New Hamp shire, $6,402 53/90, Massachusetts, $24,063 56/90, Connecticut, $16,881 53/90, New York, $41,108 19/90, New Jersey, $5,210 46/90, Pennsylvania, $14,272, Delaware, $7,573 14/90, Maryland, $85,552 80/90, Virginia, $47,090 5/90, and North Carolina, $28,486 78/90. Samuel A. Otis to Caleb Davis Dear Sir New York 27 May 1788 I congratulate you & my Town upon the appointment of a very re spectable seat, 1 at the head of which you have so often met the appro bation of your fellow citizens & contributed important services. I con jecture you will have a good house, because the same electors appoint the house who have chosen a good Senate. The rejection of Mr War ren at Milton, Mr Reed, and especially Mr Gorham, is very unaccount able; 2 I thot the latter had the fee simple of the Charlestown Seat. Mr Dane & myself have given an official account of our doings, 3 and which being directed to the Governour I hope it will give no of fence, as one from Mr Thacher & myself did, by being inadvertently directed to the Legislature. 4 I take the opportunity to contradict an idle report that Congress are contemplating to sponge the debt of the Union—Than which, noth ing can be a more groundless surmise. So far from this we have it in view, and fortunately in our power, from the fidelity & address of Messrs Adams & Jefferson to borrow another million florins in Hol land, which will provide for the interest of the Dutch Loan to 1790 in clusive, & pay the expences of foreign arrangments; I mean if we omit the installments of 1788, 1789 & 1790 of the principal falling due to the Dutch at those periods respectively, & the French interest & instalments wholly. This indeed is only giving a new note for the interest, but it is all we can do under present circumstances. For the domestic debt we are making all possible provision by the sale of Lands &c. Tis true no requisition for the year has been made. This has however been omit ted from very different causes than any intention to anihilate the do mestic debt; For as to the foreign, should this, or any other Congress be so weak or wicked as to attempt the wiping it off, by any indirect measures the injured party would stand justified to the world, should they make attachments upon the high seas, & sue out the mortgage upon our Sea ports. In fact the reasons operating against the requisi-


[Page 155]
May 27, 1788 121 tion this year were, The attention of the public was so fixed to the new System it seldom admitted of a full representation, When nine states have assembled other attention have unavoidably obtruded them selves. The ferment of the public mind also made any additional heat an object of great circumspection. Congress supposed if there was a disposition in the people to pay, there were old requisitions to exer cise it upon; If there was no disposition, New requisitions, of which ei ther no notice, or a resentful one, would probably be taken, appeared neither a measure of discretion, or honorary to Government. From Europe the rumour seems to be of war. The two Empires have attacked the Turks in force, & the European politicians are of opin ion, unless the disciple of Mahomet gets some assistance he will be overwhelmed. It is however said upon pretty good authority, that Spain objects to the admission of the Russians into the Mediter ranean; And in fact when England & France disarmed, Spain has kept fifteen Line Ships equipt; Some say to awe her American Subjects who grow refractory, Whilst others assert the keeping Russia from navigat ing in the Mediterranean is the real object, and that She is backed by France. In Holland the Statholder rides triumphant over the liberties of his Country. He has however done Congress the honor of a Letter since his exaltation. In France their affairs are still embroiled. The Spirit of liberty seems to have awoke, and this makes odd work in a Monarchy. Their reforms are however an uphill business; It seems to be a contest of King & ministry against the financiers & property; Which will pre vail requires no great penetration to predict. The Marquis de Fayette will probably share the fate of the Duke de Sully under Harry 4th, who with much superior abilities attempting to reform abuses, stired up such an hornetts nest, as had well-nigh stung both him & his master to death. Banishment & disgrace of the honest minister alone saved the King for a time; Who at the head of his army, whilst his financiers were rolling in wealth, & the superfluities of peculation, wrote his faithful Mentor, not indeed in the usual stile of Monarchs, “For G ds sake Sully send me a clean Shirt & pair of boots being destitute of both.” The reformers it is said have rather encreased expence hith erto. They are however amongst other things about to discontinue the packetts to America upon principles of oeconomy. The late arret in favor of Commerce obtained by Mr Jefferson under countenance of Marquis de Fayette, is clamoured at by the chambers of commerce, & is refused registration by the Parliament, without which it is too precarious for any dependence. 5 It is confidendy asserted that England, Holland & Prussia are de termined upon an offensive & defensive. The Court of Berlin it is thot however will demur. The Prussians know it is for their interest to keep well with France; And their cool politicians view the late inter-


[Page 163]
May 30, 1788 129 for a coxcombry of a worse kind—that of the Mind. He is now a very profound politician, & indeed so much so that he is often quite unin telligible. This I regret for I think well of his honor & principles. His Wife, who is a daughter of Mr. J. Adams, is the negative being de scribed in Mrs. Shandy. The Baron passed the winter at the same lodging house with me. 5 To this he has come at last. The tower is now dismantled & deserted, & he is once more upon the Justice or generosity of the public. But the public has neither—& he has only to choose between starving here or begging in Europe. This is calamitous to him & disgracefull to Us. He is now with North 6 who by the way is married to Duane’s daughter & exit’d to the Mohawk. We have a French Minister now with us 7 —& if France had wish’d to destroy the litde remembrance that is left of her & her exertions—she would have sent just such a minister—distant, haughty & penurious— & entirely govern’d by the caprice of a little, singular, whimsical, hys terical old woman 8 whose delight is in playing with a Negro child and caressing a monkey. I wish to God we had paid our debts to our good ally & were well rid of her—for there’s some danger in remaining the connextion of a pow’r whose character I must just suggest my reason for it. For ‘Tis so treasonable that I might else again be suspected of being a British Emissary. Twill be eno’ to bid you remember her con duct to Corsica—to Poland—to Geneva—to Holland & now to the Turks—whom after 40 years connexion she abandons. I don’t travell out of my own Memory for the oldest of these instances—Your’s which goes farther back will remember others. My idea however goes but to this—that ‘tis obviously our intrest to be but the distant acquaintance not the intimate friend of any Euro pean Pow’r. You will I beleive subscribe to this conclusion. We hope to have seen you to the No. this spring & indeed report went so far as to remove you entirely from Virginia & set you down either in Philada. or New York for life. I hope ‘tis more than report alone—& will even believe it to be so till you yourself contradict it. Be so good as to make my most respectful compliments to Mrs. Gates & accept for your happiness & her’s my best wishes. Your affec tionate friend & servant, J Armstrongjr. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Not found. 2 That is, Armstrong had declined an appointment as one of the judges of the North west Territory, for which see Armstrong to Charles Thomson, January 21, 1788. 3 Cf. Armstrong to Alida Livingston, July 27, note 1. 4 That is, William Stephens Smith. 5 Baron Steuben. 6 Maj. William North.


[Page 166]
132 May 30, 1788 To day Congress has received a very serious Complaint from the Minister of France concerning the Conduct of the Magestracy in one of the States protecting a French Pirate, another & mournful proof that unless we have a Federal Government we shall not long escape from the depredations of some Foreign Nation. 2 I was favored by your Excellencys Letter by Mr. Swann 3 but beg you to note that this is neither the third or fourth I have had the honor of writing or with which I may have troubled you already. I am &c Hugh Williamson Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 This “very serious Complaint” from the comte de Moustier was submitted this day by John Jay to Congress, which referred it back to Jay for a report. Jay’s June 6 report on the matter was referred in turn to a congressional committee consisting of Alexander Hamilton, Edward Carrington, Nathan Dane, Jonathan Dayton, and Samuel A. Otis, whose June 12 report was adopted by Congressjune 13. The case involved the authority of the French consul in Virginia to try a French ship captain on charges of fraud and theft after landing in Norfolk. The French captain, Joseph Marie Anne Ferrier, had been released under the laws of Virginia after having confessed his crimes and was awaiting transportation to Nantes to be tried formally under French admiralty law. The French consul, Martin Oster, had presented the partic ulars of the case to the governor of Virginia as early as October 2, 1787, seeking permis sion to extradite Ferrier to France, and had renewed the request November 11 after re ceiving no answer. Virginia’s refusal to honor Oster’s request had led finally to Moustier’s appeal to Jay and to Congress. In his June 6 report to Congress, Jay explained that he should discuss Ferrier’s extra dition with the governor of Virginia. But as the issue also involved the status of a con sular convention between France and the United States, which had been under negotia tion since 1784 and on which Thomas Jefferson had already been fully instructed, he argued that no attempt should be made to alter the course of those negotiations. Alexander Hamilton’s June 12 committee report endorsed Jay’s recommendations, and the following day Congress directed Jay to communicate the matter to the governor of Virginia “to the end that the said Executive may communicate to Congress the neces sary information on the subject.” The result was a protracted correspondence that failed to resolve the case before the demise of Congress in October, and which there fore had to await the ratification of a Franco-American consular convention by the new federal government, to which Jay submitted the issue in July 1789. For the congressional proceedings on the case, see JCC, 34:192, 206—7, 212, 217-22, 407, 550. For the lengthy correspondence relating to it, see Diplomatic Correspondence, 1783-89, 1:253-75. See also Virginia Delegates to Edmund Randolph, July 25, 1788. 3 Not found. Edward Carrington to James Madison My dear Sir, New York May 31. 1788 I had the pleasure to inclose you by the last post the British Act of Parliament upon the subject of our Trade. 1 You will now receive in one of the papers inclosed an ordinance of the Province of Quebec,


[Page 168]
134 May 31,1788 for all such of our Commodities as are wanted for her West India Is lands, and for Naval Stores, to Quebec. There may still be another, though more remote object, the Allurement of the Commerce, and with that, the Affections of our Western Inhabitants by means of the Lakes and the River St. Lawrence, to her purposes. But at the same time that we may be sensible how much we are exposed, in various quarters, to the insiduous policy of this Nation, her solicitude is also discoverable for the acquisition of our Commodities, which evinces the vanity of the boasted competency of Canada & Nova Scotia, to the fur nishing of her several demands. The truth is, the West India Islands are dependent for provisions, lumber, and many other things upon impor tations, and these articles are attainable from the United States on much lower terms than from any more distant Country: Naval Stores are also furnished by these States on such terms that it is an object with Great Britain to import them from us, not only for the West India Trad ing vessels, but also for her European Service. On the other hand what we derive from an intercourse with the West India Islands, are at best, but Articles of Luxury, nor is the production of them confined to the Territories of Great Britain; as to Naval Stores they are our own. Thus viewing the Matter, she is evidently the dependent party, and under a wise policy, supported by an energetic Government, might be made to accept, instead of presuming to prescribe, the Terms of Commercial intercourse. As to the other object, I hope that the benefits of a better Government than we have hitherto had, the improvement & extension of our inland Navigation, & the free use of the Mississippi, added to the difficulties which from climate attend that of the River St. Lawrence will all Conspire to prevent its being in any degree effected. I also have the Honor to inclose papers Containing some of the de bates of the Convention of South Carolina 2 which indicate the good disposition of that Body towards the Constitution. I have the honor to [be], with great respect, your Excellencies Most Obt. servt. Ed. Carrington RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For which see Carrington to James Madison, May 28, note 4; and the preceding entry, note 2. 2 See Carrington to James Madison, May 30, note. Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing Dr Sir New York 1 June 1788 I enclose you Maclains, Horners And Greeleafs papers. 1 If you Chuse I Can Continue them. These I get as often as they Come out and if you Chuse I Can furnish you With all or either of them.


[Page 169]
June 2, 1788 135 Your News is verry agreable in Respect to the Assembly Election, And so a letter McKesson Received from Mr Ray Informing that the Andes had Carried in Columbia by a Majority of scarce 300 of the Lowest Anti to the Highest federal. But What I Can find Among the federalist here they are in hopes that the Andes will not Dare Refuse Adopting the Constitution, they may Indeed adjorn, And Adjorn Again—but they will at Last Adopt it. It is Supposed by the federals that they Will be One third, the Andes Know at present of None but New York 9, Kings 2, Queen 2 & Westchester 6, Which is but 19—the latter has been most Shamefully taken in. It is expected that South Carolina Will Adopt the New Con stitution. I wish they May not but wether they Do or not Will Make no Alteration With me nor do I think Ought to Make an Alteration in the State. I Remain Sr, Yours Affy Abr. Yates Junr P.S. I am well and Wish the family So. I have Sent With Jacob Pruin 4/ of Small Honny Cookies for the Children. RC (NN: Yates Papers). 1 That is, the New-York Daily Gazette, published by John and Alexander M’Lean; the New-York Morning Post, published by William Morton (formerly Samuel Horner); and the New-York Journal, published by Thomas Greenleaf. Hugh Williamson to James Madison Dear sir New York June 2nd 1788 By the Time this comes to Hand you will be pretty well engaged in discussing the new Constitution & attempting to convince men who came forward with the Resolution not to be convinced. Of all the wrong heads who have started in opposition none have been men tioned who appear to be so palpably wrong as the People of Kentucke. It is said that some antifed in Maryland on the last Winter fastened on the Ear of Genl Wilkinson who was accidentally there and persuaded him that in case of a new Govt, the Navigation of the Mississippi would infallibly be given up. Your Recollection must certainly enable you to say that there is a Proviso in the new Sistem which was inserted for the express purpose of preventing a majority of the Senate or of the States which is considered as the same thing from giving up the Mississippi. It is provided that two thirds of the Members present in the senate shall be required to concur in making Treaties and if the southern states attend to their Duty, this will imply % of the States in the Union together with the President, a security rather better than the present 9 States especially as Vermont & the Province of Main may be added to


[Page 176]
142 June 5, 1788 contradict opinions industriously circulated which hold up an Idea of our being torn with party, & divided in sentiments. The accession of S Carolina is an event which strengthens our ex pectations that a reform will take place in federal measures, and these are rational, from the impression that it w[aits?] upon Verginia & No Carolina. Enclosed are the papers containing all the News in this quarter, And with my kind regards to my niece & connexions remain, Your friend & most huml sert, Sam. A. Otis RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). Rhode Island Delegates to John Collins Sir, New York the 5 of June 1788. We Consider that it is our duty to Inform your Excellency of our Safe arival here, 1 and a[l]tho from the Shortness of the Time we are unable to give a particular account of the business before Congress we in General inform, That there is Several matters of importance under Consideration, One of which is the Dividing of the State of Virginia and thereby making a Fourteenth State by the Name of Kentucky. It appears by the acts of the Legislature of that State that they have agreed to that measure & there is a memorial from the Inhabitants of that Country for that purpose now before Congress. The Expediency of Such a measure At this Time we Submit to your Excellencies Con sideration without making any Comment thereon. There is at this Time Eleven States Represented and when any mat ters of Importance to the Union are acted upon we Shall Emediately Communicate them. We are under the Necessity of informing your Excellency that it is Necessary for the State to make further provision for our Support which we Desire may be done in Such manner as to be least Injurous to the State and be productive of the greatest advantage to us. We do not presume to dictate but Submit wheather it would not be the most Eligible mode to appoint a person in the State to receive Such Sum of money as the Honble. Assemb[l]y grant and Supply us with the net proceeds of it. By this means we Shall be furnish’d much Sooner, and Releav’d from the great Inconveniency that will attend on us if Directed to Draw the money when at this distance from the State. With perfect Respect and Esteem, We have the Honor to be, your Excellencys Most Obedt. & Humble Servts, Peleg Arnold Jona. J. Hazard


[Page 177]
June 6, 1788 143 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Arnold and signed by Arnold and Hazard. 1 For the arrival of Arnold and Hazard, who took their seats in Congress May 6 and June 2, respectively, see JCC, 34:141, 193. Alexander Hamilton to John Sullivan Dear Sir: New York, June 6, 1788. You will no doubt have understood that the Antifederal party has prevailed in this State by a large majority. 1 It is therefore of the utmost importance that all external circumstances should be made use of to influence their conduct. This will suggest to you the great advantage of a speedy decision in your State, if you can be sure of the question, and a prompt communication of the event to us. With this view, permit me to request that the instant you have taken a decisive vote in favor of the Constitution, you send an express to me at Poughkeepsie. 2 Let him take the shortest route to that place, change horses on the road, and use all possible diligence. I shall with pleasure defray all expenses’ and give a liberal reward to the person. As I suspect an effort will be made to precipitate us, all possible safe dispatch on your part, as well to obtain a decision as to communicate the intelligence of it, will be desirable. MS not found; reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:2. In the April elections for the New York ratifying convention, the antifederalists won 46 seats, carrying nine counties, while the federalists won only four counties and 19 seats. Ibid., 4:648n.3. Hamilton was in Poughkeepsie for the opening of the New York ratifying convention on June 17, probably having left New York with the federalist delegates who departed with fanfare the 14th, for which see Abraham Yates to Abraham Lansing, June 15. Samuel A. Otis to Theodore Sedgwick DearSir NewYork 6th June 1788 After my congratulations upon the respectable elections of the pre sent year, Give me leave to add them upon the favorable appearances from the South. Verginia is now in Convention, And must be influ enced by the unanimity of Maryland, and the more recent accession of So. Carolina by a majority of two to one. The Gentlemen here, most acquainted with the affairs of Verginia, entertain the strongest hopes, but so great is the object, not without a degree of anxiety for the event. North Carolina looks well at present, and will certainly join the list unless Verginia should be so unfortunate as to stand out, In which case N Carolina may wavor.


[Page 178]
144 June 6,1788 In NY the opposition is powerful, but I think they will play the politician, procrastinate until the determination of Verginia & N Hamshire is known. If they assent Join them. Congress have been so closely pressed with an application from Kentucky that the question cannot be parryed much longer. It is of great importance to the E states to bring Vermont forward; But this cannot be done without the agency of that State, Which for reasons of which I am not apprised is quite passive. No objection could operate against these measures if they went hand in hand; And really the argu ments in favor of Kentucky are powerful. They have near one hundred thousand inhabitants at the immense distance of 800 miles from the seat of Government. They are courted by other powers to reject their allegiance to the USA. Their darling hope of opening the Missisippi is cherished by those who wish ill to the Union. And Verginia are, how ever extraordinary it may appear, not only willing but sanguine for the measure. The other business of Congress is detailed to the Legislature in our official letter directed to the Governour. 1 And some few mat ters not proper for a public communication are made to confidential friends in the hands of my old & tried friend Mr Davis; 2 To whom, and to the numerous list in both Houses that I have the felicity of puting in the same class, you will present me very respectfully. In expectation of seeing you here upon the recess of the General Court I am, Sir, your most Huml Sev, Sam A Otis 3 RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 See Massachusetts Delegates tojohn Hancock, May 27. 2 See Otis to Caleb Davis, May 27. 3 Otis also wrote the following private letter to a “Mr Greenleaf” the following day. As it is addressed only to “Mr Greenleaf,” it seems likely that it was hand delivered to a per son in New York City, but as Greenleaf was about to leave the city and would be away in definitely, he was probably not the New York printer Thomas Greenleaf. “My Dear Sir, You need be under no kind of apprehension that your affair with Mr H however public it may become will injure your reputation. Your universally polite mod est & obliging demeanour must forever rest the blame upon that rash & unfortunate man; And the spirit & firmness with which you vindicated your honor must endear you to your friends, and encrease the reputation you had before acquired. “I had anticipated your intimations in a letter to Mr D, I only regret that my pen can not do you Justice. As you leave Town before I can have oppy of paying you my personal respects, Permit me to wish you an agreeable Journey, not only to Philadelphia but thro life—And to assure you I shall esteem it a favor to be inserted in the list of your Corre spondents Promising the exactest attention upon my part whenever I can communicate any thing that will profit or amuse. “With my Compliments to Mr & Mrs Ingraham, accept my assurances of being with much esteem, Your friend & Most Huml Sert, Sam A Otis.” Etting, Old Congress Collec tion, PHi.


[Page 181]
June 7, 1788 147 John Brown


[Page 185]
June 7, 1788 151 ture of South Carolina during their session of Feby 1788. Those which I reed, before these were passed in March 1787. I apprehend a session must have intervened between these two because I do not find among those reed, an Act for calling a state Convention to consider the New Constitution. If this should be the case I must request the favour of you to transmit to me by the first safe conveyance 13 Copies of the acts that may have been passed between March 1787 & Feby 1788. 2 I have the honor to be, Sr, Your obedt humble Servt, C LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: ‘John Sanford Dart Esq, Clerk of the house of Representatives—So Carolina.” 1 Dart’s May 28 letter is in PCC, item 78, 8:229-32. 2 Dart’s July 7 reply, transmitting “thirteen Copies of the Resolutions of the Legisla ture of this State, for calling a State Convention to consider the new Constitution,” is at ibid., pp. 233-36. Charles Thomson to John Jay Sih Office of Secretary of Congress, June 7 1788 Congress have considered your letter of the 4th, wherein you in form them that the city and county of New York have elected you one of their deputies to the state convention, which is to meet on the 17th instant at Poughkeepsie to consider and decide on the proposed fed eral Constitution—that if it be agreeable to Congress you will attend, if not you will decline the appointment” and request their directions on the subject. 1 In answer to your letter I have it in charge to inform you that if you incline to attend the Convention, you have leave of absence for the purpose. 2 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your obedient hum- ble Servt > Cha Thomson FC (DNA: PCC, item 55). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 For Jay’s letter, see PCC, item 80, 3:524; and JCC, 34:207. 2 No formal action on Jay’s letter is recorded in the journals of Congress, but the en dorsement on it indicates that it was referred to the secretary of Congress “to take order—to inform Mr Jay he has leave of absence to attend the Convention if he chuse.” Ibid. Charles Thomson to Edmund Randolph $ lr Office of Secy of Congress. June 7th, 1788. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed An Act passed by the United States in Congress Assembled touching


[Page 186]
152 June 7, 1788 the expences attending the service of Mr David Henley, third Commis sioner appointed to adjust and settle the claims of Virginia on Ac count of the western territory ceded by that commonwealth to the United States. 1 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency s Most Obedient & Most Humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governour of Virginia.” 1 For the enclosed June 4 resolves, adopted on the recommendation of the board ot treasury to whom a June 11, 1787, memorial from Henley had been referred, see/CC, 32:308n, 34:201-2. Charles Thomson to the States Sir Circular Office of Secretary of Congress, June 7th. 1788. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed to be laid before the Legislature a state of the representation in Con gress for the month of May. 1 With the greatest respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most Humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (InHi: Mitten Collection of Presidents of Congress). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governour of Connecticut.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 For this enclosure and the seven other monthly attendance lists sent to the states during the Congress of 1788, see Appendix, pp. 537-46. Nathan Dane to Alexander Hodgdon gi r i New York June 8. 1788 I a few days Since received a letter from Mr. Higginson in which he mentions that he has not received the £100 due to him from the Trea sury on my draught. As I made the negociation with him expecting there would be no failure, I shall feel myself extremely obliged to you to make arrangements, to pay him, the first opportunity that you may have in your power—so well acquainted, I am fully persuaded, you are with the affairs of the Treasury, that I need not mention how much the small credit it has must be effected by any failure in cases where such particular negociations are made. As Mr. Higginson when he wrote to me requested that I would write you on the subject, Allow


[Page 190]
156 June 9,1788 I hope by the next opportunity to be able to send you the second volume of the Federalist. I have the Honor to be, my dear Sir, with great esteem, yr. sincere Friend & Hl st., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC:Jefferson Papers). 1 See Carrington to Jefferson, May 14. 2 That is, the New York Journal and the Daily Advertiser for June 7. 3 See, for example, Carrington to Jefferson, April 24, note 2, and May 14, note 4; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 9:746n.4. 4 For publication of the letters of the “Federal Farmer,” see Richard Henry Lee to El bridge Gerry, September 29, 1787, note. Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York June 9. 1788 The delegation have been Honoured with your Excellencies favor of the 25th Ult. enclosing the reasons of the Commissioner for requir ing an extension of the time allowed for the exhibition of the Accts, of Virginia against the United States. They are Submitted to Congress with a motion for the prolongation of the time, and these are now in reference to the Treasury Board for their report. 1 We shall have the issue ascertained as early as possible, but cannot undertake to encour age an expectation of success. In the mean time it will be well for Mr. Dunscomb to proceed without reliance upon the extension of the time for rendering the Accounts. Should his evidences be incompleat he may nevertheless render the Accounts, & prosecute his measures for collecting all that can be got. And as to the forms and arrange ments of the Accounts, although it would have been a desirable cir cumstance for the State, that he should have stated them, yet that business, so far as alterations may be necessary to conform them to the Statements of the United States, may be left upon the Commis sioner for that Party. I have the Honor to be, with great respect, Yr. Excellencies Most Obt. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 For the board’s denial of an earlier request for an extension, see Virginia Delegates to Randolph, April 3, note. On May 21 the Virginia Council had directed Andrew Dun scomb, Virginia’s commissioner for settling the state’s Continental accounts, to draft a letter demonstrating why “the limitted term of time for presenting the Claims of Vir ginia against the United States will be too short to insure justice to the State.” In his May 23 reply to Governor Randolph, Dunscomb argued that the “forms and evidences de manded” by district commissioner William Winder regarding recruiting bounties, de preciation of pay, militia advances, requisitions, and claims for advances to the quarter master, commissary, clothing, hospital, and marine departments made Dunscomb’s task so complex that he was unable to organize and deliver all of the state’s claims by June


[Page 194]
160 June 9, 1788 upon the subject. 2 I should be very unwilling that he should leave the school at Exeter & loose the benefit of his instruction. And at the same time would not have him pressed with any burdens that could well be avoided. I wish that you would encourage George as much as you can & make it as agreeable to him as it may be. You are sensible that whatever would make him uneasy would necessarily make me so to know it. You may tell Sally that she may read any of my letters to you, or to her aunt Wingate when she pleases, & to her mother if she thinks proper. I suppose that you have the same liberty with your let ters to them. Indeed there is nothing private or interesting in them, but they are wrote principly with a view of expressing my friendship and concern for you all, & some times for the sake of a little diversion. I was last Saturday at the Jewish Synagogue which was their Sabbath day. The service was all performed in hebrew, was very long, and chiefly read in a sort of singing voice. Only the men were allowed to be in the lower part of the house & the women sat in the gallery & went up, into it on the outside of the house. They were dressed very fashionably. I have likewise been at the Romish Church & to a Ger man Church where I could not understand a word that was said. I have indeed been to most of the places of worship in the city in order to see their different customs. I believe I shall not think fit to change my religion for any of them. Let Mr. Wiggin know that I have not heard yet from Mother Fox any further. I wish your health & every de sireable enjoyment you can have. Am your affectionate father, P. Wingate RC (MH-H: Wingate Papers). 1 That is, North Carolina delegate John Swann. 2 Not found. Samuel A. Otis to Theodore Sedgwick My Dear friend New York 10th June 1788 I closed my last letter 1 without observing that having become in debted to my late friend Mr B Lincoln Jur I assigned him some notes which I understand he put into your hands to collect, and as I should be brot into fresh trouble if the debts assigned him should prove bad; your goodness will excuse my anxiety to have them attended to. Your friends here are frequently enquiring whether & when [you] design making your appearance on the ground. [M]y answer is that being Pastor or dux of the flock, negatively, not until he has dismissed it, But positively we hope soon after that period; For altho we have a full Congress, the Honble. Speaker of the Honble Mass Assembly


[Page 195]
June 11, 1788 161 would be an additional Honor to that Honble body the Congress & a great pleasure to Your friend & H Sev, Sam A Otis RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 See Otis to Sedgwick, June 6. Charles Thomson to George Handley Sir Office of Secy of Congress. June 10th. 1788. On the 13th of April 1787 I had the honor to transmit to Your Ex cellency sundry resolutions passed by the United States in Congress Assembled respecting the treaty of peace between the United States of America and Great Britain. Also a letter to Your Excellency which was unanimously agreed to in Congress on the same subject. Not having heard from You touching this matter, I take the liberty of sending You a duplicate. 1 The reasons why your State should pass the law recom mended are so fully and so forcibly stated in the letter from Congress, that is needless to say any thing more on the subject, especially to Your State which with such unanimity & readiness hath adopted the new Constitution, which establishes the principle, that Treaties made or which shall be made under the Authority of the United States shall be the supreme law of the land. I presume therefore it will only be neces sary for Your Excellency to bring this matter to the recollection of Your Legislature, if they have not already passed the law required. With great respect, I have the honor &c LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Govr. of Georgia.” 1 See Thomson to the States, April 13, 1787. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear Sir New York 11 th June 1788 The public Papers have not for many days afforded us any News, all Expectation is turned towards Virginia, We take for granted, I do at least, that N Carolina will follow Virginia in adopting or rejecting. I confess that my Hopes are not sanguine, but of this I do not consider myself bound to say all that I think. Congress have before them sundry matters of considerable Import which have been eventing in the Course of seven Months for there have been nine states on the floor for a few days last past only. Having come on here with a Resolu tion to indulge myself in as much Leisure as any others of my fellow


[Page 196]
162 June 11,1788 Labourers, the Start I have some how been constrained to take has not fully accorded with my Plan, but I shall try to mind after a few Land Questions are determined. Those Questions are extremely weighty as the national Funds are concerned. At present I have not Leisure even to return Visits. Will you be pleased to forward a Line to Mrs. Templeman who probably is anxious to hear the Fate of her Son. 1 You may inform her that he was inoculated on Thursday Week in the morning, that on Sat urday morning last the Pock had made their appearance, two or three on his Face & severall on his Limbs. On Sunday a few more appeared. On that Night he indulged on a feather Bed, which for several nights I had caused to be removed, and on Monday he had some 20 or 30 Pocks on his Face, the whole is still a Bagatelle; he continues to walk about & has done so every Day. He would now attend in Congress 2 was it not that the Place on his Arm in which he was inoculated being not quite free from Inflammation renders it inconvenient for him to put on a Coat with tight Sleeves. His Servt who as usual for Africans had the eruption 24 Hours before the Master was first relieved from his Suspicions. I was yesterday surprised by a message of the Spanish Minister, who sent one of his Family to our lodging to apologise for his not visiting us in Person for he has not had the small Pox. He had left his Card at the Door without coming in. Mrs Dawson whom I saw two Evenings since, also her Daughter & grand Daughter were well, but she complains of hearing very seldom from her Edenton Friends. I know that writing Paper is scarce in Edenton & therefore was able to make one good Ex cuse, I presume that no other good one could be made. Be so good as give my Respects to Mrs Iredell & the othe Ladies of your Family. I am Dr sir, Your obedt serv, Hu Williamson RC (NcD: Iredell Manuscripts). Addressed: “James Iredell Esq, Edenton.” Endorsed: “Ansd.June 25th. 1788.” 1 That is, North Carolina delegate John Swann. 2 Swann returned to his congressional seatjune 18. See JCC, 34:234, 239. William Bingham to Tench Coxe Dear Sir, New York June 12. 1788 I am much indebted to you for the agreable & important Commu nications contained in your Letter of the 10th Inst. The Ratification of Virginia will be an essential Accession of federal Force. Without her Cooperation & Assistance, the Union would not possess so robust a Constitution, nor be endued with strength Suffi cient to resist the Difficulties it will probably have to encounter.


[Page 200]
166 June 12,1788 he has mentioned in his letter. If my proceeding meets your wishes in this affair it will be with pleasure I serve you. I thank you for the information you have favored me with respect ing the adoption of the new Constitution. I hope that you will have the pleasure of hearing of its ratification in New Hampshire by the time you will receive this. For whatever imperfections experience may discover in it I am persuaded that you are in opinion with me that the present situation of our country makes it necessary. The event of the new Government taking place soon is now relyed upon, & I hope that we shall speedily feel the happy effects of it. The accounts from Vir ginia & No Carolina are favorable. New York is yet supposed to be an- tifederal but it is th6t she will not chuse to stand alone. All the states except two are now represented in congress & the delegates of those States are expected on soon. I will enclose for you a newspaper that you may see what little news we have here. I thank you for your kind ness in calling upon my family & informing me of their welfare. And be assured that I am with sentiments of due respect your most obed[i]ent & humble Servt., Paine Wingate RC (MH-H: bMSAm 1907). Paine Wingate to John Wendell Sir June 12,1788] Since I wrote the enclosed 1 I have seen a Letter from a member of convention in Virginia dated on the third day after they met, 2 who in forms that Mr. Pendleton was chosen President without opposition (he is federal)—That Governor Randolph had expressly declared for the ratification of the new Constitution without amendments—That this was done in a very handsome speech which made a favorable im pression—That the Convention had unanimously voted not to decide upon the constitution or any part of it until they had gone thro the whole by clauses in their deba[te] And that no question had yet de cided fully the sentiments of that body but that the appearance was fa vorable. Other accounts say that there is reckoned a majority of twelve in favor of the plan. Please to deliver to the Treasurer the letter di rected to him when you shall present the Bill. I am &c, Paine Wingate RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1907). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 See Gilman to Sullivan, this date, note.


[Page 201]
June 13,1788 167 Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My beloved Brother June 13th. 1788. Hall of Congress. I have been long in Expectation of hearing from you either by your Sons or by Post, & now begin to grow impatient & uneasy lest any thing disagreeable should have occurr d. I believe Dr. Johnson is not yet returned, but suppose it will not be many days longer before he ar rives. Mr. Daniel Tucker arrived here from Bermuda about 10 Days ago & left our Friends in general pretty well. Nothing new from thence except that they are engaging pretty extensively in the Fishery this Year, about 15 or 16 Vessels being intended for that Employment. The whaling Ships have done tolerably well, but not so much as has been reported. Ere this arrives you will have heard of the Decision of South Carolina in favor of the New Constitution. We hear that it is also in a favorable Way in your State. I shou’d be glad to know from time to time how your Convention is going on & what are really the Prospects. Indeed I have always supposed that Virginia as well as South Carolina wou’d adopt it. From the latter I am inform’d that the people in the interior parts of the Country are much opposed to it. However I suppose & hope they will acquiesce in the Voice of the Ma jority. For my own part I do not expect from it any miraculously bene ficial Effects immediately, whatever Time may bring about. The Im post appears to me to be almost the only Good that we shall for some time experience, & that will deprive several of the States at least of their chief Resource for the Support of their local Governments, not to say any thing of provision for the Payment of their public Debts, which already are so embarrassing that they puzzle the most ingenious to give them Support. As we are in Business, I cannot write & pay the necessary Attention. Remember me to the young Gentlemen & to all the Children with great Affection. Also to Miss Maria, Miss Carlos, & all other kind Friends. Pray write, as often as possible, & if I happen to be a little remiss (which however I do not intend to be) ascribe it ei ther to natural Indolence or (rather) to a degree of Perplexity I often feel from a Variety of Subjects of Business which as yet are not very fa miliar to me. Excuse me to Richd. & Theodorick. The Expectation of seeing them has made me less particular in fulfilling my Obligation of writing to them. God bless you, my beloved Brother pray Your’s most sincerely, Tho. Tud. Tucker [PS.] It may possibly be acceptable to you to be inform’d how this State stands affected towards the New Constitution. What Effect the fa vorable Division of Virginia may have here I know not, but the Calcu lations at present are that the Division will be as follows—for the Con stitution 19 Members, against it 46, the whole Number being 65. RC (ViW: Tucker-Coleman Papers).


[Page 207]
June 15,1788 173 very encouraging & amongst other Letters printed the following ex tract is more recent than the papers. Richmond Fridayjune 6th “[A] Symptomatic vote this day in favor of the question was taken; Nothing decisive however has taken place. Mr H 1 made a great effort yesterday & having spun his harangue until a late hour, an answer was prevented; His party were much revived, but I think they are less so this morning. The Governour is become active in favor of the adoption.” Refering you to the papers for other news I have the honor to be, Your most Huml Sert, Sam. A. Otis RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 For Patrick Henry’s “harangue” before the Virginia Convention June 5, see Doc. Hist, of Rati/., 9:951-68. Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing Dr Sir New York 15June 1788 Yesterday About Eleven the Governour With a number of the anti Members of Convention set out in A Poughkepse Sloop And in the af ternoon about 6:OClock the Federals under the Firing of Canon from the Battery (a Cerremoney Coll Bowman tells me your men with the Andes would not consent to). I dont feel verry oneasy About Consequences. What steps the feder als Mean to take in reality I cannot Imagin. It would seem from Com mon Conversation that they had some hopes that the Andes would be taken in by their Superior Ability Either to Adopt or to Adjorn because they suppose the andes after so many States Coming in will not dare to Reject it which they Suppose An Adoption with previous Amendments would In its Effect be. I remember Brattain Called out that we were poltroons but it had the Contrary effect to what they intended it should have—And it is possible it may have the same effect here. I have seen the Votes for amendments the Endes [Antis] Carry up, I have had the Copy—made same Addition And sent it up to Yates & Lansing. 1 The Piece is publish’d in two papers 50 Sets are gone to Pochkepse 10 Sets (Of which I send you Six) I Reserved. There you will keep one set and Deal out the others to the friends. I find Some Mistakes that Must be Rectified if they are Represented. The sixty Copies Cost me 30/. I shall send the papers to Morrow (I be lieve With Capt Dove) together with the ordinary Daily papers. Vir ginia the federalist are Confident will Adopt And so they say Will New Hampshire. The Members from this place seems Determined not to


[Page 208]
174 June 15,1788 Adopt (without previous Amendments) tho all the others should. I shall write from time to time If I have any thing Material. Yours Affy., Abrm. Yates Junr RC (NN: Yates Papers). 1 That is, Robert Yates and John Lansing, antifederalist delegates to the New York rati fying convention at Poughkeepsie. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas FitzSimons My dear sir N York June 16th. [1788] I would have written to you before this, but expected some private hand to carry the balance of the money due—with many thanks and acknowlegements for so much friendship and polite attention to us. I have endeavored to get a Philadelphia bank note to enclose by post, but cannot of a less denomination than one hundred dollars— however some acquaintance will shortly be going to your City. I am told that Mr. OConner is in town, but we have not yet seen him. The enclosed letters are recommended to your friendly attention. I am not a litde happy that the important business of the proposed Constitution is going on so well in Virginia. Governor Randolph’s in cantation, ‘tho embarrassing enough with respect to himself, may pro duce some pleasing consequences. 1 New Hampshire will certainly adopt the system. About two thirds of this state are at present in opposition—but the federal members ex pect to convert a great number—and indeed from good authority I am told that Governor Clinton thinks it absolutely necessary that N York should adopt the measure also. Governor Collins and some of the leading men of Rhode Island are advocates for the plan now. From the appearance of things taken altogether we have good reason to conclude that the union will be complete. No Intelligence from Europe. With my best regards to all I am, my dear sir, Your very affect, humble servant, C Griffin RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 An apparent reference to Gov. Edmund Randolph’s lengthy June 6—7 incantation in the Virginia ratifying convention, for which see Doc. Hist, of Ratify 9:971-89, 1016-28. Edward Carrington to Janies Madison My dear Sir, New York June 17. 1788 I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 6th of June 1 —it gives


[Page 210]
176 June 17,1788 considered; or inform the Committee that they may proceed upon what have been submitted. 1 I am with great regard, yr. Most Ob. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Wilson had submitted a memorial to Congress on May 2 asserting the claims of the United Land Companies of the Illinois and Wabash, promising documentation “touch ing the fairness of their purchases and representing their willingness in case they should be well founded to cede to the U S a great proportion thereof.” The memorial was referred on May 5 to Carrington, Abraham Clark, Nathan Dane, William Irvine, and Stephen Mix Mitchell, who reported June 27 that members of the United Land Compa nies should submit to Arthur St. Clair (governor of the western territory) and Richard Butler (superintendent of Indian affairs) proof of their 1773-75 purchases and ensuing treaty with the Indians, and that St. Clair and Butler should report to Congress “a full State of their enquiry.” Congress “postponed” or, in effect, rejected the committee’s re port on July 1. Wilson’s memorial and accompanying petition were returned to him on March 22, 1790. See JCC, 34:133, 270-71; and Carter, Territorial Papers, 2:115-17. Nathan Dane to Theodore Sedgwick New York. June 17. 1788. My Dear Sir I had the pleasure to receive your favor of the 9th instant. I have but one moment to write—and shall improve my first leisure hour to write to you more particularly. You mention that it will be disagreeable to you to attend Congress in the present State of the Government. Sensible of this I have not urged your attendance—but I think by the first of August the organi zation of the New Government will be before Congress, it will be best then to have the States ful[ly] represented in Congress, tho. I con ceive that business will not be attended with any gre[at] debate, or take up much time. My aff[airs] require that I should make a short visit to Massachusetts and return to Congress by the first of August. In my absence the State will be unrepresented unless you can find it con venient to attend Congress. I could therefore wish that you would at tend as early in July as you can 1 —tho, there is no great deal of busi ness to be done, but as unprofitable business may be agitated and brought forward I could wish the State always to be represented in Congress. Your sincere friend, N. Dane [PS.] I have Just seen a letter from a member of the Virginia Conven tion—(Madison) dated the 9th instant but nothing new 2 —the friends of the Constitution calculate on a majority—but do not Speak with certainty.


[Page 214]
180 June 21,1788 & lively Colours 2 —after this & the letters which I have written to the District I did [not] suppose that the Delegates from that Country could be at any loss with respect to my Sen[timents which] have been uniform upon that Subject since my arrival here. Before I left Rich mond I view’d the plan as they do but my appointment has placed me in a Situation from whence I have been enabled to take a more ex tended view of American Politics & as I have frequendy mention’d to you I have discover’d a total change so far as respects the Western Country especially with regard to the Mississipi. The Advocates for the proposed Treaty with Spain now plainly discover that the Cession of the Navigation of that River would not answer the end which formerly they had in View & many of them who were most disposed to sacrifice the Western Country are now by purchase of Lands & appointments to Offices become personally interested in supporting its natural Rights against arbitrary encroachments. I am well assured that a simi lar attempt will never be made even by the eastern States whose Inter est will be most affected by the prosperity of that Country & most sin cerely hope that the impression thereby made upon the Minds of our Western Members in Convention will not induce them to reject the proposed plan of Govt, upon the Adoption of which it is candidly my Opinion that the Happiness, Dignity & Glory of the United States de pend. I have very little prospect of obtaining the Assent of Congress to the present application of Kentucky to be admitted a [member of] the Union. I expect you have seen the Resolution of Congress appointing a Commtee. to draw up an Ordinance for that purpose. The Comtee. have determined that there is no power for that purpose given by Arti cles of Confederation. I presume Kentucky will proceed to establish her independence as tho she had been admitted & will apply or not to the new Govt, as her Interest may dictate. If unanimity prevails in the District perhaps the present disappointment may be productive of good Consequences to that Country. But be this as it will I flatter my self that they would wish to see a Good Govt, established in the United States even though they should be driven out of the Union & there fore conclude that their Delegates will not decide against the pro posed plan a measure which I fear would involve the Atlantic States in Confusion. I am happy to hear of my Brother’s [safe] arrival in Kentucky & that he is well pleased with the Country. I hope he will succeed—am also well pleased to hear that my Sister is married—am not acquainted with Doctor Humphreys but have heard him well spoken of. I wish some men of our female friends were disposed of to their satisfac tion—is there any prospect of it? I expect to set out for Kentucky the last of next month—have some prospect of visiting Boston before that time. I enjoy my usual good Health. Adieu, Yours Sincerely, J Brown


[Page 215]
June 21,1788 181 P.S. In Convention of this State there are two thirds Antifederal but will be govd. by decision of Virga. RC (ViU: Breckinridge Papers in the collections of the Albemarle County Historical So ciety). 1 Only Brown’s June 5 letter to Matthew Walton has been found. 2 Perhaps John Jay’s Address to the People of the State of New-York, on the Subject of the Con stitution (New York: Samuel and John Loudon, 1788), which began circulating in April. See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,175; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif, 17:101-19. South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Pinckney Sir, Copy New York June 21st. 1788. Your Excellency’s letter of the 24th of May came safe to us, together with the Instrument of Ratification of the new Foederal Government, by the Convention of our State, which we presented to Congress. 1 This very important Subject is now under deliberation in the Conven tions of Virginia, New York & New Hampshire. The accounts of the first of these are rather favorable to the adoption of the Constitution, altho it does not appear that any certain Judgment can yet be formed—from the two latter nothing has yet reached us. We anxiously wait the issue of the negociation [wi] th the Creek Indians, & earnestly wish it may have the happy effect of stopping the farther Effusion of Blood & establishing a lasting peace. We inclose your Excellency a Copy of late Resolutions of Congress fixing the mode of crediting the several States for Monies paid to In valid pensioners, & limiting the time for applications to be put on the List. 2 The State of Georgia has transmitted to Congress an Act of its Legis lature offering a Cession of Western territory to the United States under certain conditions therein expressed. 3 This Matter has not yet undergone any Investigation in Congress, & of course the final ratifi cation of the Cession has not been made. The memorial of the District of Kentucky has been considered by Congress, & a Resolution passed in favor of the expediency of concur ring in the proposed Measure: but difficulties having arisen with re spect to the constitutional Mode of doing it, no farther progress is yet made in that business. 4 We have the honor to be, very respectfully, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servts, (signed) John Parker Thos. Tud. Tucker Tr (ScCoAH: Governor’s Messages). 1 South Carolina’s ratification was submitted to Congress June 6. See JCC, 34:208n.


[Page 216]
182 June 21,1788 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, June 14. 3 For this Georgia cession, which was submitted to Congress May 29, see Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon, May 3, note; and Charles Thomson to George Handley, July 17, note 2. 4 For the fate of Kentucky’s application for statehood see Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson, November 10, 1787, note 3. John Brown to John Steele Dr Sir, 1 New York, June 22, 1788 I am informed by letter reed, from Mr Allen last post that you are at Richmond & presuming that you came thro Augusta I would thank you for any information you may have it in your power to give me re specting my fathers family & my other relations in Botetourt & Mont gomery. You will excuse this trouble I hope when you are assured I have not reed, a letter from that quarter, since my arrival here. Any in formation you may give concerning my acquaintances in K y will also be very acceptable. We wait with great impatience to hear the determination of Virga, upon the new Constitution. It is supposed that its fate depends upon her Vote. We are told that the Kentucky Members are opposed. I flat ter myself not generally. Those objections which respect the naviga tion of the Mississippi are not well founded. Nothing is to be appre hended in that quarter. I hope it will be adopted, as in my opinion the safety & peace of the United States depend upon it. The Separation of Kentucky will not be granted under the present application. 2 Congress have determined that it is reasonable, and ap pointed a Committee to bring in an act for their admission into the Union. But the Committee are of opinion that there is no power dele gated to Congress for that purpose by the present Confederation. In short it is I fear impracticable to remove the objections suggested by the contracted policy of the Eastern States, who had rather risque the Union than lose what the [y] Call the Ballance of Power. We must act for ourselves—Assure our independance—frame our Constitution, &: apply to the new Govt, for admission into the Union as our interest & Circumstances may dictate. If we are unanimous and prudent, we have nothing to fear. Perhaps a rejection of our present application may be advantageous to the District. Her importance will in a short time enable her to prescribe her own terms of admission. I enjoy my usual state of good health &c &c Tr (KyLoF: Orlando Brown Papers). This Tr was embodied in the text of a letter to Brown of December 31, 1808, from J. Speed, Jr., of Natchez, Mississippi, who had made


[Page 218]
134 June 22,1788 [PS.] As I wrote to you last week on the Subject of our attendance in Congress 4 I need add nothing at present. RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). 1 Not identified. 2 In his July 3 reply to this letter, Sedgwick observed: “I am glad to be informed that congress have no determination to admit Kentucky into the Union, because instead of congress possessing a pow'er of authorising the dismemberment of the states, their en tirety seems guaranteed, by the spirit of the confederation.” Dane Papers, MBevHi. 3 Edwards took his seat in Congress on June Q.JCC, 34:208. 4 See Dane to Sedgwick, June 17. Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My dear Brother June 23d. 1788. In Congress. Your Favor of 6th June was deliver’d to me three days ago by the Boys 1 who had a short passage from Norfolk. It gives me great Con cern to find that you had lately been very much indisposed. However they assure me that you are intirely recover’d & that you are now as well as you have been for several Years. May Heaven continue the Blessing of Health to you. I am happy to find by the Boys & by a Letter from Richard that you intend, if Circumstances will permit, to make a Visit to this Place in the course of the next Month. I need not say how very great will be my Satisfaction on that Occasion. I find that all your young folks are in good Health, which is a great pleasure to me. Dr. Johnson had fortunately return’d from Connecticut 2 or 3 days before the young Gentlemen arrived. I have been with them to him, & they are now gone to College to give an Account of their Progress. As their Bedding is at Princeton it will be some days before they will get fixt in Lodgings at College. Your Letter to Mr. Constable I have not yet de liver’d as he was out of Town, Be I did not know of his return on Satur day until late. The Boys, however, have been with him with a Letter they had to deliver. We have a Report this Day that your Convention had taken the Question for Adjournment, which had pass’d in the Negative by a Majority of Eight, & that the final Question on the Con stitution was to have been put on the 21st Inst.—that the Question for Adjournment had been moved by the Opposers of the Constitution. If this Account is true, I presume that there is no Doubt of the Decision in favour of the New System. No Accounts from Bermuda since my last Directed to you at Richmond. My best regards to your dear Children, Miss Rhind & other Friends. I am, My dearest Brother, Yr. most truly affect., Tho. Tud. Tucker


[Page 220]
186 June 23, 1788 the approbation of my own Mind. Wishing that your appointment may be productive of Benefit to the State and Honor & Profit to your self I am Sir, Your most obedt servt. Hu Williamson RC (WHi: Draper Manuscripts, Tennessee Papers). 1 For the appointment of Richard Winn as superintendent of Indian affairs for the southern department, see Charles Thomson to Winn, March 1, 1788. 2 For Martin’s June 20 appointment as “Agent for the Cherokee Nation of Indians,” see Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, June 25, note 2. For Martin’s previous experience in the southern department, see these Letters, 22:138n, 286-87, 294. Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing Dr Sir 23 June 1788 This I mean shall lay on my table to put down Matters as they Occur to me. I have with me the News papers I prosecuted upon in expectation to Speak to the Governour and Jones upon that Subject but I did not find an opportunity and therefore Now Return them. 1 Your Brother Sander May prepare in the Mean time a Declaration But before it is made a Record it will want more Consideration than at this Day can be aforded Either by myself or frinds. I met Claxton (the printer) in the street 8 or 10 Days Ago, who was very importuning that I Should withdraw the suit or discharge him from it. I should by no means con sent to withdraw it. I told him that I should by no means consent to withdraw it, and to discharge him was not possible without distroying the suit. He then told me some publication would, he supposed, an swer the end of a verdict (here I suppose he meant a sort of recanta tion) . I told him I supposed not—he said I would in the End find that the Characters of those that published were insignificant and were hardly Worth my Notice. I Answered, that that might be, but they were the ostensible or tools only. If I see him again I shall Continue the Conversation. I tell him that I dont want to injure him no farther than is absolutely necessary to the prosecution of the suit but the real au thors shall come forth tho it should prove his ruin. He Complains that it has proved his ruin in some measure already that he has been Obliged to hire himself to London to work for my work and ten more. The Mortgage of Greveroot I shall be Able to do nothing with here. I beleve I will at the End be oblidged to publish and sell it at vendue for I am determined it shall not remain so. Tho. Witbeek has been with me says he will not be able to pay untill August Next. I Shall be well satisfied if he does then. When I went from home the family were in distress About A Servant I have heard nothing of it since. Has the Affair of Waldren succeeded? if not has he paid? I mean to buy A Wench and if any Suitable one


[Page 224]
190 June 25,1788 But little discovery has yet been made of the turn likely to be given to the business in the Convention of New York. The inclosed papers contain the Speeches of the Chancellor for, and of Mr. Lansing against the constitution. 3 Were an Assembly collected disposed to profit by discussion, I would not wish a better advocate for the adop tion than Mr. Lansing. Present me to my Freinds & believe me to be, with great sincerity Yr. Freind & Hl St., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See, for example, John Brown to Matthew Walton, June 5, to John Steele, June 22, and the preceding entry. 3 For the speeches of Robert R. Livingston and John Lansing on June 19 and 20, re spectively, see the New York Daily Advertiser, June 24. Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph Sir, New York June 25. 1788 I have the Honor to inclose to your Excellency the resolutions of Congress passed yesterday in consequence of the application of Vir ginia for an extension of the time for exhibitting her accounts against the United States. 1 I hope the time now given will be fully adequate to the object, especially as the second resolution clearly opens the way to the admission of evidence for a very long time after the accounts are rendered—this however depends greatly upon the commissioner on the part of the State—a man of capacity and an accommodating dis position may remove difficulties which to one of another discription might stand as insuperable obstacles. I own that to me the ordinance appears to be calculated, if properly understood, & acted upon with industry, by the State Commissioners, to procure tolerably equal jus tice to all the States. In order that every possible misunderstanding may be removed in Virginia I do myself the Honor to accompany the resolutions with a report of the Board of Treasury which is pretty full upon Mr. Dun- scombs letter. I beg leave to assure your Excellency that upon the present occa sion a very liberal respect has been paid to the application of Virginia by both Congress & the Treasury Board, as no request of the kind has come from any other State, and the general terms of the Resolutions have been adopted only to take off the inconvenience which might have resulted from the example of a special indulgence. In consequence of your Excellencies intimation upon inclosing to the delegation Colo. Jos. Martins letter, we laid the whole of your com munication before Congress, and it has been resolved that an Agent be appointed for the Cherokee Indians, whereupon Colo. Martin was


[Page 225]
June 25, 1788 191 elected to continue in Office for Six Months from his entering upon duty. 2 I have advised the Secretary at War to forward his communica tions to Colo. Martin, through the hands of your Excellency. I have the Honor to be, with great respect, your Excellencies Most Obt. Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See Carrington to Randolph, June 9, note; and Charles Thomson to the States, June 24. 2 On May 20 the Virginia delegates had laid before Congress Randolph’s May 9 “in timation” and a March 13 letter from former Indian agent Joseph Martin concerning Cherokee unrest which had been referred to secretary at war Henry Knox to report. Knox heeded Martin’s suggestions and recommended the appointment of a special agent with authority to reassure the Cherokee of Congress’ pacific intentions, to help them resist Creek blandishments to make war, and to attend with them and commis sioners from South Carolina and Georgia a general treaty under the supervision of newly-appointed southern Indian superintendent Richard Winn. Congress debated Knox’s report June 19 and elected Martin “Agent for the Cherokee Nation of Indi ans” the following day. After receiving further letters from Martin, Congress also ap pointed him agent for the Chickasaw Indians on August 20. See JCC, 34:165n.l, 182—83, 241, 247, 432-33; PCC, item 71, 2:593-600; and Charles Thomson io Winn, March 1. Virginia Delegates to James Madison Dr Sir, 1/2 after 12. June 25. 1788 The Inclosed this moment came to hand 1 —contemplating the criti cal State of the subject it concerns in Virginia we thought it best to dis patch it by express, rather than depend on the progress of the post. We have the Honor to be Sir, Yr. Most Obt Servts. Ed. Carrington J. Brown C Griffin RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. James Madison, in his absence, Governor Randolph in Convention, Richmond.” Docketed: “Saturday 28th Inst, for warded from Alexandria by Your Hum Servt, D Henley.” Written by Carrington and signed by Carrington, Brown, and Griffin. 1 This enclosure, which is in the Madison Papers, DLC, was ajune 21 letter from John Langdon to Alexander Hamilton informing him that the New Hampshire ratifying con vention had just adopted the Constitution by a vote of 57 to 46. On the verso is ajune 24 letter of transmittal from Philip Schuyler to Madison written on Hamilton’s behalf and forwarded by stage. See Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:34—35; and Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:171. This day South Carolina delegate Thomas Tudor Tucker also conveyed the same in formation to his brother in Virginia, St. George Tucker: “This moment we have Ac counts that New Hampshire has adopted the Constitution 57 to 46.” Tucker-Coleman Papers, ViW.


[Page 232]
198 June 29,1788 Abraham Yates to Abraham G. Lansing p New York 29 June 1788 I R[eceive]d yours of 22 June Instant. The Letter I Wrote and Which before now you have Rd. In Respect to Mess. Jannet 1 Will be All that is necessary to Say upon that Subject: nor do I belive that the gentlemen of the Convention Will Request by [my] Attention At Poughkepse, nor do I belive that the Attention of the Albany federal ist Will Do them Any service. From every Information I git it appears that the Andes are neither to be frowned or flattered out of their op[p]osi[tio]n. The principle Object the Other side have in View is to get an Adjournment Which I Confess is the only Apprehension I have For if they Can Obtain an Adjournment the Members During That Time will be Seperated and open to their Management both in the News papers—and the State the Whole Time in Convulsions. It appears to me the Fire Edge in this place is Wearing off very fast. It appears to one that the more serious Citizens get tyred of the furie and Noise. The Speeches of Lansing And Smith 2 meet in the Coffe House and Elsewhere With Almost general Approbation the Ringing of the Bells become reprobated as uselessly irritating And Improper in the Situation We are in. . Should Verginia Adopt and Wether they Will or not is problematical then th [ere wi]ll be New exclamations: Can our State Stand Alone? Is our state Wiser then all the Rest &a? If that storm is wethered I sup pose they will see that it will be in vain to throw any farther Obstacles in the Way and they Will soon finish. I belive my staying here May be of some Service. Last year there Was A Loan Made in Holland of 1,000,000 guilders. The Reason then given Was that Our Bills, to pay the Interest in Europe had been protested. Now it is proposed to take up one Million more Because upon A Representation of the Board of Treasury to Mr Jeffries [Jefferson] that With the Change of Government We Will not be able to Make any Re mittances till after the Year 1790. 3 This Measure has been taken up twice And I have in both Instances opposed it (and Which they have not been Able to git Nine States)— Upon this Principle—That it is Impolitick At all events to take up Mony in time of profound Peace, And the More as there Will be no Interest Due untill June 1789—And What Will the World think When they Meet With the Observations that have been made for Several Years that our Credit Was Lost in Europe Because of the Defects in the confederation—if We now go and Sponge upon the Existing Confed eration to set the Wheels of the New government Agoing, And then to grees them. I am well I hope the family is so I Remain Yours Affecy. Abm. Yates Junr


[Page 233]
July 1, 1788 199 RC (NN: Yates Papers). 1 See Yates to Lansing, June 23, note 2. 2 For the proceedings of the New York ratifying convention, see Doc. Hist. ofRatif., vol ume XI (forthcoming). 3 See Yates to George Clinton, June 27. Charles Thomson to John Dickinson Dear Sir, New York June 30, 1788 I have the pleasure to inform you that authentic accounts have been reed, of New Hampshire having ratified the New Constitu tion, So that now nine states have adopted it. 1 It is hoped that Vir ginia will also adopt it and that we shall soon receive the agreeable intelligence from that state. There are now present seven of the adopting states and a delegate is hourly expected from Maryland; on his Arrival eight of the states which have adopted the Constitu tion will be represented in Congress. As Delaware is absent I wish you could by any means hasten on the delegates as I think it of im portance that all the States which adopt the Constitution should be present when Congress proceed on the measures necessary for putting it in Operation. With compliments to Mrs D & cousin Sally, I am, Sr, Yours affection- ably, Cha Thomson RC (PPL: Logan—Dickinson Collection). Addressed: “John Dickinson Esqr, Wilmington, Delaware.” 1 See New Hampshire Delegates tojohn Langdon, July 2. Connecticut Delegates to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dear Sir, New York July It 1788 As we know it to be the Wish of Govr. Huntington that a third Dele gate shou’d attend Congress this summer, and as we believe that no one can leave Home with the same 1 as you; and as the important Question of organizing the New Government will undoubtedly be agi tated in the Course of next Week; We take the Liberty of soliciting your immediate Attendance here. Mr Edwards will be at New Haven on Friday and will be very happy to accompany you to this City on Sat urday or Sunday. We are, Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem and Respect, Your very Hl Servts., Benj Huntington Pierp. Edwards


[Page 235]
July 2,1788 201 have Indevered Ever since I have been hear, to find his mind in Re gard to the constitution, but it hath been out of power, but I am Led to beleave he would have been as well pleased, had the constitution been Rejected as he now is, I have not had the pleasur to see Genl. Lamb only when he has been Ingaged in buyseness, and it would have been Intruding to have Intrupted at that time, therefor Intend an In- tervew with him when he is at Leishur. The Govr. and our friend Melangton Smith are now at Pokepesey at the convention, they have very hard work but I am Led to beleave that they will adobt the Consti tution with previous amendments and if they do, it will opperate as tho it had been Regected, the Express arived this day with the adob- tion of Virginea. 1 I have Nothing further to Inform at present, when aney thing turns up shall take the pleasur to comunicate Immediately. With gratude and Esteem I Remain, your Excellenceys most obdient Humble Servant, Jona. J. Hazard P.S. Pray give my best complements to your good famely and all frends Espeshaly my frend Holmes. J H RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 Although the June 25 ratification and June 28 covering letter from Edmund Ran dolph, president of the Virginia ratifying convention, had apparently arrived this day, they were not entered in Charles Thomson’s despatch book or read in Congress until July 14. See JCC, 34:323n, PCC, item 185, 4:36; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 10:1542-63. New Hampshire Delegates to John Langdon New York July 2d 1788 We were honored last evening with the letter of the 25th of June, enclosing the ratification of the new federal Constitution by the State of New-Hampshire, and had the honor of laying it before Congress this day, upon which a Committee was appointed to report to Con gress the necessary arrangements in order to carry into effect the new System of Government according to the recommendation of the gen eral Convention of the States. 1 We have the additional pleasure to inform you that by authentic let ters received this day from Virginia, it appears that their Convention, on the 25th Ultimo, determined the Question in favor of the new gov ernment by a Majority of ten members. With the highest Respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Most Obedient and Most Humble servants, Paine Wingate N. Gilman.


[Page 242]
208 July 3,1788 suaded you are too well acquainted with men, not to be sensible that passion, opinion, and self will must have a constant influence in their conduct relative to them, that when terms are rigidly insisted on by one party, they are generally opposed by terms rigidly insisted on by the other. It cannot be proper for any State positively to say to the oth ers, that unless they precisely agree to the alterations she proposes she will not accede to the Union—this would be rather dictating—a state may take a question upon the Constitution simply as it stands and ex press its sense of it in it’s present form—she may then annex recom mended amendments and adopt it with them, or make them the Con dition of her accession to the Union, I flatter myself, after a state has expressed her sense upon the simple proposition you will prefer the mode of adopting with recommendatory amendments annexed—the new system must soon go into operation and some of the most impor tant laws be made in the first Congress, and essential amendments be recommended by it—the State that adopts this mode comes into the Union armed with the declared Sentiments of her people, and will im mediately have a voice in the federal Councils—she there will avail herself of all her influence, and of the advantages of Accommodating principles in bringing the other States to Accord with her senti ments—whereas if she adopts conditionally She will not have a voice in those Councils during the most interesting period—party Spirit will, probably, reign in her bosom, and ill will constantly gain ground between her and the other States—And it is in my mind almost an ab solute certainty that she must forever remain out of the Union, or re linquish some of her conditions. It cannot be presumed that any two of the three States will precisely agree in the same Alterations, and should they do it, it is not probable that all the States will agree ex actly to them. There are many and able advocates for valuable amend ments, and a good system of laws in every State and may they not pre vail should all the States meet in the first Congress, but should some of them Stand out, and those in which those amendments and laws have the most friends—the federal republicans or men who wish to cement the union of the States on republican principles will be di vided, and have but a part of their Strength in Congress, where they ought to have the whole. When measures of any sort become neces sary in a Community, it is generally wise to take a part in them, and to bring them as near to our opinions as we can in the first instance, and I have ever thought since a federal Convention was agreed on that Rhode Island and certain individuals, who were appointed to that Convention, missed it exceedingly in not attending it. They might clearly, had they attended, have engrafted many of the principles and checks they now contend for, into the system—and have given it those features and securities which as it now appears, would meet the appro bation of the people in General—they saw a Constitution of some


[Page 245]
July 7,1788 211 2 This recommendation was forwarded this day by Thomson with the following letter to the governor of Virginia, Edmund Randolph. “In obedience to the Orders of the United States in Congress Assembled, I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed the proceedings of Congress relative to the Independency of the dis trict of Kentucky which You will be pleased to communicate to Your Legislature, that, agreeably to the recommendation contained in the last Act of Congress, they may so alter their Acts relative to Kentucky as to render them conformable to the provisions made in the new Constitution.” Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 3 Thomson dispatched this letter under cover of the following July 4 note to “Brigadier Genl Harmar, on the Ohio, Fort Harmar.” “The enclosed contains despatches from Congress to the people of Kentucky, as they are important & should go in the safest & speediest manner I have put them under cover to you & have to request your care in forwarding them.” This letter, which is in the Harmar Papers, MiU-C, is endorsed: “received July 16th—answered July 23. 1788.” And as a further precaution, Thomson sent a second copy of McDowell’s letter with the following letter to Harmar on July 9. “The enclosed containing a duplicate of the dispatches for the Inhabitants of Kentucky, I take the liberty to address to you—And as they are in their nature important I have to request in case those I sent You on the 4th of this month are not already forwarded, to send on this by a trusty person as speedily as possible. In case the other is gone it may not be amiss to send on this also by some safe conveyance for fear of Accidents.” Ibid. William Bingham to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir, New York July 7th 1788 I received your Letter of the 3d Inst & Shall forward the enclosed Letter for Mr Adams agreable to your Wishes. 1 The Point in favor of which you are Solicitous of engaging his Interest, will be determined, long before it will reach him, & I hope to your Satisfaction. A proper Attention to the Massachusets Delegation in Congress, has not been wanting on this Occasion. I agree with you in opinion that Prospects are very flattering—but to realize them we must not relax a Moment in our Exertions. The proper organization of the Government, the Institution of the neces sary Departments, the Arrangement of the Offices &c will require much Time & Consideration & will greatly influence the future Oper ation of the System. Your federal Procession will be a Triumph; Any of the other States, but an Ovation. Yours affectionably, Wm Bingham RC (PHi: Alexander Biddle Collection). 1 Although Rush’s letter to Bingham has not been found, his enclosed July 2 letter to John Adams is in Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:468-69.


[Page 246]
212 July 7,1788 Jonathan Elmer to Joseph Howell Sir City Hall 7th. July 1788. Inclosed are the vouchers of the pay & cloathing due to Ephraim Dayton late a seijant in Capt Hugg’s company of Artillery. His indi gence, infirm state of health & distance from the office have prevented his applying for a final setdement of his account before this time. The state of New Jersey has allowed him the depreciation on the pay he actually recieved. By Capt Hubbels certificate there appears to be thirteen months in arrear 8c a deficiency in Cloathing. Please to settle the account as soon as convenient 8c favor me with the certifi cate of the balance due to him, which I shall take due care to have safely delivered. 1 I am Sir yours &c. Jonathan Elmer Tr (DNA: RG 93, 138:38). Addressed: “Commissioner of Army Accts.” 1 In his reply to Elmer of this date, Howell explained: “Seijant Ephraim Dayton the person alluded to in your letter of this date, is included in the account of the 2d Regi ment of artilery and a certificate for the balance of cloathing due him, has been issued by this office to Capt. William Stevens agent to the said Regiment amounting to 13 88/90 Dollars. “Altho’ Capt Hubbell certifies that Dayton has only been paid in the Regiment to the 1st of March 1780, yet I beg leave to observe that the State of Newjersey has settled with their Troops & allowed their depreciation on pay to extend to 1st August 1780. “The State of New York having considered this regiment as a part of the Quota of their state have generally (if not entirely) settled with the individuals & issued their cer tificates for pay from the 1st of August 1780 to the Istjany, 1782. If seijant Dayton has not recieved his pay from the 1st of August 1780, to the day of his discharge I am of opinion he is entitled to it from the state of New York. “The act of Congress of the 2d of November 1785 forecloses the claim in this office and no releif can be granted him by the commissioner of accounts unless by the special authority of Congress.” Ibid., pp. 36-37. There is no mention of Ephraim Dayton in the journals or papers of the Continental Congress. Samuel A. Otis to John Adams Dear Sir New Yorkjuly 7th 1788 Permit me tho late to congratulate you 8c your amiable Lady upon a return to your native Country, 1 The pleasure 8c delights of which you must relish peculiarly after so long absence. I have never been much of a traveler, but I can hardly conceive of a Country under all circum stances more eligible; And the prospect of public felicity seems the brighter from the accesion of ten states to a System which so far as I comprehend it, promises equal liberty, security of property, 8c deci sion. I do not indeed flatter myself with the return of the Golden Age. If any of our farmers have heard of Arcadia they may not think of ram-


[Page 249]
July 7, 1788 215 We are Sincerely, Sir, Your obed hble servs, Wm Bingham James R. Reid RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Bingham and signed by Bingham and Reid. Ad dressed: “John Nicholson Esqr, Comptroller of the State of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia.” 1 Nicholson’s letter has not been found, but one of this date on the same topic to the President of the Pennsylvania Council, Benjamin Franklin, is in Pa. Archives 1st ser 11:323-25. 2 See Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, June 9, note; and Charles Thomson to the States, June 24. John Swann to James Iredell Dear Sir New York. July. 7t. 1788. I received your favor some time since & shou’d have acknowledged it before this, but was at that time in the height of the small pox. You will give me leave now, sir to thank you for your polite engagement in the business on which I wrote you. From the slow & irregular conveyance which sometimes attends Let ters you may possibly hear of the decision of this State on the New Constitution before this reaches you: however as there are Chances against I shall take the liberty to mention their extreme indecision on that Subject, an indecision the more astonishing since they are ap prised of it s ratification by ten States. The Constitution is ably sup ported by Gentlemen of great literary Merit, but the Opposition who are by no means contemptible, seem determined to dispute the ground intch by intch. What they propose to themselves from their in flexibility, is hard to discover; since it is certain, if we are to judge from their situation & the disposition of a great part of the State, that they will find their concurrence sooner or later not only expedient but un avoidable. However shou’d their determination be contrary to the general Sense of the Union, I hope it will not be made an Example to influence the deliberations & Conduct of our State. We are, Sir, in the most painful Suspense for Carolina. I confess I shou’d be most sensi bly mortified were Carolina to reject the Constitution however un availing her dissent might be with regard to it’s Establishment and doubly so when I reflect that in such a determination they wou’d have the Countenance of Rhode Island alone, who in all probability may veer about when a certain State-System of business is gone thro’ with. The Arrangements for putting the new Government into Action have been committed for some days & in all probability will be re ported on this Week.


[Page 252]
218 July 7,1788 from any other State. I asked him what did Rh Island grow & export, he answered nothing except a little Cheese & Pot Ash. You see how reasonable a Plan his would be; Maryland, Virga & So. Caro, would be delighted with it. The Politics of N. York are not so villanous in their Face—but not much more honourable considering them as part of the same Nation. They during the War agreed to give Congress the Power of collecting the 5 Per Ct Impost, as soon as they got Possession of this City they re fused to let Congress have such Power because the [y] find the selfish advantage of imposing a duty on Imports for their own Use. Half the goods consumed in Connecticut or rather Xths of them, half the goods consumed in New Jersey or %rds of them, all the goods con sumed in Vermont and no small Part of those consumed in the West ern Part of Massachusets are bought in New York and pay an Impost Duty of 5 Per Ct for the Use of this State. I say nothing of what the good Citizens of N Carolina import from N York whence they pay Part of the New Yorkers Taxes. Tis easy to discover why New York does not like the new Govt. But this very Argument must be a very good one with the Citizens of N Carolina why they should like that Govt. Conse quently it is to be hoped that they will neither copy N York nor Rh. Is land. I am with great Regard Dr Sir, Your obed servt, Hu Williamson RC (NcD: Iredell Manuscripts). Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Sir New York July 8th 1788 I am honored with your Excellencys obliging favor of the 28th June and beg you to accept my Sincere acknowledgements for the particu lars of the Celebration of the new Constitution. I most heartily rejoice with you and all lovers of peace & concord, on this most glorious and unparalled occurrence in the course of human affairs. The accession of New-Hampshire ensured the System—that of Virginia will I think Ensure tranquility though it has been confidently ascerted of the lat ter, that their adopting the Constitution has had no effect on the Con vention at Poughkeepsie. I am not much inclined, however, to believe the report. I think there is a gleam of hope that, from a principle of fear, the anties will come about. Accounts last evening give some Countenance to this opinion; though the case is still very doubtful. I am informed that they do not expect to close this week. The time for the meeting of the new Congress is not yet assigned—


[Page 262]
228 July 15,1788 Jeremiah Wadsworth


[Page 263]
July 17,1788 229 [PS.] A report of a committee is before the House to put a New Gov ernment in motion which will be finished in a day or two. RC (CtHi: Oliver Wolcott, Jr. Papers). 1 Wadsworth also wrote brief letters this day to his wife, Mehitable, and to his daugh ters, Catherine and Harriet, all of which are in the Wadsworth Papers, CtHi. He had lit tle news to report except that “Mrs Burr has lately been delivered of a Child Still born & has been very ill—she is now better.” James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York July 16. [17] 88 The inclosed papers will give you the latest intelligence from Poughkepsie. It seems by no means certain what the result there will be. Some of the most sanguine calculate on a ratification. The best in formed apprehend some clog that will amount to a condition. The question is made peculiarly interesting in this place, by its connexion with the question relative to the place to be recommended for the meeting of the first Congress under the new Government. 13 States are at present represented. A plan for setting this new Ma chine in motion has been reported some days, 1 but will not be hur ried to a conclusion. Having been but a little time here, I am not yet fully in the politics of Congress. I had on the road several returns of a bilious lax which made my journey more tedious & less agreeable than it would otherwise have been. 2 At present I am pretty well again. Hop ing this will find you & yours more compleady so, I remain, Yr. Affete friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:187-88. 1 See John Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 Madison had just returned to Congress from attending the Virginia ratifying con vention. Although he had set out from Richmond on July 1, ill health caused him to tarry at Mt. Vernon July 4-7 before taking the stage from Alexandria. He took his seat on July 17 and remained in Congress until the second week in December. See ICC, 34:329, 338; Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:185, 373-75; and Washington, Diaries (lack- son and Twohig), 5:357. J Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Sir . . (Private) New York July 17th 1788 This is merely to accompany the papers of the day, by which you will discover the temper of the Poughkeepsie Convention. They are still in session and the heart of their Pharoah is still unrelenting. It is impos-


[Page 264]
230 July 17, 1788 sible to foresee the issue of this business. Their present situation is critical. The people of this City are highly federal—they will adhere to the Union at all events and are making preparation for an expensive procession to take place on Wednesday next. With the highest Respect, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Most Obedient and Most Humble Servant, N. Gilman RC (Capt.J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). Samuel A. Otis to George Thatcher Dear Sir New York 17July 1788.... and first I inform you That we have had Thirteen States free- quently upon the floor & have been very industrious—What have you been about? Look at the Journal—One thing seems to be agreed, that new government is to take place about mid winter—Next week per haps the Time will be agreed upon. 1 The place will be a bone of Con tention, Southern people are opposed to N Y, & I think the Yorkers hang back in such manner am rather of opinion it will not be here. For my own part I am in present sentiment for N York but we are all in suspense for the doings of Convention. Probably the question will this day be taken therein. I am of opinion it will not be a favorable decision. Clinton is popular has a majority at command & is very violent. They may possibly adjourn which is the best expectation I form. The York ers are determined however to have their frolic, & I dont know but we are in danger of runing into excess in regard to processions. Perhaps my gravity & aversion to parade may have induced this opinion. It is an implied triumph over minority which always irritates. I think the movements of the new Govt should be mild, discreat & attended with great circumspection. Enclosed is Greenleafs 2 which details prety fairly, To which refering you I am, With regard & esteem, Your Hume St, Sam. A. Otes [Otis] MS not found; reprinted from Historical Magazine, 2d ser. 6 (December 1869): 349. 1 For the protracted debate over the establishment of the new government, see John Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 Apparently an issue of Thomas Greenleaf s New York Journal. Charles Thomson to George Handley Sir, July 17. 1788 I have the honor to transmit to your Exy herewith enclosed an Act


[Page 266]
232 July 17, 1788 from your Bror. dated June 26, on the day preceding the night on which he was made prisoner by the insurgents of that country. 1 He was then very well with his family, and tho he mentioned that he had been threatened, he said he was under no apprehensions of mischief from those villains. He supposed that keeping Franklin confined would be his security. I am exceeding sorry that he found the misfor tune of being disappointed. You will see by the enclosed newspaper the measures that have been taken & the intelligence that has been received from your Bror. I do not think that you need be anxious for his safety for I believe they will not venture to use any further violence to his person. I should have informed you sooner of his situation but Major Hodgdon said he had written to Capt. Williams. I thot that the letter, said in the newspaper from your brother, would be an allevia tion to your concern & for that reason have written to you at this time. Should I receive any material intelligence respecting him further I will give you information as soon as may be. I hope soon to have it in my power to give you agreeable intelligence upon that head. We have now a full representation in Congress from all the States. Have not yet made the arrangements for the new Congress. The first Wednesday in Dec. is proposed for chusing electors of President, & the last Wednesday of that month for the choice of President. The be ginning of Feb. it is probable Congress will meet & it is yet mere con jecture that Philadelphia will be the place. A few days will now deter mine all those points. We have waited this week to know the determination of New York convention. Our intelligence last evening was not favorable from Poughkeepsie. We expect hourly to hear the final result. There is too much I suspect of personal animosity among some members of the convention which will be a detriment to that condesention which at this time is very necessary. This city will be ex ceedingly enraged against the antifederal party if they should reject the constitution as it will necesitate the removal of Congress which they much fear. Nineteen of twenty are said to be federal in the city. Next Wednesday is the day appointed for the procession in New York celebrating the new constitution which is to be with extraordinary pomp. I believe the late principle transactions of Congress will be in your newspapers & needless here to mention. I hope we shall adjourn after a while if not I think I shall return by the beginning of Sept, when I hope I shall have the pleasure of seeing you and all our friends well. I am Dr. Sir your affectionate friend & brother. Paine Wingate. Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett “from the original fur nished by the courtesy of Mr. C. E. L. Wingate of Winchester, Massachusetts.” Wingate, Life and Letters, 1:235-36. 1 Timothy Pickering, a New Englander, had in 1786 turned his attentions to the devel opment of lands he had obtained in northern Pennsylvania, the success of which de-


[Page 267]
July 18,1788 233 pended in part upon the settlement of the conflict that had long wracked the Wyoming Valley. Soon after Pennsylvania created Luzerne County in September 1786, a measure designed to help pacify the region, Pickering was appointed to a number of offices in volved in its organization, and for a time appeared to inspire the confidence of both sides in the conflict. But he was increasingly viewed by Connecticut partisans as a cap tive of Pennsylvania interests and on June 26 a number of dissidents abducted him in a desperate effort to alter events and bring pressure on the state. For an account of Pick ering’s work in Luzerne County and his June 26-July 15 abduction, see Gerard H. Garfield, Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution (Pittsburgh: University of Pitts burgh Press, 1980), pp. 90—115; and Susquehannah Co. Papers, 9:xli—xlv. Wingate was married to Pickering’s sister Eunice. William Bingham to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir, NewYorkJuly 18th 1788 I received the Letter you inclosed concerning the Effects of the fed eral Procession 1 on the various Descriptions of Persons that partici pated in the future Enjoyment, & was much pleased with the Perusal. I have no occasion for a Stimulus to increase the force of my Exer tion to fix the Seat of federal Government at Philadelphia. I have de voted myself Solely to that Object for a considerable Time past, & have the most flattering Prospect of Succeeding—but it is far from being certain, for the Competition is very great, & there are as many Cities contending for this Advantage, as there were for the Honor of Homers Birth. Our City has So great a start of the others, that many are desirous of depriving us of this Benefit, from the Operation of low minded Jealousy & Envy. You will please to keep this Letter secret, as a Strong Expectation of success would rather tend to defeat our Views. I am with much Regard, Dear sir, Your obed hble ser, Wm Bingham RC (PHi: Alexander Biddle Collection). 1 See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:470-77. Charles Thomson to Thomas Hutchins Sir July 18 1788 I have the honor to transmit to you herewith enclosed a few copies of the Supplement to the land Ordinance, 1 an Act empowering you to appoint Surveyors & fixing the sum to be allowed to the Surveyor, 2 also a Motion which is referred to you to take Order. 3 I am sr yr obedt. humble Servt


[Page 271]
July 20,1788 237 resolutions in such manner, as may put it past doubt, and at the same Time fully express their sense & wishes respecting the alterations or amendments to be made in the Constitution. I will say no more on this subject. You who are daily conversant in the business no doubt ex perience & see many Difficulties that do not occur to me in fixing so great a Question. You may be assured that since the Adoption by New Hampshire & Virginia a great Change in Sentiment has taken Place with those who were before opposed to the Constitution & I beleive there are but few if any in this City who do not think it expedient for this State under the present Circumstances to become part of the Union & as far as I am in formed this Sentiment is general in the southern part of the state. We hear that Mr Jones is for adopting the Constitution, 3 by the In formation I have had from Queens County his Conduct in that partic ular will be approved of by his Constituents, it is here, by those who have been opposed as well as those who have approved. If your Convention should finally ratifify [ratify] the Constitution, it will be a very happy Circumstance that the Majority of the Convention before the adoption by so many States were opposed to the adoption. I say a happy Circumstance because it will be a means of quieting the Minds of all & settling the state down in Peace & putting an End to Parties & Dissentions which are so distinctive to the Peace, wellfare & Happiness of a People. Great preparations are making here for Re joicing on Wednesday next, as no doubt you have heard; and however premature this Business may be I am Happy in having Reason to Beleive that the Business of the Day will be conducted with prudence with out insulting any one by word or Action or doing any thing by which the feelings of any one at Home or abroad may be hurt. I have wrote in a great hurry. You will therefore excuse Incorrectness & not expose it, as I have not time to look over it. You know I have no intention to dictate or influence. May that Being who ruleth over all the Kingdoms of the Earth so direct your Counsels in determining this great national Question that this State may long enjoy Peace & Happiness. With Regards to all friends I am, sir, Your most Obedt & very Humb Servt., Ezra L Hommedieu RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts, John Smith of Mastic). Addressed: “Col. Smith.” 1 John Smith (1752—1816) of Mastic, Long Island, a New York assemblyman, was a Suffolk County delegate to the New York ratifying convention. Bio. Dir. Cong. 2 That is, Melancton Smith. 3 That is, Samuel Jones, a New York assemblyman from Queen’s County, and antifed eralist delegate to the New York ratifying convention. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:90, 178, 190-91, 246n.l.


[Page 274]
240 July 21,1788 James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir N. York July 21. 1788. I have deferred writing since my arrival here in the hourly hope of being enabled to communicate the final news from Poughkepsie. By a letter from Hamilton dated the day before yesterday 1 I find that it is equally uncertain when the business will be closed, and what will be its definitive form. The inclosed gazettes state the form which the de pending proposition bears. It is not a little strange that the Antifed- eral party should be reduced to such an expedient, and yet be able to keep their members together in the opposition. Nor is it less strange that the other party, as appears to be the case, should hesitate in de ciding that the expedient as effectually keeps the State for the pre sent out of the New Union as the most unqualified rejection could do. The intelligent Citizens here see clearly that this would be its op eration and are agitated by the double motives of foederalism, and a zeal to give this City a fair chance for the first meeting of the new Government. Congress have deliberated in part on the arrangements for putting the new Machine into operation, but have concluded on nothing but the times for chusing electors &c. Those who wish to make N. York the place of meeting studiously promote delay. Others who are not swayed by this consideration do not urge despatch. They think it would be well to let as many States as possible have an opportunity of deciding on the Constitution: and what is of more consequence, they wish to give opportunities where they can take place for as many elec tions of State Legislatures as can precede a reasonable time for mak ing the appointments and arrangements referred to them. If there be too great an interval between the acts of Congress on this Subject and the next election or next meeting of a State Legislature, it may afford a pretext for an intermediate summoning of the existing members, who are every where less federal than their successors hereafter to be elected will probably be. This is particularly the case in Maryland, where the antifederal temper of the Executive would render an imme diate and extraordinary meeting of the Assembly of that State the more likely to be called. On my way thro’ Maryland I found such an event to be much feared by the friends and wished by the adversaries of the Constitution. We have no late news from Europe: nor any thing from N. Carolina. With every sentiment of esteem & attachment, I re main Dr. Sir Your Obedt. & Affete. servt. Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:190-91. 1 See Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:177-78.


[Page 275]
July 21, 1788 241 Charles Thomson to Edmund Randolph S> r > Office of Secretary of Congress, July 21st. 1788. I have the honor to transmit to Your Excellency herewith enclosed An Act passed the 17th by the United States in Congress Assembled, touching locations and surveys for the Virginia troops upon continen tal establishment, between the Scioto & Miami Rivers in the north west side of the Ohio, and requesting the Executive of Virginia to in form them whether there has been any deficiency of good lands re served by the laws of that State on the south east side of the Ohio for the said troops &C. 1 With great respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most Obedient & Most humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “His Excellency The Govemour of Virginia.” 1 For the enclosed resolve, see JCC, 34:334; and Thomson to Thomas Hutchins lulv 18, note 3. 7 Paine Wingate to Hannah Wingate My dear friend New York July 21.1788. I have received your pretty 8c short letter of the 2d Instant, and dont know when such a little triffling matter has given me more pleasure. I am very glad to find that you was then at Polly’s, who I know is very fond of your non sence, as well as somebody else. I suppose that the conciseness of your letter is a hint for me, 8c shall endeavor to con form to your example in making mine as short. I have no objection to this, only I am very frugal always in improving all my paper. It gives me much satisfaction to hear that you are pretty well. I hope you will re main so until I shall return. For it is such a rarity as I never yet saw. I cannot but admire the good spirits which you have discovered in all your letters, and wish that you could communicate some to my wife who seems to be rather disconsolate. You may depend upon it that it is my present expectation 8c purpose to set out for home the beginning of Sept, or perhaps sooner. I shall write to my wife before that time 8c let her know when to expect me. I hope it will be as agreeable to her, as it will be to you, tho I do not wish that it might keep either of you awake, unless it is at church where I suppose you both will need it these long hot days. I know that you are very much of a libertine lady & dont wonder that you are tickled up with the new Constitution. I suppose that you fancy it will make you young again, 8c that it will have


[Page 276]
242 July 21,1788 as good an effect upon you as innoculation. For my part I am tired with reading the pompous accounts of the processions in every part of the country, and have been expecting to see the account of the Stratham procession & toasts to add to the catalogue. I should now write as much more if I had not promised to be short. With love to the Dr. & Hanny & all friends, I am with great complai sance yours &c P Wingate P.S. As I have finished the foregoing short letter according to my promise, I hope that you will consider it as no violation of my word if I should add by way of postscript as much more. When I looked over your letter after I had finished mine, I found there were some things which I had passed unnoticed. You speak of having much work to do; that I am exceeding glad to hear, & would never have you omit it for the sake of writing or reading letters in which I am concerned. As to the horse block, I never know how much to believe of what you say. But if you should ever happen to be at my house I hope I shall not be wanting in proper attention to assist you in getting away again. If Amos has accommodated you with a block I suppose it was that he might not have the trouble of lifting you on to the horse himself. The footstool I can tell nothing about for I have almost forgot whether a lady has a foot. The fashion here is to have very small feet if any, the Ladies appear to be chiefly rumps and heads. I conclude you have re ceived your letter which you expected from me, but when it was wrote or what was in it I cannot recollect. This with all my letters to you I ex pect my wife will see, & as I believe I shall not write to her by this Post, she will consider this as a token of that constant affection and remem brance I have of her. I wish that she & you may enjoy days of ease and nights of pleasure & that I shall soon have an agreeable interview with all my friends. Next Wednesday is the day appointed for a pompous procession in this City 8c I hope it will be the last I shall see or hear of this year. The house flies are a perfect plague here, and I shall be dis posed to leave this city if it was only to be out of the way of them. I hope you will send on to head quarters your muster roll soon which you was about when Mr. Adams wrote to me. I shall enclose to you some poetical lines for diversion 8c some visiting cards for Sally, My love to my wife 8c children and compliments to every body else. The Episcopal Bishop last Sunday at St. Pauls Church manufactured two priests according to the american fashion. I have room to say no more adieu. PW to Miss Hannah RC (InU-Li: Lafayette Collection).


[Page 277]
July 22,1788 243 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear Sir New York July 22. [1788] The inclosed papers will give you a view of the business in the Con vention at Poughkepsie. It is not as yet certain that the ratification will take any final shape that can make New York immediately a member of the new Union. The opponents can not come to that point without yielding a compleat victory to the federalists, which must be a severe sacrifice of their pride. It is supposed too that some of them, would not be displeased at seeing a bar to the pretensions of this City to the first meeting of the New Government. On the other side, the zeal for an unconditional ratification is not a little increased by contrary wishes. There have been no late arrivals from Europe: nor any news from any other Quarter. Don’t omit sending me the papers containing the series of letters announced in a late one. 1 Yr. Affecte friend, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:191. 1 For the letters of the “Republican” announced in the July 9 Virginia Independent Chronicle, see ibid., pp. 192n, 231; and Doc. Hist. ofRatif., 10:1710, 1754-56. Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My dear St. George New York July 22d. 1788. In Congress. I thank you for your several kind Favors to the 30th June, the partic ular Dates of which are not at present before me. Your Poem I re ceiv’d & perused with pleasure. 1 I observe that there are several Alter ations made since I formerly read it, which appear to me to be for the better. I am sorry to agree with you that those Sentiments of equal Lib erty which make the Ground work as well as Spirit of your whole poem, are getting so much out of Fashion, & at this very early Period after so heavy a Sacrifice to Principle which we are but too much in clined to abandon. The Adoption of the Constitution by your State has given it a firm Foundation, & will be the means of bringing in the State of New York which otherwise wou’d certainly have rejected it; and I suppose N. Carolina woud have follow’d the Example. The en closed paper will shew you the present State of the Business in Pough keepsie. A temporary Adoption, to be conditionally perpetual seems to be most likely to take place. In what Light this may be consider’d, I know not. Some will deem it a valid Adoption; others will probably


[Page 283]
July 26,1788 249 us to inform your Excellency that it has not been Ratified by Congress. The Ratification has been delayed on account of some objectionable points, upon which Mr. Jefferson is now charged with negotiations. 2 The business is, however, in a delicate situation, and it is the wish of Congress that the affair of Capt. Ferrier may be so treated as to pro duce no discussion that can possibly be avoided. We have the Honor to be, with the greatest respect, Your Excellen cies Mo. Obt. Servts., Js. Madison Jr. Ed. Carrington Cyrus Griffin RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Written by Carrington and signed by Carring ton, Griffin, and Madison. 1 The “paper" given to the Virginia delegates by the comte de Moustier was his protest against Virginia’s conduct in the case of Capt. Joseph Marie Anne Ferrier, who had been seized by the French consul in Virginia for maritime crimes but was released by a local sheriff under Virginia law. It is in the Continental Congress Papers, Vi, and has been printed with a condensed translation in Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:199-201. For the context of the adoption of the “late Resolution of Congress” June 13, see Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston, May 30, note 2. Governor Randolph’s Au gust 2 reply and other documents pertaining to the case are in ibid., 11:192-94, 216-18. 2 For Thomas Jefferson’s involvement in this case and its significance to the negotia tion of the Franco-American consular convention signed in Paris in November 1788, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 12:228, 249, 251, 14:82-84, 86. Edward Carrington to William Short My dear Sir, New York July 26. 1788 Since the Sailing of the French Packet in June no opportunity of writing has offered except by way of the British Post Office, which, as well on account of the expence, as hazards, I thought an ineligible mode. This goes by way of Holland, and although a private hand is the bearer so far, yet it is probable it may be forwarded by post to Paris. I shall therefore make it as little bulky as possible, and will beg the favor of you to make my apology to Mr. Jefferson, to whom Mr. Madison is writing pretty fully by the same conveyance; this will, at the same time, incur expence enough, and supercede the necessity of my writing to him. By the June Packet I did myself the pleasure to inform Mr. Jefferson of the adoption of the Constitution in South Carolina as the eighth State 1 —Since that N. Hampshire, & Virginia have also acceded by Small Majorities, the Minorities however have acquiesced. Mr. Madi son will inclose papers per whence you will be informed of the charac ters for and against in Virginia. New York & North Carolina are now in session—the latter convened so lately that we have received no intelli-


[Page 289]
July 27,1788 255 John Armstrong, Jr.


[Page 290]
256 July 27, 1788 James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Hond Sir, New York July 27. 1788. Since my arrival here I have been perfectly free from my bilious symptoms, and enjoy at present my usual share of health. John contin ues to be sick and is in very low plight indeed. Altho’ he walks about, I think his thorough recovery extremely doubtful. He was so ill in Phi- lada and my stay there so short that these circumstances added to my own indisposition at the time, prevented my taking any steps with re gard to Anthony. 1 Perhaps some other opportunity may offer for mak ing the trial you suggested. I think however there is little ground to count on much success in the case. After a very tedious discussion, the Constitution has been ratified by the Convention of this State. It was carried by a majority of 5, the ays being 30, the noes 25. Amendments in general similar to those of Virga, are recommended, and a confidence expressed in the act of adoption that they will be incorporated in the Constitution. The Con vention of N. Carolina has not been heard from since it met. Congress are at present making the arrangements for putting the Government into operation. Remember me affectly to the family and be assured that I remain with every filial sentiment, Your Obedt son & servt., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:208. 1 For Madison’s slave John and the family’s runaway slave Anthony, see ibid., 9:155n.l, 10:118, U:208n.l. North Carolina Delegates to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir New York 27th July 1788. By Express last Night from Pokepsie we learn that on Friday 25th a Motion was made for adopting the new Constitution as recommended by the general Convention on Septr. last, this Motion was carryed by a majority of Five. A previous Question had been taken for adopting the Constitution for a limited Time &c. [This] was lost by a majority of four. The Papers [we] shall forward may contain more particulars. The Inhabitants of this City since the arrival of the above Intelligence have hardly been moderate in their Expressions of Joy. The State of New York had so many Arguments of private Interest that seemed to tempt her to adhere to the old form of Government that we confess the Act mentioned was rather unexpected at so early a Period. This Event is of such Importance that we conceive ourselves bound to give


[Page 292]
258 July 28,1788 William Irvine to William Alexander Dear Major 1 New York July 28th. 1788 I confess I do not very well understand the inclosed Ordinance, 2 if you do it is no matter; how, or whether you will like the arrangement in this matter I can not say, but this much I will assure you that we did for the best all matters considered, I mean now more particularly the appointments. My letter to James contains facts, 3 and every thing I ever said on the subject except the conversation with yourself, I have left my letter open that you may peruse it and afterwards forward to him together with what ever you may Judge proper to say to him on the subject. I hope you will take him by the hand, or rather under your wing, in this business—what I have said to him will shew you my Ideas I need not th[e]refore now repeat them, indeed I have not time at this Post. Mr. Hutchins 4 will set out in a few days for the West, he says he will be detained ten or twelve days in Philadelphia—he does not speak with certainty but thinks it probable he will take Carlisle in his way. York town is his usual rout. I will however ask him to drop you a line before he leaves Philadelphia, in case he should not go through Carlisle. There is nothing new here, except that N york has at last adopted the new Government, by a Majority of five only, so great was the ma jority against it, til the last moment, that it is evident—no other con sideration but a fear of being left out of the Union induced them to accede—they were not convinced, of the propriety, but the necessity. Congress have granted the aid of the Union to Penna, on her requisi tion, to quell the Wyoming Insurgents, so far as 100 Men for two weeks will do it. 5 These are Recruits on the march to the Ohio. I am Dear Major, Your friend & Servt., Wm. Irvine NB. I beleive it will be best to send James’s packet by a private hand, if it goes by Post it will go on to Fort Pitt where it might lie for months— unless the Post Rider will undertake to leave it at some particular place that you may desire. Hannas town will be best unless carried di- recdy to him. RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). Addressed: “Major Alexander.” 1 Alexander was formerly a lieutenant and captain in Irvine’s Sixth Pennsylvania Bat talion, and major of the Third Pennsylvania Regiment. See Heitman, Historical Register, p. 60; and John B. B. Trussell, The Pennsylvania Line: Regimental Organization and Opera tions, 1776-1783 (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, 1977), pp. 56, 58, 93—94. 2 Undoubtedly the “supplement” to the western land ordinance adopted by Congress July 9. See JCC, 34:305-10. 3 See the following entry. 4 That is, Thomas Hutchins, the geographer of the United States. 5 See Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, this date.


[Page 300]
266 August 1,1788 Certainly the government ought not to be permanently established in any great town, nor in any place accessible by water. I probably shall not continue in this place more than one month. Please to make my Compts. acceptable to the two Mrs. Lincolns. I will still continue to address you in the language of friendship which is the language of my heart, you will therefore permit me to as sure you, that my feelings towards you are presicely the same they were before the people in justice to your merits placed you in an ex alted station. 2 The feelings of my heart were then towards you the dic tates of pure & disinterested affection. You will be pleased to pardon the slovenly manner in which this let ter is wrote, I was desirous of writing by General Knox, & I could have opportunity of doing it only during a very interesting debate in congress. I am with great regard, My dear Sir, Your most obed. Servt., Theodore SedgwickS RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). 1 See John Brown tojohn Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 That is, Lincoln had recently been elected lieutenant governor of Massachusetts. 3 Sedgwick also wrote a five-page letter to Lincoln on August 15, from which the fol lowing extract was taken when it was advertised for sale in 1927 as “An Interesting His torical Letter. On the adoption of the Constitution; the preferred candidates for Vice President, etc.” “It was owing to the situation in the Southern States. . .that the meeting of the new Government was so long deferred.... The rejection of the Constitution by North Carolina creates a gloom among the Southern members.... Hancock ... will be most agreeable. Should he decline, Mr. J. Adams will undoubtedly be most generally voted for.” Bernet J. Beyer Catalogna. 12 (1927), item 333. Charles Thomson to Henry Knox Sir, August 1st. 1788. I have the Honor to inform you that your letter of this day, has been laid before Congress, & to enclose their Order, 1 granting you leave of absence, agreeably to your request. I wish you a prosperous and pleas ant Journey. I am &c &c C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “The Honorable the Secretary at War.” 1 For this order granting Knox leave, see JCC, 34:381. Knox’s August 1 letter request ing leave “to be absent a few weeks" on private business in Massachusetts, during which time he also proposed “to examine the Ordnance and Military Stores of the Union both at Providence and Springfield,” is in PCC, item 150, 2:431-34.


[Page 302]
268 August 2,1788 4 Madison later inserted an asterisk at this point and wrote at the bottom of the page “as prepared, probably.” New York’s July 26 ratification had appeared in the Daily Adver tiser of July 31, but since he had misdated this letter, Madison evidently assumed later that he had enclosed a draft version of the ratification before the New York convention had officially adopted the Constitution. John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston New York Sunday 3d. August. [17]88. The hope express’d in my hasty letter, of this day week 1 has not been gratified. The calls of private want are seldom heard, or heard but faintly, amidst the louder cries of contending States & Cities—& the Baron 2 may beg or want untill the competition between N. York & Philad. be decided. I thought I saw an end to this in the debates of the last week, but I then spoke my wishes rather than my experience, & forgot for a moment, that in deliberative assemblies, delay decides more questions than argument. I care much less about the effects of this policy upon the question, than upon myself for if it left me at lib erty to see my Alida, I would play the generous game, and even join my voice to Hamilton’s in preaching up it’s propriety & necessity—But as it is, you will not, I’m sure, blame me, for blaming it. I did & I pro pos’d—& the moment I had clos’d my Conversation with you, I went to begin another with your two sweet sisters. I found them at Edward’s—well & happy in hearing you were so. I have since seen them as often within the week, as public business & private engage ments would let me. Mary, Edward & Eliza are now on Long Island— they went over on Friday, & return to-morrow. Apropos of That mod ern Barbara Allen and her swain—my visit was the means of bringing them together for the first time since they parted at Poughkeepsie. Anxious to see me, John came to Edwards, even at the risque of seeing his Barbara. His passion is I find much more lively than his hopes— tho’ the latter are yet far from being extinguish’d. I wish he may not eventually find it her pleasure to give pain. The 2d of August has come & gone & Jones is not here—this is no otherways interesting to me than as a disappointment in not hearing from you. I had a thousand Questions to ask—& as many to answer. I regarded it as a kind of Assignation—Wish’d it with impatience, kept it with punctuality & so far gave myself up to fancy, as to blame you for what, if it were a fault, could only be ascribed to Jones. You will I’m sure make but one inference from this—& that is the pleasure you will give in letting me hear from you once a week at least. The post will be a safe & a speedy conveyance (When others do not present them-


[Page 310]
276 August 7,1788 partaking but too much of the spirit which govern’d them when your charming letter of the 3d was presented to me. I had but barely time to run it over till the debate took a turn which brought with it a neces sity for me to speak—conjecture its effects. For the first time in my whole public life, I was able to subject my temper entirely to my un derstanding, to abstract the subject from everything personal, and to triumph over myself if not over my opponents. How great the obliga tion my dear Alida, and how strong the reason that you should write often, since you write with such effect. ‘Tis true this may in one sense may be consider’d as accidental; as exacdy such a concurrence of cir cumstances may not happen again; but others as important, and in which the exercise of good humor may be as necessary to success & Expectations as the exercise of good sence, turn up so frequently in the course of even every-day business, that a mind but moderately im press’d with the truth and importance of the remark, cannot wish for too many motives to gentleness and forbearance, nor too many guards against an opposite disposition. Accept then my dear Girl an other Duty, and not only shape my opinions, but fashion my tem per—make it like your own, and I shall then become a permanent ex ample of moderation to even deliberative Assemblies. But why question your ability to discharge the office I before assign’d you—or why suppose that greater intimacy can dissolve a charm founded in qualities which it is the effect of Time to strengthen and extend? No Alida I have neither mistaken you nor myself—those qualities you possess, and ‘tis human nature to love and admire in proportion as we approach and enjoy them. “I have already experienc’d (you say) that we cannot journey thro’ this life without making some sacrifices and the sooner we accustom ourselves to consider them as duties the more willingly shall we per form them. And (you add) do you not already discover the effect of my imaginary influence.” And let me ask in turn whether it is by writ ing maxims of so much wisdom & elegance as this that you mean to prove that your real influence either will or ought to be less? however you may have intended it—it is evidence eno’ to me that it will, as it should, be greater. Yes my fair philosopher “the web of this life is of mingled yarn, good & ill together,” and we must sacrafice as well as enjoy. Yet conscious as I am of the truth of the fact, I know not when I have been more unwilling to submit to it’s necessity. With every wish to be at Clermont I must yet be here, and here for the miserable purpose of pleading a State Interest, and carrying a City point. For strip the question that has so much warm’d and agi tated us for 10 days past, of local interests and personal views—’tis a Meer Bagatelle whether the new Congress be conven’d at Philada. or N York. Tis such incidents that so much disgust me with the political walk, and make me so often enquire whether upon the whole “the


[Page 316]
282 August 9,1788 P.S. Should our new plan of Government succeed, which I have little doubt of, it is not unlikely that something may be done in the mercan tile plan you hinted at, in your letter of October, 1785; but I think it will be more probable that my son Callender will help to carry it into execution than myself: He is now at College, is 14 years old, & I hope will be graduated in three years. More of this when I shall again have the happiness of a line from you. Tr (WHi: Draper Collection—Pittsburgh & Northwestern Virginia Papers). 1 See Irvine to Rosenthal, September 1, 1787. 2 Not found. John Brown to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York August 10th. 1788 Your favor of the 28th May 1 came to hand a few days ago for which accept my warmest Acknowledgements. I am well convinced of the Justness of your remarks respecting the importance of strengthening & maintaining the connection between the District of Kentucky & the Maritime States. During my residence in that Country it was my constant care to cultivate that Idea But I am sorry to inform you that from the present complection of affairs there is reason to apprehend that the Connection will not be of long dura tion. Congress have rejected their application to be admitted into the Union as an Independent State notwithstanding it was acknowledged to be reasonable—thinking it inexpedient in the present State of the Confederacy & that the admission of a New State might affect the Bal lance of power unless Vermont could be brought forward at the same time. This will be considered by the people of that Country as a great disappointment inasmuch as they have been more than three years in bringing forward this application & as they are now refered to the new Government, to be admitted under which in a Constitutional Mode must necessarily be attended with considerable delay. Their vast in crease in population (amounting to at least one hundred thousand souls in that District alone) added to the great danger & difficulty at tending a communication with the Seat of Government renders their connection with Virginia so burdensom that there is every reason to expect that immediately on hearing that Congress have refused to re ceive them they will assume their Independence. Should they take this Step I think it very problematical whether or not they will apply for admission into the new Gonfederacy; especially as they are generally opposed to the new Constitution apprehending much inconvenience & danger from the Judicial System & fearing that the Powers vested in


[Page 318]
2 8 4 August 10,1788 role in promoting Kentucky statehood in Congress, advocating acceptance of the Con stitution among his correspondents in Kentucky and those attending the Virginia ratify ing convention in Richmond, and cultivation of the Spanish minister to gam advantages for Kentucky in navigation of the Mississippi, see Stuart S. Sprague, “Senator John Brown of Kentucky, 1757-1837: A Political Biography” (Ph.D. diss., New York University, 1972), pp. 72-104. Edward Carrington to Thomas Jefferson My dear Sir, New York Augt. 10. 1788 Having but a few Minutes notice of this opportunity by Mr. Tilher I can make but little more use of it, than to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 27th of May, and to send you the second Vol. of the Foederalist. The first, I hope, you have received before this. 1 Virginia & New York have both adopted the Constitution, as you will be more particularly informed by Mr. Madison & Mr. Brown, who have written you. North Carolina commenced her session on the 17th Ult. and is probably the 12th Adopting State before this day. Rhode Island has taken no regular Step in the business as yet—a kind of informal refer ence of it was made to the people by the Legislature, which termi nated something like a rejection. I suppose however that she must soon take measures for adopting. Perhaps no coercive measures would be pursued to compel her, but it is impossible she can continue to treat with contempt a measure which is so generally embraced by the other States. . The good fortune of the Chevalier Jones in the service of the Em press gives me much pleasure. Your hint respecting a similar promo tion here, shall be attended if there shall appear, in the Course of the present session of Congress, a prospect of succeeding in an attempt to procure it. 2 I regret however that whilst foreign Nations are contend ing for eminence in confering distinctions upon this officer, This, of which he professes himself a Citizen, should appear, scarcely, to re member the events which founded his Character. I a few days ago did myself the pleasure to write to Mr Short by way of Holland. Be pleased to present me to him and assure yourself that it is with much satisfaction that I have the Honor to be, Your affection ate Friend & very humble Servt., Ed. Carrington RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 See Carrington to Jefferson, May 14, note 4. 2 In his letter of May 4, which had been read in Congress on August 1, Jefferson had hinted that Congress’ promotion of John Paul Jones to rear admiral might further tm- prove his prospects with the Russian court, for which seeJCC, 34:382n.3; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 13:134-35. For Congress’ attention to Jones’ case before he departed for Europe, see these Letters, 24:527, 547-48. 3 Not found.


[Page 320]
286 August 10,1788 amendments, from which mischeifs are apprehended. 3 The great dan ger in the present crisis is that if another Convention should be soon assembled, it would terminate in discord, or in alterations of the fed eral system which would throw back essential powers into the State Leg islatures. The delay of a few years will assuage the jealousies which have been artificially created by designing men and will at the same time point out the faults which really call for amendment. At present the public mind is neither sufficiently cool nor sufficiently informed for so delicate an operation. The Convention of North Carolina met on the 21st. Ult. Not a word has yet been heard from its deliberations. Rhode Island has not re sumed the subject since it was referred to & rejected by the people in their several Towns. Congress have been employed for several weeks on the arrange ments of times & place for bringing the new Government into agency. The first have been agreed on though not definitively, & make it pretty certain that the first meeting will be held in the third week in March. The place has been a subject of much discussion, and contin ues to be uncertain. Philada. as least excentric of any place capable of affording due accomodations and a respectable outset to the Govern ment was the first proposed. The affirmative votes were N. Hamp shire, Connecticut, Pena., Maryd., Virga, and N. Carolina. Delaware was present & in favor of that place, but one of its delegates wishing to have a question on Wilmington previous to a final determination, di vided that State and negatived the motion. N. York came next in view, to which was opposed first Lancaster which failed, and then Baltimore which to the surprize of every body was carried by seven States, S. Car olina which had preferred N. York to the two other more Southern positions, unexpectedly concurring in this. The vote however was soon rescinded, the State of S. Carolina receding from, the Eastern States remonstrating against, and few seriously urging the eligibility of Baltimore. At present the question lies as it was originally supposed to do between N. York & Philada. and nothing can be more uncertain than the event of it. Rhode Island which alone was disposed to give the casting vote to N. York has refused to give any final vote for ar ranging & carrying into effect a system to which that State is opposed, and both the Delegates have returned home. Col. Carrington tells me he has sent you the first volume of the fed eralist, and adds the 2d by this conveyance. I believe I never have yet {mentioned to you that publication}. 4 It {was undertaken last fall by Jay, Hamilton and myself}. The {proposal came from the two former}. The {execution was thrown by the sickness of Jay mostly on the two others}. Though {carried in concert the writers are not mutually an swerable} for {all the ideas of each other} there being {seldom time for even a perusal} of the {pieces by any but the writer before they were wanted at the press} and {sometimes hardly by the writer himself}.


[Page 321]
August 11, 1788 287 I have not a moment for a line to Mazzei. Tell him I have reed his books & shall attempt to get them disposed of. I fear his calculations will not be fulfilled by the demand for them here in the French lan guage. His affair with Dorhman stands as it did. Of his affair with Fos ter Webb, I can say nothing. I suspect it will turn out badly. Yrs. Affecly., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:225-27. 1 Madison later interlined “[Brissot].” For a description of Madison by Jacques Pierre Brissot de Warville, based upon an impression gained when Madison invited him to din ner soon after his arrival, see ibid., p. 227n.l. 2 The New York ratification, which included a declaration of 23 “explanatory” amend ments or rights that were not to be ‘abridged or violated,” four specific restrictions on congressional power regarding militia, elections, taxation, and requisitions that would be lifted upon the meeting of a second convention to consider amendments, and a list of 32 “recommendatory” amendments proposed by members of the convention, is in Certificates of Ratification of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, M338, DNA microfilm. It has been reprinted in Linda Grant De Pauw, The Eleventh Pillar: New York and the Con stitution (Ithaca, N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1966), pp. 293-302. 3 For the broadside copy of the New York Convention’s circular letter asking state ex ecutives to urge their legislatures to call a second convention to consider amendments to the Constitution, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,312. It was prepared by John Jay, John Lansing, and Melancton Smith, but signed by Governor George Clinton as con vention president. 4 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N. York Augst. 11. [17] 88 The length of the interval since my last has proceeded from a daily expectation of being able to communicate the arrangements for intro ducing the New Government. The times necessary to be fixt by Congress have been many days agreed on. 1 The place of meeting has undergone many vicisitudes and is still as uncertain as ever. Philada. was first named by a member from Connecticut, and was negatived by the voice of one from Delaware, who wished to make an experiment for Wilmington. New York came next into view. Lancaster was op posed to it & failed. Baltimore was next tried and to the surprise of every one had seven votes, S. Carolina joining the Southern States & Penna, in the question. It was not difficult to foresee that such a vote could not stand. Accordingly the next day, N. York carried it on a sec ond trial, and at present fills the blank. Its success however was owing to Rhode Island whose delegates have refused to vote on the final question & have actually gone home. There are not at present seven States for any place, and the result must depend (Unless R. Island shd. return with instructions as is given out) on the comparative flexi bility of the Northern & Southern Delegations. In ordinary cases this


[Page 323]
August 11, 1788 289 cussion as you conjectured and still remains to be fixed. Philada. was first named, & negatived by a voice from Delaware. N. York came for ward next. Lancaster was opposed to it 8c failed. Baltimore was next tried and to the surprise of every one had seven votes. It was easy to see that that ground had it been free from objections was not main tainable. Accordingly the next day N. York was inserted in the place of it with the aid of the vote of Rhode Island. Rhode Island however has refused to give a final vote in the business and has actually retired from Congress. The question will now be resumed between N. York 8c Philada. It was much to be wished that a fit place for a respectable out set to the Govt, could be found more central than either. The former is inadmissible if any regard is to be had to the Southern or Western Country. It is so with me for another reason, that it tends to stop the final 8c permanent seat short of the Potowmac certainly, and probably in the State of N. Jersey. I know this to be one of the views of the Advo cates for N. York. The only chance the Potowmac has is to get things in such a train that a coalition may take place between the Southern 8c Eastern States on the subject, and still more that the final seat may be undecided for two or three years, within which period the Western 8c S. Western population will enter more into the estimate. Wherever Congress may be, the choice if speedily made will not be sufficiently influenced by that consideration. In this point of view I am of opinion Baltimore would have been unfriendly to the true object. It would have retained Congress but a moment, so many States being North of it, and dissatisfied with it, and would have produced a coalition among those States, a precipitate election of the permanent seat 8c an intermediate removal to a more northern position. You will have seen the circular letter from the Convention of this State. 2 It has a most pestilent tendency. If an Early General Conven tion cannot be parried, it is seriously to be feared that the system which has resisted so many direct attacks may be at last successfully undermined by its enemies. It is now perhaps to be wished that Rho. Island may not accede till this new crisis of danger be over. Some think it would have been better if even N. York had held out till the operation of the Government could have dissipated the fears which artifice had created and the attempts resulting from those fears 8c arti fices. We hear nothing yet from N. Carolina more than comes by the way of Petersburg. With the highest respect 8c attachment I remain Dr Sir, Your affecte. servt, Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Tr in Madison Papers, DLC, mistakenly dated August 15. Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:229-30. 1 For which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 30:32-33. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, August 10, note 3.


[Page 324]
290 August 11,1788 Pennsylvania Delegates to Peter Muhlenberg Sir New York Augt. 11th 1788 We have the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 6th instant, and will take the earliest oppertunity of communicating the pleasing information it contains to Congress; 1 in the mean time we have informed the Secretary at War, who will immediately direct the Troops to proceed agreeably to their first destination. We have the honor to be Sir, with great respect, Your most Obedi ent and Humble Servants, Wm. Irvine Sami. Meredith John Armstrongjr. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Irvine and signed by Irvine, Armstrong, and Meredith. 1 Muhlenberg’s letter, written in his capacity as vice president of the Pennsylvania Council, contained the news that Timothy Pickering had been released by his kidnap pers, that the unrest in the Wyoming Valley had subsided, and that the Continental troops requested to suppress the “rioters” were no longer needed. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 11:364-65; and Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, July 28. Alexander Hamilton to Jeremiah Olney My Dear Sir 1 New York Aug 12. 1788 We have a question of very great importance depending in Congress, in which the vote of your state would be decisive. It relates to the place of meeting of the future Congress—Six states and a half prefer New York five and a half Philadelphia. When your delegates were here they voted with us on the intermediate questions; but when the final question came to be put Mr. Hazard’s scruples prevailed over his inclination for New York. 2 He however gave me to hope he would return in a short time. Mr. Arnold would have made no difficulty whatever if his colleague would have gone with him; but he could not be prevailed upon to do it. This is a matter of such moment not only to this state but to the Northern states in general that I have taken the liberty to address you on the subject, to request that every effort may be made to induce a representation of your state to come forward without loss of time. I am persuaded that the meeting of Congress here or at Philadelphia would make a difference on your politics and would facilitate or im pede, as the one or the other place should obtain, the adoption of the Constitution in your state. The intimate intercourse between us and you makes us look up to you as to a natural ally in this matter.


[Page 325]
August 12,1788 291 A doubt might perhaps be raised about your right to a vote under the present circumstances. 3 There is not a member of Congress but one who has even pretended to call your right in question. ‘Tis agreed generally that the power of organising the government is given by the ratifying states to the United States in Congress assembled, who are mere agents under a special authority and therefore the non adopting states stand on the same footing with the adopting. Nor can the exer cise of that right operate in any manner upon your situation. If the United States should even be considered as a foreign power, you might have a choice in such a question. Hazard I believe is softening, so that I should not think it politic to make any representation of his conduct which might irritate him. What is here said respecting him must therefore be received in confi dence as indeed must be this whole letter. If any difficulty about expence should arise I will with pleasure ac cept a draft on me. You will excuse this intimation which arises from my information that your state has not made provision for its dele gates & from a knowlege that individuals have been torn to pieces by your tender laws &c. With sincere esteem, I rema[i]n Yr. Obed Sr, A Hamilton RC (RHi); reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:199-200. 'Jeremiah Olney (1749-1812), of Providence, R.I., a former lieutenant colonel in the Continental Army and member of the Rhode Island Assembly, 1785-86, was a promi nent federalist who was appointed collector of customs at Providence in June 1790 after Rhode Island ratified the Constitution. Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), l:400n. 2 Rhode Island’s delegates Peleg Arnold and Jonathan Hazard had voted for New York and against Philadelphia during the August 6 debate on the location of the new federal capital, but had returned home after attending Congress the 7th, the last day Rhode Island was ever represented under the Articles of Confederation. See ICC, 34:397-405. 3 That is, Rhode Island had already rejected the new Constitution in a statewide refer endum held March 1, 1788, and would not ratify it until May 29, 1790. Charles Thomson to Arthur St. Clair Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Augt. 12th. 1788 I have the honor of transmitting to You herewith enclosed, an Act of the U.S in Congress Assembled, passed this day, after considering Your letters ofjuly 13 & 16th. 1 I have the honor & LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “Govr. St. Clair.” 1 The enclosed “Act” requested Pennsylvania and Virginia to prepare 500 and 1,000 militiamen, respectively, for an expedition against the Indians of the middle depart-


[Page 328]
294 August 13,17887 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 That is, Capt. Alexander Forrester Inglis Cochrane, inquiring about his brother Maj Charles Cochrane, aide-de-camp to Cornwallis who had been killed at Yorktown. See Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:202n, 206, 220, 230; and Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), l:25n. 2 Daniel Morgan, for which see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:220. 3 Also Morgan, ibid. 4 That is, the Federalist, which had been published in two volumes March 22 and May 28,1788. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). 1 The August 14 issue of Francis Childs’ New York Daily Advertiser reported on the au thority of the postmaster at Richmond writing to the postmaster at Philadelphia “that the CONVENTION OF NORTH CAROLINA HAS REJECTED THE NEW CONSTITU TION BY A LARGE MAJORITY—For the adoption 76, Against it 176, Majority 100.” NewYork August 14th 1788 My present writing is not dictated by an eagerness to make unpleas ant communications but by the united principles of duty and inclina tion to give your Excellency the earliest notice of every important oc- currance. From North Carolina we have no official accounts or authentic let ters but the inclosed advertizer announces the very unexpected intelli gence of a rejection of the new System by a large Majority of the Con vention of that State. 1 This report may not be true, yet it becomes me to remark that the delegates in Congress from that State seem to en tertain no doubts on the Subject. Mr. Williamson observes that the op position are of those who are the Zealous advocates for a paper Cur rency, that has depreciated fifty per Cent, and who are determined to keep it up untill their debts are paid. This ungracious occurrance is therefore another striking instance of the baleful effects of that fluctu ating medium. The Ordinance for organizing the new government is not yet com plete owing to the desertion of Rhode Island before the final Ques tion was taken. I fear we shall not be able to induce the Southern States to meet earlier than the first of March. New York will probably be the place of meeting; but of this I cannot pronounce with Cer tainty. Of foreign affairs—I have only to remark generally that the disposi tion for hostilities does not at all relax—and that a general war will ensue seems to be the prevailing opinion in France. With the highest Respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Most obedient and Most Humble Servant, N. Gilman


[Page 329]
August 15, 1788 295 Charles Thomson to Samuel Johnston Sir, Aug 15. 1788 I have the honor to transmit to your Exy herewith enclosed an Act passed yesterday 1 in addition to the act of the 26 of Octr. 1787 which was in due time transmitted to your Exy & which you have acknowl edged the receipt of. I have only to add for your Exys Information that the treaty is to commence on the 15th of Septr. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 The enclosed resolve called upon North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia to furnish “in equal sums” $4,000 for the expenses of a southern Indian treaty that had been authorized October 26, 1787, for which see Thomson to Certain States, October 27, 1787. The resolve also explained that this $4,000 was needed in addition to the $6,000 called for from the same states by the original authorization and specified that their Continental specie quotas would be credited for any payments toward the $10,000 received. The resolve was adopted on the recommendation of a committee consisting of Thomas Tudor Tucker, Jonathan Dayton, and Hugh Williamson, to which had been referred on August 4 a letter from the war office enclosing docu ments from the southern superintendent of Indian affairs, Richard Winn, explaining the obstacles he had encountered in preparing for the forthcoming treaty and revis ing upwards the costs it would entail. See JCC, 34:391, 424-25; and PCC, item 150, 3:449-72. Thomson also sent the same information this day to the governors of South Car olina and Georgia under cover of the following brief letter—“I have the honor to transmit to your Exy herewith enclosed an Act of the United States in Congress As sembled, touching the treaty about to be held with the Southern Indians” (PCC, item 18B, fol. 160). To ensure its delivery he also sent the following letter of the same date to the postmaster of Philadelphia, James Bryson. “I have to request the favour of you to send the enclosed letters for the governors of S Carolina & Georgia by the first ves sel for Charleston. I have sent duplicates to go on by the post but as it is of impor tance that they should get to hand as soon as possible & there is no vessel here bound for Charleston I take leave to trouble you with forwarding these by the first that sails from your port.” Ibid. Charles Thomson to Walter Livingston Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, August 15. 1788. I have the honor to inform you that your Letter of the 13th, was yes terday laid before Congress, & that thereupon they were pleased to pass an Order agreeable to your request, 1 a Copy of which is enclosed. I wish you a pleasant journey and am with much respect, Sir, Yours &c., CT


[Page 331]
August 16, 1788 297 dant of Indian Affairs for 3 months after the 29th of August. 1 With re spect to the other Objects connected with this Business & recom mended by your Excellency to our Consideration, we have used our utmost Diligence, being fully sensible of it’s high Importance to the Welfare of the Southern States. The Resolutions of Congress on the Subject we now enclose, & hope they will prove satisfactory & ade quate to their Situation. 2 Having no Power to enforce Compliance from the State of North Carolina, we cou’d find no other Method of guarding against the evil Consequences of her Neglect, than that which is adopted in the last Resolution. Congress having before taken into serious Consideration the Continuance of Hostilities by the Creek Indians, did authorize the Superintendant to inform them, if necessary, that the Arms of the United States wou’d be employ’d to bring them to reasonable Terms of Accommodation. 3 The Secretary at War was at the same time required to report a plan for conducting the War, if it shou’d be inevitable. The Application of the State of Virginia & District of Kentucky, on the Subject of erecting the latter into a separate State, having been con sider’d by Congress, a Resolution was pass’d, approving the Measure & recommending the farther prosecution of it under the new Govern ment, as being alone competent to it’s actual Accomplishment. 4 Congress having pass’d a Resolution to allow a farther Term of 3 months to the several States for delivering in their Claims upon the United States, a Copy of the same has been forwarded to your Excel lency from the Secretary’s Office. 5 The Act of Cession of western Territory by the State of Georgia being clogg’d with Conditions which were not thought proper to be acceded to by Congress, it was determined not to accept it but on other specified Conditions which were deem’d more eligible. 6 The Ratification of the new Constitution by the State of New Hamp shire, making the 9th State, having been receiv’d, Congress immedi ately proceeded to the Consideration of the Measures recommended by the late general Convention as preparatory to the Meeting of the new Legislature. It is with regret that we find ourselves yet unable to communicate to your Excellency the final Result of the Deliberations on this Subject. After much Time spent in Debate on the several Peri ods to be fixt & the place for the first Meeting of the new Congress, a Set of Resolutions were at length compleated, which separately ob tain’d the Approbation of the House, but on taking the Question upon the whole it unfortunately pass’d in the negative, so that the Business remains still undetermined. In the Resolutions alluded to, the first Wednesday in January next was fixt for the Appointment of


[Page 333]
August 17,1788 299 structed, we shall conclude that the Legislature is content that the Lands shou’d be granted to the Individuals agreeable to the Ordi nance of Congress, which does not take into View the Provision made by our Law. As every Question which involves in it a Construction of any of the constitutional Powers of Congress not clearly defined by the Articles of Confederation, is of Importance to the Legislatures of the several States, we find it incumbent on us to mention that in consequence of an Application from the Executive of Pennsylvania, Congress thought proper to order that a Detachment of Continental Troops in their March to the Westward shou’d so alter their Route as to pass into Luzerne County in that State & halt there for a limited time, with a View to assist, if it shou’d be necessary, in quieting the Commotions there. By a Letter since receiv’d, Congress are inform’d that this Mea sure is no longer deem’d necessary. 10 We are with much Respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. Servts., DI. Huger John Parker Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written by Tucker and signed by Tucker, Huger, and Parker. 1 For this August 4 resolution, see JCC, 34:383. 2 For these August 14 resolutions appropriating additional monies for conducting a southern Indian treaty, see Charles Thomson to Samuel Johnston, August 15, note. 3 See Charles Thomson to George Handley, July 17, note 3. 4 See Thomson to Samuel McDowell, July 3. 5 See Thomson to the States, June 24. 6 See Thomson to Handley, July 17, note 2. 7 For Martin’s appointment, see Edward Carrington to Edmund Randolph, June 25, note 2. 8 See Thomson to Arthur St. Clair, August 12. 9 See Richard Henry Lee to William Lee, July 30, 1787, note 4. 10 See Pennsylvania Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, July 28, note 3; and to Peter Muhlenberg, August 11, note. George Thatcher to Sarah Thatcher City of New York, 17 August, 7 788. Discusses letters he has recently re ceived from friends. “When I begun this Letter, I proposed to write but a moment, till my shoes were brought in, and then intended to set off & go to meeting; but I believe it is too late. I shall therefore charge this day to you For I have no doubt I should have went to meeting, this forenoon, had it not been for writing this Letter—so I shall ex-


[Page 334]
300 August 17,1788 pect you to answer for my absence—And I think you may, since you are likely to recieve the effect of my tarrying at home. “I forgot to tell you in a former Letter, that I did not take water pas sage, from New-Haven as I wrote you, from Hartford, I expected to. 1 When I arrived at New-Haven, I met Mr. & Mrs. King, waiting for the Stage, thinking from the conversation we had at Boston, that I should take passage with them. They said many things to induce me to sail with them; but my timidity of going on the water overcame their civil ity—And I keept in the Stage, which got to New York the next evening. But they did not get there till the morning after—they had an agreeable, pleasant time. They are well, Mrs. King frequently laments, that they could not go into our Country. I call on them al most every day—to see them & kiss their little child— tis a sweet baby. I assure you I kiss the little creature with great pleasure. I make a sort of a substitute of it for the absence of our dear little Sally. “Mr. Otis left us two days ago. He has gone home upon a very melancholly occasion—To take a last farewell of a Daughter he was dotingly fond of. He is a worthy, & amiable man—very fond of home and a Domestic Life. This turn of mind makes him less happy while he is here. “I never discovered in you a disposition to meddle with politics, & if I had, I should not have cultivated it with any desire of making you a politician. Therefore I doubt whether you trouble yourself much about the new Constitution—whether it is adopted, or rejected. But as I have not time to write to our Honoured Father by this post—I must observe—that pretty certain news arrived from Hillsborough, in North Carolina, two days ago, of that State having rejected the Constitution, by a majority of 176, against 70. No official account has come to ha[n]d—but it is attended with so many circumstances of probability, as to leave no room for doubt.” RC (MHi: Thatcher Papers). 1 Thatcher had just returned to Congress August 6. See/CC, 34:394, 399. William Irvine to Samuel Holden Parsons Dear Sir New York Augt. 18th 17[88] I should have acknowledged the receipt of your favor of the 22d of April immediately, but that I expected to get up to Pittsburgh before you left it, when I arrived there & found Mr. Duncan had gone down with you, as had authority to act for me with himself, & I did not wish to trouble you knowing you would be much engaged in the new scenes you had undertaken—add to this the fluctuating state of things in that quarter, particularly an apprehension that that there was some


[Page 336]
302 August 18,1788 proper. Mr. R. Morris I am told will be here soon, and I shall endeav our then to supply the omitted circumstances. In the meantime Mr. Triplet may either make out a fuller statement & forward it, or wait till he hears from me on the subject. I have had no opportunity of doing any thing as to Anthony, since my last. John continues to decline. I think he is in a consumption, and will not stand it very long. No late news of consequence has come from Europe. The war ap pears to be going on between the two imperial Courts & the Turks. And the affairs of France portend a serious struggle between the royal authority & the spirit of liberty. We just learn the fate of the Constitution in N. Carolina. Rho. Is land is however her only associate in the opposition, and it will be hard indeed if those two States should endanger a system which has been ratified by the eleven others. Congress have not yet finally set tled the arrangements for putting the new Government in operation. The place for its first meeting creates the difficulty. The Eastern States with N. York contend for this City. Most of the other States in sist on a more central position. Tell my brother Ambrose if you please that he must draw on Mr. Shepherd for the price of the Negro boy for the French Marchioness. 3 On a second & more accurate examination of my pa pers I have found your loan office certificates. With affecte. regards to the family I remain, Yr. dutiful son, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:235-36. 1 Not found. 2 Perhaps Francis Triplett, for whom see ibid., p. 236n.l. 3 That is, the marquise de Brehan. Samuel Meredith to Margaret Meredith My Dear Peggy 1 N.Y. Augt. 18, 1788. Your last made me very happy as there were no complaints of head Ach & sleepless nights. I hope the Exercise has done you good, & that you will continue to take it when you can, & be as often in Town & at the House as opportunity will admit. By Mr Contee of Maryland I sent you a Canister of Snuff, he went away while I was in Congress therefore could not write, he promissed to send it to Mr Clymer or Mr Fitzsimmons, & I make no doubt Mr Smith will receive it safe. Compts to him & Mrs. S.


[Page 339]
August 18,1788 305 of the children. I cannot tell & will not undertake to conjecture what will be your future plans but I know that it is the united & ardent wish of your friends that you was not so far seperated from them. You can not be insensible how tenderly affectionate your sisters all are towards you & their husbands partake with them in the sentiments. And your brother tho he may not express his sentiments in the same language, yet I do not think it is from want of affection to you. You will be the best judge what may conduce to your own happiness, interest & use fulness & that of your family, & wisdom & prudence under various considerations brot into view will direct you, but if you should think it expedient to altar your past determinations & return to New England your friends would rejoyce at the Idea. I do not expect to tarry here more than one month from this time; 4 should it be in your power to write to me within this time it will afford to me great satisfaction as well as to my wife who has been informed from me of you. I had a letter from her the last of July when she & the children were all well. I have not received any letter from your brother tho’ I have written several to him & I also invited him to write to you thro my hand but have received none. He has considerable business that commands his attention & has so much writing which is necessary that he was willing to excuse himself from any more. I begin to be im patient to return home having been absent already seven months and I think that in a month more there will be nothing which will neces sarily detain me here. We have lately had a very full Congress consist ing of 40 members from the 13 States a greater number it is said than has been for 12 years past. There have been great disputes where the meeting of the first Congress should be under the new constitution. The question is not determined & I view it as uncertain but suppose the probab[il]ity is in favor of New York. Philadelphia & N York are in competition. There are many considerations of weight on both sides & I think nearly balanced. New Hampshire would have been content with Phila. & gave their ay for it, when that place was proposed but when 7 states were not agreed in that by means of some southern states dissenting, we had no objection to N York as being more conve nient to the eastern states, and accordingly voted for that likewise when proposed. We have continual accounts from the western fron tiers as far as Georgia of Indian hostilities & there appears consider able dangers of a general war of the Indians. I believe from the ac counts the Whites are very much to blame & from their imprudences may involve the U.S. in very great expence as well as themselves in dis tresses. From the European news it appears that great preparations are making by most of the nations for war while they profess their de signs for peace, but Mr. Jefferson in a late letter to Congress says no body doubts of a general war soon. 5 France is yet in great convulsion & the issue of the struggle there is very doubtful. The enthusiasm for


[Page 342]
308 August 19,1788 have been successively in nomination. We have examined the preten sions of this city, and the causes that could lead its friends to advocate them. Some of our club, Messrs. Printers, are mechanics, who are in the habit of rearing their superstructures on solid foundations; they therefore require that arguments addressed to them, must be well supported. We began with an examination of the letter addressed to Congress, by the president of the convention, when the constitution was trans mitted, in which he informs them that a spirit of amity and of mutual deference and concession alone induced so unanimous a concur rence to this plan of government, which the diversity of state interests seemed rather calculated to preclude. It was but a reasonable expecta tion, that the same spirit would actuate Congress, and that the first act of government would indicate a disposition to impart equal advan tages and accommodations to every part of the union—that conse- quendy the government would be assembled to commence proceed ings in the place, nearest the center of national population. The convention has furnished a rule by which the relative situation of each state, in this respect, may be determined, which is, by the number of representatives, that it is entitled to send to the federal leg islature. We examined the pretensions of New York by this scale, and found that there were but 17 representatives from the states to the northward, and as many as forty-two from those to the southward, which calculated by 40,000 to each Representative makes 680,000 in habitants on one side, and 1,980,000 on the other—we found likewise that the extreme part of the district from which the 168,000 are to come, amount to above 1,000 miles and on the opposite side to about 350 miles. Such an arrangement militates against every principle of re publican government, and of the federal constitution, which was insti tuted for the purpose of promoting the general welfare, and of secur ing equal rights to the people. It must involve the southern states in the greatest inconvenience, from the number of persons that will have business to transact with the federal government, and the federal judi ciary, who must travel such a great distance beyond the central point. Besides, the more southern states, which are in the neighborhood of continual danger from their contiguity to hostile tribes of Indians, as well as to foreign nations, and which are so weak and defenseless, must complain at having the power of that government exercised at such a distance, whose protection alone can insure them tranquility; and in case of domestic insurrections, or external invasions, the neces sary assistance must be delayed, in proportion to the time it will take in soliciting it—the essential communications betwixt the southern members of the federal legislature and their constituents will be greatly obstructed by placing Congress in such an eccentric position;


[Page 343]
August 19,1788 309 and these communications will be required with the greater solici tude, as the states, having resigned such considerable powers in favor of the federal government, will be impatient to know in what manner they will be affected by the exercise of them, in the organization of the new system. The great and complicated interests of the western country, where new setdements are forming that will soon rise into in dependent states, demand a pointed attention, and require Congress to be placed in a central situation. We know, Messrs. Printers, that the southern and northern parts of the union have interests and pursuits essentially different—the for mer, consisting chiefly of planters and consumers, and the latter of agricultural, commercial, and manufacturing people. We have been told, that the southern delegates in the convention, with great reluctance yielded to a bare majority the powers of regulat ing commerce, from an apprehension that a combination of states that had similar interests might be easily formed, which by partial op erations of government, could gready oppress the southern district of the union. We find, that this has been the popular topic of declamation, to work on the passions of the people, in the southern convendons, and we discover that Virginia has founded one of her proposed amend ments on her fears on this subject; we are likewise told, that Patrick Henry so much deprecated the pernicious effects that might arise to Virginia from the exercise of this power, that he concluded a most elo quent harangue, by saying, that he would narrowly watch its tendency, with the eye of an eagle, watching its prey. If the strength and connection of the northern members of the confederacy have already created such great alarm in the southern states, why should it be increased by placing Congress in the midst of this district, thereby throwing all the influence of government in the scale that is already thought to be preponderant. This local influence must be immense when it is considered that the numerous appointments of officers under government will be generally confined to the inhabitants of the surrounding district, they being on the spot to solicit, and by personal application and address to enforce their pretensions. The revenues of the confederacy, drawn from all parts of the union, will be mosdy expended in the adjacent country, to the great benefit and emolument of those states, which approach nearest to the seat of government; and in the discussion of great points which involve pecu liar advantages to the northern parts of the union, the ease of obtain ing a full representation of their members, so as to insure a decided majority, is certainly a cause of serious apprehension to the southern states.


[Page 350]
316 August 23,1788 Constitution. North Carolina was then in Convention, and it was gen erally expected would in some form or other have fallen into the gen eral stream. The event has disappointed us. It appears that a large ma jority has decided against the Constitution as it stands, and according to the information here received has made the alterations proposed by Virginia the conditions on which alone that State will unite with the others. Whether this be the precise state of the case I can not say. It seems at least certain that she has either rejected the Constitution, or annexed conditions precedent to her ratification. It cannot be doubted that this bold step is to be ascribed in part to the influence of the minority in Virginia which lies mostly in the Southern part of the State, and to the management of its leader. It is in part ascribed also by some to assurances transmitted from leading individuals here, that New York would set the example of rejection. The event, whatever may have been its cause, with the tendency of the circular letter from the Convention of N. York, has somewhat changed the aspect of things and has given fresh hopes and exertions to those who opposed the Constitution. The object with them now will be to effect an early Convention composed of men who will essentially mutilate the system, particularly in the article of taxation, without which in my opinion the system cannot answer the purposes for which it was intended. An early Convention is in every view to be dreaded in the present temper of America. A very short period of delay would produce the double ad vantage of diminishing the heat and increasing the light of all parties. A trial for one year will probably suggest more real amendments than all the antecedent speculations of our most sagacious politicians. Congress have not yet decided on the arrangements for inaugurat ing the new Government. The place of its first meeting continues to divide the Northern & Southern members, though with a few excep tions to this general description of the parties. The departure of Rho. Island, and the refusal of N. Carolina in consequence of the late event there to vote in the question, threatens a disagreeable issue to the business, there being now an apparent impossibility of obtaining seven States for any one place. The three Eastern States & N. York, re inforced by S. Carolina, and as yet by N. Jersey, give a plurality of votes in favor of this City. The advocates for a more central position how ever though less numerous, seemed very determined not to yeild to what they call a shameful partiality to one extremity of the Continent. It will be certainly of far more importance under the proposed than the present system that regard should be had to centrality whether we consider the number of members belonging to the Government, the diffusive manner in which they will be appointed, or the increased re-


[Page 351]
August 23, 1788 317 sort of individuals having business with the Legislative, Executive & Ju diciary departments. If the Western Country be taken into view, as it certainly ought, the reasoning is still further corroborated. There is good ground to believe that a very [jealous eye will be} 1 kept in that {quarter on in}attention {to it and particularly when} involving a {seem ing advantage to the eastern states} which have been {rendered ex tremely suspicious} and {obnoxious by the Missisipi project}. There is {even good ground to believe that Spain is taking} advantage of {this disgust in Kentucky} and is {actually endeavoring} to {seduce them from the union holding out a darling object which will never be ob tained by them as part of the union}. This is a {fact as certain as it is important but which I hint in strict confidence} and with {a request} that no suspicion may be excited of its being {known particularly thro the channel of me}. 2 I have this moment notice that I must send off my letter instantly, or lose the conveyance. I must consequendy defer further communications till another opportunity. In the meantime I am, Yrs. Affely., Js. Madison Jr. [PS.] Along with this you will receive a copy of the report you desired from Mr. Thomson, 3 and a copy of the Federalist, a publication men tioned in my last. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:238-39. 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher. 2 Madison had clearly learned before his colleague John Brown departed for Ken tucky of Brown’s conferences with Don Diego de Gardoqui regarding Spain’s offer of a commercial treaty with an independent Kentucky, for which see Brown to George Muter, July 10, note 3. 3 For the identity of this report “drawn by Governor Randolph on the navigation of the Missisipi,” see Madison, Papers (Rutland), ll:37n.6. Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear sir New York [August] 23rd 1788 By Letters from sundry Correspondents it appears that North Car olina has at length thrown herself out of the Union, but she happily is not alone; The large upright and respectable State of Rhode Island is her associate. This circumstance however does not, I hope, render it necessary that the Delegates from NC should profess a particular af fection for the Delegates from R.I. That State was some days ago rep resented by a Mr Arnold who keeps a little Tavern 10 miles out of Providence &: a Mr Hazard the illiterate quondam Skipper of a small


[Page 352]
318 August 23,1788 Coasting Vessel & now the very leader of I Know Ye Justices who offici ates at County Courts & receives small Fees not as a Lawyer but Agent for Suitors. These two respectable Delegates with the innate Desire of promoting a bad measure lately voted on several Questions respecting the Organisation of the new Govt, in order to fix it in New York, a Corner of the Union, but before the final Question was taken on the Ordinance they caused a Member to move in Congress for a Vote “That nothing which the Delegates from Rh Is. or NC had done or might do in voting on the Subject should be construed as in any mea sure affecting the Rights &c of their Constituents. [’J 1 This was to be a Bull or Absolution. On this Motion the Delegates from N.C. moved that the Word North Carolina should be struck out of the Vote of Ab- solutio, And thereon we called for the Yeas & Nays to prove that we did not wish to have NC associated in any Vote with Rh I, that we did not wish for Absolution being conscious of having pursued our Duty. That with Respect to the final Vote which was to be taken on the Ordi nance we proposed never to assist in such Vote unless NC should con federate for we would not be guilty of paracide by throwing our State out of the Union. On this the Motion was withdrawn; the Rh. I. Gen tlemen missed the promised Pleasure of doing wrong & on the next morning they set out Homeward. I wrote the Governor a Letter 2 concerning the Conduct of some Members when the Business referred to was first moved in Congress and with my usual want of prudent Dissimulation I expressed an hon est Indignation by calling Spade a Spade. This Letter it seems has been read in the Convention & a Correspondent up the Country writes me that he fears it has hurt me greatly. As I did not consider that Letter as official & one that should be communicated to a public Assembly I took no Copy of it and do not know what it contained, but as I am conscious that I never write in the most careless mood any thing but what I think and as I am also conscious that since I have been hon oured with a commission from the State I have not in a single In stance preferred my private Interest to the Benefit of the State, that I never have through private Indulgence or inattention omitted a single opportunity of serving the State. Being conscious of no corrupt mo tive my zeal on a late occasion to serve the State has not been abated at an Hour when I had reason to suppose that the Action would not be popular. Had I supported what I conceive to be a dishonest mea sure in pursuit of Popularity I should for the first Time, as a public man, had occasion to condemn my self. Doing what I conceive to be the Dictate of Honesty & true Patriotism I mean to abide Conse quences, my friends know that I do not depend for a Support on pub lic favour. The 22nd Amendment 3 so called was certainly a very important one for NC. If an East India Company or a Mediterranian Company should be erected it would greatly interfere with her Trade to those


[Page 357]
August 26,1788 323 Charles Thomson the States Sir, (Circular) Office of Secretary of Congress. August 25. 1788 I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed, a Requisition of the United States in Congress Assembled for the Year 1788; 1 for further illustration I must beg leave to refer you to the Let ter which the Board of Treasury will write to you on this subject. With great Respect, I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & Most hum servt., Cha Thomson RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Addressed: “His Excellency The Governor of Rhode Island.” LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). 1 On June 9 Congress ordered the board of treasury to submit “an estimate of the sums necessary for the services of the year 1788 including the interest on the foreign and domestic debt and the amount of the capital of the foreign which will become due in the year 1789.” The board’s estimates were submitted July 9 and referred to a com mittee consisting of Abraham Clark, Abraham Baldwin, William Bingham, Nathan Dane, and Hugh Williamson, whose report was submitted on August 4, debated August 13, and adopted August 20. See JCC, 34:209, 305, 388-90, 419-21, 433-42. Thomson’s enclosure was actually a broadside printing of the requisition, for which see JCC, 34:634 (item 611); and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 21,516. See also South Carolina Delegates to Thomas Pinckney, September 6. Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir, New York August 26h 1788. I am unable to say when the Act of Congress for putting the New Government into Operation will be agreed to: 1 The matter was taken up in Congress as soon as nine States had ratified, but the Convention of New York being then sitting, in which two thirds of the members were Opposed to the New Constitution, it was thought unadviseable to proceed in the business at the time further than agreeing upon the time to chuse Electors—the time for them to meet to Elect a presi dent & Vice President—and the time of meeting of the New Congress: but the place of meeting was purposely delayed untill the New York Convention should come to some final determination. Two reasons induced Congress to this delay, first that New York could not be fixed upon as the place unless they ratified; secondly, to appoint any other place while they were deliberating would, in all probability insure a final rejection, to prevent which it was suffered to pass as a very proba ble event, if not as a matter of Certainty, that in Case they did Adopt, New York would be the place of meeting. This perhaps was one princi ple Cause of their adopting, and without their being led into this opinion I believe they would have rejected the Constitution. In this Business I feel no particular attachment in favour of N. York, nor as


[Page 358]
324 August 26,1788 they have adopted the New Constitution whereby all former grounds of Complaint are removed, ought I as a member from New Jersey to retain any resentment. I am influenced by other motives: for as it was a very important and desireable Object to have this State become a member of the New Government, so it is necessary for Congress to Act in such a manner as to avoid the Charge of deceiving the State in what I consider well grounded expectations: besides, all our public Offices are here and cannot be removed without a great expence which our Treasury cannot conveniently defray; and after all we might go to a place the New Congress might disapprove of as a temporary resi dence. New Jersey laying between New York and Philadelphia are equally contiguous to each and at this time in that point of view ought not to give a preference to either, such as a removal from one to the other. The same reason would hold good against removing to New York were Congress at Philadela.—to which I may add, that a removal to Philada. would be losing all Chance of having the permanent Seat of Government fixed near the falls of Delaware as formerly agreed to, which is an Object New Jersey ought not to lose sight of so long as a probable Chance remains. To go to Philada. before the future Seat of Government is fixed on, will be giving up all prospects of this kind, as there will not be a probability of Obtaining it to the Northward of the place Congress shall be in at the time—they may go from hence to the Delaware near Trenton, Pennsylvania may as formerly join in such a measure, but never will if Congress are at Philadela. These are reasons that induced me to give New York the preference. Should the Delega tion of New Jersey join in favour of Philadela. it would be of no avail, it would only make an equal division of the States, there would in that case be five States and a half for New York, and the same number for Philadela.—as Eleven only Votes upon the Occasion, and no more can be expected unless Rhode Island comes forward in favour of New York as is expected, the Delegation of North Carolina will not vote on the question. As there may be different Opinions in the Legislature respecting the Conduct of their Delegates on this question, I have taken the lib erty to request your Excellency to Communicate to both Houses this Statement of the principle reasons that influenced my conduct which I trust will be satisfactory: 2 The several votes will appear in the Jour nals of Congress sent forward by the Secretary. In order to Accommodate all the States we were obliged to place the times for Electing &c. at periods much more distant than were Necessary for New Jersey, some Legislatures could not be convened earlier than November, none except the present meeting in New Jer sey, will be before some time in October; should the business be de layed some time longer in Congress (which it is wished may not be long) no inconvenience will happen, provided the same go to the States by the time they meet in October.


[Page 359]
August 26, 1788 325 I have the honor to be with great regard, your Excellencys Most Obedt. and Humble Servt., Abra. Clark 3 RC (MHi: Livingston Papers). 1 See John Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 2 Clark’s colleague Lambert Cadwalader laid out his views on this issue in the follow ing letter to Pennsylvania delegate Samuel Meredith, dated “Trenton 10 Septr 1788.” “I saw Bingham in his Way to Philadelphia—he informed that Matters relative to the fix ing the Place where the new Legislature shall convene remained in Statu quo. I suppose the Troops are marshalled according to their several State Interests, whenever a Motion is preferrd on this important Business. The Arguments are clearly and incontrovertibly in Favor of the Southern States and I have no Doubt they will stedfastly adhere to their Point. But if the Question stands connected with the Ordinance and it cannot be car ried, what is to become of the Ordinance? This is a most serious Consideration and re quires the particular attention of Congress. “I observed by the Journals of Congress that on the 6th August it was determined on a Motion of Tucker seconded by H. Lee ‘that the City of N York in the State of N York be the Place for commencing Proceedings under the sd. Constitution,’ & that the Preamble to sd. Resolve was also agreed to. So, however, I apprehend it—this is quite new to me. “I wish you would make the Proposition wh I recommended in my Letter to Bing ham for Princeton rather than this Place or Burlington, which being situate on the Waters communicating with Philada., are more liable to Objections in the House the other being more central may be more plausibly maintained and who knows but a Mo tion of the Kind wh carries with it the Appearance of Concession on your Part may meet the approbation of some of the Members who are now against you. It will certainly have this Effect at least that it must draw off N Jersey from the Northern Party and add their weight to yours.” Clymer Collection, PPAmP. 3 Clark’s statement of his attendance at Congress for the congressional year 1787-88, which he submitted October 22, 1788, claimed compensation for the following periods: November 12-17 and December 10-19, 1787; December 27, 1787, to February 2, 1788; February 11 to April 18 (excepting March 10 and April 14); and April 30 to October 16^ 1788 (excepting May 12-14 and 19, July 21, August 11-13 and 25, September 8, 22-23, and October 6). New Jersey State Papers, NJ. James R. Reid to Tench Coxe My dear Sir, 5 o’clock 26th [August] 1788 At 12 o Clock this day the advocates for New York came into the field with many whereas’s and took a question for the City of New York as the residence for the new Congress. 1 They lost it. They will lick their sores till tomorrow. We are firm and redoubtable, nor have we come out of our works. I will write you more particularly tomorrow. The opposition seem very anxious to give immediate operation &c. J R Reid RC (PHi: Coxe Papers). 1 See JCC, 34:455-57.


[Page 360]
326 August 26, 1788 Thomas Tudor Tucker to St. George Tucker My beloved Brother New York Augt. 26. 1788 I have the pleasure to enclose to you a Letter receiv’d this day from our dear invaluable Parent, from which you will no doubt learn the very great Alarm all the Family have been under on Account of the se vere & dangerous Illness of our Sister in St. George’s. Happily, to their great Relief, it had pleased Heaven to give a favorable Turn to her Dis order, & they had reason to hope that she wou’d soon be restored to Health. We are both capable of feeling in it’s fullest Force the Distress of our poor Brother, & must equally rejoice with him in the happy Change. I thank you heartily for your kind favor by your Son Richard who had a very short passage from Norfolk. He affords me infinite pleasure in the Accounts he gives of your Health & that of your dear Girls & Boys. May Heaven be in all things propitious to you & them. I am not a little disappointed & mortified at not seeing you. It wou’d have been a great Cordial to us both to have had a Meeting. Much I wish for a long Conversation with you, & on no Subject more than that of our dear Natty. I have not been able to read his Books, for my Eyes are often too weak to permit me to attend properly to necessary Business. I wish much to write to him, but know not what to write, & I fear he will take it unkind as he express’d great Solicitude to hear from me speedily. I think he is under a kind of Fanaticism which does not amount to what you apprehend. I am the more inclined to hope this, as his practice has rather increased lately, & he seems somewhat guarded against the consequences of having his Sentiments made public to a prejudiced World. His Letters to me are exceedingly long & for the reason above mention’d I shall perhaps not be able to send you Copies as soon as I cou’d wish, for I do not choose to shew them to any person who might transcribe them. I cannot express how much I wish to converse with you on this Subject, for I am anxious to have some fixt Opinion of his Situation. He has indeed gone so far as to speak of extraordinary Appearances to himself. John has been very much indisposed lately, so that I have been obliged to take him from College to my Lodgings. He is now much better & I hope will soon be well. Theod. has also had several Attacks of Fever, but not severe. I shou’d be happy to pay you a Visit, but have no immediate prospect of being able to do it. I am in Appointment for as much of the next federal Year as will run out the present Constitution, which probably will expire in the Beginning of March, for that is the Time which has long been agreed on in Congress for the Meeting of the new Legisla ture, but being very much divided concerning the Place no Act on the Subject has yet obtain’d final Approbation. The Contest at present seems to be betwixt this City & Philadelphia, & the parties are so tena-


[Page 361]
August 27, 1788 327 cious that nothing can be done. I am for several Reasons averse to Philadelphia. I fear the aristocratical Influence of that City. May Heaven bless you, my dearest Brother, & all who are dear to you. Give my tenderest Love to your dear Children. Remember me with sincere regard to Maria, Miss Betty & other good Friends. I am with every Sentiment of unalterable Friendship, Your most af fect. Brother, Thos. Tud. Tucker RC (ViW: Tucker—Coleman Papers). John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Wednesday 27th. Augt. 1788. It gives me much pain, my dear Girl, that your most obliging letter of the 17th with a note of the 20th should not have reachd me till this moment (8 OClock in the Evening). The cause however is very expli cable; and least it might give you some uneasiness to know the fact, without knowing the cause, I must be indulg’d in employing the only moment I have in telling it. You must know then that on Friday last Mrs. L, & her whole houshold set out on their shooting party to the Is land—where they have been ‘till this afternoon. Now as Mrs. Deforest was the bearer of Mrs. Lewis’s packet, (which enclosd missive did not arrive till Sunday Morning). It follows of course, that the obstruction it met with arose only from Mrs. L absence, & could only be cur’d by her return. Accept a thousand thanks for it. Even its delay has enhanc’d its worth—and I receive it as an u[n] expected tribute of that attachment which in language, poetical but true, is at once “my highest glory & my greatest good.” I am so much recover’d as to be again abroad. I made John (who is not well & to whom I owe a good deal in that way) a visit this morning. Let Mary’s opinion be what it may & founded on what it will, I can now assure you, as I believe I did before, that Eliza is no longer his de sease. 1 Jones has I hope by this time got to the Manor, be perfectly easy on the subject of your letters. No eye but my own has seen, or shall see them—tho’ I confess that were I more vain (than I believe tis possible for me to be) on any subject, it would be on this. ‘Twould be to hear your praise from others, as strongly as I feel your worth myself, ‘Twould be to receive the envy of my enemies, & the gratulations of my friends. But I risque the passage of my letter & of course the oppertunity of once more telling you, what in my heart & soul I am. Your ever Affectionate J Armstrong jr.


[Page 367]
September 1, 1788 333 “Your mother observes to me that there are some things which you want for house keeping which she has not been able to procure. I am sorry that you and she have been disappointed on this account. When I shall return I trust I shall have the money to pro cure the things wanted immediately and if they are wanted sooner I can venture to en gage the money then in pay, as 1 expect to bring some with me. I have not found my ex penses here equal to what I expected. And my age and frugality induce me not to go into many of the expensive pleasures of the young and gay. “In such a city as this a man may easily spend money as he pleases and not make much difference in his appearance. I board at a very decent house. We keep a good table & wine and have the appearance of living as well as any other member of Congress. But our secret expenses are not much.” Charles E. L. Wingate, Paine Wingale’s Letters to His Children (Medford, Mass., 1934), pp. 13-14. Charles Thomson to Arthur St. Clair Office of Secretary of Congress. Sept. 1st. 1788. I have the honor to transmit to You herewith enclosed, An Act of the 20th of June last & one of the 28th of August on the same subject, also an Act passed the 29th of August by the United States in Congress Assembled, together with Instructions to You for carrying into effect certain measures which Congress have in view. 1 To save the time of copying the Acts of the 22d of Oct. 1787, re ferred to in Your Instructions, 2 and that I may avail myself of the post which sets off tomorrow from Philadelphia to Pittsburg, I send You en closed the printed Journal of last Year, & beg leave to inform You that one of the Acts of the 22d of Oct. 1787 You will find in the appendix page 27, 28. As You will doubdess be anxious to know the proceedings of Congress, I have also enclosed a copy of the Journal of the present Year as far as printed. 3 With great respect, I have the honor [to be Sir] Your Most Obedi ent & Humble servant, Cha Thomson RC (O: St. Clair Papers). 1 These three enclosed “Acts” concerned the French settlements on the Mississippi River near Kaskaskia, Kahokia, and other smaller sites, the extinguishment by treaty of Indian land titles east of the Mississippi, and the purchase of a large tract in the region by George Morgan and Associates. Congress had made provision in the June 20 act for protecting the rights of the French settlers and instructed the governor of the western territory, St. Clair, to examine their titles and confirm their possessions, and in the fol low' up August acts provided St. Clair more detailed instructions and authorized the board of treasury to proceed with a contract with the Morgan Associates. See JCC, 34:247-52, 466-68, 472-74; and Carter, Territorial Papers, 2:112-15, 144-46. 2 For these October 22, 1787 acts, which were embodied in St. Clair’s August 29 in structions, see JCC, 33:695-96. 3 For St. Clair’s November 6 response to this letter, see Carter, Territorial Papers, 2:163-64.


[Page 368]
334 September 1,1788 Charles Thomson’s Memorandum Book [September 1-15, 1788] Sept. transmitted to Govr. St Clair—papers mentioned in letter Sept. 1st, 1788. 1 4th transmitted to the War Office complete set of Journals for Genl. Harmar. to the Govr. North Carolina 1 copy of Act & 12 copies of proclamation of Sept. 1st 2 & extract from Col. Martins letter July 25 th 1788 & copy letter Geo. Maxwell July 9th do. &June 28th &July 11th from Thos. Hutchings. 3 6th Transmitted to the Office for foreign Affairs to be filed— Letters ... May 4th, 23d & 30th 1788 from Mr Jefferson 4 Letter... March 23d & May 10th 1788 from Mr Dumas 5 Letter... Augt 11th 1788 from Count de Moustier 6 Letter... March 13th 1788 from Count de Grasse 7 “ 3> Letter... March 13 th & 16th 1788 from Mr Jefferson 8 “S’ NB these letters were transmitted May 30th, 1788, but being called for are here noted ... being returned. transmitted to the States—statements of the representation in Congress forjune, July & August, 1788—39 copies 9 10th transmitted to the Office for foreign Affairs to be filed— letters enclosed in letter Augt. 12th, 1788 from Mr Jay 10 —viz Letter No. 1 Augt. 8th, 1788 from Mayor of NYork to Mr. Jay 11 Letter 2 from Mr Jay to Mr Van Berckel 12 Letter 3 from Mr Van Berckel to Mr Jay 13 translations— Memoire of Mr Van Berckel Augt. 25th, 1788 Letter May 8th, 1788 from their High Mightinesses Letter Deer. 18th, 1787 from Mr Van Berckel to Mr Jay complaining of breach of privilege 14 —original 13th transmitted to the three Commissioners appointed under the Ordinance of May 7th, 1787, Letter 13th. Inst. 15 15 to the Delegates of Virginia—copy of the report of the board of treasury on motion of sd Delegates—respecting the admission of Vouchers, in ascertaining the debt of the state against the U States. Agreeably to order Sept. 11th, 1788. 16 MS (DNA: PCC, item 187). In the hand of Roger Alden. A continuation of Thomson’s Memorandum Book, August 20? 1788. 1 See the following entry. 2 See Thomson to Certain States, September 4, note 1.


[Page 373]
September 4, 1788 339 Edward does not go till Saturday. Remember me to your Mama—Mrs. Montgomery, Kitty & Joanna, & be assur’d that I am with all possible affection, Your J Armstrongjr. 1 RC (John Armstrong Papers, Rokeby Collection, Barrytown, N.Y.). 1 Armstrong also wrote a brief letter to Alida on Sunday, September 7, observing, “I write to-day only to inform you that I have written yesterday and the day preceeding [not found],” and reporting that he had recovered his health. Ibid. William Few to Unknown Dear Sir New York Septr. 4th 1788 Parson Boyd will this day sail from here for Georgia, and go imme diately to Augusta, which is so direct an opportunity, that I cannot re sist the propensity of droping you a few lines, altho we have little news that is worth communicating. Congress have not yet agreed on the place for the first meeting of the Legislature under the new Constitution. Several places have been proposed among which are Anappolis, Baltimore and Lancaster, but the competition at present lies between Philadelphia and New York, and on this question there is a diversity of opinion; it is said by the advocates for Philadelphia that it is more central and possess other advantages in an equal degree and ought therefore to be the place of residence of the National Government. To this it is objected and said that the National Legislature ought not to reside in a large Commer cial City where the members would be subject to the undue influence of the local policy of the place, and that such large City would derive such advantages as would be injurious to the equal rights and priv- iledges of the other members of the union, contrary to the genius and principles of Republican Government and will evidently tend to facilitate the growth of that Aristocrasy or Monarchy, so hatefull to Americans, and to which there is too much reason to apprehend the New government will have a tendancy. That the place for the parma- nent Residence of the New Congress is an object of much impor tance, and highly interesting to those States which are so Situate as to stand in competition for that advantage and they will be induced by their own Interest to make advantageous offers to the United States to establish the federal Town in their respective limits, if Congress in the first instance does not give any partial advantage, and therefore they say the first Congress under the New Constitution ought to meet in New York where all the Officers and documents of Government are and from whence the new Legislature may with more impartiality determine where the parmanent Residence of the National Legisla ture ought to be.


[Page 377]
September 6, 1788 343 has the business past on from day to day waiting the return of the delegates from Rhode Island. As it seems to be the general opinion that New York or Philadelphia must be the place for the first Congress to assemble in and as seven States and an half are in favor of the former and half the Delegation of Delaware, in addition, pointedly opposed to the latter it appears to be the effect of unwarrantable obstinancy that the minority will not concede the point in question without further delay. I hope however that we shall be able to finish this business within a few days when I shall do myself the honor to give your Excellency the earliest notice. With the highest Respect I have the honor to be Your Excellency’s most obedient and most humble Servant, N. Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 See John Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. Alexander Hamilton to Elbridge Gerry Sir New York, Sepr. 6. 1788 I am a member of a Committee, to whom the Baron De Steuben’s application to Congress founded upon a certain statement supported among other testimonials by a certificate from you, has been referred. 1 Among the papers committed to us is the copy of a written report made by the Committee appointed to confer with the Baron at York Town. 2 As this report is of a nature to create difficulties in the case, I have thought proper to inclose it for your perusal and shall be obliged to you for any explanations which may serve to throw further light on the subject. 3 I remain with esteem & regard Sir, Yr. Obed serv, Alex Hamilton 4 RC (CtY); reprinted from Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:212-13. 1 The committee appointed February 1, 1788, on Steuben’s claim for compensation for military service had been renewed June 4 and reported July 7. The report was recommitted July 9, and a revised report was submitted July 25 and taken up and placed on the journals August 25. After debate it was committed, on a motion by Hamilton, to another committee, consisting of Hamilton, Edward Carrington, James Madison, Theodore Sedgwick, and Thomas Tudor Tucker, which reported on September 11. See JCC, 34:9n, 13, 202n, 300n, 315n, 357, 448-53, 507-12. For Gerry’s “certificate” on be half of Steuben, see these Letters, 23:11. 2 Copies of this report are in PCC, item 19, 5:568, 585. For the full file of papers col lected by the various committees appointed to study Steuben’s claim, see PCC, item 19, 5:494-618.


[Page 378]
344 September 6, 1788 3 Gerry’s September 8 response to Hamilton has not survived, but for an extract from it which Hamilton’s committee quoted in their September 11 report, see JCC, 34:510-11. 4 Hamilton also wrote on September 8 to “The Honorable Richard Morris, Esq., Chief Justice of the State of New York,” enclosing a petition on behalf of the estate of Philip Livingston. Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:215. James Madison to James Madison, Sr. Hond Sir N. York Sepr. 6.1788 I forward this by the mail expecting it will be at Fredg. in time for Mr. A. Shepherd who left this a day or two ago. Nothing of much con sequence has occurred since my last. The current intelligence you will find in the inclosed gazettes. The Antifederalists are every where ex erting themselves for an early Convention. The circular letter from this State, and the rejection of N. Carolina, give them great spirits. Vir ginia, I suppose from the temper of the present Legislature will co-op erate in the plan. Congress have not yet settled the place for the meeting of the new Govt. It is most probable that the advocates for N. York who form at present the greater number, will prevail. In that case, altho’ I think it a very unreasonable thing for the Southn. & Western parts of the Union, the best face must be put on it. I have not yet been able to determine whether Anthony is still in Philada. I am inclined to believe he is not. Indeed some circumstances wd almost tempt me to think he never has been there. On this suppo sition John must have practised a gross deception on us. He could have no motive for this unless it were a spite to Billey, which I fancy he entertained. But the deception could hardly promise a gratification that would prompt it. He is still very sick, and his recovery not very probable. I find on enquiry that the loan office Certificates which I told you I had only mislaid, not lost, must go to N. Carolina for setdement. If an oppy. offers I shall accordingly send them thither unless otherwise di rected by you. I have not yet seen Mr. Morris & have therefore not been able to do any thing in the affair of Mr. Triplett. Remember me affecdy to my mother & the family, and believe me yr. dutiful son. Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:247-48.


[Page 385]
September 11, 1788 351 can be bot & 3/ for the Interest. I am not in the way of knowing much of this business. I expect next week to leave this City for home, you will please therefore not to direct further to me as at New York. I have nothing remarkable to communicate but shall enclose a newspaper. I am Sir your most humble Servant, Paine Wingate RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1907). Addressed: “John Wendell Esquire, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.” 1 Not identified. John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Thursday 11th. Sept. 1788. N. York. I wrote something by the post of yesterday 1 which in point of length, hardly deserves the name of a note; but promis’d to do better to-day in answer to the long letter I expected, & the too short one I receiv’d. I don’t know that I can give a name to the cause but the fact is that I find myself becoming a most rigid moralist & begin to think that there’s litde difference between dissembling a fact & telling a false hood; & (to apply this) that it would have been quite as well to have told you at once, that what with some days of bad weather—a little vexatious business; & two or three instances of shuffling & meanness in men of whom I wish’d to think better, I was both out of temper & spirits, & in no disposition either to write or think as I ought. Had I done this, my promise, which I have now sat down to execute, would have implied a condition, & not have been binding but under a change of circumstances; While, as it is, I can but aim at what I should be, betray myself at every line, & at lest, to avoid the shame of detec tion honestly confess (as I now do) that a repetition of the causes to day have not at all lessen’d their effect, & that I continue to be more flat & sour & Cold than I ought to be on any occasion, but particularly when I’m writing to one who is herself all equanimity & tenderness. I feel & acknowlege the folly of making oneself an Index either to men, weather, or busin [ess], but so shap’d & compos’d are we, that stretch us ten times a day on the wheel of error—still we mistake, & tho’ we repent very sincerely, we repent without any amendment. I will make no apology for all this—that would be apologizing for an apology—for it is seriously meant as an excuse for what I could not but discover at some turn or other of my pen. Besides are not the diseases of the


[Page 391]
September 12, 1788 357 Jonathan Dayton


[Page 392]
358 September 12,1788 tage of yourself & the others concerned. We have already in the com mencement of it’s prosecution met with numerous embarrassments, we hope they will not continue, if they should we shall take the best measures to face & overcome them. 3 Septr 12th 4 This morning Mr Marsh came over agreeably to my ap pointment to execute & subscribe to, the contract we had drawn up— The Board receded from the objection as to quantity mentioned on the other side but raised a new difficulty as to our power of Attorney which they said was very imperfect & insufficient—It recites in it’s be ginning that a contract, had been entered into between you & the Board & refers to that written agreement, which the board says never had existence. They say it is true Congress authorised them to con tract with you for two millions on certain terms, but that you never came forward & contracted—They say also that you proposed to pur chase instead thereof but one million with certain boundaries, to which they disagreed—that they in their turn offered to sell you a mil lion with other boundaries which you by letter declined. From all this they infer that there is not only no written [Ms uncertain] you express but not even a verbal contract between you & also that there never has been either. They add that all the powers you have vested us with, refer to & are founded upon this supposed contract which, you sug gest, actually exists between you & them & which they know nothing about & consequendy cannot acknowledge. They have even gone to the expence of employing & consulting Council on the occasion, by whom, our power is declared to be altogether defective. They offered to contract with us for the land in our own names & right which we have refused—& they have at length consented to accept our signa tures as Agents for you upon our agreeing to annex a proviso that we will procure from you a more ample & sufficient power of Attorney, or failing to do that, that we will, individually & in our proper characters, consider & acknowledge ourselves bound to perform the conditions & stipulations. It will be necessary or at least desireable that you make out this power immediately, acknowledge it before one or the other two Judges of the Western territory & forward it by the first opportu nity. As soon as this business is compleated on our part, Mr Boudinot &c. mean to agree for the million on the little Miami, which they pro pose to divide into forty shares and have promised me that you may take what number of them you think proper. All are to come in by their plan on equal terms, they do not seem disposed to promise a preference in favor of Capt. Stites but say they will leave the considera tion of his case to the whole of the associates. The contracts of Morgan & Flint & Parker are destroyed, & the rise of Certificates makes the people here less eager to engage in land speculations than when you left us. I enclose you a copy of the letter of agency & of your acct as you requested. You may remember Mr


[Page 395]
September 13, 1788 361 would seem, that the States had no guard to take against previous set tlements with the U.S., and that charges for depredation paid to such Officers will be adjudged valid, notwithstanding any such previous set- dements which might have been made by the applicants. We take the liberty to submit these considerations, in order that you may determine whether it will not be best for the U.S. to take pro ceedings against Doctor Draper for their indemnification. We 3 have the Honor to be &c. FC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In the hand of Edward Carrington. 1 For which see Madison, Papers (Rutland), ll:251n.l. 2 See JCC, 20:637. 3 The Virginia delegates attending Congress at this time were Carrington, Cyrus Grif fin, Henry Lee, and James Madison. Nathan Dane to Theodore Sedgwick My Dear Sir New York Sepr. 13. 1788 The question about the place of the new Governments meeting is finally well settled—the day after you went away some person on our part moved a resolution for fixing the times of the elections, &c. and leaving the place to be de[te]rmined hereafter. 1 This resolution for myself I did not like—however those who advocated New York voted for it—and the advocates of Philadelphia against it, and the question was lost. Soon after they proposed to move a like resolution—but gave it up. Last Tuesday Arnold arrived from Rhode Island, 2 and in formed that his Colleague would be on in a few days. New Jersey as sembled approved of the Conduct of her Delegates—& information was received that the people of Charleston did the same as to the South Carolina Delegates. There is a federal Legislature now in Ses sion in Pennsyla. A new one is soon to be chosen—and in this the federalists I understand, are apprehensive the other party will prevail. Considering all these circumstances the advocates for Philadela. con cluded that it was best to give up their opposition and this day the re solves were unanimously passed and with N. York for the place of meeting &c. 3 Brother Otis is not yet arrived but we expect him every hour—he was, I am informed, at Newport this day week. Delaware and Maryland are absent—Mr. Wingate and myself set out for Massa, next week. We have chosen the three Commissioners for settling the Ac counts—Mr. Baldwin, Genl. Irvine and John Taylor Gilman. 4 Mr. Jack-


[Page 396]
362 September 13, 1788 son came near being elected two or three times—but, as I something expected, there was too great a combination among the seven or eight non claiming States, as they are called, to admit of Virginia or Mas sachusetts having a man—these Are considered as the two largest claiming States. With sentiment of esteem & friendship, Your humble Servant, N. Dane RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). Addressed: “Honorable Theodore Sedgwick Esqr., Stock- bridge, Massachusetts." 1 For this September 4 motion by Thomas Tudor Tucker, see JCC, 34:495—97. 2 According to the journals, Peleg Arnold also attended on Monday September 8. JCC, 34:501-2. 3 See JCC, 34:522-23; andjohn Brown to John Smith, July 9, note 4. 4 See Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, this date. Nicholas Gilman to John Langdon Sir New York September 13th 1788. I do myself the honor to transmit herewith, an ordinance of Congress for putting in motion the new System of government 1 —and have the pleasure to observe, that, although a difference in sentiment, respecting the place of meeting has been productive of animated de bates and has occasioned some delay—yet it finally passed without a dissentient voice or the least apparent animosity. This day has also compleated the Election of the Commissioners for settling the na tional accounts agreeably to the ordinance of May 1787. 2 The Board consists of General William Irvine of Pennsylvania, Mr. J. T. Gilman of New Hampshire and Mr. Abraham Baldwin of Georgia. Enclosed also are two resolutions of the Convention of North Car olina transmitted to Congress by their President—one of which shews the sense in which that body considers their act respecting the pro posed plan of government and their determination to adhere to the Union. 3 With the greatest Respect, I have the Honor to be, Sir, Your Excel- lencys Most obedient and Most Humble Servant, N. Gilman RC (Nh-Ar: State Papers, Revolutionary Correspondence). 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, this date. 2 See Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, this date. 3 For this August 1 resolution, which is in “Certificates of Ratification of the Constitu tion and Bill of Rights” (M338, DNA microfilm), and the debate on its adoption, see N.C. Slate Records, 22:16-33.


[Page 412]
378 September 19, 1788 I had some expectation of finding you in NY but am rejoiced you have better business and can attend to it without painful separation from your family. I think the business of the present Congress is closed or nearly so but you mentioned and so thinks Mr Dane that our representation had best be kept up; If you will be kind eno to take the opinion of the members of Assembly & communicate it will oblige me. I have no business unfortunately, to call me or employ me at home, at the same time should be ashamed to tarry here and receive pay merely because I am chosen. Perhaps seven States may be represented most of the time or perhaps eight & there may be less than seven, at any rate should be obliged by the candid opinion of my judicious friends. Enclosed is the paper of the day and a letter from the post office. I conversed Doctr Dexter & perfectly satisfied him the receipts ought to be exchanged as proposed in regard to Mrs Lincoln, Arid shall thank you for attention to the business when you go to Boston. I think you will find I have only a Mortgage of half Atwaters place, The record will shew. I have not the deed here. My Compliments to your Lady & am Your most huml Sert, Sam A Otis RC (MHi: Sedgwick Papers). Addressed: “The Honorable Theodore Sedgwick, Stock- bridge, Massachusetts. Free Sam. A. Otis.” Postmarked: “N-York Sep 19. Free.” James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York Sepr. 21. 1788 Being informed of a circuitous opportunity to France I make use of it to forward the inclosures. 1 By one of them you will find that Congress have been at length brought into the true policy which is de manded by the situation of the Western Country. An additional resolu tion on the {secret journal} 2 puts an {end to all negotiation with Spain} referring the subject of a {treaty after this} assertion {of right to the Missisipi to the new government}. 3 The communication in my last will have shewn you the {crisis of things} in that {quarter a crisis} however not particularly {known to Congress} and will be a {key to} some of the {Kentucky toasts in the Virginia gazette}. 4 The Circular letter from the New York Convention has rekindled an ardor among the opponents of the federal Constitution for an immediate revision of it by another General Convention. You will find in one of the papers inclosed the result of the consultations in Pensylvania on that subject. 5 Mr. Henry and his friends in Virginia enter with great zeal into the scheme. Govemour Randolph also espouses it; but with a wish to prevent if possible danger to the article which extends the power of the Government to internal as well as external taxation. It is observable that


[Page 418]
384 September 22,1788 make for it which you will see in the N York Daily Advertiser for 17th Inst., a Copy of which I have inclosed to Mr. Collins. Be assured that I am with the utmost Regard, Dr sir, Your most obedt Servt., Hu Williamson ENCLOSURE The State of North-Carolina, by not adopting the new Constitution, is lately become the subject of much criticism and censure. In this in stance, having done what is supposed to be wrong, it is hardly admit ted that ever she did any thing that was right. We are told that during the war, her exertions were trifling—that she had never contributed to the national expence—and that she now refuses to confederate, from a desire to promote the fraudulent tender of paper money. Charges against the unpopular are usually listened to with avidity, but happily none of these charges are well founded, however current they are in circulation. During the whole of the late war, whenever the neighbouring states were invaded, North-Carolina was sure to send them assistance. We have seen in the course of one campaign, six or seven thousand men of the North-Carolina militia, in one of the neighbouring states, or on their march to its relief; and she now counts three or four thousand of her citizens who fell a sacrifice in Georgia or South-Carolina, to their zeal for the safety of the Union. We say nothing of her continental line, nor of those who fell within the state while the enemy pervaded every part of it. Is it probable that such armies were supported without money? Surely not. But North- Carolina has uniformly paid and supported her own militia, though they were in the continental service, and she has furnished provisions to a considerable part of the continental troops in the Southern armies. Who has paid for the vast stores that have been consumed by such bodies of armed men? In other states, commissioners have been appointed to setde the claims of individuals against the United States, and certificates for many a million, have been issued by those com missioners; but no such officers have had occasion to setde accounts in North-Carolina, because the state has taken upon itself all the debts that were due to her citizens by the Union, except a finall bal ance that was due to her continental line. These debts have amounted to several millions. Some part is already paid—there is a large balance remaining. From the public accounts it would appear, that in the year’s 1782 and 1783, North Carolina had paid nothing to wards the specie requisitions, while South-Carolina had paid her quota, but this is a difference only in appearance—for the state last mentioned, has a specie credit for all supplies furnished the army from the beginning of 1782, while North-Carolina, that furnished large supplies, stands without any credit, because she has not brought up her accounts. For several years North-Carolina has been oppressed by discharging the debts she had assumed to her continental line,


[Page 420]
386 September 22, 1788 post on goods imported into this state, and appropriate the money arising therefrom to the use of Congress.” It was also on the same day “Resolved unanimously, That it be recommended to the general assem bly to take effectual measures for the redemption of the paper cur rency, as speedily as may be consistent with the situation and circum stances of the people of this state.” These acts afford the clearest proof that the Convention of North Carolina was not actuated by the dishonest spirit of paper money. They are also in proof that she wishes to co-operate with the union, and hold herself in readiness to confed erate whenever certain steps are taken, which may readily be taken without her assistance. If it shall be urged that she might now confed erate without any danger, and that her efforts would be of use to other states, whose interest is nearly the same, the writer confesses that he is of the same opinion. He thinks that some alterations which equally af fect the several parts of the union, will certainly be made, because the spirit of a nation is not to be resisted. But there are two or three alter ations which respect the southern states, that they may have a greater security against illiberal or oppressive combinations; these alterations he suspects will not be made, because the most trifling seeming advan tage is seldom relinquished; but he apprehends no danger from the consequence. The evils which North-Carolina apprehends are of such a nature, the measures would be in themselves so iniquitous, and so abhorrent to the feelings of every southern man, that despotism itself would hardly attempt them, and all its arts and auxiliaries would never be able to put them in force. Be this as it may, in all abstract questions of this sort concerning the expediency of measures, people are apt to differ, and North-Carolina in the present case has chanced to differ from her sister states; but notwithstanding of such difference, it should be remembered that she has hitherto been second to few of the states in substantial attempts to serve the nation. Her late conduct is free from every charge of selfishness or dishonesty, and we are bound to believe that she is determined to support the Federal Union. September 16 A Republican. RC (NhD: Iredell Papers). Enclosure reprinted from the September 17 issue of the New York Daily Advertiser. 1 See Charles Thomson to the States, September 13. 2 That is, No. 7 of the amendments proposed by the North Carolina ratifying conven tion August 1, “That no commercial treaty shall be ratified without the concurrence of two-thirds of the whole number of the members of the senate: And no treaty, ceding, contracting, or restraining or suspending the territorial rights or claims of the United States, or any of them, or their rights or claims to fishing in the American seas, or navi gating the American rivers shall be made, but in cases of the most urgent and extreme necessity; nor shall any such treaty be ratified without the concurrence of three-fourths of the whole number of the members of both houses respectively.” Certificates of Ratifi cation of the Constitution and Bill of Rights, M338, DNA microfilm.


[Page 421]
September 24, 1788 387 Abraham Yates to William Smith D friend 1 New York 22 Sep 1788 I have your favour of the 17th before me. In Respect to the New government We exactly agree in Opinion. The case now is Simple. All agree that Amendments are Indispensably necessary—And Where We had it in our Own power before, the Convention have transferred it to the union at Large And We now cant get the Amendments unless % of the States first agree to a Convention and as Many to agree to the Amendments—And then % of the Several Legislatures to confirm them. That this will be an uphill Affair You may see When you call to Mind that Congress lately had ten Weeks before they Could Agree where the New Government Was to meet. But so it is And We must make the best of it. Our only safety now is in geting the Amendments Confirmed. I mean to try for it and I believe the first thing Necessary will be to pass a Law to Inhibit the State officers (the Legislative, Exec utive and Judicial) from takeing the Oath to support the New govern ment untill our amendments have been Confirmed in due form. My Next Will contain More upon this Subject. I have no time (your son goes off to Manor) than to add that I Remain your sincere frind and Humble Servt. Abm. Yates Jun. RC (NCmM: Smith Collection). Addressed: “To William Smith, Esq. at the Manner of St. George, Long Island.” 1 William Smith (1720-99) was a former Suffolk County judge, 1771-75, member of several provincial congresses, 1775-77, and a New York senator from the Southern Dis trict, 1777-83. Doc. Hist, of the First Federal Elections, 3:203. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend New York Sepr. 24. 1788 I have been favd. with yours of the 12th instant. 1 The picture it gives of the state of our Country is the more distressing as it seems to ex ceed all the known resources for immediate relief. Nothing in my opinion can give the desired facility to the discharge of debts, but a reestablishment of that confidence which will at once make the credi tor more patient, and open to the solvent debtor other means than bringing his property to market. How far the new Government will produce these effects cannot be yet decided, But the utmost success that can be hoped from it, will leave in full force the causes of inter mediate embarrassment. The additional pressure apprehended from British debts, is an evil also for which I perceive at present no certain remedy. As far however as the favorable influence of the new Govt.


[Page 422]
388 September 24,1788 may extend, that may be one source of alleviation. It may be expected also that the British Creditors will feel several motives to indulgence, and I will not suppress a hope that the new Govt, will be both able & willing to effect something by negociation. Perhaps it might not be amiss for the assembly to prepare the way by some act or other, for drawing the Attention of the first Session of the Congress to this sub ject. The possession of the posts by G. Britain, after the removal of the grounds of her complaint, by the provision in the new Constitution with regard to the treaty, will justify a renewal of our demands, and an interference in favor of American Citizens on whom the performance of the treaty on our side depends. Congress have agreed to some resolutions in favor of the Mississippi which are well calculated to appease the discontents of our Western brethren. 2 You shall soon have a copy of them. They are grounded on a remonstrance from N. Carolina on that subject. By the way how has it happened that the last resolutions of Virga, were never forwarded to the Delegation? 3 I refer to the inclosed papers for the current News, and remain, Yrs. Affecly, Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:262-63. 1 See ibid., pp. 251-52. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, September 21, note 3. 3 That is, the resolutions adopted by the House of Delegates November 12, 1787, seeking congressional confirmation of Virginia’s right to navigate the “western streams and rivers of this Commonwealth,” for which see Journal of the House of Delegates of Vir ginia [October 15, 1787-January 8, 1788] (Richmond: A. Davis and T. Nicolson, 1788), pp. 41—42. The committee appointed to prepare instructions to the state’s delegation in Congress, however, failed to report. Randolph therefore assumed, in his October 4 reply, that Madison had referred to the resolutions of November 29, 1786, drafted by Madison and presented to Congress April 19, 1787. See these Letters, 24:241-42n.l; and Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:274. Jeremiah Wadsworth to Charles Pettit Dear Sir New York Septr 24 1788. I have received a letter from Mr Cock the Surveyor which informs me that there are several Settlers on the Lands of Gen Greene & Butelle & I propose to send up their next Month—what Shall we do with those Lands—shall we divide them by lot, where are the Plans made by Mr. Cock—is their any body here to represent the Crediters of Butelle. Your answer will oblidge, Dear Sir Your friend & Humble Servant, Jere Wadsworth 1


[Page 423]
September 26, 1788 389 RC (NjMoHP: Park Collection). 1 Wadsworth also wrote brief notes to his son Daniel and to his wife Mehitable on September 21 and 23, respectively. And he wrote to his daughter Harriet and to Daniel again on September 25 and 28. Wadsworth Papers, CtHi. James Madison to John Brown Dear Sir New York, Sepr. 26, 1788. I have been duly favored with yours of the 26th ulto. from Pittsburg. 1 I believe you are already pretty well acquainted with my ideas of Government so far as they vary from the plan chalked out by Mr. Jefferson. But in compliance with your request on that subject I will take the first convenient occasion of explaining them in writing. The delay cannot I presume be material as the formation of a Govern ment for Kentucky must already be concluded, or suspended for rea sons which will not cease immediately. On the other subject, which employed our confidential conversation just before your departure, you are also possessed of my sentiments. 2 It has been frequently since in my mind as its importance made unavoidable, and the first impres sions have been in no degree weakened by my reflections. Having no cypher concerted with you it would perhaps Ire improper to commit my thoughts to a letter which is to pass through so precarious a con veyance. It will be sufficient to say in general that I anticipate every po litical calamity from the event which was for the first time suggested to my contemplation; and that I cannot but persuade myself that it will by degrees be viewed in all quarters, as no less unnecessary than it cer tainly is critical and hazardous. Besides a variety of considerations which encourage this persuasion, and which being well known need not be mentioned, I will add with pleasure the two following resolu tions lately passed in Congress, which wear a very different aspect from some former proceedings, and which I sincerely believe are the result of the real opinions which now prevail on the subject: 3 In Congress, Sepr. 16, 1788 On the report of the Committee &c. to whom was referred the re port of the Secry. of F. Affairs on a motion of the Delegates of North Carolina stating the uneasiness produced by a report “that Congress are disposed to treat with Spain for the surrender of their claim to the navigation of the River Mississippi” and proposing a Resolution in tended to remove such apprehensions: Resol d. that the said report not being founded in fact the Dele gates be at liberty to communicate all such circumstances as may be necessary to contradict the same & to remove misconceptions.


[Page 424]
390 September 26, 1788 Resol’d, that the free navigation of the River Mississippi is a clear and essential right of the United States & ought to be considered and supported as such. The terms of the last Resolution, and particularly the word essential, which was not inserted with[ou]t attention to its force, mark in the strongest mann[er the l]ight in which the subject is now regarded. In addition to these acts, is another entered on the secret journal, but tacitly allowed to be confidentially communicated, which explicitly for bids any further negociation with Spain, and hands over the business with this assertion of right, to the ensuing Government. We have no late intelligence from Europe, nor have I any thing fur ther to add at present than that I am with the sincerest esteem and at tachment your friend & servt. Js. Madison Jr RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman deposit). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:266-67. 1 See ibid., pp. 242-43. 2 See Madison to Thomas Jefferson, August 23, note 2. 3 Cf. JCC, 34:534-35. See also Madison to Jefferson, September 21, note 3. James Madison to George Washington Dear Sir New York Sepr. 26. 1788 I subjoin two resolutions lately taken by Congress in relation [to] the Mississippi, which I hope may have a critical and salutary effect on the temper of our western Brethren. 1 In Congress Sepr. 16. On report of the Committee &c to whom was referred the Report of the Secy, for For. Affairs on a motion of the Delegates of North Car olina, stating the uneasiness produced by a Report “that Congress are disposed to treat with Spain for the surrender of their claim to the navigation of the River Mississippi” and proposing a resolution in tended to remove such apprehensions, Resolvd. that the said Report not being founded in fact, the Dele gates be at liberty to communicate all such circumstances as may be necessary to contradict the same and to remove misconceptions. Resolvd. that the free navigation of the River Mississippi is a clear and essential right of the United States, and that the same ought to be considered and supported as such. In addition to these resolutions which are not of a secret nature, an other has passed arresting all negociations with Spain, and handing over the subject thus freed of biass from any former proceedings, to the Ensuing Government. 2 This last Resolution is entered on the se cret journal, but a tacit permission is given to the Members to make a confidential use of it. 3


[Page 429]
September, 1788 395 the number of Candidates, equal to the number of Representatives the State has a Right of sending, that shall have the highest number of votes are to be considered as choosen, whether they have a majority of the whole or not. In the same manner will the electors of the Presi dent be choosen. This is called, electing by Pluralities. I am going to dinner, my dear, adieu, yours most affectionately, Geo. Thatcher RC (MHi: Thatcher Papers). 1 For Pennsylvania’s first federal elections, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:229-37, 281-92. Alexander Hamilton to George Washington Dear Sir, New York September 1788 1 Your Excellency’s friendly and obliging letter of the 28th Ulto. came safely to hand. I thank you for your assurance of seconding my appli cation to General Morgan. The truth of that affair is, that he pur chased the watch for a trifle of a British soldier, who plundered Major Cochran at the moment of his fall at York Town. 2 I should be deeply pained my Dear Sir if your scruples in regard to a certain station should be matured into a resolution to decline it; though I am neither surprised at their existence nor can I but agree in opinion that the caution you observe in deferring an ultimate de termination is prudent. I have however reflected maturely on the sub ject and have come to a conclusion, (in which I feel no hesitation) that every public and personal consideration will demand from you an acquiescence in what will certainly be the unanimous wish of your country. The absolute retreat which you meditated at the close of the late war was natural and proper. Had the government produced by the revolution gone on in a tolerable train, it would have been most ad viseable to have persisted in that retreat. But I am clearly of opinion that the crisis which brought you again into public view left you no al ternative but to comply—and I am equally clear in the opinion that you are by that act pledged to take a part in the execution of the gov ernment. I am not less convinced that the impression of the necessity of your filling the station in question is so universal that you run no risk of any uncandid imputation, by submitting to it. But even if this were not the case, a regard to your own reputation as well as to the public good, calls upon you in the strongest manner to run that risk. It cannot be considered as a compliment to say that on your accep tance of the office of President the success of the new government in its commencement may materially depend. Your agency and influence will be not less important in preserving it from the future attacks of its


[Page 433]
October 1, 1788 399 George Thatcher to Sarah Thatcher Dear Sally, City of New-York 1 October 1788. If it affords you any pleasure to hear of my being home-sick, this must be a most gratefull epistle, for it will tell you the news—and I declare it tells the truth, that I am very home-sick—never more so in my life, and have been so for several days; upon the whole I think it in creases, notwithstanding my endeavour to put home out of my mind. But this endeavour, I find very much resembles good people’s at tempting to comfort and console one another under heavy afflic tions—it only makes home so much the more charming, and absence the more irksom. This is a cold, cloudy, day. I have got a fire in my chamber. I hate to step out; but still I had rather be seting by our own fire at Biddeford with the family about us. In mine of yesterday, or the day before I de sired you not to write me after the eighteenth of this month; if I had requested you not to write me again after the receipt of that Letter, it would have been as well, for I am doubtfull whether I shall be here to the end of this month. I told you there was an addition going to be made to the Building Congress now sets in. Twenty or thirty people are daily to work upon this; and the house we now set in must, immediately be unroofed— And Congress must of course adjourn to some other house for the present. There is none where they can be very well accommodated, And I should not wonder if an adjournment without day should take place. If this should be the case you may look for me some time in this month. According to my plan you will now call for the news, & politics. The southern mail arrived to day about twelve, & brings account of the Pennsylvania election, which was yesterday at Philedelphia. Robert Morris & William McClay were choosen federal Senators for that State. 1 The former lives in the City of Philadelphia—and is the great est Merchant, perhaps, in all America. He was for several years Fi nancier-General of the United States, in which Office, he acquired im mense Riches—whether honesdy or dishonestly—is not for you or me to determine, nor is it of any consequence to us now. And it may be enough to regulate his future Conduct for him to know, which I be lieve he does, that the people in general think pretty independently upon this subject; and three to one dont hesitate to say, in speaking of his wealth, that ill-gotten Riches are of short duration. Wm. McClay, the other Senator, was originally a Lawyer—he lives now on a large Farm upon the River Susquehanna about one hun-


[Page 434]
400 October 1, 1788 dred & ten or twenty miles from Philadelphia; he is a member of Council in that State; and highly respected by the Landed interest, as Morris is by the mercantile. I hope to be able, in my next, to give you a more particular detail of these two Senators—their Characters—and the views of the parties that choose them. It is an object with me to acquire as accurate a knowledge, as possible, of the Members of the first Congress under the new Constitution. Adieu, my dear—the first part of this Letter will please you—& the latter our friends, Silas, Hill, &c &c. Geo. Thatcher RC (MHi: Thatcher Papers). 1 See Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:293, 298, 405. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Sir public New York 1st Octr. 1788 1 The Delegates have more than once recommended to the Legisla ture to adopt more effectual means to establish the various Claims of the State against the Union for Supplies and Services rendered during the late War, from the Desire of relieving the Taxes & Burdens of our fellow Citizens. I continue to have much Reason to suspect that many proper Charges are not stated—that many useful Documents in sup port of our Claims remain to be collected. I shall try to explain my ideas on this Subject that you may be enabled to communicate the same, if they shall appear to deserve Attention. On the last Year Congress passed an Ordinance for setding the Ac counts between the United States and the individual States. This Ordi nance is inclosed and three Commissioners have lately been chosen for settling those accounts; 2 but as the Delegates from States who have no doubtful or unauthorised Accounts (and they are a great majority) were interested in chusing Commissioners in the same Predicament, the Persons chosen are from New Hampshire, Pennsylvania and Geor gia; 3 Those States, as we are informed, do not claim a single Dollar from the Union but what are fully authorised by Acts of Congress, and it is probable that the Commissioners will be very tardy in admitting the Claims of other States, which are unsanctioned by Congress, lest they should thereby increase the Burden of their own States. In this View of the Case we are not to hope for Favours; we can only expect what may be demanded from the cold hand of Justice. What are the Claims that may be established by the State of North Carolina! This Question does not appear to have been fully consid ered. If you will be pleased to consult an Act of Congress of June 3rd


[Page 436]
402 October 1,1788 overlook the Expences of recruiting the continental Line though this Account as I conceive has never been stated in any of our Books. The Eastern States alledge that they have furnished more than their Quota of Men for the continental Service and they have formally claimed an Allowance for every supernumerary according to the Bounty they paid, which towards the End of the War was considerable. It will be recollected that in 1781-2 our State raised men by Draughts for the continental Service, whenever a draughted man hired a substitute he was obliged to pay a considerable Bounty. The Average of such Bounty may be ascertained, and it should be taken for the true Bounty paid for every Recruit. Though some of the Eastern States may have per formed more than their Quota of Duty in the continental Line I con ceive that North Carolina will not be in Arrears when all the continen tal Service performed by her Militia is taken into Account; We certainly shall be ahead of our sister & neighbouring States. Be this as it may, I conceive that North Carolina should be prepared to charge her Bounties in Case they are allowed to any other State. I have said that North Carolina must suffer much Loss in being obliged to raise her Charges according to the number of Militia that shall appear to have been employed in the national Service, but I question whether this mode of raising an Account is not preferable to the other Plan that seems to be in Contemplation, as subject to fewer Losses. If we have recourse to the general Mass of Accounts as settled, and take our Charges from the Books of the Comptroller, I take for granted that no Account will be admitted but such as are clearly continental in distinc tion from State Charges; but I am taught to believe that many of the Accounts, perhaps half of them, though properly continental, bear no distinguishing marks by which it can be clearly determined that they were raised for continental Service. This must occasion much Loss, but it is farther alledged that the Accounts of a considerable Part of our Citizens have been settled under great loss by Depredation in such manner that less than fiv6 Shillings Specie has been allowed for an hundred Weight of flour and other Things in Proportion. If our Supplies shall be charged to the Union in this manner one Loss mul tiplied into the other will hardly leave a fourth Part of the proper Credits. . You have seen how complicated and numerous the Claims are which our State may adduce against the United States properly sanc tioned by Resolves of Congress, but no small share of Diligence and Abilities will be necessary, fully to investigate and illucidate those sev eral Charges. Would it not be proper to direct the Comptroller or some other Person who shall acquire a perfect Knowledge of the Ac counts and Services of the State and shall be possessed of all the Jour nals, Letters, Papers and other Documents that may help to explain this Subject to attend the Continental Commissioners while they are settling Accounts—that he may explain and support the sundry


[Page 438]
404 October 1,1788 Certificates that may deserve Notice are in the Hands of Citizens of N Carolina; our Quota is 71,882 Dlrs. The Amount of Certificates issued to the continental Line of the Army is 10,900,558 Dlrs. Our Quota of this Sum is 838,504 Dlrs, but the Certificates issued to the North Carolina Line do not exceed 385,146 Dlrs whence it appears that we have less than our Quota by 453 358 Dlrs. The Amount of Certificates issued by Commissioners who have been appointed in the several States to settle the Claims of individuals against the United States is 3,723,625 Dlrs. Our Quota of this Sum is 286 432 Dlrs, but the Portion that seems to be in the Hands of Citi zens of N Carolina is only 8,695 Dlrs, hence it follows that we have less than our Quota by 277,737 Dlrs. The Amount of our Deficiencies may then be stated as follows. In Mony borrowed 69,478 Specie Payments 216,910 Indents 144,702 Loan Office Securities 763,619 Certificates in Staff Departts. 71,882 Army final Settlemts. 453,358 Certifs. by State Commissrs 277,737 1,997,686 Dlrs Thus it appears that our State or private Citizens in the State must have an addition of near two Million of Dollars in National Securities before we are on a par with other States, and we are to recollect that the Claims hitherto setded are chiefly private ones. None of the States have hitherto setded their general Claims against the Union for Ser vices and Supplies. Some of the States have large Claims. Virginia has half a million, as the Condition annexed to her Cession of western Territory; it is probable she will establish half a million besides, for Militia Services and Supplies. Every State has its Claims and fortu nately for themselves most of them have good Accounts & can support every Claim by the Acts of Congress. Perhaps half a Million of Dollars may average the Amount of Claims that may hereafter be admitted in the several States, it may be some what less. On this Supposition North Carolina must establish Claims for two millions & an half of Dollars before she is on a Level with her Sister States. Much Care will be re quired, of such materials as she has, to raise this Fabric. You will be pleased to excuse the length of this Letter, Doubtless this is the last Time in which it can be my duty to give Information of this kind to the State, and I wish the Service had now been executed by an abler Hand, but if I have mistaken the Subject or the Interest of the State, I am confident the Error does not arise from Indolence or Inattention; for I can truely say that from the first Moment on which I was honoured by a Commission from the State I never have devoted


[Page 439]
October 2, 1788 405 an Hour to personal Service or private Amusements that could have been employed in serving the Public. The Subject is before you, I take it to be one by which the Happi ness of our fellow Citizens may be greatly affected, but you are the best Judge of the measures that may be most proper for discovering or collecting sufficient Documents by which we may be enabled to ex plain and substantiate all our Charges against the United States. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Regard, Sir, Your most obedient and very hble Servant, Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). 1 Williamson also wrote the following letter to Governor Johnston on September 26: “A Merchant in this City called on me yesterday respecting the Tobacco advertised be longing to Nth. Cara. I could tell him nothing about it & he could not as he said make any Offers because he is uninformed. He wished me to mention his Name as an Expec tant. He is a Mr. Coster a Dutch Merchant. “He wishes to know where the Tobacco is to be delivered. Is it all at one Place or how many Hhds are at each Place and at what Places are they? Is it to be subject to reinspec tion? Are the buyers to be permitted to examine the Weights by others made by a Stan dard? for the N Car. Weights are every where ill spoken of. “If I shall be enabled to answer the above Questions, Gentlemen will be ready to make their Offers.” Governors’ Papers, Nc-Ar. 2 See Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, September 13. 3 That is, John Taylor Gilman, William Irvine, and Abraham Baldwin 4 See JCC, 27:542. 5 Enclosure not found, but for the September 30 report of the committee “appointed to enquire fully into the department of finance,” of which Williamson was a member and whose examination of “the Receipts and Expenditures of the Federal Treasury” from 1784 to 1788 provided the substance of his present preoccupations, see ICC, 34:554-70. George Thatcher to Nathan Dane My friend, City of New-York 2 October, 1788 Tho ‘tis but two, or three days since I wrote you 1 I cannot omit, this post, to inform you of the Pennsylvania Election of Senators. This come on this week a Tuesday. The City party strove hard to command the Election & held up Morris and our loquacious Armstrong. The Country party was wiling the Trading Interest should have one choice; but they thought the Country was entitled to the other. Thus the City did not like; but held up Armstrong to the Country Interest. However after the usual manoeuvering, on such occasions, Morris and William McClay on the Susquehanna were chosen. The Latter I am told is a good man, most esteemed by the Country. He was originally a Lawyer, and is now one of their Executive Council—And a man of great Landed property. 2


[Page 445]
October 7, 1788 411 John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston 7th Octob. 1788. New York. I wrote yesterday but by an unknown hand. Edward was to send the letter. I suppose it will have a water passage and as I know that to be somewhat doubtfull I write again to-day. I hope this days post will be kinder to me than that of Saturday last. Don’t however beleive that any retaliation mix’d itself with the cause of my not writing on Sunday. The history of that omission will be it’s apology. More eager to hear, than to speak—More sollicitous to gratify myself in learning something from you, than to gratify you in telling you anything of myself, off I set to Edwards, & as I told you yesterday, waited there impatiently ‘till 8 OClock—heard nothing, & miss’d the post-hour. With my colleagues would determine the time of my going up to Clermont. I should have added the nature of these arange- ments, for this will shew you how little they depend upon myself & will account for any excess of the time I have given myself to be in this place. ’Tis among the number of good offices done me by my Colleagues that for 6 Months past they have most industriously propagated a be lief that I had renounc’d Pennsylva. & her interests & had in fact be come quite a New Yorker. As evidence of this they added that I never was with Congress. Now tho’ utterly false & tho’ by this time treated as such in Pennsylva. yet it is the effect of even a suspicion of this kind to quicken my sense of public duty & to lead me by every possible means to demonstrate that under any circumstances I can never either ne glect or betray the trust committed to me. The arangement then to which I alluded was not that of private confidence, (which must be at an end between us) but of public agreement—that in short, they would assent to an adjournment or tacit dissolution of the body. This is I find agreeable to others & must at all events happen in th[ree] weeks from this time. I c[an] communicate these facts only as [th]ey may explain my situation, & account fo[...] longer absence than you might else expect from me. I am perhaps more uneasy about this than I ought, and certainly more than I should, were my pleasure in the in terview less than I’m sure it will be. But I have my resource in one of your earliest maxims—“that this Life was a life of sacrafice & that the sooner We beleiv’d it—the readier would we submit to the crosses that await us.” Under any circumstances I am my dear Alida your’s most Affy., J Armstrong jr. RC (John Armstrong Papers, Rokeby Collection, Barrytown, N.Y.).


[Page 446]
412 October 8,1788 Benjamin Contee to Levi Hollingsworth Dr Sir New-york 8th Octo. [17] 88 If you find still a great difficulty in cash for the Bills, please forward to me. I think from 4 @ 5 in specie may be had here. Mr W. Hammond at Balto had three or four hundred pounds. I write him if no cash to be had there—and indeed I believe it is scarcer there even than in Phila, to forward to you which please indorse & send on to me. I imagine Mr Hammond is not known here so as that his indorsemnt wd obtain. We [hear] nothing very late from Europe except what is contained in the papers. I find the New yorkers are making a considerable addition to the City Hall for the accommodation of the new Congress. It is said three or four thousand pounds are allready subscribed to make the new building—it is easy to see what this is meant to lead to. I am, sr, yr Obt Servt, Ben. Contee RC (PHi: Hollingsworth Papers). James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir New York Octr. 8. 1788 Herewith inclosed are a letter for yourself forwarded to my hands from General Washington, and two others for the Marquis, one from the same quarter, the other from myself. 1 I put both the last under cover to you, not knowing what regard may be due to Newspaper au thority, that the Marquis is under the open displeasure of the Court, and may therefore be the less likely to receive letters thro’ any other channel. Sometimes the report runs that he is in the Bastile; at an other that he is at the head of a revolt in some one of the Provinces. 2 My last letters have followed each other so quickly and the last of all is of such recent date, 3 that this opportunity by a gentleman going to France, enables me to add little to what has already communicated. The result of the Meeting at Harrisburg was the latest event worthy of notice at the date of my last. Nothing has since taken place in relation to the New Government, but the appointment of Mr. Robt. Morris, and a Mr. McClay, to represent Pennsylvania in the Senate. A law has also passed in that State providing for the election of members for the House of Reps, and of electors of the President. The Act proposes that every Citizen throughout the State shall vote for the whole number of members allotted to the State. This mode of election will confine the


[Page 450]
416 October 9,1788 I enclose you a copy of the resolution of Congress, & am With great respect, Your Most Obedient & very humble servant, John Armstrong jr. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “Gen. Muhlenberg, V. Pres." 1 That is, “An Act Directing the Time, Places and Manner of Holding Elections for Representatives of this State in the Congress of the United States and for Appointing Electors. . .,” adopted October 4. The Statutes at Large of Pennsylvania from 1682 to 1801, 17 vols. (Harrisburg: State Printer, 1908), 13:140-45, Chapter MCCCLXXIII. 2 That is, the resolution for implementing the new government under the Constitu tion, for which see JCC, 34:522-23. 3 Armstrong’s suspicion of such a deviation was unfounded. Alexander Hamilton to Theodore Sedgwick [New York, October 9, 1788] I thank you My Dr. Sir for your obliging congratulations on the event 1 towards effecting which your aid as a joint labourer was so es sential. I hope experience may show that while it promotes the inter est of this place it will not be incompatible with public good. We are making efforts to prepare handsome accommodations for the session of the new Congress. On the subject of Vice President, my ideas have concurred with yours, and I believe Mr. Adams will have the votes of this state. He will certainly, I think, be preferred to the other Gentleman. 2 Yet, cer tainly, is perhaps too strong a word. I can conceive that the other, who is supposed to be a more pliable man may command Antifoed- eral influence. The only hesitation in my mind with regard to Mr. Adams has arisen within a day or two; from a suggestion by a particular Gentleman that he is unfriendly in his sentiments to General Washington. Richard H Lee who will probably, as rumour now runs, come from Virginia is also in this state. The Lees and Adams’ have been in the habit of uniting; and hence may spring up a Cabal very embarrassing to the Executive and of course to the administration of the Government. Consider this. Sound the reality of it and let me hear from you. What think You of Lincoln or Knox? 3 This is a flying thought. Yrs. with sincere regard, A Hamilton RC (DLC: Hamilton Papers). 1 Undoubtedly the selection of New York as the location of the government under the new Constitution. 2 That is, John Hancock.


[Page 453]
October 12, 1788 419 Griffin Esqr is the Person who gives me this Information. He says that Mr Brown Came to Virginia very Rich, That he was a Person of no Discretion or ability, That he Spent his Estate in a Wanton Manner & it’s his Opinion That nothing can be got out of his Estate. That the Mode of Recovery of a Judgment Debt is the same as with us by a Scire Facias on the Record Certified by Copies. Instead of News I have Inclosed a Paper of Yesterday on which I had the Minutes taken from President Griffing.... [PS.] Please to Give my Compliments to Col. Edw[. .. ]s.” Dreer Members of Congress Collection, PHi. John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Sunday 12th. Octob. 1788..... 1 hand he pours out a thousand good wishes for our mutual & unbroken happiness. It rarely happens that old men are the chosen confidants & companions of young ones; & when it does, ‘tis, per haps, an honor to them both. It argues some analogy of character, whatever may be the difference of years. It is a kind of proof that the old man is neither narrow, nor sour; and that the young one is nei ther dissolute nor frivolous. It even supposes an exchange of quali ties; that the sage borrows some vivacity from the boy, & that the boy remunerates himself by taking some of the gravity & experience of the sage. Remember that I do not mean to apply these observations to the confidence existing between the B. 2 & myself & that I offer them meerly as a Theoretical creed concerning Intimate friendships between very different ages. I dind with Mrs. Lewis on Friday. She and her daughter were well. She gives up all thoughts of going up the river this fall, and begins rather to meditate a retreat from the Country. Winter has shewn itself on this side of the highlands, & Mount Pitt seems among the readiest to submit to it’s authority. Edward & Mary are also well. I am much oblig’d by Mrs. M’s remembrance and good wishes. I will soon I suppose have occasion to make a prayer to Neptune for her—or does she relax, as the Winter advances? & will she now post pone her enterprize ‘till the Spring? I had written thus far when a servant brought me a handfull of let ters—& one of them from you. It was dated as far back however as the 28th Ult. and had follow’d me to & from Philad.—but The date I for got in its escapes; besides, it’s a letter from you, & a picture of yourself on the 28th. I have read it over & over & shall continue to do so ‘till I get another to supplant it. Present me to your mama & all the other such of the Gentlemen as you think proper—& Accept my most sincere & absolute affection. Your J Armstrongjr.


[Page 454]
420 October 12, 1788 RC (John Armstrong Papers, Rokeby Collection, Barrytown, N.Y). 1 Opening page or pages missing. 2 That is, baron Steuben, who lived in the same boarding house with Armstrong in New York. Benjamin Contee to Levi Hollingsworth D r g r New-york 12th Octo [17] 88 I reed. yr. favr. yesterday of the 9th Inst.—and am glad you have made sale of the Bills, so as to prevent the trouble of sending them hither. I hope you will be able to get the notes discounted as you ex pect & to forward the cash speedily. I think with you that the Harmony of the Union requires a more central situation than the present for the seat of our National Govt. & as it [is] an Object of some magnitude, I venture to hope it will early attract the attention of the new Congress. The preperations about to be made for its reception here are considerable, & I wish its continu ance, for some time, may not be attempted as a consideration of in dulgence for the expence incurred to make accommodations. I have the Honor to be, Sir, yr. very Obt. servt., Ben. Contee 1 RC (PHi: Hollingsworth Papers). 1 Contee also wrote a brief letter to Hollingsworth on November 3 to arrange the sale of a £150 bill from “Mr Hammond.” Hollingsworth Papers, PHi. William Irvine to Abraham Baldwin Dear Sir New York Octr. 12th 1788 The inclosed Act will inform you how the business now stands 1 — notwithstanding the shape it has assumed, I think if you were here we might fix matters with the Board in such a manner as you need not wait in Georgia for a formal notification. Mr. Gilman & myself can get notice & be on the spot in two weeks, but months may be spent at your distance & uncertain transportation in the winter season. 2 I think there will not be a Congress this year and I have no longer any busi ness here but to make some arrangement in this affair; under these circumstances I need scarcely tell you that it will be with a degree of im patience I shall wait your arrival. I am Dear Sir, Your Most Obedt. Servant (A Copy)


[Page 455]
October 12, 1788 421 Tr (PHi: Caryl Roberts Irvine Collection). In the hand of William Irvine. 1 Irvine, Baldwin, and John Taylor Gilman had recently been appointed commission ers for settling the states’ Continental accounts, for which see Charles Thomson to the Accounts Commissioners, September 13. In consequence of a motion offered by Abra ham Clark, Congress resolved on October 10 that their deliberations required the pres ence of all three commissioners, and that the board of treasury was “required to attend the said board of commissioners when by them requested” and to furnish clerks for their use from the treasury office. See JCC, 34:594-95, 599-600. 2 That is, from Baldwin’s home in Georgia to New York. Notwithstanding this prospect, Baldwin, Gilman, and Irvine took their oaths of office and allegiance collec tively on January 19, 1789, preliminary to beginning their duties. See PCC, item 195, fol. 354. See also Irvine to Baldwin, October 23. James Madison to John Brown Dear Sir New York. Oct. 12. [17] 88 I find by the act of your late Convention, that another is to take place in Nov. with power to propose a form of Government for Ken tucky. 1 In consequence of this information I shall forewith execute the request contained in your letter from Fort Pitt, 2 and forward the re marks on Mr. Jefferson’s draft by the next mail. 3 I am sorry it is not in my power to do it by this. The delay pro ceeded from the idea that the subject would either have been previ ously covered in Kentucky or not be so immediately resumed. I enclosed in my last the Resolutions of Congress concerning the Mississippi. 4 No other articles of moment has lately passed, and it is uncertain whether there will again be a quorum, at least during the present Fedl Year. Our intellegence from Europe comes through the ordinary channels only, but it seems to prove that war has eventually commenced between Sweden and Russia. The affairs of France re main in the same uncertainty as for sometime past. I enclose a few of the late gazettes from which you will collect most of the data on which our political calculations with respect to Europe are founded. Yours affecly, Js. Madison Jr. 5 Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:280. 1 The resolves of the sixth Kentucky Convention assembled in Danville July 28th had proposed that a seventh convention meet in November to pursue Kentucky statehood and “to form a Constitution of Government for the District.” These resolves had ap peared in the New York Daily Advertiser for October 10. For the work of both conven tions, which resulted in the third enabling act of December 28, 1788, see Patricia Watlington, The Partisan Spirit: Kentucky Politics, 1779-1792 (New York: Atheneum, 1972), pp. 164-69, 175-79. For Brown’s November 23 reply to this letter, see Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:364-65. 2 For which, see ibid., pp. 242-43. 3 Although the letter in which Madison enclosed his “Observations on the ‘Draught of a Constitution for Virginia’,” has not been found, the editors of the Madison Papers


[Page 462]
428 October 17,1788 powers are granted. 2. because there is great reason to fear that a posi tive declaration of some of the most essential rights could not be ob tained in the requisite latitude. I am sure that the rights of Conscience in particular, if submitted to public definition would be narrowed much more than they are likely ever to be by an assumed power. One of the objections in New England was that the Constitution by pro hibiting religious tests, opened a door for Jews, Turks & infidels. 3. be cause the limited powers of the federal Government and the jealousy of the subordinate Governments, afford a security which has not ex isted in the case of the State Governments, and exists in no other. 4. because experience proves the inefficacy of a bill of rights on those occasions when its controul is most needed. Repeated violations of these parchment barriers have been committed by overbearing ma jorities in every State. In Virginia I have seen the bill of rights violated in every instance where it has been opposed to a popular current. Notwithstanding the explicit provision contained in that instrument for the rights of Conscience it is well known that a religious establish ment wd. have taken place in that State, if the legislative majority had found as they expected, a majority of the people in favor of the mea sure; and I am persuaded that if a majority of the people were now of one sect, the measure would still take place and on narrower ground than was then proposed, notwithstanding the additional obstacle which the law has since created. Wherever the real power in a Govern ment lies, there is the danger of oppression. In our Governments the real power lies in the majority of the Community, and the invasion of private rights is chiefly to be apprehended, not from acts of Govern ment contrary to the sense of its constituents, but from acts in which the Government is the mere instrument of the major number of the constituents. This is a truth of great importance, but not yet suffi ciently attended to: and is probably more strongly impressed on my mind by facts, and reflections suggested by them, than on yours which has contemplated abuses of power issuing from a very different quar ter. Wherever there is an interest and power to do wrong, wrong will generally be done, and not less readily by a powerful & interested party than by a powerful and interested prince. The difference, so far as it relates to the superiority of republics over monarchies, lies in the less degree of probability that interest may prompt abuses of power in the former than in the latter; and in the security in the former agst. oppression of more than the smaller part of the society, whereas in the former 7 it may be extended in a manner to the whole. The differ ence so far as it relates to the point in question—the efficacy of a bill of rights in controuling abuses of power—lies in this, that in a monar chy the latent force of the nation is superior to that of the sovereign, and a solemn charter of popular rights, must have a great effect, as a


[Page 463]
October 17, 1788 429 standard for trying the validity of public acts, and a signal for rousing & uniting the superior force of the community; whereas in a popular Government, the political and physical power may be considered as vested in the same hands, that is in a majority of the people, and con- sequendy the tyrannical will of the sovereign is not [to] be controuled by the dread of an appeal to any other force within the community. What use then it may be asked can a bill of rights serve in popular Governments? I answer the two following which though less essential than in other Governments, sufficiently recommend the precaution. 1. The political truths declared in that solemn manner acquire by de grees the character of fundamental maxims of free Government, and as they become incorporated with the national sentiment, counteract the impulses of interest and passion. 2. Altho’ it be generally true as above stated that the danger of oppression lies in the interested ma jorities of the people rather than in usurped acts of the Government, yet there may be occasions on which the evil may spring from the lat ter source; and on such, a bill of rights will be a good ground for an appeal to the sense of the community. Perhaps too there may be a cer tain degree of danger, that a succession of artful and ambitious rulers, may by gradual & well-timed advances, finally erect an independent Government on the subversion of liberty. Should this danger exist at all, it is prudent to guard against it, especially when the precaution can do no injury. At the same time I must own that I see no tendency in our governments to danger on that side. It has been remarked that there is a tendency in all Governments to an augmentation of power at the expence of liberty. But the remark as usually understood does not appear to me well founded. Power when it has attained a certain degree of energy and independence goes on generally to further de grees. But when below that degree, the direct tendency is to further degrees of relaxation, until the abuses of liberty beget a sudden transi tion to an undue degree of power. With this explanation the remark may be true; and in the latter sense only, is it in my opinion applicable to the Governments in America. It is a melancholy reflection that lib erty should be equally exposed to danger whether the Government have too much or too little power, and that the line which divides these extremes should be so inaccurately defined by experience. Supposing a bill of rights to be proper the articles which ought to compose it, admit of much discussion. I am inclined to think that abso lute restrictions in cases that are doubtful, or where emergencies may overrule them, ought to be avoided. The restrictions however strongly marked on paper will never be regarded when opposed to the de cided sense of the public; and after repeated violations in extraordi nary cases, they will lose even their ordinary efficacy. Should a Rebel lion or insurrection alarm the people as well as the Government, and


[Page 466]
432 October 17,1788 RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:304-5. 1 See ibid., p. 186. 2 For which see Virginia Delegates to Randolph, October 4, note 4. 3 For an analysis of Madison’s election to the first federal Congress, see ibid., pp. 301-4. Charles Thomson to the Board of Treasury Gentlemen, Office of Secretary of Congress [October 17, 1788] 1 In pursuance of your request signified to me in a note of this day from Mr. Duer, I transmit to you herewith enclosed a Copy of the Let ter of 11 August 1788, from his Excellency the Governor of Virginia and of your Report thereon. 2 With great Respect, I have the honor to be &c., C.T. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “The Honble. The Commisrs. of the Treasury.” 1 Date determined by Thomson’s reference to William Duer’s October 17 “note of this day,” which is in PCC, item 78, 8:241-42. 2 Duer had actually requested a letter “of the 3d Sept. 1788,” the date Gov. Edmund Randolph’s letter was referred by Congress to the board of treasury rather than the date it was written, for which see JCC, 34:495n; and PCC, item 71, 2:655—58. Governor Ran dolph had been concerned about “Arrearages of Pensions due to Invalides in the Stale of Virginia,” which the board of treasury had reported on September 4, advising Congress that since it had already issued a similar clarification of the pension act for Connecticut, the same information could be sent to Virginia. JCC, 34:501. As Congress never mustered a quorum after October 10, 1788, no action could be taken on the trea sury’s recommendation. See also Thomson to the States, June 14, 1788. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Sir public New York 17th Octo. 1788. The length and frequency of the Letters, on public Affairs, with which I have taken the Liberty of troubling you would require an Apologie was it not that I had rather submit to a charge on this Ac count than be suspected of neglect of Duty or Inattention to the Inter est of the State. With this you will receive a Copy of the printed Jour nal of Congress to the 1st Inst. Near the End of the Journal you will find the Report of a Committee who have taken much Pains to under stand the Administration of the Treasury. 1 The Operation of this Re port compared with the Act of May 22nd may prove a salutary Lesson to Speculators & public Defaulters and may help to save our Con stituents from the Tax of many a Dollar. The Secretary of Congress has doubtless forwarded an Act of Septr. 16th respecting the Practice of transporting convicted male factors from foreign Countries. 2 Inclosed is a Paper that respects a


[Page 467]
October 17, 1788 433 late Importation of such People. On the last Year others had been Landed to the Eastward in Massachusits. Congress have complained to the British Court concerning the Cargo that was sent from New Providence; Perhaps a greater insult to any Nation could hardly have been offered. On the 13th Inst I wrote you in much Haste a Letter which may not have come to Hand. The Object was to inform you that the Board of Commissioners for settling Accounts between the several States and the Union can hardly be ready to proceed to Business before Feby or perhaps March next. My Information induces me to believe that three or four of the States cannot have given in all their Claims when the Time expires in which the District Commissioners are at Liberty to receive Claims; hence it will follow that those States will desire the Indulgence of more Time. I think it probable that North Carolina may wish for more Time to deliver in her Claims, in this Case the Del egates certainly will not fail to move for such a Resolution on the first Intimation from the State and I presume that a longer Day might readily be obtained. Our Affairs with the Western Indians wear a very gloomey Aspect. The Indians are coming very slowly to a Treaty, about this Time to be held at Muskingum and many of them have sent Word that they shall come Armed. The British at Detroit hearing of this Treaty have been giving the Indians considerable Presents though it was but a short Time since they had given them other Presents uncommonly large. A Party of Indians have lately attacked a Convoy of Provisions on the Wabash, killed ten continental Soldiers & wounded eight; they had some Weeks before that killed several continental Soldiers who were guarding Provisions. The Wabash Indians are daily bringing in Scalps. Genl. St. Clair the Governor of the Western Territory, who is holding the Treaty, has, in pursuance of a Vote of Congress requested of the Executive of Pennsylvania & Virginia to hold 1500 of their Militia in readiness to oppose the Indians & he has written to Congress some days ago that he fears the number mentioned will be insufficient. 3 The British are tampering with the Indians on this Side and the Spaniards have lately, very exceptionably, presumed to hold a Treaty with Indians who live within the Territories of the United States. In this State of Indian Affairs, and considering that there is but a Hand full of national Troops in Service, I think it clear that North Carolina must depend on her own Prudence or her own strength for the Mea sure of Peace that she may enjoy with the neighbouring Indians. I have the Honour to be with the utmost Consideration, Sir, Your most obedient and very hble Servant, Hu Williamson RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). 1 See Williamson to Johnston, October 1, note 5. 2 See Charles Thomson to the States, September 17. 3 See Williamson to Johnston, October 13, note 4.


[Page 468]
434 October 18,1788 Charles Thomson to John Curwen Si r i New York Oct. 18. 1788 I embrace the first opportunity of transmitting to you the pamphlet which you wished to see. 2 My object in compiling these notes and hav ing them printed was not to acquire fame, but to stimulate some of my intelligent friends in the country to deviate from the common mode of farming and to endeavour by their experiments and example to in troduce a new and better mode of culture to reward the toils of the husbandman. I have therefore no hesitation in exposing my igno rance to one so well acquainted with the subject as you are, hoping that you will keep notes of your practice and favour this country which you have adopted for your own & which you see stands in great want of instruction with an account of your experiments & success. Be pleased to make my compliments to Mrs Curwin & accept the as surance of the respect & esteem with which I am, Sir, Your obedient humble Servt, Cha Thomson RC (Harriton Association, Harriton House, Bryn Mawr, Pa.). Hohn Curwen was one of Thomson’s Harriton neighbors. 2 For Thomson’s pamphlet Notes on Farming, which he had published in New York the previous year, see Thomson to George Morgan, July 28, 1787, note 1. Peleg Arnold to John Collins gj r New York Octr. 20th 1788 I have Inclosed herewith for the Information of your Excellency and the State The Journal of this year to the first Day of this Inst. The Secry. Informs that the part preceding this has been officially Trans- mited. By the resolution of the 20th Sept. 1 you will find an Indent req uisition on the States for the present year. I presume that Indents may be obtained on better Terms at this time then at a future time and that it will be for the Interest of the State to make timely Provision to Discharge her Quota of Indent Requisitions. By the Resolution of the 9 & 13 Sept Three Commissioners are ap pointed in pursuance of the Ordinance of May 7th, 1787, 2 They being Impowered by Said Ordinance to admit claims against the Union that are not Supported by Vouchers (as theren set forth) on prenciples of Equity and Justice. If the State have any Such Claims I Suggest whether it will not be Necessary to appoint some Person having good Information of the Nature of them to attend the Commissioners after they meet in order to State to them the Nature of all Such Claims.


[Page 477]
October 28,1788 443 quency, neglect, or refusal, of one overturns the whole—under the present firm as effectually as if all these declined. 4 I am with great esteem, Dear Sir, Your Obedt. Servant, Copy Wm. Irvine Tr (PHi: Caryl Roberts Irvine Collection). In the hand of William Irvine. 1 Enclosures not found; but for the context of this letter and the business that passed between Irvine and the Board of Treasury, see Irvine to Baldwin, October 12, note 1. 2 Not found. 3 Irvine’s accounts with the Pennsylvania Council indicate that on October 28 he was paid “for his attendance as a Member of Congress until the twenty seventh day of Octo ber 1788 inclusively.” Gratz Collection, PHi. 4 Baldwin returned the following reply to Irvine November 15. “I wrote to our unknown associate Mr. Gilman, immediately on the receipt of your let ter, and requested him to write me, without delay, his determinations, as I should sus pend all mine till I heard from him. I have been ever since with great impatience wait ing his answer, Whether he is playing the politician with us, and means to say nothing till he knows what this assembly does, which is now in session, or whether he was absent on the arrival of his brother, is yet to be explained, for I have not heard a word from him. I came here yesterday in hopes of finding some information from him. It is with great reluctance I put off my journey, but I must know what is to be done, or what is not to be done, before I set out. I have not had time to look round here yet. I observe they are making the old city hall a most pompous seat of federal government, they will not be so cautious in using the word permanent, the next time the subject is discussed. “I am told there is none of our old corps here but the President and Williamson. I will write you again as soon as I have found any thing to say.” Roger Curry Collection, Bloomington, Ind. James Madison to Edmund Randolph My Dear friend Ocr. 28—[17] 88. I inclose herewith two pamphlets on the questions agitated in France. They are written by the Marquis Condorcet, and contain more correct information than has been communicated to the public through any other channel. 1 I inclose also a Gazette containing observations on Manufactures by our acquaintance Mr. T. Coxe. 2 You will probably think them worth handing to the Printer for republication. Another Gazette gives you the current information from Europe. The change in the French Min istry is believed, and is a proof of the critical distress for money which pressed the Court. The public mind seems not to be yet settled on the Vice President. The question has been supposed to lie between Hancock & Adams. The former is far the more popular man in N. England, but he has de clared to his lady, it is said, that she had once been the first in Amer ica, & he wd. never make her the second. On the other hand, Adams has signified, it is said, that he will serve the public in no other office. I


[Page 478]
444 October 28,1788 disbelieve neither of these anecdotes. At the same time it is very possi ble they may be given out for particular purposes. I wish you to give my respects to Mr J. Page, and to let him have the perusal of the Pamphlets after you have used them. Yrs. Afifecly., Js. Madison Jr RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rudand), 11:320. 1 Undoubtedly the marquis de Condorcet’s Lettres d’un citoyen des Etats-Unis, a un Franfais, sur les affaires presentes and his Sentimens d’un republican, sur les assemblers provin ciates et les Etats-genereaux. . ., which had been published in Paris and again in Philadel phia in 1788. 2 Tench Coxe’s essay on manufactures had appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet of Oc tober 22 under the pseudonym “An American Citizen” and was reprinted in the Pennsyl vania Gazette for October 29. James Madison to Eliza House Trist New York Ocr. 29 [1788]. At the date of my last on Friday 1 was a week since which I have not reed, and answer, I expected by this time to have been in Philada. My plan has been impeded by several circumstances. The only insupera ble one has been a continued indisposition which has at length termi nated in a complaint which has been promoted by my sedentary life, and which incapacitates me for travelling. 2 I am at present having medical relief, and shall leave this as soon as I can. I calculate on some pretty early day in the approaching week. John will not accompany me, nor probably have much further connection with any corporeal beings; though he enjoys the fallacious hope of being soon recovered, and is fondly persuaded that some litde transitory & variable symptom is the only obstacle to it. He was removed to quarters which will cost me less, where he will be less disturbed & where he will less incom mode others. I have an order for his admission into the Almshouse, but for several reasons I chose rather to submit to the expense, at least for a while, than to avail myself of that resource. I have heard nothing lately from Mr. Randolph. He quits the Gov ernment about this time and goes into the assembly. It is not impossi ble that he may be succeeded by your friend Col. Grayson, though the event will depend on several contingencies. I have heard from Mr. Jef ferson as late as the 12th of August. He was then well and by his si lence leaves it to be inferred that his whole family was so. Adieu, Js Madison Jr RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). 1 Not found. 2 Madison had long been afflicted with hemorrhoids.


[Page 480]
446 October 29,1788 trading for the forty five ton Copper premium upon 300 tons with Jarvis; 6 This the board think themselvs indelicatly used in; And had I noticed it, in the single cursory reading with which I was favored, I should have made my feeble opposition; Because I think the power was strongly implied, & if it was erroneous, I think being an error of Judgment should have been more delicately treated. Inter nos, Hascal is here, 7 he intimates that our state will suffer for want of exertion in our Committe, he has however filed the accounts. Also I had a hint that the ordinance for appointing the three Com missioners, is some how or other so cooked, that the Penobscott busi ness, altho consolidated at £116,000, will be thrown out by that Board. Farther, the Resolve for depreciation passing several days only after our troops first disbanded, we are like to have a dispute about that also. So true is it, in public & in private Concerns, that the free horse is ridden to death. The expenditures of our Board of War, the great disproportion of men are had in the field, The astonishing loss by old money, and want of alertness in bringing forward accts with regularity & in season, will hang like a millstone about the neck of Massachusetts for ages. Two Ideas are impressed upon my mind, upon which I want your opinion, One is, the expediency of assuming the State debts, Another is the appointment of a competent accountant, if such one can be found, acquainted with the business, to advocate our claims before the board. Mr Osgood is again drooping, I think his complaints obstinate. Compliments to all friends from yr most H. Svt, Sam A [Otis] RC (DLC: Dane Papers). 1 The Massachusetts legislature was about to take up proposals for electing senators, representatives, and presidential electors under the new federal Constitution, for which see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:476-511. For Rufus King’s candidacy for a Mas sachusetts seat in the new Congress, see ibid., pp. 447—48, 506n, 512—13, 521-24, 571. 2 Otis had been reelected as a delegate to Congress for the following congressional year and signified his acceptance of the appointment in a November 10 letter to the secretary of the Massachusetts Senate, which is in Unpassed Senate Documents, M-Ar. A similar letter of acceptance from Theodore Sedgwick to senate president Samuel Phillips, dated October 30, is also in the same collection. 3 George Thatcher was last recorded attending Congress on October 21. 4 See Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston, October 1, note 5. 5 For this board of treasury report on federal receipts and expenditures since Novem ber 1, 1784, see JCC, 34:554-70. For the errors Williamson called attention to, see ibid., pp. 554n.4, 559nn.l-2, 560n.l. 6 Ibid., p. 567. 7 Apparently Jonathan Haskell.


[Page 481]
October 30, 1788 447 John Armstrong, Jr. to Alida Livingston Friday 30th, Octob. [1788] Your letter of the 23d, for which I know not how to thank you either as I ought or as I wish, did not reach me ‘till Wednesday, & then at so late an hour as to prevent my using the post of Thursday in acknowl- eging it’s receipt & if possible in atoneing for my silence. 1 If Alida there was any insincerity in that omission, it was surely of a very venial sort, & may be class’d with those pious frauds that (in all events) have an apology in their object, & (if successfull) a justifica tion in their effect. I know your sensibility—I was persuaded of your affection & I ask’d myself whether I did not owe to the latter some care of the former. Could your sollicitude & sighs have either abated my fever or remov’d my pain, it would have been right to have told them—but as the reverse would have been their effect, I thought (but I may have mistaken) that duty was on the side of silence. In this doubt of my own reasonings as well as in compliance with your wishes my conduct hereafter shall be different, & as I admit your right to know all, it shall be my business to conceal nothing. ’Tis true then that I have been a good deal indispos’d—but not dangerously so. My fever often remitted & sometimes intermitted & all my Other symp toms seem to have been govern’d by that. ’Tis rather unfortunate that the great remedy in all such cases, is no remedy to me, as from some cause or other quite unknown to myself & I beleive quite inexplicable to the faculty, the bark of all things most disagrees with my constitu tion. I have therefore been Obliged to lay it aside & to depend on reg imen, & the (in general) less efficacious applications of Camomile, Vitriol &c. &c. Their operation is slow, but friendly, & already enables me to go abroad (with caution) & to live a litde in society. This too is not without its effect, & join’d to the approach of the cold weather, which has my most hearty Wellcome, will I hope soon enable me to enjoy a pleasure I have so long promis’d myself, & so anxiously wish’d for. Beleive me my dear girl nothing can make me more sollicitous than I am to do away any anxiety of your’s on the score of distance— nor can I possibly have an encreas’d sense of your Mama’s kindness nor of the attentions which in any situation, I should meet with at Clermont. The moment therefore that my physicians pronounce it safe, I shall set out to thank you personally for all your care & kind ness—this I have every reason to hope for in a few days. You now have a most scrupulously exact account of what my indisposition has been, & what it is—& will I hope, like myself, find no room to be alarm’d about it. ’Till I can fix a day for leaving Town, I shall continue to write


[Page 482]
448 October 30, 1788 by every oppertunity, & should you not hear from me thus punctually place it to the account of the post office—not to any relapse into ill ness. I must entreat you to remember this. Jones’s apparent silence had no doubt a strange aspect to Mrs. Montgomery, anxious as she must have been, on the subject of her destiny for the winter. She surely cannot (with all her devotion for the Country of St Patrick) be displeas’d with the manner in which the winds & waves & other circumstances have determin’d it. A spring Voyage will be a thousand times more Agreeable as well as safe; & (with her motives for making any), convenience & pleasure ought to be studied as well as meer security. Sunday 2d Nov., 5 OClock in the Evg. I have waited with much anxiety for a letter from you ‘till this mo ment. The post has but now come in—but I forgive his delay, for he brings me three, (of the 26th, 27th & 30th). By what I wrote on Friday you will find that your’s of the 23d have been receivd. Your Mama’s packet came in time for John. He did not set of[f] till to-day. A word or two in answer to your three favors. My mind would be at ease, were I sure your’s was so. It was the effect of my last letters “to relieve you from pain—to restore you to tranquil ity.” Will you promise that it shall be the effect of this “to releive you from apprehension & to restore you to chearfullness,” also? If an as surance, that my complaint has ceased to be more than troublesome, will accomplish this, I now make it most seriously & sincerely. I this morn ing sent for my Physician to ask him whether he thought I could risque the journey—his answer was that “should the weather continue fine for a few days longer, so far from being dangerous, the journey would be proper, & servicable.” I rode 15 or 16 miles to-day, & am the better for doing so. What I have most to complain of now is the dis agreeable but necessary restriction of diet & exercise. I have appetite but dare not eat, & when the sun refuses to shine, I’m a close prisoner ’till his humor changes. You ask if “business will not prevent my sharing your fire-side [. . .] Winter.” I possitively answer, no. However inconvenient on the score of business—I will share it. But is it determin’d that you stay? And the poor bird is still a Captive. “His wings are clipp’d & he can Neither support himself against famine, nor protect himself against the Hawk.” How fruitfull is Tyranny in apologies for itself—first create an inability to live out of chains, & then Use that inability as an argu ment against striking them off. My curiosity (not my compassion) lead me some days ago to visit two beautiful captives of the same kind. They were the Flamingos of the West Indies. (If Buffon is at the Manor you will find an interesting description of them.) ’Tis a lover & his Mistress—nor has romance anything to exceed his attachment or


[Page 486]
452 November 2, 1788 James Madison to Edmund Randolph My dear friend N York Novr. 2. 1788 I reed, yesterday your favor of the 23d Ult. 1 The first countenance of the Assembly corresponds with the picture which my imagination had formed of it. The views of the greater part of the opposition to the federal Government, and particularly of its principal leader, have ever since the Convention, been regarded by me as permanently hos tile, and likely to produce every effort that might endanger or embar rass it. The defects which drew forth objections from many quarters, were evidently of little consequence in the eye of Mr. H—ry. His own arguments proved it. His enmity was levelled, as he did not scruple to insinuate agst the whole System', and the destruction of the whole Sys tem, I take to be still the secret wish of his heart, and the real object of his pursuit. If temperate and rational alterations only were his plan, is it conceivable that his coalition and patronage would be extended to men whose particular ideas on the subject must differ more from his own than those of others who share most liberally in his hatred? My last letter 2 with Col. Carrington’s communications to which it re ferred, will have sufficiently explained my sentiments with regard to the Legislative service under the new Constitution. My first wish is to see the Government put into quiet and successful operation; and to afford any service, that may be acceptable from me, for that purpose. My second wish, if that were to be consulted, would prefer, for reasons formerly hinted, an opportunity of contributing that service in the House of Reps, rather than in the Senate; provided the opportunity be attainable from the spontaneous suffrage of the Constituents: Should the real friends to the Constitution think this preference in consistent with my primary object, as Col. Carrington tells me is the case with some who are entided to peculiar respect; and view my re nouncing it as of any material consequence, I shall not hesitate to comply. You will not infer from the freedom with which these observa tions are made, that I am in the least unaware of the probability that whatever my inclinations or those of my friends may be, they are likely to be of little avail in the present case. I take it for certain that a clear majority of the Assembly are enemies to the Govt, and I have no rea son to suppose that I can be less obnoxious than others on the oppo site side. An election into the Senate therefore can hardly come into question. I know also that a good deal will depend on the arrange ments for the election of the other branch; and that much may de pend moreover on steps to be taken by the Candidates which will not be taken by me. Here again therefore there must be great uncertainty, if not improbability of my election. With these circumstances in view, it is impossible that I can be the dupe of false calculations, even if I were in other cases disposed to indulge them. I trust it is equally im-


[Page 487]
November 2, 1788 453 possible for the result whatever it may be, to rob me of any reflections which enter into the internal fund of comfort & happiness. Popular favor or disfavor, is no criterion of the character maintained with those whose esteem an honorable ambition must court. Much less can it be a criterion of that maintained with ones self. And when the Spirit of party directs the public voice, it must be a little mind indeed that can suffer in its own estimation, or apprehend danger of suffering in that of others. The Sepr. British Packet arrived yesterday, but I do not find that she makes any addition to the Stock of European intelligence. The change in the French Ministry is the only event of late date of much consequence; and that had arrived through several other channels. I do not know that it is even yet authenticated; but it seems to be doubted by no one, particularly among those who can best decide on its credibility. With the utmost affection I am my dear Sir, Yrs. Sincerely, Js. Madison Jr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:328-30. 1 See ibid., pp. 313-14. 2 Madison is referring to his letter of October 17 rather than that of October 28. James Madison to George Turberville Dear Sir N. York Novr. 2. 1788. Your favor of the 20th Ult. not having got into my hands in time to be acknowledged by the last mail, I have now the additional plea sure of acknowledging along with it your favor of the 24 which I reed, yesterday. 1 You wish to know my sentiments on the project of another general Convention as suggested by New York. I shall give them to you with great frankness, though I am aware they may not coincide with those in fashion at Richmond or even with your own. 2 I am not of the num ber if there be any such, who think the Constitution, lately adopted, a faultless work. On the Contrary there are amendments wch. I wished it to have received before it issued from the place in which it was formed. These amendments I still think ought to be made according to the apparent sense of America, and some of them at least I pre sume will be made. There are others, concerning which doubts are entertained by many, and which have both advocates and opponents on each side of the main question. These I think ought to receive the light of actual experiment, before it would be prudent to admit them into the Constitution. With respect to the first class, the only question is which of the two modes provided be most eligible for the discussion


[Page 488]
454 November 2, 1788 and adoption of them. The objections agst. a Convention which give a preference to the other mode in my judgment are the following. 1. It will add to the difference among the States on the merits, another and an unnecessary difference concerning the mode. There are amendments which in themselves will probably be agreed to by all the States, and pretty certainly by the requisite proportion of them. If they be contended for in the mode of a Convention, there are unquestion ably a number of States who will be so averse and apprehensive as to the mode, that they will reject the merits rather than agree to the mode. A convention therefore does not appear to be the most conve nient or probable channel for getting to the object. 2. A convention cannot be called without the unanimous consent of the parties who are to be bound by it, if first principles are to be recurred to; or with out the previous application of % of the State legislatures, if the forms of the Constitution are to be pursued. The difficulties in either of these cases must evidently be much greater than will attend the origi nation of amendments in Congress, which may be done at the in stance of a single State Legislature, or even without a single instruc tion on the subject. 3. If a General Convention were to take place for the avowed and sole purpose of revising the Constitution, it would naturally consider itself as having a greater latitude than the Congress appointed to administer and support as well as to amend the system, it would consequently give greater agitation to the public mind; an elec tion into it would be courted by the most violent partizans on both sides; it wd. probably consist of the most heterogeneous characters; would be the very focus of that flame which has already too much heated men of all parties; would no doubt contain individuals of insid ious views, who under the mask of seeking alterations popular in some parts but inadmissible in other parts of the Union might have a dan gerous opportunity of sapping the very foundations of the fabric. Under all these circumstances it seems scarcely to be presumeable that the deliberations of the body could be conducted in harmony, or terminate in the general good. Having witnessed the difficulties and dangers experienced by the first Convention which assembled under every propitious circumstance, I should tremble for the result of a Sec ond, meeting in the present temper of America, and under all the dis advantages I have mentioned. 4. It is not unworthy of consideration that the prospect of a second Convention would be viewed by all Eu rope as a dark and threatening Cloud hanging over the Constitution just established, and perhaps over the Union itself; and wd. therefore suspend at least the advantages this great event has promised us on that side. It is a well known fact that this event has filled that quarter of the Globe with equal wonder and veneration, that its influence is al ready secretly but powerfully working in favor of liberty in France, and it is fairly to be inferred that the final event there may be materially af fected by the prospect of things here. We are not sufficiently sensible


[Page 497]
December 8, 1788 463 as there may be a defect of personal acquaintance I beg leave to sup ply it by this introduction. My two last were of Ocr. 8 & 17th. They furnished a State of our af fairs as they then stood. I shall here add the particulars of most con sequence, which have since taken place; remembering however that many details will be most conveniently gathered from the conversa tion of Mr. Morris who is thoroughly possessed of American transac tions. Notwithstanding the formidable opposition made to the New fed eral Government, first in order to prevent its adoption, and since in order to place its administration in the hands of disaffected men, there is now both a certainty of its peaceable commencement in March next, and a flattering prospect that it will be administred by men who will give it a fair trial. General Washington will certainly be called to the Executive department. Mr. Adams, who is {pledged to support him} 1 will probably be the vice president. The enemies to the Government, at the head & the most inveterate, of whom, is Mr. Henry, are laying a train for the election of Governour Clinton, but it cannot succeed unless the federal votes be more dispersed than can well happen. Of the seven States which have appointed their Senators, Virginia alone will have antifederal members in that branch. Those of N. Hampshire are President Langdon & Judge Bartlett—of Mas- sachussetts Mr. Strong and Mr. Dalton—of Connecticut Doer. Johnson and Mr. Elseworth—of N. Jersey Mr. Patterson and Mr. Elmer—of Penna. Mr. R. Morris and Mr. McClay—of Delaware Mr. Geo. Reed and Mr. Bassett—of Virginia Mr. R. H. Lee and Col. Grayson. Here is already a majority of the ratifying States on the side of the Constitu tion. And it is not doubted that it will be reinforced by the appoint ments of Maryland, S. Carolina and Georgia. As one branch of the Legislature of N. York is attached to the Constitution, it is not improb able that one of the Senators from that State also will be added to the majority. In the House of Representatives the proportion of antifed eral members will of course be greater, but can not, if present appear ances are to be trusted, amount to a majority, or even a very formidable minority. The election for this branch has taken place as yet no where except in Penna, and here the returns are not yet come in from all the Counties. It is certain however that seven out of the eight, and probable that the whole eight representatives will bear the federal stamp. Even in Virginia where the enemies to the Government form % of the legislature it is computed that more than half the num ber of Representatives, who will be elected by the people, formed into districts for the purpose, will be of the same stamp. By some it is com puted that 7 out of the 10, allotted to that State, will be opposed to the politics of the present Legislature. The questions which divide the public at present relate 1. to the ex tent of the amendments that ought to be made to the Constitution. 2.


[Page 498]
464 December 8, 1788 to the mode in which they ought to be made. The friends of the Con stitution, some from an approbation of particular amendments, oth ers from a spirit of conciliation, are generally agreed that the System should be revised. But they wish the revisal to be carried no farther than to supply additional guards for liberty, without abridging the sum of power transferred from the States to the general Government or al tering previous to trial, the particular structure of the latter and are fixed in opposition to the risk of another Convention, whilst the pur pose can be as well answered, by the other mode provided for intro ducing amendments. Those who have opposed the Constitution, are on the other hand, zealous for a second Convention, and for a revisal which may either not be restrained at all, or extend at least as far as al terations have been proposed by any State. Some of this class are, no doubt, friends to an effective Government, and even to the substance of the particular Government in question. It is equally certain that there are others, who urge a Second Convention with the insidious hope, of throwing all things into Confusion, and of subverting the fab ric just established, if not the Union itself. If the first Congress em brace the policy which circumstances mark out, they will not fail to propose of themselves, every desireable safeguard for popular rights; and by thus separating the well meaning from the designing oppo nents, fix on the latter their true character, and give to the Govern ment its due popularity and stability. { 2 Moustier proves a most unlucky appointment}. He is {unsocial proud} and {niggardly and betrays a sort of fastidiousness toward this country}. He {suffers also from his illicit connection with Madame de Brehan} which is {universally known} and {offensive to American man ners— s he} is {perfectly soured toward this country}. The {ladies of New York} (a {few within the official circle excepted}) have for some {time withdrawn their attentions from her. She knows the cause}, is {deeply stung by it, views every thing thro the medium of rancor} and {conveys her impressions to her paramour over whom she exercises despotic sway}. Latterly {their time has [been]} cheifly {spent in [travel ling] 3 }. The first {visit was to an Indian treaty at Fort Schuyler} and {thence to the Oneida town}. The {next to Boston} and {thence to N. Hampshire}. The {last to Mount Vernon from which} they but {lately returned}. On {their journeys} it is {said they often neglect the} most obvious {precautions for veiling their intimacy}. At {Boston he im}pru- dently {suffered etiquette to prevent even} an {interview with Governor Hancock}. The {inhabitants taking part with the governor} neither {vis ited nor invited the count}. They were the less apprehensive of a mis- inter{pretation of the neglect as the} most {cordial intercourse} had {just preceded between the town} and {the French squadron}. Both the {count and the marchioness are particularly unpopular among their countrymen here}. Such of them as are not under {restraint make very


[Page 499]
December 8,1788 465 free remarks} and are {anxious for a new diplomatic arrangement}. It is but right to add to these {particulars that there is reason to believe} that unlucky {impressions were made on the count at his first [ar rival]} probably {by de la Forest the consul a cunning disciple 1} take it {of Marbois’s politics} and by something in {his communications with Jay} which {he considered as the effect of coldness} and {sourness toward France}. I am a stranger to the {errand on which G. Morris goes to Europe). It {relates I presume to the affairs of R. Morris} which {are still much deranged}. 4 I have received and paid the draught in favor of Doer. Ramsay; I had before paid the order in favor of Mr. Thomson, immediately on the receipt of your letter. About 220 dollars of the balance due on the last state of our account, were left in Virginia for the use of your Nephews. There are a few lesser sums which stand on my side of the account which I shall take credit for, when you can find leisure to for ward another statement of your friendly advances for me. I shall leave this place in a day or two for Virga, where my friends who wish me to co-operate in putting our political machine into activ ity as a member of the House of Representatives, press me to attend. They made me a candidate for the Senate, for which I had not allot ted my pretensions. The attempt was defeated by Mr. Henry who is omnipotent in the present legislature and who added to the expedi ents common on such occasions, a public philippic agst. my federal principles. He has taken equal pains in forming the Counties into dis tricts for the election of Reps, to associate with Orange such as are most devoted to his politics, and most likely to be swayed by the preju dices excited agst. me. From the best information I have of the pre vailing temper of the district, I conclude that my going to Virga will answer no other purpose than to satisfy the Opinions and intreaties of my friends. The trip is in itelf very disagreeable both on account of its electioneering appearance, and the sacrifice of the winter for which I had assigned a task which the intermission of Congressional business would have made convenient at New York. With the Sincerst affection & the highest esteem, I am, Dear Sir yrs., Js. Madison Jr [PS.] The letter herewith inclosed for Mr. Gordon 5 is from Mr. Cyrus Griffin. The other from Mr. Macarty An American Citizen settled in France, but at present here on business. 6 He appears to be a very wor thy man & I have promised to recommend his letter to your care, as a certain channel of conveyance. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Rutland), 11:381-84. 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Madison in cipher.


[Page 502]
468 January 5, 1789 Mrs. Williamson, 2 who has at this instant been inquiring to whom I am writing, and been informed that I am writing to an inhabitant of Edenton, who is a particular friend, and one of the best men, as well as best lawyers in America, says that either of these circumstances would induce her to present you with her compliments, but all of them united engage her to request that I would present you with a tender of her esteem, &c. Hu. Williamson. MS not found; reprinted from McRee, Iredell Correspondence, 2:248. 1 Following North Carolina’s rejection of the federal Constitution in August, a call for a second state convention was adopted November 30, 1788, although it did not actually convene until November 16, 1789. 2 For Williamson’s recent marriage, see John Dawson to James Madison, January 29., note 7. Robert Barnwell to John Kean P) r gi r New York Jan 10 1789. I did myself the pleasure of writing you sometime ago 1 which letter I hope you have received as it contained the agreable information of the good health of all of your relations and acquaintances whom I knew, since then I have had the satisfaction of being introduced to a number of valuable characters, and amongst them though at the head in my opinion is Mr. Jay, from some cause unknown to my self I had ever entertained the highest estimation of the Ability and Principle of this gentleman. Neither his Official writings nor his conversation gave me room to think this predilection misplaced. The most happy talent in the distribution of his Subjects, the closest reasoning and the most impartial Reports combine to render him the most proper person for the Office which he holds, and on seing him and hearing him speak (the purity of his language excepted) could I believe the transmigra tion of souls. I could readily distinguish the same Spirit and appear ance which belonged to and inspired a Hamden and a Pym. The Politicks of this State are at present particularly interesting. The spirit of Party might be said to rage here. The Senate and house of Representatives, now sitting at Albany, are devided in sentiment upon the mode of choosing Senators and Electors, the Senate have a Foederal majority of four in twelve, the other house an Anti—Foederal majority of eight in thirty two. The latter are for choosing the above- mentioned persons according to the principle of the State Constitu tion. The Senate stickle for the appointment of one Senator and half


[Page 505]
January 13,1789 471 Samuel A. Otis


[Page 506]
472 January 13,1789 Genl. If there were danger of that I should be against him, but Vir ginias pride, interest & affections will secure her antifederal votes in favor of Gen. W. & render her rejection of him impossible. I have come to believe Mr. Adams’s friends are taking pains to secure his Election. Whatever appears in his favor should be now very sensible and moderate—not calculated for popular impression. I wish to be perfectly unknown 8c unobserved, but I shall not omit to promote him. New York has again clog’d the federal System by suspending her election of Senators & Electors. 1 It is thought by many here the Senate will give way. I doubt it much. The Scene of emotion at Albany is al most as great as that at Poughkeepsie was. It appears probably that Massachusetts will be very long in fixing their Electors 8c Reps, for it seems there must be a Majority of the whole voters. I have reed, a letter from Maryland from wch. I find they want infor mation about the person proposed as V.P. I have answered it as you will suppose. What I mention on this point of the V.P. confine to Mr. Wilson, and request him to say Nothing of me. It is rumored here that the Election for Reps, in South Cara, has not gone very well. Four are said to be lost, but I cannot believe it. My reception here has been polite, respectful and very cordial. A few military men have mentioned the publications with pointed disap probation. I find our Senators & Representatives & the general Conduct of the Cause in Pennsa. extremely agreeable here. The city election for Elec tors seemed to create delight. While several states shew a Jealousy of Pennsa., all seem to esteem 8c rely on her wisdom & strength and to expect much from the Influence of her example. Four States are represented 8c three in part. A Quorum from seven will be here by the 20th—when a president will be chosen. Mr. Wadsworth has been mentioned to me. I have some wishes on this Subject of which more hereafter. We have no European News. Jersey has given us six federalists as electors, & Connecticut has given us federalists as Representatives 8c Electors. That state is much to be relied on. Since the Pennsylvania & Connecticut elections have gone so well it is impossible two thirds can be brought to require a Convention on any dangerous Amendments. I find by accounts just reed, that there is reason to believe 5 of the Massachusets returns will be complete, 8c federal the other three must be tried over again. I wish our papers were a litde milder on the Subject of New York, ft does harm here among the foreign people 8c men in Government. Give this hint to Mr. Brown—and tho our friend Mr. Hall is a chaste printer—it may not be amiss to mention it to him—at the same give my respects to him.


[Page 507]
January 19, 1789 473 I find the Subject of manufactures will require a delicate hand to manage them with the Union at large. I fear the interference of the legislature of Pennsa. will be found necessary to maintain ours at first But say Nothing of this for it will require explanation. 2 With my respectf. comps, to Mrs. R, I am Yr. affecte. friend & Serv, Tench Coxe 3 RC (PPL: Rush Papers). 1 For New York’s failure to elect presidential electors and United States Senators dur ing its 1788-89 legislative session, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 3:196-97, 217ff 2 Rush’s January 19 reply to Coxe is in the Coxe Papers, PHi. 3 Coxe also wrote a brief business letter on January 21 to “Joseph Clay Esquire Savan nah m Georgia,” enclosing a bill of exchange for $ 1,500 drawn by Abraham Baldwin on Robert Forsyth of Augusta. Coxe Collection, PHarH. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir New York 19th Jany 1789 Yours of the 20th ult did not come to Hand ‘till on the 17th Inst. I consider myself flattered by the additional Proof our State has given of their Confidence in my Disposition to serve them. Certainly the Du ties of an Agent in settling old & intricate Accounts are not so agree able to my feelings as some other Commissions with which I have been honoured by the State, but I conceive that the State is deeply in terested in the faithful Discharge of these Duties and in Cases where the public may be profited by any Service of mine I shall never shun an Office meerly because it is laborious. I shall therefore accept of the Appointment and in Discharge of the same shall try to deserve the ap probation of the State. 1 The general Commissioners of Congress are just arrived in Town & are as I think to enter on the Duties of their Of fice on this day. 2 I hope that no Time will be lost in forwarding the Charges and Vouchers of our State. I have the Honour to be with the utmost Consideration Dear, sir, Your most obedt & very hble Servt., Hu Williamson RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the appointment on December 3 of Williamson and Abisha Thomas as agents “to attend the settlement of accounts with the United States,” see the proceedings of the North Carolina General Assembly “begun. . .on the Third Day of November [1788] "Journal of the Senate, p. 35, Journal of the House of Commons, p. 47, DLC(ESR) See also N.C. State Records, 21:511, 571. 2 For the appointment of these three Continental commissioners, see Charles Thom son to the Accounts Commissioners, September 13, 1788. For the oath of office Abra ham Baldwin, John Taylor Gilman, and William Irvine subscribed to January 19, 1789, entering upon their duties as “Commissioners for settling the accounts between the United states and Individual states,” see PCC, item 195, fol. 354.


[Page 514]
480 January 27, 1789 be induced to countenance the constitution the unanimity of the Sen ate would, under present circumstance avail but litde. The election of the President seems likely to be unanimous. It is perhaps the greatest personal point that will ever occur in this Coun try, that it be secure—and I feel the most cordial satisfaction in consid ering it beyond all hazard. The Office of V.P. seems destined for Mr. Adams, who will have nearly all Pennsa, Delaware & New England, probably Jersey. Mr. Rutlege I understand will be pushed by S. Car olina, and Mr Jay who is the only candidate besides that is talked off [of] will have but little support in this Matter left. He appears to have no Views himself. Tho well qualified for more important station than the proper Duties of the VP. render that yet I think it would be wrong to draw him for the Office of foreign affairs. Our treaties are all un formed—he alone knows the whole Negociations—he is among the very few who have been in the way of qualifying themselves for foreign negociation. He is much esteemed in Pennsa. but her votes & influ ence would be exerted against him in the present state of the question on the seat of Government. Mr. Adams is esteemed by the people— has high ideas of Government—is a friend to property—will take the feelings of New England with him—has been used to the forms of leg islative & diplomatic business—he is a man of a pure private Charac ter, & has knowledge & abilities beyond the proper duties of a V.P. which indeed are not very important. He will lose few votes, I think from the North side of Maryland (where also he is seriously thought of) but from an apprehension that he may outrun the genl, or hazard the election of the latter. This tho in my mind a very small hazard in deed I am pleased to observe is foreseen, and will be attended to. Mr. Dawson assures me this letter will reach you if sent to the Office at Fredericksburg which is the Reason of my sending that way. I am with very great truth, dear Sir, yr. respectful & aff. h. Servt., Tench Coxe RC (DLC: Madison Papers). 1 For the Pennsylvania elections for presidential electors, Senators, and Representa tives, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:232-34. 2 Coxe’s reference is to the election of Tristram Dalton in Massachusetts and Robert Morris in Pennsylvania. Ibid., pp. 293, 421-22, 511-12, 746-47. 3 See ibid., 3:6-7, 29, 33. 4 Ibid., 1:770, 783-84. 5 For the Delaware and Maryland elections for United States Senators and Represen tatives, see ibid., 2:74-75, 83-84, 146-54, 209-13. 6 The Virginia House of Delegates had nominated Madison, William Grayson, and Richard Henry Lee “to be ballotted for as Senator to the Congress of the United States,” and the Senate had elected Grayson and Lee on November 8, 1788. Ibid., pp. 280-82. 7 For Madison’s election to the House of Representatives, see ibid., pp. 311-49.


[Page 515]
January 28,1789 481 John Jay to Arthur St. Clair DearSir New York 28Jany 1789 I was a few Days ago honored with Your’s of the 13 of last month. 1 It contains much useful Information, and there is Reason to regret that the federal Government is so circumstanced as not to be in capacity to take the measures which their affairs require. A Sufficient number of Delegates to form a Congress not being con vened, I thought it my Duty to consult those who are here, 2 on the an swer proper to be given to that Part of your Letter which respects Conolly. 3 They are of opinion with me, That a watchful Eye should be kept over him; and if found chargeable with the Practices you men tion (either within yowjurisdiction, or that of one of the States) that he should be apprehended, and delivered to the State in which the of fences may be committed, together with the Evidence of them—but if the offences should be committed within your Jurisdiction, it will be best to detain him until Congress shall give orders on the Subject. There not being any federal Tribunal, nor general Laws for defining and punishing Treason against the united States—nor a congress sit ting, nor likely soon to be convened, are Reasons for leaving such of fenders to the Judicatures of the States in which their offences may be committed, until the new Governmt. shall be in operation. We think it best that your Suspicions and Intentions respecting Conolly, should be kept as secret as possible. The less he is put on his Guard the better; and if he should be apprehended, it would be expe dient to endeavour to take his Papers also. As his apprehension would probably occasion national Inquiries and Discussions, previous Attention should be paid to the obtaining and establishing satisfactory Proof of the facts with which he may be charged. I promise myself the Pleasure of writing to you again by the next Post, 4 and with Sentiments of great Esteem & Regard I am, Dear Sir, Your most obt. & hble Servt, John Jay RC (DLC: Peter Force Miscellany). 1 St. Clair’s December 13 letter is in PCC, item 150, 3:509-16; and Carter, Territorial Papers, 2:166-70. 2 For the states represented at this time, see the preceding entry and John Dawson to James Madison, January 29. 3 St. Clair had reported that Col. John Connolly (ca. 1743-1813), a former Pennsylva nia loyalist and now lieutenant-governor of Detroit, had been sent by Lord Dorchester (Guy Carleton), the governor-general of Canada, “to tamper with the People of Ken tucky and induce them to throw themselves into the Arms of Great Britain, and to as sure them of protection and Support in that Measure—if that cannot be brought about,


[Page 520]
486 January 29,1789 On yesterday the Secretary of foreign affairs laid before the attend ing members of Congress a letter from the Governor of the Western Territory, which containd information interesting to the Union in general and particularly to the state of Virginia. 4 The Gov. writes, that he has information on which he can depend that a Colo Conolly, who renderd himself fully conspicuous during the late war, has lately come from Detroit to Louisville—that the apparent object of his Journey is the settlement of some private accompts, but that he has good reason to believe that he is employd to Lord Dorchester, (from whom he has lately receivd a pension of £200 Stg in addition to his half pay) to in duce the people of Kentucky either to form a Connection [with] Great Britain, or to commit hostilities on the Spaniards—that he has written to a number of persons, and has made some communications to Genl. Morgan. You will readily perceive, sir, that for the want of a Congress and a foederal tribunal, we coud do nothing decisive in this business. We however advisd the Secretary to write to Gov. St. Clair, and to advise him to keep a strict eye over Conolly, and if he found his suspicions well grounded to have him apprehended and delverd to the State in which he shoud be taken—and to be careful to have his papers &c se- curd, as zfwoud probably bring on a national discussion. I doubt not but you before this have receivd the information which I now give, and have taken proper steps to secure Mr. Conolly, if the above mentiond suspicions are well founded. I, however, considerd it as my duty to make the communication especially as I think the busi ness more properly belongs to a state, rather than the Continent— these circumstances will, I trust, render any apology for the length of this letter, unnecessary. It still remains doubtful whether any Senators will the [be] ap pointed by this state; both houses adhering to their principle. They have however divided the state into districts for the choice of mem bers to the lower house, and have not made residence necessary. With sentiments of respect & esteem, I have the honour to be, Yr. Excellencys Most Ob hum Sert, J Dawson. RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 Neither the address to Congress from Kentucky’s 7th statehood convention nor Pres. Samuel McDowell’s covering letter are in PCC, but the proceedings of the conven tion, which had met from November 3-10, 1788, and its addresses to Congress and to the Virginia General Assembly were published in John Bradford’s Kentucky Gazette for Saturday, January 30 [i.e., 31st], and Saturday, February 7. They were reprinted in William Littell’s Political Transactions In and Concerning Kentucky, From the First Settlement Thereof, Until It Became an Independent State, in June 1792 (Frankfort, 1806), pp. 103—8. For events surrounding the meeting of the convention, see Patricia Watlington, The Par tisan Spirit: Kentucky Politics, 1779-1792 (New York: Atheneum, 1972), pp. 169-79. 3 For George Morgan’s “treaty with Congress” for two million acres of western land and his negotiations with Spain for the 15-million acre tract called New Madrid, see JCC,


[Page 521]
January 31, 1789 487 34:151n.3, 152, 177-78, 181n.l, 213-17, 246n.l, 247-52, 267n.l, 275-76, 327n.4, 371—73, 414n.4, 431n, 466-68, 633; and James Madison to James Monroe, November 5, 1788, note 2. 4 For Gov. Arthur St. Clair’s December 13 letter to John Jay regarding the western mission of Col. John Connolly andjay’s response, see Jay to St. Clair, January 28. Tench Coxe to John Nicholson Sir New York Jany 31st. 1789. I beg to be informed by the first opportunity about the mode in which the state of Pennsylvania setded with the Militia. I have some reason to belive that some of the states have paid or charge the usual pay of a soldier, with every necessary allowance in Money or certifi cates to make up the Depreciation. If our Accounts are not so stated we shall suffer & the settlement will be unequal and unjust. Messrs. Gorham, Phelps, Livingston & Co have effected Sales of 36 Townships (part of the grant of New York to Massachusetts [)] at 14 to 18 & even 22d per Acre, specie. It is supposed the Emigrants to this state in 1789 will be 5,000 men, women & children. They are peopling very fast indeed, but in all other respects, are in my Opinion far be hind us. Their exports, tho they employ as much tonnage as we are not above £550,000 our Specie. Our flour is in quantity 3 times theirs—and their wheat more than ours. If you could favor me with a list of the exports of Pennsa. for 1787 and for 1788 I should be much obliged to you. I hope our State will pursue the business of roads & take up that of improving rivers. The Susquehannah, Delaware & Schuylkill should be attended to this Summer, if it were only to ap point people to explore. When you favor me with a letter be good enough to let me know what Objects of any importance are likely to occupy the Legislature this Session. With my comps, to Mrs. Nicholson, I am Sir, yr. respectf. h. Servant, Tench Coxe RC (InU: Lafayette Collection). Addressed: “John Nicholson Esqr., Compt. genl., Philadelphia.” Endorsed by Nicholson: “Reed Feby 4th 1788 [9].” Samuel A. Otis to John Adams Dear Sir New York Jany 31st 1789 Probably before this will reach you the election of Vice President will be determined, upon which I may venture to congratulate you Sir, as I hear of no Competitor of any importance.


[Page 522]
488 January 31,1789 Mrs Adams & Col Smith can give you a more minute acct of public affairs & particularly of the dispositions of the people of this State, hav ing good information from your friend Mr Jay and others, than it is in my power to communicate. It is however but too notorious that Mr Clintons interest is powerfully exerted to impede the new Govern ment. The Legislature cannot agree upon the mode of chusing Sena tors, nor is it expected they will early be represented in the Senate. Five States only are represented in Congress altho I think it cannot be many days before we have seven & perhaps nine States. You are fre- quendy enquired after & will be soon expected. When I did myself the honor to write you last 1 I took the liberty to solicit your interest for the appointment to be Clerk of the Senate, And as I have encouragment from my friends of success, I hope you will excuse my reiterating the subject. R H Lee Esqr & R Izzard Esqr will as heretofore be much with you in politics, in the choice of men & adoption of measures; To those Gentlemen I am unknown; Could I obtain their voice I flatter myself in addition to my other friends it would give me success. If Sir you approve my views I should feel and at all times acknowledge the obligation if you would further them. 2 But for the unprovoked malice of Mr H, 3 I should have been ap pointed Naval Officer for the port of Boston, The same influence pre- ventd my election for Suffolk District. The Clerkship of either House is no object for a young man, but at any time, & in my circumstances, it would be important, being wholly out of business, & my commercial prospects at an end; However I must leave my pretensions to speak for themselves, & will not be burthensome with importunity. And after compliments to the family & Connexions subscribe with great sincer ity, Sir, Your most obedient & Humble Servt, Sam. A. Otis RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For Otis’ December 18 letter to Adams, which was written while he was still in Boston, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 1:569. 2 See Otis to Jeremiah Wadsworth, January 12, note 3. 3 That is, John Hancock. Abraham Clark to the Public Mr. Kollock, New York, February 1, 1789 The following it is desired may find admission into your paper. To a person desirous of passing quietly through life with as little show and parade as possible, wishing rather to deserve esteem, than to obtain applause, any address to the public respecting himself, must be disagreeable, and, in some cases improper; yet in others, not only ex cusable but a duty. A charge, however false, which remains uncontra-


[Page 523]
February 1, 1789 489 dieted is readily believed. Every man in public life must expect to pass through ill, as well as good report, and though his calumniators are often too insignificant to merit a reply, or even occasion any resent ment, yet it may sometimes happen otherwise. At present I am at tacked, not openly in the public prints that I have heard of, but in a secret manner by letters, certificates, &c. sent privately into every part of the state, containing gross misrepresentations, and the most palpa ble falshoods, in order to prejudice the minds of the citizens against me at the coming election, and prevent my being appointed to a con fidential trust: A trust of so much importance to the citizens of New- Jersey, that a diffidence of my abilities to execute it in a proper man ner to their advantage, forbids any attempt of mine to push myself into it. It is however my duty, as well in private as in public life, to re move every unjust and illiberal charge against me, more especially, as in the present case, when coming from persons who, if they had a dis position for it, might render useful services to the community; I need not name them, they are characters well known in Jersey, as is also the cause of their clamours which may be considered as very remote from their regard to the interest of the citizens of the state. Those letters and certificates I have mentioned though intended as private stabs, from their number and circulation are become public and very noto rious. One of their insinuations is that I am antifoederal, and an enemy to the new government. The charge of antifoederalism is of so general and undefined a nature, that had it not been followed by that of an enemy to the government, I should not have thought it worthy of notice, as that epithet is frequently given to all those who dare ven ture to suspect the least defect in the Constitution, in which is in cluded by far the greatest part of the inhabitants of the United States: How far this charge is applicable to me, I leave the impartial public to judge. That I used every means in my power in the different stations I filled, to obtain an efficient government, is well known and cannot be denied. When the plan of the new government appeared, I found it not such as I had wished and expected; I perceived, as I supposed, some parts of it bearing too hard upon the liberties of the people, and giving some unnecessary powers to those who were to administer it: This I never scrupled to mention when my opinion was desired. Notwithstanding my dislike to some parts, considering the situation the United States was in, and the provision made in the Constitution for amendments, I cheerfully gave my assistance to send it to the states for their consideration, 1 judging that New-Jersey, from its local situation and circumstances, could not with propriety reject it, notwithstanding its imperfections; presuming at the same time, that the new Congress would endeavor to amend it as soon as other impor tant business for putting the government into operation would admit. This I yet hope and expect will, in a proper time, be effected in


[Page 527]
February?, 1789 493 Tench Coxe to Benjamin Rush Dear Sir New York Feb. 2d. 1789. I enclose you a letter handed to me by Mr. John Livingston, which he informed me you were to deliver to Mr. McClay. It appears next to certain New York will not appoint Electors. 1 If they have Senators they will possess neither federalism nor mercantile Talents, nor does it appear probable that they will have one mercan tile man in their representation. Thus [in] the execution of the plan of Governmental laws, that there is no danger in cornu [nica] ting com mercial Arrangements to a bare Majority. New England I have some reason to believe will be unanimous for Mr. Adams. Jersey & Maryland are yet undecided about him. They wish no other man, but fear to hazard the General’s election. I con gratulate you on the determination of the Maryland Election. Things look well. I do not fear that we shall have an influential Congress, % federalists. I wish you would suggest to the gentlemen in Government the pro priety of putting the inside of the state house in repair & of furnishing such Apartments as want it. Would it be possible to take out the floor between the Assembly Chamber & the room above so as to give it an airy appearance & to admit of a Gallery or pillars. Please to ascertain the height of the ceilings of each room. The house of reps, room here is 36 feet, & 2 more into the vault is 38 feet high. Over the Gallery which is only on the South side, is another Gallery for the Senate. I wish you would talk to some of our most active & zealous Gentlemen at once. Our citizens ought to be very attentive to the Gentlemen, who come thro our place to the New Congress—which please also to men tion—also to their ladies. Tis in this point alone New York injures & exceeds us. I have been trying to ascertain the defects, that appear in practice, in the New York corporation, but I cannot find any body who has con sidered it with that view. How different a people are my fellow Citi zens. It will take New York half a century to equal us in the sensible Modes of life & in politics & science, even if we stand still. I see every day here the dangers and inconvenience of a want of in formation among the people at large. The want of federalism in this State arises principally from the Want of Knowlege among her Yeo manry. I therefore strongly recommend the establishment of free Schools in all the Counties (the city having already done it) and par ticularly among that invaluable body of our people the Germans.


[Page 534]
500 February 12,1789 Hugh Williamson to James Iredell Dear Sir New York 12th Feby. 1789 Yours of 22nd ult came to hand by yesterdays Post. Mrs Dawson & her Daughter, whom I have just seen & to whom I delivered the mes sage you sent, are in good Health and request me to present you and Family with their Respects. Mrs. Williamson says she considers herself flattered by the Wish that you and two or three other respectable Gen tlemen have expressed of seeing her an Inhabitant of Edenton which by the way is the Place she has marked for her Residence but she says she is afraid that your Expectations may be founded on some Descrip tions of her Qualities that are the Children of Flattery. I have written to sundry Friends that I shall offer for Edenton both in Assembly & Convention if you cannot serve, but, if you can serve the Town in As sembly then I will offer for some County in Convention only. Your Let ter states a fact of which I was afraid viz that the courts will prevent you from serving in the Assembly. I think it probable that I may be at Home at or before the Election. Some farther Evidence as I take it re specting the Object of my late Appointmt. must be collected in the State which may require the attendance of Col. Thomas or myself. 1 Should this be the Case I shall try to come as I wish at the same Time to make some Arrangements for the settlement of my Family. By the Way I wish my growing attachment to domestic Life may not become too strong. I do not wish ever to possess that absolute Apathy and want of concern for the Interest of the Nation which I have often blamed in others on whose services their Country had a Claim. Be so good as give furtherance to the inclosed & believe me to be with the most perfect Esteem, Dr sir, Your obedt servt., Hu Williamson RC (Nc-Ar: Charles E. Johnson Collection). 1 For the appointment of Williamson and Abisha Thomas as agents for settling North Carolina’s claims against the United States, see Williamson to Samuel Johnston, January 19, note 1. James R. Reid to Nicholas Gilman Dear Sir, New York 14th. Feby. 1789 I find an agreeable acquaintance in your Brother, 1 he is a well in formed clever fellow. I hope soon to hear you have succeeded in your political views and shall expect to see you about the time of our death, we have not made a Congress as yet nor do I know whether we shall be able to make a will and testament. We have five States only.


[Page 537]
February 21, 1789 503 [PS.] A bill is now pending (and it is believed will pass) in our legisla ture to enable Aliens to purchase & hold lands in Pennsa. RC (PHC: Roberts Autograph Collection). 1 The perch is equal to the rod, or 1614 feet. 2 Coxe also wrote a brief business letter to his partner in Philadelphia Nalbro Frazier on February 19, concluding: “Our law to enable Aliens to hold lands is approved here exceedingly & will be followed I hope. It will have a good Effect on our lands. “We have Nothing new Here—except little details which prove the new Government perfectly safe. There is reason to believe the Senate will be unanimous against a Con vention. The Reps, above 2 to 1.” Coxe Papers, PHi. Charles Thomson to Samuel Huntington Sir, Office of Secretary of Congress, Feby. 19th. 1789 I have just reed the letter which Your Excellency did me the honor to write on the 5th 1 together with the packet directed to the Honble. the President of the Senate to be appointed for the sole purpose of re ceiving, opening & counting the votes for President on the first Wednesday in March 1789. This packet I shall not fail to deliver as soon as the President is appointed. With great respect &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). Addressed: “The Govr. of Connecticut.” 1 Governor Huntington’s letter is in Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 2:50-51. Samuel A. Otis to John Adams Dear Sir New York 21st Feb 1789 There being nothing very interesting in this quarter except what the papers contain I shall enclose them after informing you that Gen eral Washington & yourself have a majority of Votes even admiting those not known should be lost to you. 1 Being quite at leisure if there are any arrangements you want made here befor Col Smith returns you may freely command. Your friend & most humble Servant, Sam. A. Otis 2 [PS.] Compliments to Col Smith & the family. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 For the electoral votes cast for George Washington and John Adams for President and Vice President of the United States, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Elections, 4:220-24.


[Page 543]
March 9,1789 509 Charles Thomson to Unknown Dear Sir 1 New York March 7. 1789 I am sorry to inform you that the apprehensions suggested in my last 2 are realised. The delegates whom the states appointed to conduct the business of the Union in Congress till the meeting of the new gov ernment have not assembled in sufficient number to form a house, consequently there was no opportunity of laying your letter before them & getting it inserted on their minutes. I now wish to be in formed what is to be done with it; whether you would desire it to re main among the other papers of the late Congress or to have it re turned to you. I shall wait your Orders: In the mean while Accept a fresh assurance of the sincere esteem & regard with which I am Dear Sir, Your old friend & humble Servant, Cha Thomson RC (MHi: Waterston Collection). 1 Not identified. 2 Not found. Cyrus Griffin to Beverley Randolph March 9th. 1789. I am honored by your excellency’s letter of the 13th of Feby 1 only this morning. I did not understand that any person was appointed to come for ward with the accounts of the State against the united States, or most certainly myself would not have been mentioned. 2 Colonel Davies is a man very proper to answer the purpose, and I think will be found ex tremely useful. 3 The Board of Commissioners met on the 17th of January, and are now ready to act upon the business of their destination. 4 I am favored also with the Returns of nine of the Representatives of Virginia enclosed by your excellency, which I shall deliver to Colonel White, the only member at present from that State. 5 There are only eight Senators and 18 Representatives assembled—a very unfortunate thing. Be so kind to accept the enclosed papers, 6 and to believe me with sincere respect and attachment, Your excellency’s most obedient Ser vant, C Griffin 7


[Page 544]
510 March 9,1789 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). 1 Not in PCC. 2 See Griffin to Randolph, February 2. 3 Col. William Davies, who had agreed in September 1788 to serve as commissioner for settling Virginia’s Continental claims, arrived in New York April 22nd and wrote to Governor Randolph on April 23 and May 7 and 22, for which see Cal. of Va. State Papers, 4:490-91, 596-97, 607, 622-23. 4 See Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston, January 19, note 2. 5 Col. Alexander White of Virginia had taken his seat in the House of Representatives but was not joined by Samuel Griffin until March 17. See Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 3:3, 5. 6 Not in Continental Congress Papers, Vi. 7 In the expense accounts that he submitted to the Virginia treasurer, Griffin claimed continuous delegate service from November 1, 1787, to March 4, 1789, plus twenty days for travelling. Continental Congress Papers, Vi. Hugh Williamson to Samuel Johnston Sir New York 9th March 1789 On the 4th inst. according to appointment sundry Members of the new Congress viz eight Senators and fourteen of the House of Repre sentatives met at the public Buildings in this City; 1 Since that Time the Members of the old Congress have not attempted to form a House; some of them are in the new Congress, the Remainder are chiefly gon[e] Home. You will observe by the printed Journal 2 that we have not, during the Winter, been able to form a Congress of seven States; whence it has not been in my Power to bring forward the Instruction which the last general Assembly of our State were pleased to give their Dele gates. 3 It is true that seven States have been represented in Congress at one Time or another during the last three Months viz New Hamp shire, Massachusets, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Virginia & South Carolina but N. Hampshire, N York & N Jersey never chanced to be present together. The attending Members in general to whom I communicated the Purport of our Instructions were of the Opinion that the Request of the State should be granted and if I had been so fortunate as to have a Collegue I have no Doubt but that we should have obtain’d full Permission for the State to deliver in the Remain der of its Claims. Whatever Inclination I may have had occasionally to borrow a Holyday I have it in my Power to assure you, that from the Time I received the Instructions of the State, I have not been absent from the Chamber of Congress a single day at the usual Time of meet ing, lest the forming of a Congress should chance to be prevented and the Interest of the State suffer by such Absence. In Case the Board of Commissioners shall refuse to receive any new Vouchers or Claims that may be offered by the State I shall think it my


[Page 551]
April 14, 1789 517 great seal with the duties thereto annexed & to be annexed, and the custody & care of the papers which belonged to the late Congress be committed to me, this office to be made the depository of the acts, laws and archives of Congress; that the same salary be continued to me which the late Congress granted me & my stile be Secretary of the Senate and of the United States or Congress; & that besides necessary clerks, I be allowed a deputy who, if it be the pleasure of the Senate, may be nominated or appointed by themselves to do the ordinary business of the house, so that I may not be under the necessity of at tending except on special occasions and when the great business of the nation is under deliberation. If this proposition be approved by the Senate and acceptible I am ready to serve them to the utmost of my power. At least till the present government be organized & begin to take its due tone. If otherwise I must pursue my first determination and retire to the private walk but with an anxious wish & most earnest prayer that the measures of the present government may prove effec tual to secure the tranquillity and promote the happiness and glory of the United States. 1 With sentiments of the most sincere esteem and respect, I have the honor to be, dear Sir, Your most obedient & most humble servt, Cha Thomson 2 FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 For discussions of Thomson’s ambivalence about retiring from public office and the determination of his political enemies to ensure that he not retain office under the new federal government, see Schlenther, Charles Thomson, pp. 186-95; and Bowling, “Good- by ‘Charle’,” pp. 325—32. See also Thomson to the Joint Committee, April 30; and Thomson to Washington, July 23. 2 This day Thomson also wrote the following letter to his wife Hannah just after set ting out on a trip to Mount Vernon to notify George Washington of his election as Presi dent of the United States and to escort him back to New York for his inauguration, for which see Thomson to John Langdon, April 14 and April 24. “The place from which this is dated [“Bergen, Tuesday evening April 7”] still in sight of New York will I hope set your mind at rest and convince you that I am not quite so imprudent as you think. . . .[PS.] Wednesday 11 oClock. I am just safe over Hackinsak.” Thomas Ewing Family Papers, DLC. Charles Thomson to John Langdon Sir Duplicate Mount Vernon April 14. 1789 In obedience to the orders I received on the 6th of this Month, I left New York the next day and proceeding with unremitted diligence as fast as storms, tempests, bad roads & high swoln rivers would permit arrived at this place this Morning. 1 I found the general at home and after common compliments & salutations took an early opportunity to address him as follows. 2


[Page 552]
518 April 14,1789 “Sr., The president of the Senate chosen for the special occasion having opened and counted the votes of the Electors in the presence of the Senate & the house of representatives, I was honoured with the commands of the Senate to wait upon your excellency with the infor mation of your being elected to the office of President of the United States of America. This commission was entrusted to me on account of my having been long in the confidence of the late Congress 8c charged with the duties of one of the principal civil departments of government. “I have now, Sir, to inform you that the proofs you have given of your patriotism and of your readiness to sacrifice domestic ease 8c pri vate enjoyments to preserve the liberty 8c promote the happiness of your country did not permit the two houses to harbour a doubt of your undertaking this great, this important Office to which you are called not only by the unanimous votes of the electors, but by the voice of America. I have it therefore in command to accompany you to New York where the Senate and the house of representatives are convened for the despatch of public business. “In executing this part of my commission where personal gratifica tion coincides with duty I shall wait your time and be wholly governed by your convenience.” I then delivered your dispatches. To this [the] President, made a short reply 3 8c concluded with informing me that he would be ready to set out the day after to morrow, and from the arrangements he has made in his mind of the daily stages it may be 7 or 8 days from that time before he reaches New York. With my dutiful respects to the Senate, I have the honor to be, Sr, Your Most obedient and Most humble Servant, Cha Thomson RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 The United States Senate had finally convened a quorum on April 6, whereupon John Langdon was selected president “for the sole purpose of opening the certificates and counting the votes of the Electors of the several States in the choice of a President and Vice President of the United States.” Upon the completion of the balloting, “the Senate appointed Charles Thomson, Esq. to notify George Washington, Esq. of his elec tion to the Office of President,” and Langdon sent Thomson the following instructions. “The Senate of the United States have appointed you to wait upon General Washing ton, with a certificate of his being elected to the Office of President of the United States of America. You will therefore prepare to set out as soon as possible, and apply to the Board of Treasury for such sums as you may judge necessary for the expenses of the journey.” Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 1:7-9. 2 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 2:54-55. 3 Ibid., p. 57.


[Page 553]
April 24, 1789 519 Charles Thomson to John Langdon Sir: New York, April 24,1789. In pursuance of the orders I received from the Senate, 1 I left New York on Tuesday, the 7th of the present month; and though much im peded by tempestuous weather, bad roads, and the many large rivers I had to cross, yet, by unremitted diligence I reached Mount Vernon, the seat of his excellency General Washington, on Tuesday, the 14th, about 12 o’clock. I found his excellency at home; and after communi cating to him the object of my mission and the substance of my in structions, I took an opportunity, on the day of my arrival, to address him as follows: “Sir, the President of the Senate, chosen for the special occasion, having opened and counted the votes of the electors in the presence of the Senate and the House of Representatives, I was honored with the commands of the Senate to wait upon your excellency with the in formation of your being elected to the office of President of the United States of America. This commission was intrusted to me on ac count of my having been long in the confidence of the late Congress, and charged with the duties of one of the principal civil departments of Government. “I have now, sir, to inform you, that the proofs you have given of your patriotism, and of your readiness to sacrifice domestic ease and private enjoyment to preserve the liberty and promote the happiness of your country, did not permit the two Houses to harbor a doubt of your undertaking this great, this important office, to which you are called not only by the unanimous votes of the electors but by the voice of America; I have it therefore in command to accompany you to New York, where the Senate and House of Representatives are convened for the despatch of public business. In executing this part of my com mission, where personal gratification coincides with duty, I shall wait your time, and be wholly governed by your convenience.” To this his excellency was pleased to make the following reply: 2 “Sir, I have been long accustomed to entertain so great a respect for the opinion of my fellow-citizens, that the knowledge of their unanimous suffrages having been given in my favor, scarcely leaves me the alterna tive for an option. Whatever may have been my private feelings and sen timents, I believe I cannot give a greater evidence of my sensibility for the honor they have done me, than by accepting the appointment. “I am much affected by this fresh proof of my country’s esteem and confidence, that silence can best explain my gratitude—while I realize


[Page 559]
May 16, 1789 525 Daniel Carroll, James Madison, and Roger Sherman), the ceremonials they developed, and Thomson’s exclusion from the proceedings by his political enemies, particularly Lee, Izard, and Dalton, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 1:26-30; Bowling, “Good-by ‘Charle’,” pp. 325-27; and Schlenther, Charles Thomson, pp. 186-91. For these inaugural arrangements, see Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 1:29-33, and 8 (forthcoming): April 29-30; Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 2:152-57; and Free man, Washington, 6:187-97. 4 For the actual delivery of these records by Thomson to his long-time deputy secre tary Roger Alden nearly three months later, see Thomson to Washington, July 23 and July 25. Charles Thomson to Sundry Printers Office of Secretary of Congress May It. 1789 N. Hampshire Massachusetts Rhodeisland Connecticut Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland South Carolina Georgia. I request that you will transmit your Account for Newspapers to the first of May, and give directions to your correspondent in New-york to receive the balance due, and that you will please to send no more Newspapers to this Office after that date. 1 To Daniel Fowle Adams & Nourse Solomon Southwick Josiah Meigs Dunlap & Claypoole Frederick Craig & Co. William Goddard Ann Timothy James Johnston Sir (Circular) LB (DNA: PCC, item 18B). FC (DNA: PCC, item 49). In the hand of Roger Alden. Ad dressed: “To Mr Daniel Fowle {The New-Hampshire Gazette, and General Advertiser], Portsmouth, N Hampshire—forwarded by mail. Messrs. Adams & Nourse [Independent Chronicle: and the Universal Advertiser], Boston. Solomon Southwick [The Newport Mer cury], New Port, Rhode Island. Josiah Meigs [The New-Haven Gazette, and the Connecticut Magazine], N Haven, Connecticut. Dunlap & Claypoole [The Pennsylvania Packet, and Daily Advertiser], Philadelphia. Frederic Craig & Co. [The Delaware Gazette], Wilmington, Delaware. William Goddard [The Maryland Journal, and the Baltimore Advertiser], Balti more, Maryland. Mrs. Ann Timothy [The State Gazette of South Carolina], Charleston, S. Carolina. James Johnstone [The Georgia Gazette], Savannah, Georgia.” 1 For Thomson’s subscriptions in behalf of Congress to various newspapers in the states, see these Letters, 22:43, 236-37, 244—45. Charles Thomson to William Samuel Johnson Sir Office of Secretary of Congress, May 16th. 1789. On the 5th of April 1781 An Ordinance was passed for establishing


[Page 561]
May 19, 1789 527 RC (DLC: Johnson Papers). 1 For this ordinance, see these Letters, 17:170; and 19:354-56. 2 See JCC, 24:164; and these Letters, 19:653, 655n.4. 3 JCC, 29:682. 4 For John Jay’s September 29, 1785, report, see JCC, 29:797-805, 928 (no. 501) 5 JCC, 30:224n. 6 JCC, 32:42n. Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir, New York May 19. 1789 I intended to have done myself the honor of waiting on you this evening but the dampness of the weather prevents my going abroad I therefore take the liberty of enclosing my opinion on the paragraph in the constitution which you were pleased to mention; 1 the result of my conference with Mr Jay on the subject of sea letters; and the lights I have received by examining the laws of Pensylvania and Mas sachusetts touching the Naval Officer and the collector of the customs or duties. With the greatest respect I have the honor to be, May it please the president, Your most obedient & Most humble servant, Cha Thomson ENCLOSURE On this clause of the Constitution touching the powers of the Presi dent viz. “He shall nominate and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate shall appoint Ambassadors, other public ministers and Con suls, judges of the supreme court and all other officers of the United States whose appointments are not herein otherwise provided for and which shall be established by law.” 2 It appears that ambassadors, other public minister and consuls, and judges of the Supreme court are on the same footing, that is officers recognised by the Constitution & the existence of whose offices does not depend on, or require a law for their establishment, Though an Act will be necessary for their support: that as he has power, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate to make treaties, provided two thirds of the Senators present concur, So treaties being made he may in consequence thereof at his discre tion nominate and by and with the advice and consent of the Senate appoint Ambassadors, other public ministers and consuls, consequent to such treaties. The last words “and which shall be established by law” appear by every rule of construction to be confined to “all other offi cers of the United States whose appointments are not herein (namely in the constitution) otherwise provided for.[”]


[Page 562]
528 May 19, 1789 Touching the granting of Sea letters On the 12 February 1788, Congress Resolved 3 That the Secretary for foreign [affairs] for the time being be and he is hereby authorised and directed upon application made to him for that purpose to grant in the usual form Sea-letters for any vessel or vessels owned entirely & navigated chiefly by citizens of the United States and bound on long and distant voyages at his discretion; provided always that it be made to appear to him by oath or affirmation or by such other evidence as shall by him be deemed Satisfactory by the person or persons applying therefor, that the vessel or vessels, for which such Sea letters shall be required, shall together with all and every part of her cargo be owned entirely and commanded by officers Citizens of the United States and shall be navigated for the most part by the same. That for this purpose the Secretary for foreign affairs be and he is hereby instructed to pro cure a sufficient number of blank Sea letters drafted in the usual form and signed by the president of Congress for the purpose aforesaid, and that the same when filled up be sealed with the seal of the United States, and certified by the Secretary of Congress. The usual form of the Sea letters is as follows 4 Most serene, Serene, Most puissant, puissant, high illustrious, noble, honorable, venerable, wise, and prudent Emperors, kings, republics, princes, dukes, earls, barons, lords, burgomasters, counsellors, as also judges, officers, justi ciaries and regents of all the good cities and places, whether ecclessi- astical or secular, who shall see these patents, or hear them read. [“]We the United States in Congress assembled make known that — captain of the ship called is a citizen of the United States of America and that the ship which he commands belongs to citizens of the said United States and as we wish to see the said prosper in his lawful affairs our prayer is to all the before mentioned and to each of them separately where the said shall arrive with his ves sel and cargo, that they may please to receive him with goodness and treat him in a becoming manner, permitting him upon the usual tolls and expences in passing and repassing, to pass, navigate and frequent the ports, passes and territories, to the end to transact his business where and in what manner he shall judge proper, whereof we will will ingly be endebted. In testimony we have caused the great Seal of the United States to be hereunto affixed Witness his Excellency President of the United States in Congress assembled this day of in the year of our Lord & of the sovereignty and in dependence of the United States of America.” Though there can be no doubt but that the President may in virtue of his powers grant Sea letters to vessels belonging to citizens of the United States bound on long and distant voyages, yet it does not ap pear from the foregoing resolution and form of Sea Letters that the Secretary for foreign affairs can now grant Sea letters in the usual form nor the Secretary of Congress seal and certify the same; nor that


[Page 563]
May 19, 1789 529 the Sea letters now to be issued can run in the form prescribed. On consultation, both the Secretary of Congress and the Secretary for for eign affairs concur in this Opinion. Touching the naval Office and the Office of Collector of the Customs in Pensylvania By a law of Pensylvania passed the 10 Sept. 1778 5 Masters of vessels shall within 48 hours after arrival in port enter at a naval Office & make report, on oath, of all goods, wares & merchandize in such ves sel, setting forth the packages, marks & numbers thereof and the na ture of their contents & his own name and the name and burthen of the ship, and the names and abodes of the owner or owners thereof, the port or place where the cargo was shipped with the documents usually furnished in such place: Masters of Vessels outward bound are first to report to the said Office the intended voyage & before the ves sels proceed to sail deliver, under oath to be administered by the Of ficer, a manifest of the outward cargos. All vessels belonging to sub jects of the State to be registered in the said office, for which purpose one or more of the owners shall certify on oath or affirmation to the naval Officer the name, burthen, shape and Kind of vessel together with the name of the master, the place of construction and the name or names of the owner or owners thereof and the parts or shares they respectively hold in the same; and the naval officer shall register such vessel in a book kept for the purpose and furnish an attested copy of Such register. The naval officer is paid by fees fixed by law for entering & clearing out, for entering registers & granting certificates thereof and for per mits to unload. By an act passed 23 Deer 1780 6 an impost as laid on goods im ported, which impost was to be received by the naval Officer who was to keep a true account of his doings and once in every month pay over to the treasurer of the State the monies received, & once in every six Months or oftner if required setde with the State auditor; for this ser vice he was allowed % per cent on the Monies received & paid over and 2/ from the party executing any bond for each bond given for du ties. It appears that by an Act passed the 15 March 1784 Sharp De laney was appointed Collector. 7 This act is not in the office—But by an Act passed the 2 April 1785 entided a supplement to the Acts for rais ing an impost and to secure more effectually the revenues arising from the same 8 it appears that both officers were continued and their duties as far as they relate to the collection of the impost are regulated as follows. 1. All goods imported are to be entered with the collector. 2. Such entry before permit is given for landing is to be examined & compared by the naval Officer with the manifest of the cargo lodged by the Master of the vessel at his office and a certificate of his approv-


[Page 564]
530 May 19,1789 ing the same to be sent to the collectors office & filed upon which the collector is to grant a permit for unloading. 3. The collector or deputy collector, or the naval officer or his deputy, on reasonable cause of suspicion, may open and examine any bale, box &c. and if fraud be discovered, the goods shall be forfeited one half thereof to the use of the State, the other half to him or them who made the seizure. 4. The book of register Kept by the naval officer for registering en tries made at the collectors office, and the manifests lodged and filed in the naval office by the masters of vessels or a fair transcript thereof to be lodged in the comptrollers office as checks for the examination & setdement of the accounts of the collector. The naval officer to be allowed six pence for every entry he exam ines and to take an oath for the faithful discharge of his duty. The collector to give bond with sufficient sureties for faithfully ac counting and paying over the money received. A M[r] Phyle has been naval officer of the port of Philadelphia And Mr Sharp Delaney Collector of the said port. 9 In the commonwealth of Massachusetts By an act passed 1 Novr 1781 10 an excise is laid on wine, rum, brandy & teas and on wheel carriages and for the collection thereof one collector is to be annually appointed for each county. By an act passed March 1782 11 persons importing wine, rum, brandy or teas, and all persons distilling spirituous liquors are prohib ited from selling the same without permits so to do from the collector of excise or his deputy. By an act passed Novr 1782 12 a new duty or excise was laid on a great number of articles therein specified, both imported and made in the state. No imported goods are to be landed without a permit from the naval officers or in case of no naval officer in the port from the collector of excise in the county, and where there is no naval offi cer, collector or deputy in the port, from the town clerk or a select man. No permit for landing to be given by a naval officer till a mani fest of the cargo, on oath, is lodged with him. Collectors and naval officers are empowered to seize. The collector of each county is to account with the treasurer of the commonwealth for the money received for duties or penalties & to pay the same into the treasury quarterly. The collectors appointed in the several counties under former acts are to receive & collect the duties mentioned in this act till others are chosen in their room. Suitable persons are to be appointed annually for executing the duties assigned to collectors with such allowances for their services as shall be determined when they shall be appointed. On the 22 March 1783 13 an impost was laid on certain goods, wares and merchandize which was to be collected by the same officers in the


[Page 566]
532 May 19, 1789 s See JCC, 34:39-40, 631. 4 Cf. PCC, item 130, fols. 2-3. 5 See Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 2:340n.2. 6 Ibid., note 3. 7 Ibid., note 4. 8 Ibid., note 5. 9 Ibid., note 6. 10 Ibid., note 7. 11 Ibid., note 8. 12 Ibid., note 9. 13 Ibid., note 10. 14 Ibid., note 11. 15 Ibid., note 12. 16 Ibid., note 13. 17 Ibid., note 14. 18 Ibid., note 15. Charles Thomson to John Vining [May 20,1789] 1 Mr Thomson presents his compliments to Mr Vining & hopes that for obvious reasons Mr V will excuse his not intering into a discussion of the subject mentioned in his note, more especially when it is con sidered that the complex nature of the general government of the United States, the variety of interests comprehended under it, the states of which it is composed, the necessity of reconciling them one to another and to the general government so as to form one united nation, not to mention the Indians who live within the territories of the United States and who have rights and claims which must be at tended to, cannot fail to suggest to the enlightened body of which Mr Vining is a member, that the care of our domestic affairs and the pre serving peace and harmony at home is of as much importance and may require as much time, attention and abilities as any of the depart ments which have been brought before them. FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 Date conjectured from the fact that Thomson was responding to the following note from Vining, which is dated only “Wednesday 12 oClock but was the outgrowth of a motion Vining offered in the House of Representatives on Tuesday May 19 proposing the creation of a “home department.” See Doc. Hist. First Federal Congress, 10:725. “Mr Vining presents his respects to Mr Thomson, and takes the Liberty, if his Leisure will admit of it, to request him to give his Idea of a Domestick Department, and the Du ties necessary to be comprehended within such an office. Mr. Vining would not have troubled Mr Thomson upon this occasion, but the Time allow’d him for the considera tion of this Business will necessarily be very limited.” Thomson Papers, DLC. Vining, a former Delaware delegate to Congress, 1784—85, was elected to represent his state in the first and second United States Congresses, and served in the United States Senate, 1793—98. Bio. Dir. Cong.


[Page 568]
534 July 17,1789 fices under the late Congress passed? if they be; have those Officers been recognised by the present Congress? Why then the distinction. The truth is All the Offices & the papers are in the care and custody of the respective Officers under the late Congress and must be so reg ularly till they are relieved, and discharged of their trust. And the Offi cers have done such business in their respective offices as they consid ered themselves authorised to do. Such I presume has been the case with others & such has been the case with respect to the Office of the Secretary of Congress. But whether this office is to be distinguished from the rest and the officers therein refused the payments of their salaries while thus detained is submitted to your judgment, by Gentle men, Your humble serv, Cha Thomson 2 FC (DLC: Thomson Papers). In the hand of Charles Thomson, and addressed by him: “To the board of treasury.” 1 There is also in Thomson’s Papers, DLC, a three-page document dated “Registers Office 2d June 1789” signed by Joseph Nourse indicating the total sum Thomson had been paid from May 9, 1776 to March 31, 1789, specie value, accompanied by a detailed “Statement of Particulars.” 2 For the final provision made for the settlement of Secretary Thomson’s office ac counts in the “estimate” submitted by Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton, September 29, 1789, see Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 5:381-82. Charles Thomson to George Washington To the President of the United States of America Sir, July 23. 1789 Having had the honor of serving in quality of Secretary of Congress from the first meeting of Congress in 1774 to the present time, a pe riod of almost fifteen years, and having seen in that eventful period, by the interposition of divine Providence the rights of our country as serted and vindicated, its independence declared, acknowledged and fixed, peace & tranquility restored & in consequence thereof a rapid advance in arts, manufactures and population, and lastly a govern ment established which gives well grounded hopes of promoting its lasting welfare & securing its freedom and happiness, I now wish to re turn to private life. 1 With this intent I present my self before you to surrender up the charge of the books, records and papers of the late Congress which are in my custody & deposited in rooms of the house where the legis lature assemble, and to deliver into your hands the Great Seal of the federal Union, the keeping of which was one of the duties of my Of fice, and the seal of the Admiralty which was committed to my care when that board was dissolved.


[Page 569]
July 25,1789 535 Before I retire I beg leave to recommend to your favour Mr Roger Alden who was appointed, by the late Congress, deputy Secretary & whom I have found an able & faithful assistant, and Mr John Fisher who has served as a clerk in the Office for several years with diligence and fidelity & who alone remains unemployed. And now with most sincere and ardent wishes for the prosperity of our country and a fervent prayer for your health and happiness I bid you an affectionate Farewell, Cha Thomson 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 49). Addressed: “To the President of the United States of Amer- ica.” 1 For discussion of Thomson s failure to obtain a position in the new government, the combined product of determined efforts of old political enemies, his own inability to make his desires known forthrightly and unambiguously, and Washington’s reluctance to become involved in what was essentially a patronage issue, see Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 3:295-96; Bowling, “Good-by ‘Charle’,” pp. 325-34; and Schlenther, Charles Thomson, pp. 185-95. 2 For Washington’s July 24 response to Thomson, expressing his “regret that the pe riod of my coming again into public life, should be exactly that, in which you are about to retire from it,” and instructing Thomson “to deliver the Books, Records & Papers of the late Congress” to Roger Alden, see Washington, Papers (Abbot), Presidential Series (Twohig), 3:308-9. Charles Thomson to George Washington To the President of the United States of America Sir, New York July 25. 1789 I cannot find words to express the feelings of my heart, on the re ceipt of your favour of yesterday, 1 at this repeated instance of your goodness. I shall ever retain a grateful remembrance of this and of your condescension to me on a former occasion when your presence administered a balm to my wounded spirit. From the love and veneration I bear and have continually felt for you, and the light in which I have always viewed you as raised up by Providence to be the Saviour and father of your country I freely con fess I should have been highly gratified in devoting myself to the pub lic service under your administration. But by attentively observing and weighing circumstances and occurrences it appeared to me to be the will of God that I should return to private life. Under this impression, though I wished not merely to submit, but to submit with cheerful ness, I own I felt an uneasiness at the circumstance you mention and which you are pleased to say you have to regret that the period of your coming again into public life should be exacdy that in which I am to retire from it; but I had this consolation that you were sensible and from what had occurred the world must be convinced & know that my


[Page 573]
Appendix 539 A State of the Representation in Congress, for the Month of February 1788 Pursuant to the Act of 17th August, 1785. MS (Nc-Ar: General Assembly Records). Enclosed in Charles Thomson to the States, March 3,1788. Members who at tended in the course of the Month. 1 4 5 6 7 8 11 12 13 14 15 18 19 20 21 22 25 26 27 28 29 New-Hampshire, Mr. Gilman Mr. Wingate Massachusetts, Mr. Dane Mr. Otis Mr. Thatcher Rhode-Island, Connecticut, Mr. Mitchell Mr. Cook Mr. Wadsworth New-York, Mr. Hamilton Mr. Gansevoort Newjersey, Mr. Clarke Mr. Elmer Mr. Dayton Pennsylvania, Mr. Irvin Mr. Reid Mr. Armstrong Delaware, Mr. Kearney Mr. Mitchell Maryland, Mr. Howard Mr. Contee Virginia, Mr. Madison Mr. Griffin Mr. Brown North-Carolina, Mr. White South-Carolina, Mr. Huger Mr. Parker Mr. Tucker Georgia, Mr. Baldwin 1 r 1 r r r r r 1 r 1 1 r 1 r r r r r 1 r 1 1 r 1 r r r r r 1 r 1 1 r 1 1 1 r r r 1 r 1 I r 1 r r r r 1 r 1 1 r 1 r r r r 1 r 1 r r 1 r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r I r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r I r r r r r 1 r r r 1 r 1 r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r r 1 r r r 1 1 r r r r r 1 r r r t 1 r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r 1 r The States represented, 7 7 5 6 6 7 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 8 9 8 8 10


[Page 578]
544 Appendix A State of the Representation in Congress, for the Month of July 1788 Pursuant to the Act of 17th August, 1785. Members who at tended in the course of the Month. 1 2 3 7 8 9 10 11 14 15 16 17 18 21 22 24 25 28 29 30 31 New-Hampshire, Mr. Gilman 1 Mr. Wingate J Massachusetts, Mr. Dane 1 Mr. Otis J Rhode-Island, Mr. Arnold 1 Mr. Hazard J Connecticut, Mr. Huntington 1 Mr. Edwards > Mr. Wadsworth J New-York, Mr. L’Hommedieu 1 Mr. Yates > Mr. Benson J New-Jersey, Mr. Clark 1 Mr. Elmer > Mr. Dayton J Pennsylvania, Mr. Irvine J Mr. Armstrong 1 Mr. Bigham (Mr. Reid J Delaware, Mr. Kearny 1 Mr. Mitchell J Maryland, Mr. Contee J Mr. Seney 1 Mr. Howard | Mr. Ross J Virginia, Mr. Griffin Mr. Madison Mr. Carrington Mr. Brown Mr. Lee North-Carolina, Mr. Williamson 1 Mr. Swann J South-Carolina, Mr. Huger 1 Mr. Parker > Mr. Tucker J Georgia, Mr. Few 1 Mr. Baldwin J r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r 1 r r r 1 r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r I r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r r 1 r r r r r r r r r r The States represented, 9 11 10 1 1 11 11 12 13 12 12 11 13 1 3 1 1 13 12 12 12 12 12 12 MS (Vi: Continental Congress Collection). Enclosed in Charles Thomson to the States, September 6, 1788.


[Page 585]
Jacob Duche’s First Prayer in Congress [September 7, 1774] 1 O! Lord, our heavenly father, 2 King of Kings and Lord of lords: who dost from thy throne behold all the dwellers upon earth and reignest with power supreme & uncontrouled 3 over all kingdoms, empires and govemnjents, look down in mercy, 4 we beseech thee, upon these our 5 American states who have fled to thee from the rod of the oppressor and thrown themselves upon thy gracious protection, desiring hence forth to be 6 dependent only on thee. To thee they have appealed for the righteousness of their Cause; to Thee do they look up, 7 for that countenance & support which Thou alone canst give. Take them, therefore, Heavenly Father, under thy nurturing care: give them wisdom in council, valour in the field. Defeat the malicious designs of our cruel adversaries. Convince them of the unrighteous ness of their cause. And if they persist® in their sanguinary purposes, O! let the voice of thy 9 unerring justice sounding in their hearts con strain them to drop the weapons of war from their enerved 10 hands in the day of battle. Be thou present, O God of Wisdom and direct the counsels 11 of this honourable Assembly. Enable them to settle things upon the best and surest foundation, that the scene of blood may be speedily closed; that 12 harmony and peace may effectually be restored, and truth and justice, religion and piety prevail and flourish amongst thy people. Preserve the health of their bodies and the vigour of their minds; shower down upon them and the millions they represent 13 such tem poral blessings as Thou seest expedient for them in this world, and crown them with everlasting glory in the world to come. All this we ask in the name and through the merits of Jesus Christ thy son, Our Saviour, Amen. MS (MdHi: Journals of Congress [Philadelphia: R. Aitken, 1787],J1O.A15.V1). “Appendix” in the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 For the selection of the Reverend Jacob Duche to open Congress this day with a prayer and the congressional comment occasioned by his riveting performance, see these Utters, 1:31-35, 45, 55, 74. Duche actually delivered not a single prayer but two—a prepared one, which he read, followed by a much longer extemporaneous prayer, which led John Adams to effuse that he had “never heard a better Prayer or one so well pronounced,” and Silas Deane to declare that “it was worth riding One Hundred Mile to hear” (ibid., pp. 34, 74). These glowing assessments were aimed primarily at the impromptu prayer rather than his prepared text, which is printed here.


[Page 586]
552 September 7,1774 The discovery of this text of Duche’s prayer in the hand of Charles Thomson clarifies a longstanding puzzle. Historians have been reluctant to credit nineteenth-century claims for the authenticity of the prayer, and some have misidentified it as one Duche read “at his first appearance in Congress after the Declaration of Independence” on July 9, 1776. See George Hastings, “Jacob Duche, First Chaplain of Congress,” The South Atlantic Quarterly 31 (October 1932): 394. See also James Thacher, A Military Journal dur ing the American Revolutionary War... (Boston: Richardson & Lord, 1823), p. 145, and Lorenzo Sabine, The American Loyalists. . .(Boston: C. C. Little and J. Brown, 1847), p. 264. The first text of Duche’s prayer available to the public was published in Thacher’s Military Journal™ 1823, although the source of Thacher’s text was not explained. A sec ond printing appeared in 1831 in volume 1 of the University of Virginia’s Chameleon from a text in Thomas Jefferson’s possession at his death five years earlier, which soon after disappeared. Other nineteenth-century printed versions are essentially reprintings of Thacher’s. A manuscript text in the hand of John Hancock is in the collections of the Independence National Historical Park in Philadelphia. The defect of the texts ac quired by Hancock and Jefferson is that neither man was in Philadelphia in 1774 and they were most certainly obtained second hand. Our belief in the integrity of Thomson’s text rests upon what is known of his record as secretary of Congress from 1774 to 1789 and the care he took in preserving their pro ceedings. The document printed here was copied by Thomson on the first blank page following the index to volume one of his personal copy of the 13-volume printed edi tion of the Journals of Congress (Philadelphia: R. Aitken, 1787) owned by the Maryland Historical Society. It bears the heading “Appendix. Copy of the reverend Mr Duche Prayer see p 11.” And at page 11, which records the congressional proceedings for September 7, 1774, following the entry “the Meeting was opened with Prayers by the Reverend Mr. Duche,” Thomson wrote “see the appendix.” A comparison of Thomson’s text with the three earliest texts traced to John Hancock, Thomas Jefferson, and James Thacher reveals several, generally minor, textual varia tions, the most significant of which are recorded in the notes below. No clear evolution between these texts is apparent. The Jefferson and Thacher texts are printed as single paragraphs; the Hancock text produces Thomson’s first two paragraphs as one. 2 “High & mighty” precedes “King of Kings” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. s “& uncontrouled” omitted in the Jefferson text. 4 “with mercy” in the Jefferson text. 5 “our” omitted in the Hancock text. 6 “to be” precedes “henceforth” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 7 “they now look up” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 8 “still persist” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 9 “thine own” in the Hancock text. 10 “unnerved” in the Hancock, Jefferson, and Thacher texts. 11 “councils” in the three other texts. 12 “that Order, Harmony & Peace” in the three other texts. 13 “they here represent” in the three other texts. John Adams to Elbridge Gerry Dr Sir Phyladelphia Octr. 7. 1774. I thank you for your kind Letter. 1 The wretched Vapouring of your Tories who are the worst Enemies of Mankind that ever disgraced the human Figure, Head and Heart, are ridiculous enough. They are laughed at by every Man of sense here. Gentn here know better the


[Page 587]
May 12, 1775 553 state of Britain and America. But I can tell them, for their Comfort, that Britain has neither Troops nor Money, to engage in a twenty Years War with all North America. I am assured by several Gentlemen here perfectly acquaintd with the british Army, that the whole seventy Regiments now in being do not amount to 27,000 Men—12,000 of these must remain in Ireland- some are in the West Indies—Some in Gibralter—some in Minorca- some in England and some in America. It is therefore certain they cannot with their present Army pretend to fight America at Land. To talk of Hanoverians and Hessians! Will the british Nation Stripped of the Commerce of the Colonies, raise her Millions by new Taxes to pay Germans? The poor deluded, abandoned Tories in Boston, knew not their Situation. They are pushing, with all their Malice for Measures that if pursued will cost them very dear. RC (Mrs. Elsie O. and Mr. Philip D. Sang, River Forest, Ill., 1981). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Not found. Silas Deane to John Trumbull Dear sir, 1 Philadelphia May 12th. 1775 The first leisure Moment I have had since Our parting at New Haven I now employ, to ask of You in a Word, what You may think might require Ceremony & Apology, but The Times my Freind are a sufficient excuse, it is that You wake the slumbering Muse, and write General Gage’s Victories, my Idea is that You write in the True Hudibrastic stile, his first Campaign, beginning, from his landing at Boston, last May, and ending, at the Salem Expedition which may be Canto 1st. untill that period which nearly takes up one year, all is a farce, & may be properly the subject of Ridicule, the second Canto must be serious possibly but let that rest untill the scene opens more fully—suppose You inform the World that the stile of the poem, will Constantly vary as his Actions and Atcheivements rise or sink are either of the Comic, or Tragic, the Farci[c]al, or Heroical complexion, and that the Next Canto will be published as soon as he affords matter sufficient for the Canto 2d. I cannot add, think of it & write Me, I have Consulted Mr. Jno. Adams who wishes You to undertake it. 2 I am Dr sir, Yr. Old Freind, S.D. [PS.] All here, are in high Spirits, the very Quakers have taken Arms, & imbodied themselves, & exercise many of them Twice every Day, but let no hint of this, get into the public papers. Congress proceedings will be a secret for the present—Georgia Delegates are arrived.


[Page 588]
554 May 12, 1775 RC (CtY: Humphreys-Marvin-Olmsted Collection). Addressed: “To John Trumbull Esqr, Atty, at Law, New Haven. To Care of Mr Ebr. Hazard N York.” ■John Trumbull (1750-1831) has been identified in these Letters, 2:305n. 2 For Deane’s role in the genesis of Trumbull’s mock-epic poem MTingal, whose first canto was published in the fall of 1775 and has been long regarded as one of the most successful American literary productions of the eighteenth century, see Alexander Cowie, John Trumbull, Connecticut Wit (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1936), pp. 158-66; and Victor E. Gimmestad, John Trumbull (New York: Twayne Publish ers, 1974), pp. 80-82. Cowie, who first unearthed Deane’s contributions to MTingats origins, did not have access to the present letter and developed his conclusions from Trumbull’s letters to Deane. John Hancock to Elbridge Gerry June 10, 1775. “I have only time to say I will attend to the Duck, & lay the other matters before Congress this morng. & make a return as soon as possible. I refer to Dr Church. . .In consequence ofyou[r] Ex press last Eveng. I call the Congress together early....” 1 MS not found; reprinted from extract in American Book Prices Current, 1980, p. 85. 1 For the context of this letter see these Letters, l:473n.2. Benjamin Franklin to William Temple Franklin Philada. June 13. 1775. “... .1 am glad to learn by your Letters that you are happy in your new Situation, and that tho’ you ride out some times, you do not neglect your Studies. You are now in that time of Life which is the properest to store your Mind with such Knowledge as is hereafter to be ornamental and useful to you. I confide that you have too much Sense to let the Season slip. The Antients painted Op portunity as an old Man with Wings to his Feet and Shoulders, a great Lock of Hair on the fore part of his Head, but bald behind; whence comes our old Saying, Take Time by the Forelock-, as much as to say, when it is past, there is no means of pulling it back again; as there is no Lock behind to take hold of for that purpose.” Reprinted from Franklin, Papers (Labaree), 22:64-65. Robert Treat Paine to David Cobb June 17, 1775. “I omit no opportunity of writing to you. 1 I wish you


[Page 598]
564 November 28,1775 purchase. $28,500 in continental currency will be advanced to Mum ford, for which he will render account to the United Colonies. The powder will be landed in the colonies at a safe and convenient place east of Chesapeake Bay, and the location will be revealed as soon as possible to a quorum of the committee. “Signed by Samuel Ward, [Benjamin] Franklin, Thomas Willing, Josiah Bartlett, Francis Lewis, and Thomas Mumford.” Reprinted from Franklin, Papers (Labaree), 22:278. 1 For the adoption of this Secret Committee contract with Mumford, see these Letters, 2:402. Secret Committee Contract [December 26,1775] 1 Be it remembered, That it is agreed by and between John Brown of Providence in the Colony of Rhode Island of the one part, and Samuel Ward, Benjamin Franklin, Josiah Bartlet, John Langdon, Robert Morris, and Thomas McKean, Esquires, Members of the Com mittee of secrecy appointed by the Honourable Continental Congress of the Thirteen united Colonies of North America of the other part, That a voyage or voyages Shall be undertaken for the Speedy procure- ing Thirty Six Tons of Good Gun Powder (or if Gun Powder is not to be had then as much Salt Petre with a proportion of 15 of Sulphur to every Hundred pounds of salt Petre as will be Sufficient to make that quantity of Gun Powder), One Thousand Stand of Good arms, one Thousand double bridled Gun Locks, Twenty Tons of Lead, and One Thousand Bolts of Russia Duck—if the arms are not to be had their value to be laid out in Good Gun Powder (or Salt Petre & Sulphur) If neither are to be had, then in Ticklinburgs, Oznabrigs, or Vitreys, or in Case those are not to be had the neat proceeds to be returnd in Gold or Silver—That the Vessel or Vessels shall be Charterd for the use of the united Colonys aforesaid, the frieght to be paid on their re turn, the Owners runing the risque of the sea and the united Colonies to Insure them against all British Captors—That Skilful and prudent Super Cargoes be Employd by the said John Brown, That five per Cent Commissions shall be allowed for purchaseing the Cargoes to be Exported, two and a half per Cent on the sales thereof in the West In dias or in Europe, and two & a half per Cent for purchaseing the re turns. That Twenty Thousand Dollars Continental Currency be ad- vancd to the said John Brown for which he is hereafter to render an Account to the united Colonies, who are to bear the Whole risque of the said Adventure. The said Powder &c. is to be put on shore in some safe and Convenient place in the united Colonies Eastward of Chessa-


[Page 604]
570 March 2,1776 Benjamin Franklin to Charles William Frederic Dumas March 2,1776 [This letter was printed in these Letters, 3:426, under March 22, the erroneous date used in the 1803 source from which it was reprinted. Dumas, however, acknowledged it as one of March 2, which is un doubtedly the correct date because it was delivered by Silas Deane, who left Philadelphia for France March 8. See Franklin, Papers (Laba- ree), 22:374n.4, 548, 550.] John Jay to Sarah Jay My dear Sally Wednesday Night, March [20] 1776 1 Your Letter of the 17 Inst, made me very happy by informing me of your health and our Son’s Recovery, which I hope is by this time per fect. Tho your tenderness in concerning his Indisposition merits my thanks, yet be assured that I shall never hesitate more in sharing your Anxieties, than in partaking of your Pleasures. I am glad to hear Mrs. Lawrence was in such good Spirits as to en tertain You with the Story of the Conch shell Beauty, which together with its Embellishments, I dare say afforded much Mirth & Amuse ment to the Company. This little Incident happened in November last, and at the Time was the Subject of Wit and Raillery in the litde Circle of our acquaintance; but soon growing thread-bare it ceased, like other Matters of the same Kind, to be the object of Attention, and I dont remember it once presented itself to my Recollection during the Time I spent at Elizabeth Town. However as the Story has excited your Curiosity, and may contribute to your Entertainment, I will ac quaint you with such of the Particulars of it as I can now recollect. On a Saturday in November last, Coll. Morris and myself, invited by Sunshine and good Food took a Walk to [Gray] ’s Ferry with Intention [to] dine and spend the Day there. On our Arrival we ordered Fire to be made in a private Room, and while it was preparing, sat down in the common Room with many Travellers and Country People who were returning from Market, with whom we entered into familiar Con versation about Whigs and Tories and Beef and Butter and Congress. We had not been long engaged in this Way, before a most beautiful country Girl about seventeen, in a coarse but clean Dress, alighted from a Waggon and came in to warm herself. She was tall, extremely well made, and of most delicate and well proportioned Features; an uncommon Sweetness was diffused thro’ her Countenance, and that


[Page 605]
March 20, 1776 571 Kind of truely virgin Modesty which Innocence and Simplicity of Man ners inspire, marked her whole Deportment. Her Complexion beg gared all Description, nature had exerted her utmost Skill in forming it. Her Teeth were as good and her Eyes of the same Colour and al most as fine, as those of my fair Correspondent. An object so charm ing immediately diverted our Attention from the Herd around us. The Coll, asked her very politely which Way she was travelling? She blushed and answered, that she had been to Town and was returning Home. A Conv[versation ensued in which she had a part] each Sen tence borrowing Eloquence and Grace from Lips on which even a Right Reverend Audience would readily consent to hang, every Reply was accompanied by Blushes, which alternately rising and retiring, and each varying in Degree, formed a sweet Succession of such pleas ing Shades, that one would be inclined to suspect that Beauty had chosen the Countenance of this lovely Girl, as a proper Field for shew ing the vast Variety of Modes, in which she would display her numer ous Charms. After a few Compliments the Coll told her he had a Son, a little older than herself, whom he would be happy to marry to a pretty Country Girl that would not be above minding the Business of the farm, & would not (like some more fashionable Ladies) attend to nothing but dancing & Dress. That he was much pleased with her, and would, if she had no Objections send him to pay her a Visit. She blushed, she smiled, her Eyes sparkled, and her whole Countenance became agreably confused. She replied that she could not believe him to be in earnest—she was sure such a Gentleman’s Son would not marry a poor Country Girl without a Fortune. I observed that Indus try, Beauty, and Innocence composed a Fortune more valuable than Money, and that in these she was far from being poor. She was embar rassed, and Humanity forbid us to encrease it. The Waiter soon after called us to Dinner, to which we retired after having in vain invited her to partake of it. We indeed inquired her Name and Place of Abode, of both which she informed us. We then parted after wishing her all the Happiness, which the Possession of so many Charms seemed jusdy to Claim. This pretty Girl furnished Conversation for us the whole afternoon. Coll. Morris thought she bore a great Resemblance to the Lady who will open this Letter, and I assure you his opinion was not ill founded, which probably was the Reason of my being the more pleased with her. Before we left the Ferry, we considered of the Propriety of saying any thing about her, & finally agreed to do Justice to her Merit, but to con ceal her Name and Place of Abode, lest by be[ing] exposed to the Flat tery and Snares of those who admire and caress on [ly to] destroy, her Innocence, Beauty and Simplicity might be instrumental to her Ruin. But you may ask, how came she to be called the Conch Shell Beauty— it happened thus—In speaking of her Complexion, which exceeded


[Page 609]
May 19, 1776 575 Committee of Congress now in Canada, Doctr Franklyn, Sami. Chase & Charles Carrol of Carrolton Esqrs. 2 You will therefore send of this Money in the most Expeditious and safe Manner you can devise and if you can by any means in your Power encrease the Sum You will render an acceptable Service. We are also directed by Congress, to request you will apply to the Council of Massachusets Bay for any hard Money they may have Collected or Caused to be Collected for the Continen tal service, and shoud the Sum they have, be considerable, We think an Express with a proper Guard shou’d be immediately dispatched with the whole to said Committee in Canada, the Expence of the Ex press & Guard will be allowed of and the Committee will either give a draft on the President or otherways provide for it. You will please to keep the other Articles you mention to be Imported untill further order of the Secret Committee, who have the honor to be sir, Your Obedt hble servts, By order of the St. Commee., Robt Morris, Chairman RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers). Written and signed by Robert Morris. 1 Not found. 2 See JCC, 4:366. William Ellery to Lucy Ellery Channing Dear Lucy, 1 Newport May 19th 1776. 2 I have undertaken a Matter which fills me with Anxiety, Pleasure and Diffidence—Anxiety at the Thought of being so long as I expect to be absent from my Family and other near Connections—with Plea sure at the Prospect of being in a City which I have long wished to see, and in the most honorable Society on the American Continent, — with Diffidence, because I must follow (alass! with unequal Steps!) One of the foremost Sons for Assiduity, Firmness, and Penetration. 3 However to Morrow I shall set out, and hope I shall be able to dis charge my Duty if not with Honour yet with Integrity. I should have been glad to have seen you, Nancy, Mrs. Burt & little Frank before I left New England; but my Affairs will not admit of it. When I see you again I hope it will be in Newport, altho’ I must confess this Hope is not very well founded; for as yet America hath not sacrificed enough to Liberty. We have indeed lost much Happiness, much Interest, and some Blood in the glorious Struggle for our Liberties. Some have and some are about to quit their Parents, Wives & Children for the Sake of Liberty, and, in my Opinion he that will not quit his nearest Connec tions for her Sake is not worthy of her; But still much Blood must be spilt before the Obstinacy of Scotch Policy & Men can be subdued. A great Deal depends upon the Success, I mean the Duration of the civil


[Page 617]
August 7,1776 583 Jack—a book—with my dear Julia to pick—to talk & to smile by my side. Ah! what joys are these! But I must not increase the melancholly of the day by dwelling upon them. I shall aim at doing my duty, and sincerely pray that I may continue to act agreeable to the dictates of my judgement & conscience without any regard to the smile or frown of the world. Oh! to close my life with the Speech of the inspired pa triot Samuel to the Children of Israel! 2 Our city continues to furnish the most agreeable Scenes of public virtue. The general cry here is the flying camp. I saw a boy of between 13 and 14 yesterday Morning trudging Along upon the heels of his fa ther in the uniform of his company with a heavy musquet upon his Shoulder. He belongs to Capt Loxley’s Artillery company. Perhaps you may see him march thr’o Princetown. I would have given the world to have been the father of such a Son. Mr Dunlap called upon me yester day, & told me that the troop of horse to which he belonged was or dered to remain in Philada. but that he was going as a volunteer in the foot service. His zeal in the cause make him miserable at home whi[le] so many of his fellow citizens were in the field. “Should I fall (said he) in fighting against the enemies of our country, I have only to beg of you as my last request to remember my Wife & my little Sally.” Here his eyes filled with tears. I was hardly Able to answer him. Take care of your complexion. Mr Penn told me this day that the Sun had been at War wth. it. Use your calash & umb[r]ella every time you go out of the house. I reed, a letter this morning from Gen Lee. It contains a particular Acct, of the late battle at Charlestown, & a most exalted eulogium upon young Jake Morris. I sent a copy of it to his father. And must three long weeks elapse before I see my Angel Julia? The tho’t distracts me. I expect to read a letter from you tomorrow in Congress. Shall write to you hereafter every day by the post. Yours my dear Girl, B Rush RC (Dr. Gary Milan, Beverly Hills, Ca., 1996). 1 For the context of this letter, see these Letters, 4:530nn. 2 See I Sam. 12. Abraham Clark to the New Jersey Convention Gentlemen Phila. Wednesday Evening Augst. 7. 1776. It was with the utmost Concern our Congress reed, information by Letter from Genl. Merser yesterday, 1 that none of the Jersey Militia had joined him, & that the Phila. battalions were almost mutinous to return home. It is possible you may be unacquainted with the Strength of the Enemy—And the Number of our Forces at New York


[Page 622]
588 August 23,1776 some further alterations may be made but probably not much, & They will be then sent to the Several Legislatures for their assent I conclude they will be printed in the News Papers, or otherwise will endeavor to send You one as I may. We have very favorable News of the Dispossession of the French and daily expecting, as you know, a bloody Encounter at N. York. May every Heart & Hand be left up to the great disposer of all Events, for a merciful Issue. Congress yesterday rec[eive]d a most Shockingly Inso lent Letter, or orders, from Gen [era] 11 Carlton, 4 abraiding in scur rilous Language their breach of Faith & relating to the Capitulation at the Cedars, brand [in] g us with most opporbrious Names, Rebels, Traitors, Deceivers & charg[in]g the Rebels with murdering Gen [era] 11 Gordon (of whom no Body knows or ever before heard any thing) totally interdicting any kind of Correspondence with the Rebels, & refusing to receive any Thing whatever from Us graciously allowing however Liberty only of imploring the royal mercy &c he will not have much Trouble it will soon be published I expect with some Strictures by Congress. He intends however he says to send off our Prisoners (officers I think only) to be confined on the Parole to their own Colonies & to be at his Command when He shall call. (I suppose it is difficult to support Them) Maj[o]r Miegs was lately here (bro [ugh] t a letter fr[om] Esq[uire] Hosmer) & was very anxious to get an order of Congress to be exchanged for Maj [o]r French. 5 We all from Connect[icu]t exerted ourSelves to obtain it in Congress, & with a good deal of opposition, carried it in his favor but have never seen him since, but he has got the order & gone, as Gen [era] 1 Washington mentions his receiving it by him &c but from Carltons orders since it cannot be affected, unless with Gen [era] 1 Howe who has Meigss Paroll. Gen [era] 11 Wooster from every thing that appears, from many Witnesses & a score of Letters from him to G. [eneral] Schuyler & to Congress, has acted the part of a prudent, faithful, zealous & good of ficer in Canada, but there is a deep rooted Prejudice against him, in a mojority of the Congress, planted & nurtured by Mr D. 6 —strengthend & established by Mr Chase one of the late Comissioners there, a most bold, voluble & overbearing man, who went strongly prejudiced & came back his violent & bitter Enemy, for no Cause that I can possibly find out. The Gen[era]l has been kept here for 8 or 10 weeks, & been scunned as far as They are able, the Com[mit]tee finally made a favor able & honorable Report of him, but it was most fiercly opposed, re sisted, parried, postponed & postponed & He abused witb opprobri ous Language &c till the late gen [era] 1 promotion of gen [era] 1 Officers, when he was in my opinion most unjustly overlooked, thofugh] in spit[e] of all opposition, he wanted but one Colony to have carried the first appointment, (but accord [in] g to rule was not attempted out of his rank, after the first tryal.) the Report was recom mitted & bro [ugh] t in the 2d time, & thro [ugh] necessity altered &


[Page 623]
August 23, 1776 589 made less favorable, viz after counting &c “that nothing appeared in his Conduct censurable or blame worthy.” 7 This was also opposed strenuously, & among other things insisted to have the papers &c read y[e] t they wo[ul]d not take the opinion of any Com[mit]te without knowing the grounds &c accordingly in proper Time his Letters were read, they appeared so strongly in his favor, discovered such full & faithful acco[unt]s of the state & situation & Wants of the Army there &c that his Enemies were convinced the more was read the better he must appear, & moved before [the]y were half thro[ugh], to accept the report, His Friends wo[ul]d have gladly heard them all, but to end the Strife consented, & the Report was accepted. But it is after He had suffered the punishment of an unfit officer, by being over looked &c. They wish to get him out, & hoped he wo[ul]d resign, but his Friends will not advise him so & He has now got Leave to go to Albany to set tle his acco[unt]s & he set out yesterday. One Mr Milligan, Welles &c—are appointed to setde all the Canada acc[ount]s. 8 Comodore Hopkins had been here as long was sent for, accused of breaking his orders &c it seems He was ordered to the southern Colonies to demolish Dunmore, Clinton &c instead of at Providence, the southern Delegates had high expectations of being delivered by him from all trouble &c & are exceedingly chagrined & angry. A Com[mi]ttee enquired & reported ag[ain]st him yet he had given no sufficient reason &c broke his orders & that He sho[ul]d be broke & dismis[se]d the Service. The report was much canvas[sed] & argued pro & con, finally they were not able to carry it against him further than that He had not given satisfactory reasons &c. & sho[ul]d be censured. Which is done, & he is ordered to return to his Comand, 9 & He also went off yesterday. Sure I am, however, this grand Struggle may end, if ag[ain]st us, which God forbid, We are utterly undone, if for Us,—this Country, Connecticut especially, has seen its best Days, the Expences of sup porting our Independent State will be immense, Affairs will not al ways be in the best hands nor shall We ever see the Integrity, uncor ruptness & Fidelity, for which our Colony & Assembly have been deservedly famous. It is however to be supported at all events it is the best We can do, & the Difficulties attending it are as much to be pre fer [re] d to submission to the Tyranny under which we must other wise groan, as a gentle Rebuke to Strangling & Death. But alass, our Colony have known little about their own Happiness, whether com pared with distant States & Kingdoms, or with almost every other Colony on the Continent (this is no new Idea or Reflection with me). Such is the corrupt nature of mankind & such will it be, it is one of the severest Punishments of Vice, that it blinds the Eyes of those it possesses to their own Happiness & to the means of pursuing & ob taining the Good they aim at. Intended to have wrote this half hour, but am call[e]d off,


[Page 626]
592 September 28, 1776 John Penn to Samuel Johnston Dear Sir Philada Septr 28 1776 As you will have an opportunity of hearing from Mr. Hewes all the News that is stiring this way, shall not trouble you with any thing on that head except the Contents of a letter which Mr. Robert Morris re ceived last evening from the Mole. 1 The writer I am told may be relied on, “that there were three Ships of War ordered from France imedi- ately to cruise round the Mole, 2 for the express purpose of affording protection to our vessels, also two or three from Spain to their Islands for the same design, that they are to act together and are to pay equal respect to the Commands of the French Governors as to their own, that there was a large Fleet almost ready to sail from Brest & that great preparation was making for war in both Kingdoms, that there was great plenty of powder & very cheep at the Mole.” I do most sincirely wish that the above Nations would declare war against Britain as it would give us an opportunity of new modelling our Army, I am sorry to tell you that we have too many officers who are not fit even to act as Common Soldiers in short they have not one spark of honour. I am with great respect, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt., John Penn RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Addressed: “To Samuel Johnston esqr., Eden ton, No. Carolina. Favd. byjos. Hewes esqr.” 1 That is, Mole-Saint-Nicolas, located near the northwest extremity of Hispaniola. 2 Cf. these Letters, 5:281—82n.2; and Clark, Naval Documents, 6:750-51, 812. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Philadelphia, 5 October 1776. “... I have conferd with Doer Franklin on the subject you proposd, 1 he seems favourably Inclind to accomo date us & [I] believe the matter may be accomplishd at some future day when the important briefings in which the Doer is now engaged Shall give him Leisure to attend to that Subject. . .You will receive this Letter I presume by Mr. Sherman who is coming to N. Haven to Whom give me leave to refer you for Intelligence from this quarter. Let me only add that of late the Spirit of privateemg Increases Sur prisingly in this place... MS not found; reprinted from extract in Christie's Catalog, May 18, 1984, p. 55. 1 Not identified. There is no mention of any such contact by Franklin with either of the Huntingtons in the Papers of Benjamin Franklin.


[Page 632]
598 December 30,1776 make immediate Enquiry of Mr Hancock into the Cause of it s not being bro’t on & move it as early as possible. We have just heard from General Washington, 2 that he cross’d Dele- ware ^just8c above Trentown, the Evening after Christmas with 2,500 Men, attacked the Enemy who were posted with about 1,500 Men in the Town about 8 oClock the next Morning, routed them & took 750 prisoners that are brot over the River, 1,200 stand of Arms & 6 brass Field peices. This comes in a Letter to the Committee of Safety of Pennsylvania from one of the Generals Family, a Copy of wch is sent to Congress; 3 I hope the General will retain & add to the Advantages he has gained & remain sir wth Esteem yours sincerely, E Gerry RC (Sotheby’s Catalog, sale 6859, June 5, 1996, item 42, illustration). 1 Apparently Joseph Trumbull, the Continental Commissary General, with whom Gerry had an extensive correspondence, for which see these Letters, 5:144-46, 178, 319-20, 347, 362-63, 470-71, 585-86, 670-71, 6:19-21, 170, 493-95, 618-19, 7:322-23, 328. Although the catalog description advertising this manuscript reads: “Possibly to Virginia Governor Patrick Henry; neatly inlaid to a larger sheet with the separately in laid notation ‘Patrick Henry,’ evidently clipped from an address panel,” it is unlikely that the recipient was Henry. The “inlaid notation” is not in Gerry’s hand, no letters are known to have been exchanged between the two men, and the subject matter of the first paragraph was a request from the recipient being considered by Congress. This subject, an “Appeal” from the recipient which Gerry promised to take up with President Hancock, may well have been Trumbull’s resignation request, which had been received September 11 and was referred to the board of treasury November 18, but which Congress did not finally act upon until August 1777. See these Letters, 5.145—46n.2, 178-79n.l, 363n.4, 6:618-19n.l. 2 Washington’s December 27 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 152, 3:401-8. 3 For John Cadwalader’s two December 26 reports to the Pennsylvania Committee of Safety and the committee’s December 27 letter to President Hancock, see PCC, item 69, 1:295-98, 303-11. Robert Morris to John Langdon 8i r Philada. Decemr. 30th. 1776. The bearer hereof Mr Alexander Rose 1 is a merchant of Eminence in Charles town South Carolina, where he has long been established & Acquired the reputation so justly due to his honour & integrity. I beg leave to introduce him to your Acquaintance & recommend him to your friendship. Mr Rose has some Commercial views in his journey to N England & this introduction may possibly be of mutual advantage which will please me exceedingly. Our affairs in this part of the world have undergone a great change within these few Days & I hope it will not be long before the Congress return to this City. 2 I am much engaged in transacting the publick business during their absence. Our Loan office is just opened & by


[Page 635]
January 30, 1777 601 Staten Island, by the enemy probably to endeavour to save New York; I hope they will arrive too late. General Sullivan has gone to Amboy; the Jersey militia are very alert in distressing the enemy; the enemy daily diminish by capture, sickness and desertion. Howe is so fright ened, he has recalled his troops from Rhode Island, they will be fol lowed close by the New Englanders employed in opposing them. I ex pect the two widows will take a matrimonial swing to-day or to-morrow. I hope colonel Hardy has got in his recruiting airs, my compliments to him and colonel Donaldson, Mrs. Johnson, and all friends. Your loving and affectionate husband, James Smith P.S. You’ll see this letter was intended for colonel Donaldson and to be accompanied by one to you but time won’t admit of writing, show him this; I will write more at large to-morrow. MS not found; reprinted from John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, 9 vols. (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1820-27), 7:222-23. 1 For an explanation of why this salutation was crossed out in the original manuscript, see Smith’s postscript. Proceedings of a Treaty Held at Easton [January 30-February 6, 1777] 1 The German Church being found most convenient to hold the treaty in, the same was readily granted by the Congregation: applica tion having been made for that purpose. Present The Honble Geo Walton & Geo Taylor esqr, Members of Congress Col Lowry and Col Cunningham from the Assembly of the state of Pennsylvania 2 Col Bull and Col Deane 3 Members of the Council of Safety of the State of Pennsyla. Secretary to the Commission Thos Payne 4 The Indian Cheifs Kayugas. Taasquah, or King Charles Senecas. Tawanah, or the Big Tree Munsies. Mytahawha, walking on foot Kahuah, standing by a Tree Nanticotes. Amatinica, raising anything up Kanois. Welakuko, or king last night Interpreter Thomas Green, a Mohawk In Treaty January 30th. 1777 Noon The Business was opened by the Commissioners


[Page 636]
602 January 30,1777 Brothers, The great Congress of the thirteen united States have re- cieved your belt at Philadelphia which they are much obliged to you for as they consider it as a fresh Testimony of your good old friend ship. Their hearts are glad that you are come to Easton to keep alive the old council fire; and have sent us to shake hands with you and to hear what you have to say. The Ceremony of shaking hands being gone through a glass of rum was served round to all the Indians present and the Healths of the Congress and the Six nations with the allies were drank. The Organ being ordered to play in the mean time. When the Company were seated Capt Johnston a seneca in behalf of all the Indians present or their tribes delivered the following Talk, as interpreted by Thomas Green and was copied down at the time of delivery by the secretary. Well Brothers, When we come along the road to Wyoming, we sent our belt to Easton that our Brothers might know of our coming to shake hands with them. We are glad that god [h]as helped us to meet together at this place. We find what our forefathers have always told us is now coming true, that we should live like brothers together. We see Brs the trouble you are in, which our Brothers the other side of the great waters have brought upon you. We come to let you see we are concerned therat. We see the tears in your eyes and come to wipe them away. We come to speak comfortably to you now you be in the Blood. Brothers, This is the day that god hath appointed. We have had an old agreement together and come to renew it. Our first agreement Brothers when you came first ashore was that you liked our Island and you settled here we liked you and we agreed together. The land agreed to was to standing stone you remember these things because you have them in writing. We can remember them only here and there. Our hearts desire is that we may hold our agreements and our love so fast that none shall ever part us not all the great things in the world must get between us. We must not let it be. We must hold so fast that were the Devil to try he could not part our hands. Brothers, We make a strong staff to hold upon that cannot be broke which all our hands can take hold of that we may always have a place to sleep upon and stand upon together. The first Council fire as we heard our fathers say was at the head place Philadelphia where we could see smoke & flame going up to the skies. We must not let the fire go out but always keep it light—a Belt of Eight strings with three double figures. Brothers, In these troublesome times a great many birds will be fly ing about to make Mischief for even the birds now a days learn to talk english and other languages and even the trees and logs begin to tell tales but neither you nor we must mind what they say we must remem ber old times and the old friendship which our fathers made together.


[Page 638]
604 January 31,1777 which any of their Brothers had to say but that they could not Consis tent with the propriety and Dignity of their Commission recieve or re turn any talks but at the public Council fire and Concluding with de siring them to deliver their talks thereat in the presence of the whole. The Commissioners Judged as it afterwards appeared that those Indi ans had nothing particular to offer, otherwise than to recommend themselves the more effectually to a share of the presents they were likewise of opinion that to hear their talk seperately might disgust the rest and endanger a general Jealousy. Noon The Ceremony at meeting as on the proceeding day. Capt Johnston continued as follows— Brothers, We are glad that God has spared us to meet again and see one another. We renew our old friendship and wish to hold it fast. Brothers some time ago our youngest Brother the Shawaness who live down on the Ohio came to us their eldest Brs of the Six nations and told us that their brothers the Cherokees had asked them to go along with them against our Brothers of So. Carolina. We told them It will not do. ‘You must not fall out with our Brothers you are but Young boys and dont know what you are doing you must be advised by us who know better than you.” This was our advice to them Brothers. We speak not from our mouths only but from our hearts. We Wish to keep peace and we hope and believe that the great Council fire of the Six nations.will always be listened to by the rest in these matters. Brothers, We used to keep the fire light at Philada but now it is kin dled at Easton. We Wish to keep it there. It is now Brs but a little smoke but we want to make it a great blaze that when we took from the long house of the Six nations we may always see it burning and We wish Brothers to have a strong man raised like a great tree that we can depend upon to keep the fire up. (Here they pointed to Col Bull and desired his services to them on all occasions[)]. A Belt 7 Rows two sin gle figures one double one thus IIV. Brothers, We have now to mention something respecting our Brs who are in Maryland whom we have not heard of these four Years. They are our own blood and we want to know how it is with them. We have often enquired. We now enquire again and say that we want to see our Brothers and want you to help us to see them. We ask this as sistance of the thirteen United States. A Belt with eight rows four dou ble figures. Here the Interpreter Thomas Green informed that his brother had pitched upon him as one of the persons to go to Maryland for that purpose—in company with one more. Brothers, We now mention some litde matters respecting ourselves. Brs we have been poorly off for many things since these disputes be-


[Page 640]
606 January 31, 1777 general tolerably sober great care having been taken to prevent the Inhabitants supplying them with rum. NB After Dinner the Cheifs in Token of their Friendship Conferred Indian names on the Commissioners and Secretary. While an answer was preparing the Delewar & Munsie Indians gave notice that they should deliver their Talk on Monday February 4th which made it nec essary to defer our answer. Monday February 4th Noon The talk from the Delawar and Munsey Indians amounted only to professions of Friendship without any particular business. They seemed to claim the honor of having first lighted the Council fire with their white brothers as they say 200 years ago. Parted with the usual ceremonies and appointed Wednesday for returning the Answer. Wednesday February the 6th Earley in the morning the presents were removed to the place of the treaty being proportioned out according to the numbers and wants of each tribe. They were set of[f] to the best advantage and a guard placed over them. The Commissioners and Chiefs being met and the usual cere monies gone thro the following talk was delivered. Brothers of the Six Nations and all you our other Brothers who are in Peace and freindship with us and alliance with them. In the name of the Great Congress we bid You welcome. We are glad to see you all. We take you not only by the hand but in our arms and we say to you “Come Brothers let us sit down by this fire and talk together.” Let us tell our Minds and open our hearts to one another and help one another that so the Great God who made us all may be pleased with us all and send a good wind to make the good old fire burn and blaze up to the Skies. A string. Brothers, we have heard Your talks and our hearts are glad therat. We thank you for the kindness which you shew us on account of the great trouble we have been in. Our eyes Brors have been dim with tears because our troubles have been many but our hearts have always been strong to bear them because we knew we had done no wrong to the English people beyond the great Waters. We sent many belts to them and prayed them to hear us but they threw our belts away and gave us no answer And instead of sending peacable men among us to enquire into our troubles, they sent a great army of thirty thousand men to tax and to take away from us the lands which our fathers who are dead and Buried bought from your fathers who are dead and buried: and to take our towns and our houses from us which we have built theron. This Brothers was great trouble to us because we loved the good old king that Lived In England beyond the great Waters in the time of the last war. But he is dead and another man is King in his


[Page 649]
March 18,1777 615 There must be a free Communication of Sentiment upon public Af fairs or they will Suffer. I wish you had written the Anecdotes. We have no Returns from the Navy. We know not whether they are manned or what they wait for. Can they be manned? Reprinted from Adams, Papers (Taylor), 5:115-16. 1 See these Letters, 6:457. 2 Ibid., p. 544n.l. Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson Sir, 1 Philada. March 18th. 1777. I am half blind with Weak Eyes, writing & reading retard the cure altho they are mending. You may depend that I am ever ready to do any thing that will promote your interest and of course I shall not ob ject to the Sale of your House &c as you think that Sale for the joint benefit of Hudson & Lawson and propose to deposit the purchase Money as Security for Herries & Cos. Debt, therefore you may make your bargain & I shall do what is incumbent on me the above Condi tions being observed. I am Sir, Your hble servt, Robt Morris 2 RC (CSmH: Harbeck Collection). 1 Morris’ associate Jonathan Hudson has been identified in these Letters, 7:97n. 2 Morris was also making preparations at this time to provide his family a safe habita tion away from Philadelphia, and wrote the following letter on March 8 to Joseph Ship pen (1732-1810) concerning a farm belonging to Joseph Musgrave, a Chester County neighbor of Shippen’s, for whom see Randolph S. Klein, Portrait of an Early American Family: The Shippens of Pennsylvania Across Five Generations (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1975), pp. 176-78. “Dr Sir, I have agreed with Mr Musgrove for the place near your present habitation & now send down Mr. Miller one of my Clerks to see about getting the present Tenant to remove as quick as possible, to have the House cleaned, any repairs that it wants done; & to enquire whether a Couple of good Cows can be bought in the Neighbourhood &c &c. You may probably think it a bad omen if I begin to be troublesome to you in the outset, but as I suppose you have not full employment for all your time I shall venture to propose an intercourse of kind & Neighbourly Offices. You will have it in your power to do twenty little services to my Family in the Country and as I shall pass most of my time in this place where I fancy You must want many things done for you or your Family, I shall be ready most chearfully to become your Town Agent & obey all your Com mands. Upon this footing then, I presume to ask your advice & assistance to Mr Miller in what he is to do. And as my intention is to be a good Neighbour as far as in my power I shall likewise take the liberty to ask whether you can Conveniently Accomodate Mrs. Morris with a Bed for a few Nights if she shou’d come up before her own House is ready for her, but dont let this question put with so much freedom tempt Mrs. Shippen to put herself to the least inconvenience because Mr Bridges now at Wilmington offers to Ac comodate my whole family there, if necessary. Perhaps the House may be got ready im mediately and Mrs. Morris will bring up our Bedding with her but I mean to be guarded


[Page 650]
616 March 18, 1777 at all points. I hope you will excuse this freedom & believe me to be Sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris. P.S. My best Compts to Mrs Shippen and I hope she will be pleased with her intended Neighbour.” Harbeck Collection, CSmH. Marine Committee to John Bradford and Leonard Jarvis [March 25, 1777] [For the LB text of this document, see these Letters, 6:491-92. The RC of the letter that was sent to Bradford, which is in the Hancock Pa pers, MHi, bears the signatures of John Hancock, Robert Morris, William Whipple, Nathan Brownson, Thomas Burke, Oliver Wolcott, Abraham Clark, and William Ellery.] William Ellery to Christopher Ellery Dr. Brother, 1 Phil. March 30th. 1777 I informed you in a Letter I lately wrote you 2 that I had in my Hands Two Loan-Office Certificates belonging to you and Eleven Pounds odd, and desired you to let me know whether you would have Me take them and the Money with Me when I return to our State, which I expect will be the last of May or beginning of June. I mention this because my Letter may have miscarried, and therefore again de sire that you would furnish me with Orders on this Head. I am glad that you are so comfortably situated, and wish that it were in my Power to serve you. I know of no such office as you mention. If an Opportunity presents I shall embrace it with Pleasure to put you into some Place of moderate Profit & little Plague. Your Observations upon the Situation of Affairs and the Tempers of People are just. I did not imagin that an attack would be made on the Island when I heard the Army had it in Contemplation; for Reasons which I don’t think proper to mention. I imagin the Enemy will evacuate it, and that I shall have the Pleasure of seeing Newport when I return, and the Mor tification of seeing it in a wretched State. If ever again I should reside there it will not be until the War will be over, which, if a War should take Place between France & G. Britain, I imagin will be in a few years. It is expected by some Persons that Philadelphia is Genl Howe’s Ob ject and not without Reason; but it is a Question with Me whether he will make an Attempt, until he shall have received a Reinforcement from Britain or from the Army in Canada not by the Lakes, but by the River St Lawrence; for I question whether Carleton will risque an At tack on Ticonderoga, and I am clear the Two Armies will never form a


[Page 656]
622 May 20,1777 Robert Morris to John Langdon Sir Philada. May 20th. 1777 I have just received your favour of the 5th Inst, and observe the rea sons which have prevented your executing the plans or Voyages I pro posed, they are satisfactory and I thank you for your attention to my Interest, you say nothing of the price of Sugars. I wish those you bought for me were here. They wou’d yield an amazing Proffit but I dont know how to get them along, probably they can be resold to good Proffit where they are and I must rest on your judgement to make the most of them. Shou’d the Prize Brigt. or Snow you mention go of[f] on terms that you think very reasonable I wou’d wish you to buy one of them (the Cheapest if you can hit on her, and despatch her immediately for Savannah in Georgia cons[ign]d to John Wereat Esqr. Continental Agent there. Write him a few lines requesting him to load her immediately with Rice and dispatch her therewith to Havre de Grace Consigned to Mr. Andrew Limozin Mercht at that place. You’l tell Mr. Wereat to draw on me for the Cost of the Cargo and he may depend his bills shall be duely paid, & I shall immediately write him on this Subject by Post. You’l put in a frugal, honest, care full, Industrious Master and give him instructions suited to this Voyage from France. He shall return with salt for this Continent. I have now reed letters from Havre by which I find the plan of send ing Goods to St. Pierre & Miquelon was laid onside, but pray wou’d it not be a good plan to order out Goods Thither in French Bottoms so long as they remain at Peace & build at Portsmouth One or Two fast sailing Sloops or Schooners to be constantly employed in bringing them from thence to the Continent. Will you be Concerned in such a plan & give me your sentiments upon it. I am sir, Your Obedt hble servt., Robt Morris RC (NhHi: Langdon-Elwyn Family Papers). Addressed: “ToJohn Langdon Esqr., Conti nental Agent, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.” Committee on Appeals Decree May 22nd. 1777. Lemuel Palmer Appel [lan] t &c. vs. | Appeal from the Court of Admiralty Reuben Hussey &c. Appellees j of the State of North Carolina 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine All Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of


[Page 657]
June 9,1777 623 the several American States to Congress having heard and fully con sidered as well all and singular the Matters and Things set forth and contained in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties in the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and de cree that the Appeal of the abovenamed Lemuel Palmer on behalf of himself and others in the said Appeal named be dismissed hence with Costs And We do assess the said Costs at ninty five Dollars and do order and decree that the Appellants pay to the Appellees above- named the said ninety five Dollars for the Costs and Charges by the said Appellees expended in supporting and sustaining the Decree of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid against the Appeal of the said Lemuel Palmer. James Wilson John Adams Tho. Burke MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 17). In a clerical hand, and signed by Adams, Burke, and Wilson. 1 This case involved the condemnation by the collector of the port of Beaufort, James Coor, of the brigantine Hanover, Capt. John Pinkham, which had been brought into port on a voyage from Guadeloupe after its takeover by the crew, Reuben Hussey, et al. The ship had been declared a lawful prize as British property and awarded to the crew by Judge Richard Cogdell on March 21, 1777, whose judgement was appealed to the Committee on Appeals by both James Coor, on behalf of the state of North Carolina, and Lemuel Palmer on behalf of the owners of the sloop Caswell, a New Bern privateer. The Committee peremptorily dismissed the Palmer appeal this day, but Coor’s appeal was carried on by North Carolina for over a year, when the Committee reversed Cogdell’s judgment August 7, 1778. All the records pertaining to this litigation are gath ered under the case of James Coor et al. v. The Hanover, Records of the Court of Appeals in Cases of Capture, RG 267, DNA, case no. 16. The present committee decree is the sole surviving document from the Palmerv. Hussey appeal, ibid., case no. 17. Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia June 9th. 1777 In your Letter of the 29th May, you tell me, I suppose by way of Comfort for my Removal from Congress, 1 that in popular Govern ments there is no Disgrace in being removed from Office, especially if no Reflections are thrown upon the Character of the Person dis placed. In that our Sentiments perfecdy agree, & if the Government was well directed I should agree with you in another Part of your Let ter, where you advise me to wait patiently til the Expiration of my time. But it is not popular Caprice only, but public Injustice which a Servant of our Commonwealth while absent has to dread. If our As sembly would suffer Braxton’s Slanders to give such a fatal Stab to the


[Page 658]
624 June 9, 1777 Character of Colo. R. H. Lee, & without hearing his Defence would treat him as guilty, 2 the most virtuous Character may fall a Sacrifice to the Interests or Ambition of a popular Clodius. 3 As yet my Reputation, I am told, stands unimpeached, I mean to keep it safe, & shall there fore write to the Assembly to desire them immediately to send some one to fill my Place, lest some malicous falsehood be hatched for me. I am happy at being released from my Confinement which is too close for any body’s health to remain long sound; a few more Months would ruin mine. We are still threatened with the Movement of the Enemy towards this Place, indeed I begin to think they are in earnest. If the Pennsyl vanians have spirit to defend their Country the Enemy must be ru ined, at any rate they must pay dear for this City. By Accounts from the West Indies I am induced to think a War between France & Eng land must soon take Place. Great Jealousies subsist between them. In deed Matters are brought near to a Crisis by the Capture of a French Vessel who had some American Plank on board. The Governour of Martinique has demanded her. If she is refused, Mr. Bingham thinks it will be deemed allmost a Declaration of War. 4 The Dutch are at Vari ance with the English. Sir Joseph Yorke remonstrated to the States General against their trading with the American Rebels, to which he received a cool Answer & they have ordered, it is said, twelve Sail of the Line to be got ready. Please to give our Love to my Sister. I hope all your Children are well recovered from the Measles. I am, dear Brother, Your’s affectionately, Mann Page Junr. RC (ViW: Page Collection). 1 For Mann Page’s exclusion from the slate of congressional delegates elected by the Virginia Assembly on May 22, see these Letters, 7:129n.2, 181n. 2 For the protest against Richard Henry Lee’s exclusion from the Virginia delegation, see ibid., pp. 125n.l, 180-81. 3 That is, Publius Clodius (93-52 BC), “a disruptive politician, head of a band of polit ical thugs, and bitter enemy of Cicero in late republican Rome.” Encyclopedia Britannica. 4 For Bingham’s views on the imminence of war between Britain and France, see these Letters, 7:178—79. Secret Committee to Bernardo de Galvez Sir 1 Philadelphia June 12th 1777 We are informed by means of Mr Oliver Pollock of the favourable disposition you have been pleased to manifest towards the Subjects, Interest and cause of the United, Free and Independent states of America upon every occasion that has presented since your Excellen- cys accession to the Goverment of New Orleans & Louisiana; and par ticularly Mr Pollock assures us you are inclined to give all the encour-


[Page 659]
June 12,1777 625 agement and protection in Your Power to such ships or Vessels as we may send on Tradeing Voyages into the Mississipi. 2 As we the underwritten members of Congress 3 are appointed a Committee to Superintend the management of the Public Commerce of these States we think it incumbent on us to return you our Sincere thanks for the very freindly part you have taken and pray for the con tinuance thereof. The Ruleing Powers of these States are equally dis posed to promote a friendly intercourse and mutual Exchange of kind Actions between the Subjects of His most Catholic Majesty and their own. The Congress have sent a Commissioner to the Court of Madrid with Powers to enter into a Treaty of Commerce and friendship, 4 and we have every reason to beleive that Court are much disposed to assist and befriend us. Indeed this Commissioner has already advised us that he was met at a place called Gastos on his Journey toward Madrid by a Person of consequence who gave him assurances that Supplies of Blankets & Cloathing as well as Military Stores would be ordered out to Havanah & New Orleans there to be lodged for our use & to re main until we should send for them. We wait however to hear farther on this Subject before we take any measures for procuring those sup plies, but should any such arrive in the mean Time we doubt not Your Excellency will notify us thereof. It will probably be agreeable to know our present situation, Time will not permit us to give you any long detail but in few words it may be told. General Howe remains with the bulk of His army at Brunswick in Newjersey within the strong works he threw up last win ter when General Washington drove him back from Trenton and Princetown. He has been collecting his force there for a long Time past and making preparations to open the Campaigne. We have not been Idle on our part, so that altho we now expect Mr. Howe every Moment to March out and that he will bend his veiws toward this City, Yet General Washington has taken post in a very Strong part of the Country close behind Mr Howe and is prepared for offensive or difen- sive War just as the Case may require. The Armies are nearly equal in Numbers; But they have the advantage of better Discipline, better arms and cloathing. Our Men are more Active, better Marksmen and Fight in a better Cause—they will also be supported by the Militia of the Country; if Needful, A Militia that have already shared the Glory of defeating this formidable Enemy. Our Army at Tyconderoga under General Gates is also prepared for the reception of General Sir Guy Carleton and General Burgoinge. In short we are pretty well prepared but our soldiers being new, expect the beginning of the Campaign may probably turn against us, altho we have no doubt of closing it much to the Honor and advantage of America and that finally we shall so firmly establish our Liberty and Independence that no Earthly power will ever again be able to deprive


[Page 661]
July 7,1777 627 licitation consistent with the Liberty of the allies for the recovery of the Cargo of the Ship Seine [....] 3 As the Congress has an Utter Abhorrence against and are deter mined to punish all abuse committed under their flag we direct you to lay before this Committee particular accounts properly attested of all Action of that Kind that reparation may be made to the Sufferers and adequate punishment inflicted on the aggressors, at the same time you will be careful to enquire fully into the Matter in order to prevent frivolous Complaint and imposition on the other hand, and report to us your Opinions thereon. Gen Washington is moved within eight Miles of Brunswick. The Enemy [encamped about?] 8 Miles out of Brunswick—our Mili tary affairs are in an Excellent Condition and promise a fortunate Campaign. 4 Not having time to write particular Intelligence we refer you to the latest New[s] papers. From various Quarters we have ac counts, though none sufficient to depend up [on] that no Reinforce ments or very small ones will be sent the Enemy from Europe—and that a war is inevitable. Should it take place we have no doubt but the united Powers of France, Spain & America will totally expel the British A Power& fleet and Army from every Post [....] We are greatly pleased with your assiduity in Business for the facility of wch. we advise you in future to put only one letter in each Sheet and to Number them progressively beginning your next with number one—at the Top. You[r] duplicates must bear the same Number with their Originals. We will like in future excuse the omission of Philo sophical or Rhetorical Comparisons—Matter and Politeness being all that is Necessary in Letters of Business. We keep no Copy of the letters. FC (PPL: Du Simitiere Papers). In the hand of John Witherspoon, whose precise inten tions are difficult to reconstruct because of the fragmentary nature of this draft. 1 None of these letters is in the PCC, but for Bingham’s correspondence with the committee’s predecessor committee of secret correspondence, see these Letters, 5:213, 275-77, 358-59, 366, 6:187-88, 643n.l. 2 See, for example, ibid., 7:71. 3 Witherspoon’s intention at this point is obscure. He lined out a portion of the pas sage that follows, and then incorporated it into a paragraph that he added on the verso of this page, which has the appearance of the beginning of another letter. That para graph has been appended as the final paragraph of this draft. 4 Cf. ibid., p. 252. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren My dear sir Philadelphia July 7th 1777 Since my last 1 nothing new occurs, save the Approach of the Enemy towards Ticonderoga. By returns from General St Clair of the 25th


[Page 665]
Septembers, 1777 631 and a Brigade of 1,000 choice light Troops, commanded by Brigadier Maxwell are at Hill, about four Miles on this Side Head of Elk, on the Road to Christeen Bridge. The Enemy have an advanced Body, sup posed 2,000, at a place called Greys Hill, about two Miles on this side Head of Elk. I beleive it would be proper for You as soon as You can make up a Body of 500 to march them up to cover the Country from the Ene mies left Wing. Genl. Washington mentions, that he has no Accounts from the west ern or eastern Shore of our Militia. I know it would be agreeable to him to receive constant Information of what assistance he may expect from our State. I beleive Congress will order an able Engineer, and a skilful Ar tillerist to repair to You to assist in the Defence of our Towns. My Compliments to the Gendemen of the Council. Your Affectionate and Obedt. Servant, Sami. Chase RC (DLC: Henry A. Willard Autograph Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency Thomas Johnson Esqr., Governor of Maryland, Baltimore, Maryland. To the Care of Mr Geo. Matthews.” 1 For Chase’s September 2 letter tojohnson, see these Letters, 7:590-92. Committee of Congress to Richard Varick Sir, State House, Philadelphia 5th. September 1777. The Resolve of Congress which you will receive under this Cover will show that we are appointed a Committee & for what purposes. 1 We request you to give us the fullest information you can on your particular department & by the earliest good opportunity. If you can assist us with authentic information on any other branch of enquiries which we are ordered to make, we further request you will add such to the former. We are with great regard, Sir, Your most obedt. servants, Henry Laurens Richard Henry Lee John Adams RC (Abraham Lincoln Book Shop Catalog, no. 116, item 430, illustration). 1 For the appointment and function of this committee to determine the state of the northern army, see these Letters, 7:601-2. For Varick’s response, see ibid., note 2.


[Page 666]
632 Septembers, 1777 Committee on Appeals Decree September 8th. 1777. William Coit &c. App [elle] es ad [versu] s In the Court of James Perkins, John Timmings Commissioners of Appeals and Daniel Hubbard App [ellan] ts for the American States. At a Court held at the State-house in the City of Philadelphia on the sixth Day of September in the Year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and seventy seven Before the honorable James Wilson, John Adams, Jonathan Sergeant and Thomas Burke Esquires, Commission ers appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States Came the Parties Appellants in the above Cause by their Advo cate and it appearing that sufficient Notice had been given to the Ap pellees (altho no person appeared on their part to support or sustain the Sentence pronounced by the Court of Admiralty of the State of Massachusetts Bay in the said Cause) the said Commissioners pro ceeded to the hearing of the said Advocate and after solemn Argu ment took Time to consider thereof and held the same under Advise ment untill the eighth Day of September aforesaid. At which Day the said Court being again met and the Advocate aforesaid attending their Honors the said Commissioners proceeded to the publication of their definitive Decree upon the said Appeal which being read and filed is in the Words following to wit. William Coit &c. App [elle] es ads. ) Appeal from the Court of I Admiralty James Perkins, John Timmings of the Southern District of and Daniel Hubbard &c. App [ellan] ts । Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Argument of the Advocate on the part of the Ap pellants and no person appearing on the part of the Appellee in the Cause (altho’ sufficient Notice appeared to have been given) do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of James Perkins, John Timmings and Daniel Hubbard entered in the above Cause be dis missed with Costs and that the Judgment or Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid be in all it’s parts confirmed and established And We do adjudge and order that the said James Perkins, John Timmings


[Page 670]
636 October 24,1777 deliver them to our order, and therefore take the Liberty of enclosing to your Excellency, A Certificate signed by the President of Congress, whereby you will perceive this business is committed to our Manage ment, and as we could not think of Trespassing on your Time & in order to Occasion you as little trouble as possible we have employed Mr. Oliver Pollock who resides at New Orleans for our Agent; 3 and have Instructed him to Charter or buy Suitable Vessels to Transport these stores Coastwise until they can get into some of our Ports or In lets to land them. He is Instructed 4 to consult Your Excellency in this business, and we pray your favourable attention to the business: that you will advise in all things needfull—aid and Protect the Ships, Car goes, & Mr. Pollock if occasion shall so require. We are compelled to go farther in our requests and beg that you will also supply him with money if it becomes necessary to defray the charges and Expences that will accrue on the transhipping of the stores. He must grant receipts for what you supply and we will repay the amount by our Agent at the Court of Spain. We know not but you may be Instructed from thence to make such Advances, but at any rate we are well Assured your doing so will meet approbation there. We should not be under any necessity of this kind were our Ports open so that we could make exports of Flour as usual but at present the British ships of war are so numerous and strong on our Coast as to block up effectually all our Ports where Flour can be Shipped, However we have formed Plans (and are executing them) which will probably find our Enemies other employment for many of their ships; and when that happens we shall embrace the Opportunity most gladly of Sending Supplies of Flour to New Orleans understand ing that you are in want thereof. The Campaigne has opened both here and to the Northward since we wrote you before and been carried on with great vigour, many Bat tles have been won and lost by both sides, but at present General Howe and the Royals are in possession of the City of Philadelphia which occasions our being here. They have not however been able to get their ships up to that City, as we possess the Forts and passes on the River. General Washington has now surrounded and will soon starve them out of the City; he will then Attack and we have the greatest reason to suppose he will do it Successfully. To the Northward Fortune has been more Favourable, all the Battles between Burgoyne and our General Gates terminated in our Favour and we have just received an Account that is Credited of the intire surrender of Burgoyne and his whole Army as Prisoners of War by Capitulation therefore having no Enemy left to trouble us in that quarter, General Gates can soon reinforce General Washington, and as we formerly mentioned there is little doubt but the Campaigne will close in our favour and that we shall in the end establish that Liberty we are so justly entitled to enjoy.


[Page 671]
November 21,1777 637 We are your Excellencys Most Obedient Servants, Robt Morris W. Smith Henry Laurens P.S. The Account of General Burgoynes Surrender is Confirmed and the Capitulation come to hand. RC (Archivo General de Indias, Seville. Papeles Procedentes de Cuba, legajo 112—’’Car tas de la Junta de Comercio nombrada por el Congreso de los Estados Unidos a don Bernardo de Galvez”). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Henry Laurens, Robert Morris, and William Smith. 1 See Secret Committee to Galvez, June 12, 1777, above, note 5. 2 Not found. 3 See Secret Committee to Galvez, June 12, note 2. 4 See these Letters, 8:171-72. Committee of Commerce to Bernardo de Galvez Commercial Committee, Sir York in Pennsylvania November 21st. 1777 The Honorable the Congress judging it expedient to introduce part of the Stores sent out from Spain to New Orleans for the use of these United States up the Rivers Mississipi and Ohio to Fort Pitt have di rected us to address your Excellency on this subject, and in obedience to their Commands we send Mr. James Willing with these dispatches by the way of Fort Pitt, 1 from whence, we hope, he will have a quick passage down the River, and deliver them in due Time. By this con veyance we have wrote to our Agent Mr Oliver Pollock 2 and told him it is our wish, to bring about One third of the Stores by this Rout, and we Suppose Five or Six of the Boats usually employed in Such business will be necessary. He will consult with your Excellency whether it may not be best to send them up as Spanish property under your protection as high up as any of your Forts; and your determination on this point must gov ern. We have directed that the Boats may be well Manned and Armed, and not overloaden. Great dispatch is essentially necessary as we are in great want of the Articles, therefore hope they will be sent off immedi ately. Mr Willing will recieve your Excellencys dispatches and bring them safe to us. We transmit herewith Copies of our Letters to your Excellency of the 12th June & 24th Ultimo 3 and confirm the Con tents, to which please to be referred. Since the date of the last Letter we have lost one Fort on Delaware River but still possess the passes so that the Enemy cannot get their Shipping up to that City and as the reinforcements from General Gates Army are now joining General


[Page 673]
February 21, 1778 639 Howe’s agreeing to an exchange of Prisoners; officers for officers, Sol diers for Soldiers, & Citizens for Citizens. Congress Resolved some days ago that as Genl. Howe had refused to suffer any clothing to be purchased for our men in Philada., he should not be allowed a Com missary to purchase any necessaries for his prisoners with us, but be obliged to send them himself, & that British prisoners in our hands should undergo the same treatment our’s suffered with the enemy. Genl. Howe complimented Genl. Washington in high terms but cast reflections on Congress, he was answered by our General, that he should always resent any afront offered the Representatives of a Free people under whose authority he acted, & that he had avoided ever saying any thing against the Conduct of those whom General Howe served. I never have reed, one letter from you since you left this place. Our Committee is still at the Camp, my best wishes attend you & your Lady to whom I beg to be remembered. I am with great respect, Dear Sir, Your obedt Serv RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). In the hand of John Penn, signature clipped. 1 See these Letters, 9:42. Gouverneur Morris to Benedict Arnold Sir, Moore Hall, camp, Valley Forge, 21st Feb. 1778. I Received your favour 1 yesterday evening, and do assure you upon my honour, that your sentiments perfectly accord with my own, upon the subject of that fatal or ill-fated expedition; for one or the other it must be, since it is necessary that we should destroy it, or it will de stroy us. Your plan of turning the force collected at Albany, to the southward, is wise. It cannot fail of success; the other must. I wish I could be on the floor at congress to support your opinion, not as well as it deserves, but as well as the litde abilities I am master of, will per mit. And here let me add, that I shall always be happy to support the opinions and the interests of him, whose conduct and valour have saved the state I represent, at the expence of his blood. I am confined at this place by the business of the army, 2 which is in the uttermost confusion. Neglect in the commissaries, worse in the quartermasters, disputed rank and relaxed discipline, form the great outlines of the picture. Fill this up with as dead a colouring as you like, and it will not surpass the truth. This is not the first American army that has looked ill; and the time will come when it will shine. You and Lincoln must patch up your broken shins, and come to our assistance very early the next campaign. Howe, I believe, means to push us early; so that it is possible we may cut him up nicely. I hear some cloathing is arrived to the southward. We have taken every measure in our power to ruin the


[Page 674]
640 February 21,1778 Canada expedition. Excuse blunders of every kind; for I write in a hurry, and in company. Your friend, Gouv. Morris. MS not found; reprinted from Francis Bailey’s Freeman’s Journal (Philadelphia), July 18, 1781. Addressed: “Benjamin [sic] Arnold, esq. major general, Albany.” 1 Not identified. Arnold was at Albany at this time recuperating from wounds re ceived at Saratoga (Bemis Heights) October 7, 1777. 2 For Morris’ appointment to the committee at camp which was conferring with Gen eral Washington at Moore Hall while the army was in winter quarters at Valley Forge, see these Fetters, 8:673-75n.l. Edward Langworthy to William Palfrey February 25,1778 [At its sale, this document was described as “A letter written and signed by Langworthy as a delegate to the Continental Congress ... to Pay Master-General, Colonel William Palfrey, at Camp (Valley Forge.... This letter was sent to Col. Palfrey explaining the forward ing of a large sum of money from Congress already advanced to Gen eral Mifflin ... the result of a request by (Col. Henry Emmanuel Lut- terloh).” Heritage Collector’s Society Catalog, September 1985, item 41.] For Langworthy’s correspondence with Palfrey, see also these Letters, 9:249-51,311-12. William Duer to Robert Morris My Dear Sir, York Town 12th. April [1778] I have forborn acknowledging the Receipt of yours by Dr. Burke 1 — inclosing a Letter from our Freind Duane, but I had determin’d, if possible, to pay you a Visit at Manheim. Chase and myself often hav ing been disapp[ointe]d in our Resolution several Times had deter mined absolutely to have set out this Day; but the ill Aspect of the Weather giving us Reason to apprehend that we should be detain’d longer than we coud spare from the public Business, we have with great Reluctance given up our hopes of paying you a Visit till the End of the Week. It is said that my Freind Goveneur Morris is at your Chateau—for the Sake of our Country, my dear Morris, entreat him to push on and come with him yourself. From a Want of Representation in the State of New York, and several other Emba[rr]assments we can not bring on many Matters absolutely essential to our Safety without you especially the Establishment for the Army. I am desired by all your Friends in Congress to press you on this Matter; and I flatter myself we


[Page 675]
April 12,1778 641 shall not plead in Vain. If G Morris should be at Lancaster pray Write to him in the most pressing Terms to come forward. I send Mrs. Mor ris by the Bearer an Small Parcel which Mrs. Wood at Readg. desired me to deliver, and which I Quid, nunc like I absolutely forgot when I was at your House. I am sorry to hear of her Indisposition, but hope she has by before this perfectly recover’d. My dear Friend, don’t fail to ac company Mrs. Morris; ten or Twelve Days of your Joint Attendance will do more good than Six Months of your Presence One Month hence. 2 I am with great Affection, Yours Wm. Duer. RC (VtU: McCullough Collection). Addressed: “To The Honble. Robert Morris, at Man heim.” For an extract from this text, see these Letters, 9:404. 1 Not found. 2 Morris returned to attend Congress briefly at York May 13-15. His Mannheim correspondence also included the following letter to his Baltimore business partner Jonathan Hudson written May 8, reproduced here from the descrip tion and extracts provided from an autograph catalog. “Morris opens his analysis with comments on British motives in sending the Carlisle commission to attempt reconciliation with the Americans: ‘... It appears to me that a French War is inevitable or else Great Britain must acknowledge our Independence on the same liberal & generous principles that the French have done, and altho’ they may be glad to do this hereafter, yet I do not think the Pride Sc Dignity of that Nation can now be sufficiently humbled to do it at this era. Consequendy when their Commission ers will arrive here, they will not be invested with such Powers as will enable them to make Peace on terms that we shall claim. I think they dare not send British Troops to reinforce those already in America, because those will probably be wanted to defend their own Country, and from the Posture of affairs in Europe, they will not be able to procure many Foreigners. Our Army is & will be stronger than theirs and I think they cannot stay this Summer in Philadelphia. Next Winter however they dare not tarry there, but as they know their own Strength Sc Superiority at Sea, I think it probable they will withdraw their Troops, increase the Number of Cruizers and Watch our Trade more narrowly than ever. If the French Sc Spaniards engage in the War as I think they in evitably must, they will certainly open our Bays & Rivers by sending strong Fleets to Convoy the Trade, but this can only be occasional Sc the greater part of our time we may expect to be blocked up....’ “He then proceeds to the implications of recent events for public credit: ‘You are now to Consider the Independancy of America as established by being acknowledged by some of the greatest Powers in Europe... Consequently our Public Security as a Nation is become vasdy more valuable than it was, Individuals will think it so Sc throw in their Money to the Loan Offices, this will lessen the Necessity of further emissions, and if the War shou’d become entirely Naval, our expences will be trifling... Taxes will be Col lected and the quantity of Circulating Money reduced... ’ Morris looks forward to the swift recovery of the value of Continental currency: ‘I infer that so soon as the People begin to think our Money will retrieve its original Value, the Planters Sc Manufacturers of America still be eager to turn their several Commodities into Money which they bear high prices Sc on the Contrary, Speculators will think their Money too Valuable to part with, unless on terms that hold up manifest advantage...’ He instructs his commercial agent in Baltimore on the course to be followed in his private business ventures: ‘Shou’d you meet with opportunities of buying fast Sailing Boats of the Virginia Pilot Boat Construction... cheap... I wou'd advise you to purchase because I think from the reasons already given such Boats will maintain their Value. But with respect to purchas ing Imported Goods at this time on Speculation I am much puzzled, they are now very dear, an European war or American Peace will produce greater plenty than we now


[Page 683]
December 12,1778 649 your own hands ‘till we see what the States shall determine. I am of opinion that each of them will order new publications for the infor mation of their Citizens respectively, in my opinion the present situa tion of our affairs suggests that it ought to be so, & I wish it were in my power with propriety to send you a few spare Copies for the benefit of your Neighbors. Mr. Rivington will otherwise soon poison the minds of his Readers with spurious peices. By Letters from a very intelligent correspondent in Holland of the 19th August & anterior dates in the same Month we are assured that those United States will not renew their late prohibition to the expor tation of Warlike Stores to these, that their ports are open for the re ception of our Ships & products & that the Council were balancing on the great question of recognizing the Independ [en]cy of North Amer ica. Could we now or would we, reassume that Spirit of Virtue, Patrio tism & (Economy which we pretended to possess in 1775. Peace would soon be at our Command, but alas! avarice overflows, & indeed My Lord our circumstances are deplorable, Monopolizers, peculators, & delinquents for unaccounted Millions, together with a general supine ness in all the States, alarm us with a prospect far more wretched than our strongest fears had presented at our first entrance into this ardu ous contest & unless Patriotism will arise & cleanse the Augean Stable we shall soon be huddled into a Chaos. I have the honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Sir, Your Lordship’s Obliged & obedt. servant, Henry Laurens RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Addressed: “The Right Honorable the Earl of Stirling, Elizabeth Town.” 1 See these Letters, 11:234. 2 Lord Stirling's November 21 letter to Laurens is in the Laurens Papers, no. 18, ScHi. Oliver Ellsworth to John Dunlap [ante December 12, 1778] To the PRINTER. Observing that Mr. Deane in his late publication says that it is prob able that the Honorable William Lee, Esquire, Commissioner of the United States at the Courts of Vienna and Berlin, and Commercial Agent for the Congress in Europe, still holds the office of Aiderman of the city of London, 1 I have consulted on this point the Royal Kalen- dar, or Annual Register, for the year 1778, and find the following list of Lord Mayor and Aidermen of the city of London for the year 1778. The Right Honorable Sir James Esdaile, Knight, Lord Mayor.


[Page 684]
650 December 12,1778 Wards. Bridge Without, Farringdon Within, Portsoken, Bread-street, Bishops Gate, Queenhithe, Robert Alsop, Esq. Father of the city. William Bridger, Esq. Right Hon. Thomas Harley. Brass Crosby Esq. James Townshend, Esq. Frederick Bull, Esq. Farringdon Without, Langhorn, 2 Aldersgate, Recorder, Cripplegate, Castle-Baynard, Cornhill, Cheap, Billingsgate, Lime-street, John Wilkes, Esq. John Sawbridge, Esq. Sir Thomas Halifax. John Glynn, Esq. Sir James Esdaile. Samuel Plumbe, Esq. Brackley Kennett, Esq. John Kirkman, Esq. Richard Oliver, Esq. Sir Watkin Lewis. Bassishaw, Walbrook, Coleman-street, Cordwainer, Vintry, Aidgate, Broad-street, Bridge Within, Dowgate, Candlewick, Tower, William Plomer, Esq. Nathaniel Thomas, Esq. Robert Peckham, Esq. George Hayley, Esq. Nathaniel Newnham, Esq. WILLIAM LEE, Esq. Richard Clarke, Esq. Thomas Wooldridge, Esq. John Hart, Esq. Thomas Wright, Esq. Evan Pugh, Esq. *Cum tot sustineas, et tanta negotia solus, in publica commoda peccem. Si longo sermone morer tua tempora, Cassar. Hor. 3 OBSERVATOR. 4 MS not found; reprinted from John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, December 12, 1778, where it was printed over the pseudonym “Observator.” 1 For the stir that was created over the appearance of this item publicizing William Lee’s status as an Aiderman of London, see these I Mm, 1 l:344-45n.2. 2 That is, Langborne. 3 Horace, Epistles ILL 1-4. “Seeing that you alone carry the weight of so many great charges. . .1 should sin against the public weal if with long talk, O Caesar, I were to delay your busy hours.” Horace, Satires, EpistUs and Ars Poetica, trans. H. Rushton Fairclough (New York: G. P. Putnam’s Sons, 1932), pp. 396-97. 4 For Oliver Ellsworth’s identity as “Observator,” see these Letters, ll:490n.l, 519n.2. Committee of Congress to John Houstoun Sir, Philaa. Ist.Jany. 1778 [1779]. 1 Having in a former Letter 2 to your Excellency suggested the Neces-


[Page 685]
January 18,1779 651 sity of continuing the Embargo on Rice for an unlimited Period—We have now to observe that the several Purposes for which it was re quired will in our Opinion be fully answered by the 20th Day of Feby. at which Day we could wish it were taken off but without any previous Notice since thereby much Advantage would be taken by Engrossers upon the Public. In Order to releive the State over which you preside from the disagreable Situation of having an Embargo on one of her staple Commodities as soon as possible we have taken this earliest Op portunity to give your Excellency the necessary Information. We add that in our Opinion the Exportation of that Article will gready releive the Necessities of the Northern States exhausted by this cruel War. With the greatest Respect, we are, your Excellency’s Most obedient and humble Servants, Nath. Scudder Gouv Morris Wm. Whipple RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency the Governor of Georgia.” Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. 1 For the November 10, 1778, appointment of this committee to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments, see these letters, 11:201n. 2 Not found; but for the congressional resolution upon which this former recommen dation was based, see JCC, 12:1121. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Philadelphia, 18 January 1779. “He is concerned that their corre spondence is being tampered with: 'The circumstances you mention leaves [sic] no doubt that some Villainies have been practiced at some post office or on the Road between this & N. Hampshire nor do I think it would be very difficult to guess where, perhaps our correspon dence may be intercepted in the same manner. . .1 shall in future number my letters as above...’ He asks to be kept informed of ‘any in teresting acts that passed last Sessions’ of the state legislature. ‘The Plan of Finance that was under consideration.. .has been sent’ to Bardett, though ‘not so well dressed as was intended’ because some States ‘had rather their constituents should have a naked Bird than wait a week for the Plumage...’ Whipple inquires about new members of the state assembly and warns that ‘Circumstances may cause an al teration in the conduct of men without changing their Principles. I need not caution you against men of that Character—we ought to be particularly careful not to place too great confidence in those who are not fully established in true Republican Principles, even ’tho they may fall in (at this late hour) with the spirit of the times.. .in my judge ment such characters cannot be too carefully guarded against, such


[Page 686]
652 January 18, 1779 no doubt are to be found in every State and will be creeping, or forc ing themselves into public life.. .1 know you have seen instances where the Blackest designs have been hid under the cloak of Patriotism, & vi olent Patriotism too...’ He assures Bardett that he points out this dan ger only from ‘a sincere affection for my Country and zealous desire to see Republicanism established in the highest perfection....”’ MS not found; reprinted from description and extracts in Christies’ Catalog, December 14, 1984, p. 107. Oliver Ellsworth to David Ellsworth Dear Brother, Philada. Jany. 26t. 1779. I thank you for your Letter of the 17t Inst. & rejoice with you in the happy prospects you have before you. How much so ever I wish to be present on the joyful occasion, I pray you not to delay it a single day for my coming. Tho’ I expect to be at home the latter end of next month, perhaps I may not be releived so soon, or be otherwise disap pointed. I have no news to communicate. Every body is now thinking & talk ing about the paper currency. I have written my thoughts upon it in a short piece signed Observator, which has been published here, & probable [probably] will be also in the Hartford newspaper. 1 My duty to our honored parents, & respects to our Brother & Sister Mather. I am Dear Sir, your most hearty well wisher, Oliver Ellsworth RC (DNDAR: Ellsworth Collection). Addressed: “Mr. David Ellsworth, Windsor, Con necticut.” 1 For Ellsworth’s “Thoughts on the Paper Currency,” which was published over his pseudonym “Observator” in the January 26 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet and the March 9 issue of the Connecticut Courant, see these Letters, 11:487-90, 518-19. See also Ellsworth to John Dunlap, December 12, 1778, above. John Jay to Sarah Jay Philadelphia, January 31, 1779. “Company or business leaves me so few leisure moments that I am determined to devote the present to you, and not postpone writing to another opportunity, which may not happen these three or four days. I am now perfecdy alone, and to tell the truth enjoy it. Either my room-mate or other friends, or persons on business are usually with me. Your favor.. .came to hand last night.


[Page 687]
February 9, 1779 653... Why did not your last contain a bill of health? Brockhoist is just come in—he tells me Sukey informs him that your Mama has been sick, and others of the family indisposed. I hope you have escaped. Peter it seems has had his share—These are unpleasant circumstances and I lament them. Two letters from your father were delivered me by.. .Mr. D. Harte this morning. They dine with me tomorrow. I was the more happy to see them as they told me you were well. Sally! The charms of this grey city would please me more if you partook of them. I am afraid to think of domestic happenings; it is a subject which pre sents to my imagination so many shades of departed joys, as to excite sensations very improper to be indulged by a person in my station, de termined at every hazard to persevere in the pursuit of that great ob ject to which we have sacrificed so much. The soft ideas of peace and tranquility, and more mild senses which health and youth and love and innocence blessed with affluence create, must for the present be faintly remembered, and never suffered to take possession of our minds. Let us refer these contemplations to some future less tempes tuous season and in these rough times think of nothing so much as how to move.. .thro’ the spheres assigned us; action, firmness and ne glect of those little luxuries and pleasures which relax and enfeeble the mind, now becomes us and should mark our conduct. Resigned to the will and confiding to the wisdom and goodness of Providence, let us cheerfully travel through the world in any road unto which He may think proper to lead us. That part of it in which we are now journey ing is to be sure not very desirable, but who knows, perhaps a few miles may carry us beyond the present adversities and the remainder of the way be as pleasant as this part is otherwise. I am interrupted. God bless you... MS not found; reprinted from extract in Kenneth W Rendell Catalog, no. 172 (July 1985), item 71. John Jay to George Clinton February 9, 1779 [At its sale this document was described as a “Draft of an Autograph Letter (unsigned), as President of the Continental Congress to Gen eral George Clinton, concerning General Israel Putnam, enclosing (not present) a Resolution of Congress of January 30, 1779, empower ing the Government to give warrants on goods ‘taken from Inhabi tants on this River for the use of Troops after Reduction of Fort Mont gomery,’” R. M. Smythe Catalog, no. 80 (May 27, 1989), item 172.] For the resolution Jay enclosed, see JCC, 13:124-25.


[Page 688]
654 February 11,1779 Committee of Congress to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 11th Feby. 1779 We inclose you the copy of a Letter from Francis Wade Deputy Quarter [Master] General to the President of Congress, which hath been for that purpose referred to us. 1 We cannot but lament that no salutary Provisions have been hitherto devised to put a stop to the dangerous practices complained of. We must in duty to the Public again thro’ your Excellency reiterate our Requests that the Legislature of the State of Delaware will attend to this important object. We are Sir respectfully, Your very humble Servants, Gouvr Morris Wm. Whipple Francis Lightfoot Lee 2 RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Morris, and Whipple. Addressed: “Govr. of Delaware.” 1 For the referral of this letter, which is not in the PCC, to the committee February 8, see JCC, 13:150. 2 For the November 10, 1778, appointment of this committee to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments, see these Letters, 11:20In. Lee replaced Nathaniel Scudder on the committee January 23. JCC, 13:103. John Jay to Sarah Jay Philadelphia, March 5, 1779. “It is now near nine o’clock, my fellow lodgers out, and what seldom happens—I am perfectly alone and pleasing myself with the prospect of spending the remainder of the evening in writing a letter to you. As it rains and snows there is less probability of being interrupted.... Could I be certain that this letter would be read by none but yourself, it would be long and perhaps en tertaining. It would contain many litde anecdotes which prudence for bids me to commit to paper, and must be reserved to those social hours which I hope we shall soon pass together. These restraints are very unpleasant, tho’ I confess the tale of my two letters to you which fell into the enemy’s hands at Elizabethtown tends to reconcile me not a little to that caution in writing which, tho’ disagreeable, I have long practiced. They contain nothing improper to be published, and if printed without an alteration it would give me no concern to see them in a newspaper.... Kitty [Livingston].. .is still at Raritan, waiting for an opportunity to return. As the story goes, Mr. Duer was to have accompanied her.. .but has hitherto been prevented. I wish to know


[Page 689]
March 14, 1779 655 the particulars of Susan’s convention with Lord Cathcart. It is said she had the advantage of him in the treaty, and displayed much fortitude as well as address on the occasion. Pray how did John Lawrence fare? We hear he was in the house and was made a prisoner. Did they re lease or carry him off? One of your late letters informs me that Doctor Derby will not part with the boy mentioned in Brockhoist [Liv ingston] ’s letter. I am sorry for it, especially as your brother likes him. My father. . .appears pleased with your attention, and speaks very af fectionately of his little grandson.... I have been honored.. .with a letter from Mrs. . She is as usual uneasy and wants to have a house in the neighborhood and requests my advice and interposition. I wish I could make her, and everybody else, happy, but that is a conso lation rather to be wished than expected. The sensible and once gay, witty and handsome Miss Emlen, whom you knew and admired four years ago, is now a Quaker preacher. Strange things happen in the course of this world. I will not hazard my conjecture on the causes of this turn. We will talk it over when we meet. Writing with all this cau tion takes much of the pleasure of it....” MS not found; reprinted from extracts in Kenneth VV Rendell Catalog, no. 172 (July 1985), item 72. John Jay to Sarah Jay Philadelphia, March 14, 1779. “The probability that our separation will not last much longer increases.. . I have been so often disap pointed that I cannot confide entirely in [Mr. Gurney’s] promise, and the more so as Mrs. Gurney’s indisposition or inclination may cause another week’s delay.... On your arrival you must expect much com pany, and I fancy it would not be very agreeable to receive your friends in a bed chamber.... By a Poughkeepsie newspaper I find Peggy has lost her Uncle Barclay of Albany. I have a late letter from Fady, but he mentions nothing of it. He informs me that the family were as well as usual, and that my favorite mare was stolen and carried off. But this is one of those misfortunes which give me little concern. Want of exercise, disappointment, and some other little cares and in quietudes have, I found, impaired your health. Keep up your spir its.... A fine season approaches and I flatter myself that the ensuing four months will compensate for the last. How does the little boy do? Does he begin to speak plain? Does he run about?. . .1 hope to see him tanned and ruddy—no moonshine looking boys. I am as anxious about his constitution as his life. Let not his strength be sacrificed to his skin. Pardon my solicitude on this subject.... Last summer I set


[Page 695]
October 5, 1779 661 gratified to the highth of your Wishes. 2 I must wish you not to quit a Continental Command however small for the Present, for private Em ploy. Your Interest I think may be better advanced, and you will be in a higher Road to Promotion and Honor. I have given Dr. Richmond every Assistance in my Power in the litde Business he had to do. And it will ever be my greatest Pleasure and Happiness to do every Thing in my Power to further the noble and honorable Views of the Brave and Virtuous. I shall be the shorter in this, as I did myself the Pleasure [in writing you more at large in my former Letter which I hope You will soon receive on your Return to Providence and which I hope will be with additional Success to yourself & your brave Officers & Men, as well as to Your Country. Should You not have any Agent here for Yourself & People—I would recommend you to a Gentleman well experienced in Ac- compts, and of tryed Fidelity—Col. Wm. Paulfry—Paymaster Genl, now residing in this City. Accept of my warmest Wishes for Your highest Prosperity, and beleive me your sincere Friend & humble Servt., Hy. Marchant RC (RHi: Talbot Papers). Addressed: “Lieut. Col. Silas Talbot—Commander of the [Con]tl. Sloop of War the Argo.” 1 Talbot’s letter, which is not in the PCC, was read in Congress this day./CC, 14:1008. Talbot had responded to Marchant’s letter to him of August 9, for which see these Let ters, 13:341-42. 2 For Talbot’s successful quest for the command of a Continental vessel, see ibid., pp. 342-43n.2. James Lovell to John Adams [For this document, see these Letters, 13:495-96. The enclosure to this letter, which we were unable to identify, has been printed in Adams, Papers (Taylor), 8:148-50.] John Jay’s Draft Vermont Bill [ante October 5, 1779] 1 An Act for complying with and carrying into Effect the Recommendations contained in certain Resolutions of the Congress of the united States of America of the Day of 1779


[Page 696]
662 Octobers, 1779 Whereas the Congress of the united States of america did on the Day of last past, 2 unanimously enter in certain Resolu tions in the words following vizt. (Here insert verbatim the Resolutions with the Preambles & Recitals in their Order in which they stand[)] And Whereas the said Congress did on the Day of October Instant unanimously enter into a certain other Resolution in the words following to wit (here insert the Resolution repealing a certain Clause in the former ones and substituting another verbatim) And Whereas the aforerecited Resolutions & Recommendations are founded in equal Justice and true Policy, & have for their object the Establishment of perpetual Harmony, Friendship, and mutual Confi dence between the States therein named, which it is no less the Desire than the Interest of this State to promote— Be it enacted by and it is hereby enacted by the authority of the same that all the Powers & authorities which it is recommended to, or requested of this State in and by the sd. Resolutions to vest in or grant to the said Congress, shall be, and hereby are vested in and granted to the said Congress, as fully and amply as if the same were here again particularly enumerated and described And that the Deci sions and Determinations which shall be made in the Premisses in Pursuance of the Powers and authorities hereby granted shall be obli gatory on the State and the People thereof so far as the sd. Decisions and Determinations shall respect the same or any Part thereof, And Further that this act shall be always construed in a Sense most ad vanced of the Design, true Intent & meaning of the sd. Resolutions. And it is hereby further enacted by the Authority aforesd that no advantage shall be taken by this State of the nonperformance of the Conditions in any of the Grants of Land in the sd. Resolutions re ferred to, but that further Time be given to fulfil the same respectively to wit until the Expiration of six Years to be computed from the Publi cation of the Act. N.B. Such further Clauses for the Appointmt of Agents &c. may be added as may be thought expedient. N.B. This last Clause is to be considered as part of the Bill which we have agreed to send to our several States. MS (VtU: McCullough Collection). In the hand ofjohnjay. Endorsed: “Octr. 1779. Mr. Jay’s Dr. of Bill to Submit the Claim of Vermont to Congress.” 1 This Jay draft bill was enclosed in his letter of this date to New York governor George Clinton, for which see these Letlm, 14:29. A variant of this text, printed from Jay’s retained file copy, is at ibid., pp. 29-30n. 2 That is, 24th day of September. See JCC, 15:1095-98; and these Letters, 13:546n.l.


[Page 702]
668 December 22, 1779 Committee of the whole on ways and means on a Motion of Mr Elsworth debated till Adjournd. Wednesday 22d. Com. Committee. This day went in to a Committee of the whole, when a motion was made by Mr R Livingston which was Read & debated, but nothing agreed to. Weather more moderate. Thursday Decemr 23d. Com Committee. This day spent in a Com mittee of the whole, on the Plan of drawing Bills of Excha at the rate of 5 Dolls or 22/6 Sterlg for 100 Dolls, to the amount of 20 Million of Dollars, to bear 6 per Ct Interest the money to be Paid down and the Bills to be drawn Payable in 12 Months. Some of the Plan was agreed to per the Committee. 2 Adjournd. Friday Decemr 24th. Com. Committee. Congress. Went in to a Com mittee of the whole; A motion was made by Mr. Elsworth to Postpone the former motion and take up a new one, after some debate, Mr Huntington moved that £25,000 Sterlg. be used for the Purpose of Pur chasing Flour &c for the Army, and that Mr Forbes & Mr Wadsworth be appointed for the Purpose with liberty to call in an assistant. 3 MS (MHi: John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 Cf. JCC, 15:1396-97. 2 See JCC, 15:1404-5. 3 JCC, 15:1408. Following this entry, Fell noted that on Saturday the 25th it was “Very Cold” and that he “Dined wth Mr Griffin," and on Sunday “Dined with Mr Totten.” John Fell’s Diary [December 27,1779-January 1, 1780] Monday Decemr 27th. 1779. Com. Committee. Letters from Genl. Washington, acquainting with the Sailing of upwards of 160 Sail, One fleet suppos’d to be for Cork, and the other suppos’d for Georgia, in the Latter it was said Coll Buskirk and his Regiment were. An Admiral with one and a Commodore with the other. Sr G. Collier. A Secretary for Dr Franklin was Balloted for 3 times viz 1 1st 2d 3d Mr Lovell 6 6 6 Mr Morris 3 4 3 Mr Hambleton 2 12 A Report to have the Post goe twice a week, and the Expresses to be discharg’d was agreed to. £75,000 Sterlg. of the Bills to be drawn was fixt @ 25 Dollars for 1 Spanish Milld Dollar @ 4/6 Sterlg. Letters, from the General and some Commissarys that the Army were in great want of Provisions.


[Page 703]
January 6,1780 669 Tuesday Decemr. 28th. Com. Committee. A Number of Letters, Memorials &c. Report to regulate the Post office &c @ 20 prices from 1775. 2 This day and night a very violent Storm of Wind, Rain and Snow. Wednesday Decemr. 29th. 1779. Coml Committee. Congress, Let ters from Genl. Washington with further advice of the Sailing of 2 Large fleets from New York, with several other Letters, memorials &c. Moderate weather. Thursday Decemr. 30th. Coml Committee. This day several Letters, and Reports from Committees one from the Committee to Regulate and fix the Sallery of the Commissary General of Purchases, and that department was long debated, agreed not to fix the Sallery till April, 3 the Report for 15 Millions of Dollars to Mr Wadsworth, brought in Yesterday was Postponed. Friday Decemr 31st. Commercial Committee. Sundry Letters, Memorials &c. The Report on the Commissarys department, was long debated and to litde Purpose. Dined with Mr Benezet. Very Cold day. Saturday January 1st, 1780. Commercial Committee. After the dis patches were Read, the Treasury Reports were taken up 6 Million was Past for Coll Wadsworth the late Commissary General of Purches, renew’d the debate on that department. 4 Dined wth. Mr R Morris. MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 There is no mention of this vote in the journals, although on December 22 Congress resolved “That Monday next [27th] be assigned for electing a secretary to Doctor Franklin.” See JCC, 15:1402, 1410-13. 2 JCC, 15:1415. 3 No details concerning this report were recorded in the journals. JCC, 15:1423. 4 JCC, 16:5-7. John Fell’s Diary [January 3-8, 1780] Monday Jany 3d. Com. Committee. Letters and Memorials &c, fin ish’d the Regulation of the Commissary Generals Sallery 40,000 Ds &C. 1 Dined wth the Chavalier. Tuesday 4th. Com. Committee. Letters from General Washington, said to be 5,000 gon[e] from N York, Report to fix the Place for the Court of Appeals, long debate. 2 Adjournd. Wednesday Sth. Coml Com. Sundry Letters, Report from the Board of War, to supply certain Officers on Long Island with Specie, 3 Report for Esstablishing the Court of Appeals. 4 Long debates. Thursday Jany 6th. Com Committee. After the Letters and Reports, the Esstablishing the Court of Appeals was again debated.


[Page 705]
January 22, 1780 671 Saturday Jany 15th. Com Com. This day chiefly spent in debate on the Court of Appeals. Some Paragraphs agreed to. Sallery 25,000 Ds per annum. 5 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 For Gen. Charles Lee’s dismissal from the Continental Army, see these Letters, 14:344n.2. 2 For Congress’ decision to permit Washington to resume prisoner exchange negotia tions, see ibid., p. 346n.2. 3 JCC, 16:48-52. 4 On this subject, the journals for this day somewhat ambiguously note: “The commit tee on a court of appeals brought in a report. Ordered, That the same be taken into consideration to morrow.” JCC, 16:56. 5 JCC, 16:61-64. Following this entry, Fell wrote: “Sunday Jany 16th. The weather con tinues very cold, yet. Dined wth Jos Wharton.” John Fell’s Diary [January 17-22, 1780] Monday Jany 17th. Com Committee. After the dispatches went in to a Committee of the whole to apportion 61 Million for the Expences of the Ensuing Year for the several States to Provide. Tuesday Jany 18th. Com Comm. The chief Part of this day spent in debate whether the Yaes & Noes should be Publishd and Passd in the Negative, and then agreed to have the Journals Publishd Monthly. 1 Wednesday 19th. Com Comm. Letters from France, Letter from Lieut. Hale that he had absconded. 2 Motion for appointing a Commit tee of one Member of Congress and two Commissioners to Regulate several departments in Conjunction with the Commander in Chief, and Report. 3 Thursday Jany. 20th. Excesive Cold. Sundry Letters from Genl Washington & Lord Sterling relating to the Expedition to Statten Is land. Nominated several Persons for the Commissions for the regulat ing departments and forjudges of the Court of Appeals. 4 Friday 21st. Com Comm. Report from the Board of War Relating to appointing Coll. Armand to a Brigadier General, long debate, Referrd to the General. 5 Gen Schuyler and Coll Pickering were Balloted for Superintending the different departments. Saturday 22d. Commercial Committee. General Mifflin was chose by Ballot for One of the Commissioners to Regulate and Report a sav ing in the Expence of the Quarter Masters, Hospital, Commissary of Military Stores and Commissary of Issues Departments &c. This day the Judges for the Court of Appeals were Balloted for as follows vizt.


[Page 717]
April 8, 1780 683 Wednesday April 5th. Commercial Committee. Letter from Genl Washington advising of an Imbarkation at N York and to know if Congress approv’d of sending the Maryland Line, Delaware Regi ment, and Major Lees Core to South Carolina, Long debate upon the matter. 2 Thursday the 6th. Com Com. Letter from Genl Washington, wrote in the most distresing terms relateing to the Army who are in want of almost every necessary, A Committee were appointed to draw up in structions for a Committee to be appointed to goe to Camp and con sult with the General, (Messrs Levingston, Mathews & Ellsworth). 3 Also the Generals Letters &c relateing to the failure of setling the Cartell at Amboy, Referrd. Report from the Delegates of the State of Massachusets for leave to stop 6 Million for the Ponobscot Expidition &c. 4 Postponed till to morrow. Friday April 7th, 1780. Com. Committe. Congress. Sundry Reports from the Board of War, Treasury Committees &c, Coll Atlee 20,000 Ds on Account. 5 Ponobscot affair againe Postponed. Letters from J Adams, of opinion all the Beligerent Powers are de termind on War, especialy Great Britain. The draft of a Letter in tended for the Legislatures of the several States was taken up and de bated on, and cutt and hackd in a terrible manner and at last recommitted. 6 Saturday April 8th. Comm. Committe. Report from the Treasury to Pay Sundry Persons Loan Office Certifficates, for Debts due to them for Bomb Shells &c which occasiond a long debate, I was in favour of the Report, from necessity as we had no other way to Pay. 7 Instructions were read for the Committee to goe to Camp. Post poned till Monday. Order of the day on the motion of the Masachusets Delegates relat ing to the Ponobscot Expidition, which causd a very long debate, at last it was agreed that the State should keep 2 Million of Dollars. 8 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 For this circular letter, a revised version of which was adopted April 24, see JCC, 16:326-27, 336-37, 345-48, 384-87. 2 The result of this debate was congressional approval “of the measures taken by Gen eral Washington for reinforcing the southern army.” JCC, 16:329. 3 Robert R. Livingston, John Mathews, and Oliver Ellsworth were the members ap pointed this day to draw up instructions for the committee to go to camp, which was se lected April 13—Mathews, Nathaniel Peabody, and Philip Schuyler. See JCC, 16:332-33; and these Letters, 15:15-17nn.l-2. 4 The subject of this report is not explained in this day’s journal entry, but for its dis position, see JCC, 334, 337, 339-42; and these Letters, 15:25-26, 36-37, 46-47. 5 JCC, 16:335. 6 See note 1. 7 See JCC, 16:338-39. 8 See note 4.


[Page 722]
688 MayI, 1780 ulto. advising of the arrival of Generals Woodford and Scott &c. The Sugars Consignd to Mr Blain. 1 Tuesday the 2d. Commercial Committee. Some Treasury Reports &c. Motion to take up the Report on Loan Office Certificates after long debate was Reccomitted. 2 The report from the Admiralty for a New form of Commission, Bond and Instructions to Captains of Priva teers agreed to. 3 Wednesday May 3d, 1780. Com Committee. Report from a Commit tee on the allowance for the Deputy Pay Masters of the Army agreed to 8/10ths on all monies they Pay. 4 Debate on a Memorial from Mr Wilson relating to the Appeal not being sent within the time limited, for the Mercury Packet. 5 Thursday the 4th. Commercial Committee. Report from the Board of War, with a Letter from Mr Petitt. Complaint from 6 against Mr Hanson a deputy Commissary, Referr’d to the Committee now at Camp. Adjournd early. Friday 5th. Com Committee. Report from the Committee on the Post Office, reccomending double Postage, agreed to, some other Parts of the Report committed to the Treasury. 7 Dined with the Minis ter of France. MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 See JCC, 16:402. 2 JCC, 16:403. 3 JCC, 16:403-9. 4 JCC, 16:409-10. 5 JCC, 16:410-11. 6 That is, James Gray, whose complaint against John Hanson was transmitted to the committee at headquarters in a letter of May 6, for which see these Letters, 15:91. 7 See JCC, 16:413-14. Oliver Ellsworth to Jeremiah Wadsworth D r _ Sr Philadelphia, May 5. 1780. I was yesterday obliged with your favour of the 23d of April; the con tents & enclosures of which I will pay due attention to, & endeavour to make you some returns by the next Tuesdays Post. Capt Champion I presume has reached Hartfo[r]d long before this, & given you some explanation of matters, & brot. you the means of some small relief under your embarrassments, 1 which I know must be very great, & greater I believe than any man merely from pecuniary motives would patiently enduer. If all the States will speak in a tone as decisive as Connecticut have done in the last Session of their Assembly & act accordingly the pub lick may yet pay her debts & restore her credit. A number of the Mer-


[Page 725]
May 8, 1780 691 At what rate think you did the present holders of our money almost universally procure it? At the advanced rate of article—And can you conceive that any man ought to receive of the public for the money he acquired by the sale of one bushel of wheat, as much money of a different sort as would purchase forty? You will not think this to be just; and would not I beleive consent to pay a tax for this purpose. The subject of finance is at best a subject of great intricacy; and the de rangement of our finance, occasioned by depredation, hath involved it in still greater perplexity; so that if the plan proposed should not be unobjectionable it will not be surprizing. Connecticut and, we hear Massachusetts-Bay, have adopted it. Our State will I presume follow suit, and I imagin all the States will embrace it. It is impossible in the nature of finance to form a plan that will please every one. The great point aimed at is to obtain a medium of some established value; and this is a matter of such magnitude and importance as ought to silence the clamours of self interest, and excite the most vigorous efforts to accomplish it. You will before this gets to hand have seen the resolu tion of Congress declaring that the holders of Loan-office certificates shall not suffer by depredation. 2 Congress are disposed to do justice. By a vessel which arrived here yesterday in 13 days from St Eustatius we are informed that by advices reed, at Martinico, Mr. Jay the Min[iste]r to the Court of Spain had arrived at Cadiz, that the French had reinforced Grenada & St Vincent, and that the French & British fleet were both at Sea. The former consisting of 23 & the latter of 20 sail of the line. No late news from So Carolina. I received a letter from Mr Marchant dated the 23d ultmo. in which he informs me that he and I shall be dropped. It is what I have for some time expected would take place with regard to me; but I imagined he would keep his standing. Considering these shiftings as the result of liberty, when there is fair play, and some regard is paid to merit, and the reputation and interest of the State, the ejected or dejected persons ought to acquiesce. But when a change is effected by gross lying, and merit in the candidate and the honor and interest of the State are not regarded, as a citizen and an honest man I must regret it. If I were to consider my own happiness only I should be glad of your removal to Newport; because I shall now find two homes where I have lost my one. I wish you may continue there undisturbed and happy. I expect to be at Cranston in about a month, and in the course of the summer to see you often. Give my regards to your wife and chil dren and all friends. I am Yrs affectionately, W Ellery [PS.] The Marquis de la fayette is arrived at Boston. 3 We don’t know what brought him hither, but I suppose some thing of consequence.


[Page 733]
July 1,1780 699 order Regulations for that department during the Suspension of the Director General. 4 The Report on Loan Office Certificates was taken up and some Res olutions agreed to. 5 Tuesdayjune 27th 1780. Committee of Commerce. Letters from the Marquis of Britagnie at Martiniqu, w[h]ere he was sent per General Lincoln from Charlestown for Succors for that Place. 6 do from Parsons, Alston & Co & do advising of Frigate arriving there who said a fleet of 14 Spanish Ships of the Line & 8 Frigates were expected. Letter from General Du Portail at Charles town, he did not approve of the capetulation of Charles town. The Report with regard to the Payment of Principle & Interest on Loan Office Certifli- cates was at last agreed to be Postponed till to morrow. 7 Wednesday 28th. Com Committee. After some dispatches were Read, and Reports from Committes, Mr James Henry moved that the Report on the Certificates might be further postponed. Mr John Henry calld for the Yaes & Noes, which Pasd in the Negative per great Majority. The Main Question on the Report was then Put, and the Yaes & Noes calld for by Mr John Henry which Pasd in the Affirmetive 9 States Ayes, 2 Noes, 1 devided. So this great Question was at last fin- ishd. 8 Report on Ottis & Henlys having Purchas’d Clothing to the amount of 30,000 Sterlg. Referrd to the Treasury. 9 Thursday June 29th 1780. Com Committee. This day a great num ber of Letters, Reports from Committees &c were read and a good deal of Business done. Friday June 30th. Com. Com. A Letter from the Govr of Maryland advising, to that State agreeing to the Requisition of Congress of the 18th March. The Report of the Committee on the Quarter Master General department, was taken up and debated. 10 (A bad System. [)] Saturday July 1st 1780. The French Minister sent a Memorial to Congress at the request of the Governor of the Havana requesting leave to Purchase 3,000 Bs Flour &c. Referrd to a Committee. 11 Some other Committees filld up. Congress were invited per the President of the College to attend the Commencement. The President of Congress was requested to give notice that on Tuesday at 2 oClock he would see Company being the Annaversary of the Independence. 12 MS (MHiiJohn Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 See PCC, item 154, 2:206-8; and JCC, 17:558. 2 In this June 24 request, the board explained that they wished “fifty thousand dollars for a purpose which we beg we may be excused from explaining at present.” Ibid. 3 JCC, 17:563.


[Page 734]
700 July 1, 1780 4 See JCC, 17:561-62. 5 According to the journals, Congress only revised the report, and then postponed “the farther consideration thereof.” JCC, 17:563. fi Ibid. 7 JCC, 17:565-66. 8 JCC, 17:566-69. 9 JCC, 17:569-71. 10 See JCC, 17:579-80; and these Letters, 15:339n.l. 11 JCC, 17:580. 12 Cf. JCC, 17:580-81; and these Letters, 15:399. John Fell’s Diary [July 3-7,1780] Monday July 3d. This day a number of dispatches were Read, also several Reports from Committes &c. Adjourn’d to 14 past 9 to morrow. Tuesday July 4th. Congress met and Proceeded to the Commence ment at the University. Afterwards the President of Congress gave a Cold Collation to the Gentlemen in Town at the State house on Ac count of the Anivarsery of Independance and a Number of Cannon &c fired on the Occasion. Wednesday July 5th. Com Com. The Report on the Quarter Masters department took up the chief of this day. Thursdayjuly 6th. The Report taken up again to day and continued in debate till we Adjoumd. 1 A Resolve Past that Mr Lawrence Proceed to Europe. 2 A do to let the State of Pennsylvania have £1,000 Sterl[ing] Bills. 3 Friday July 7th 1780. Sundry Reports from Committes, Memorials &c. A motion moved for Mr. Lawrence to have a Commission to Act in setling a plan of Amity & Commerce with the United Provinces. 4 Ad- journd till Monday. 5 MS (MHi: John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 See JCC, 17:589-90. 2 That is, Henry Laurens. JCC, 17:590. 3 Ibid. 4 For the adoption of this motion, see JCC, 17:594. 5 Following this entry Fell wrote: “Saturday July 8th. Exceeding Hott. Sunday July 9th. Continues very Hott.” John Fell’s Diary [July 10-15,1780] Monday July 10th. This day a Number of Dispatches from different Quarters. Reports from Committees &c &c.


[Page 736]
702 July 20,1780 Thursday July 20th. Com Com. Several Reports were Read and some Referrd, Dr Shippens tryal was again take [n] up and Read. Friday 21st. Mr Simatiers Letter read, nothing concluded on. 3 Board of War Reported to discontinue the Labratory to the Eastd. PostPoned. Committee to whom was Referrd Mr Dennings Letter re ported, Postponed till Tuesday next. Board of Admiraltys Report to give Abrm Van Dyke Esqr a Commission of Captain in the Marine Ser vice by the Reccomendation of Genl Washington was Rejected. 4 Yaes & Noes per Mr Mattock {Madack]. Board of Admiralty were Orderd to make inquiery in to the conduct of Capt Harding for bringing Sugars &c in the Confedracey from Martinico. 5 Saturday July 22d. 1780. Letter from the Minister of France was read advising of the Fleet at Rhode Island &c. 6 Letters from Mr Adams advising of his being Introduced to the King, Queen &c in France. 7 Dr Shippin tryal was taken up and Read till adjournd. 8 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 That is, General Washington had submitted the court martial proceedings of Dr. William Shippen, Jr., to Congress, for which see JCC, 17:638; and these Letters, 15:474-75, 619. 2 For the inquiry into these charges made by William Denning, see these Letters, 15:512n.2. s See Fell’s Diary, July 10-15, note 5; and JCC, 17:648. 4 See JCC, 17:650-51. 6 JCC, 17:651. . . 6 There is no mention of this letter in the journals, but for the delivery of this infor mation by an aide of the marquis de Lafayette, see these Letters, 15:483. 7 JCC, 17:653. 8 This day also Pres. Samuel Huntington wrote a brief personal letter to his nephew Samuel Huntington, apologizing that he seldom wrote because of the “multiplicity of business,” and explaining that when he left Connecticut he did not anticipate that I Should have resided so long in Philadelphia.” Norton Collection, OCIWHi. John Fell’s Diary [July 24—29, 1780] Monday 24th. Letters from Mr Adams dated March 23d. Letters from G Washington advising of his Corresponding with the French Admiral & General. The Marquis Fayettee is gone to consult about the ensuing Campaign. A Number of Dispatches &cJ Mr Van Dykes Com mission for Leiutenant Marines signd the 7th. 2 Tuesday July 25. Several dispatches, Memorials &c. A Letter from G Washington with the Resignation of General Maxwell, which was ac cepted. 3 Chs Pettit Esqr was Elected Assistant Quarter Master General agreeable to the New Systom on the Quarter Masters department.


[Page 744]
710 September 8, 1780 Friday Sepr 8th 1780. Several Memorials, Petitions and Reports. A Report from a Committee for Recruting and supplying the Southern Army, was taken up, agreed to raise 15,000 Men. 6 No Carolina moved to have Congress allow them half the Bounty to raise their Men, not agreed to. Saturday 9th. A Number of Reports, Letters and memorials of no great consequence, A new Plan from the Medical Committee for the Hospital department read. 7 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 For Washington’s August 24 letter to Congress, enclosing several letters concerning prisoner of war negotiations from Wilhelm Knyphausen, Henry Clinton, Joshua Loring, and Abraham Skinner, see JCC, 17:802; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:435-38; and PCC, item 152, 9:101-33. 2 For this August 28 letter, see PCC, item 152, 9:139-41; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:462-63. 3 There is no mention of this debate in the journals, but for Mathews motion and the congressional reaction to it, see these Letters, 16:21n.4, 68—70n.2, 364nn.4 and 5. 4 See JCC, 17:806-8. 5 Cf. JCC, 18:811. 6 Congress actually resolved “That magazines of provisions and forage for fifteen thousand men for six months, be immediately provided and laid up for the southern army.” JCC, 18:812. 7 For the reform of the medical department that was under consideration at this time, see these Letters, 16:68-69n. John Fell’s Diary [September 11-16, 1780] Monday Sepr 11th. This day a number of Letters were read from J Adams which took up a deal of time and of little consequence. Letters from Genl. Washington and General Gates, and several others, Re- ferrd to Committee. 1 Tuesday September 12th, 1780. Letter from Genl Washington, Genl How and one from G1 Nixon to Resign on account of the Ill state of his health accepted. 2 A Long Letter from the Governor of the State of Vermont so called which took up a good deal of debate and the read ing of all the former Resolutions &c to be considerd on Thursday. 3 Wednesday Sepr 13th. After the dispatches were gone through, the New Plan for the Hospital department was began upon, and contin ued till adjournment. 4 Thursday Sepr 14th. Some memorials &c being Read the order of the day on the Vermont affair was taken up, and as usual a long debate. Friday Sepr. 15th. Some dispatches were read. Brigr General Small wood was Promoted to the Rank of Major General, Abrm Skinner Esqr Commissary General of Prisoners. 5 Report of a Committee for Supplying Catde to the Army. 6


[Page 746]
712 September 23, 1780 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 Congress actually received two letters from Washington this day. For the September 15 letter described here, see JCC, 18:836; PCC, item 152, 9:169—72; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:49-52. 2 Cf. JCC, 18:839-41. 3 JCC, 18:842. 4 JCC, 18:842-43. 5 JCC, 18:843-44. 6 JCC, 18:847-48. ’ JCC, 18:853. James Lovell to Samuel Holten Sepr. 19 th 1780.' Dear Sir, Not being certain whether Danvers is Shelden’s present Residence I take the Freedom to trouble you with the inclosed. I am not well enough to go out in the Rain but I do not apprehend that I have any of the prevalent maladies of this City fixed upon me—a putrid Fever—a Dysentery—or an unusual Remittent, something resembling the Fever & Ague. 2 We have no news; but, Poverty abundant. The Post however cannot fail to give you some as Rodney is at New York, and french Ships have been seen on the Coast. President Reed’s Lady has been buried this morning. She and Mr. Brymner the great musician were taken off by the Dysentary. Mr. Hodge, who was in France connected with the famous Cutter, was re turning with 13 others from Sth. Carolina and died at Bohemia 40 miles off having survived all the others. Tricket our Stationer and Monsr. Damon our Brussels news monger are gone also; in short, 30 died on the night that Damon did. I hope you have better air and bet ter Water than we; to say nothing of Wine as I am not in Capacity to draw any Comparisons about so strange a Liquor. We are in the Labyrinths of Vermont and are also driven to be con triving how to buy some Portion of that western World which the Big Knife pretends to give to us. 3 Give my Compliments to Mr. Gerry to whom I shall write by Col. Wigglesworth the Bearer of his Letter & order to me. Yours affection ately, James Lovell RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 This letter was digitally garbled when it was printed in these Letters, 16:94, the head ing and first paragraph hating been overlaid from a followingjames Madison letter. 2 For Lovell’s health, see also ibid., pp. 139-40. 3 See ibid., p. 94n.


[Page 747]
September 30, 1780 713 John Fell’s Diary [September 25-30, 1780] Monday Sepr 25th. Letters from Mr J Adams. Several reports from Committees &c. were read and some considerd and Pased. Tuesday Sepr 26. Some Letters, Reports &c were Read, the Report of an answer relating to the Empress of Russia concerning the Newtral Powers was Postponed, and a New motion of Mr Levingston taken up and Recommitted, 1 Adjournd to 6 oClock. Letter from Genl Green was Read, advising of an Imbarkation at Whitestone said to be for Rhode Island, and another at the Watering Place for Virginia. 2 6 oClock Congress met, The Delegate from New Hampshire being Ill, nothing was done relating to Vermont for which Congress mett. 3 Wednesday Sepr 27th 1780. Com. Com. This morning Letters were read from General Green & Col Hambleton advising of a horrid Plott and Conspiracey by Major General Arnold to give up to the Enemy the important Post of West Point, 4 Coll Hambleton was sent to Secure Arnold, but he had got inteligence of the discovery, and was got off to New York, Capt Andrie Adjutant General of the British, was taken in Camp as a Spy, in consequence of the above intelligence the Chief Jus tice McKean was sent for in to Congress and requested to have the Generals Papers seized as any other suspected Person &c. 5 Some Let ters and Reports &c. (The Delegate from New Hampshire had his Pa pers read, relating to the Lands in dispute wth them, New York and Vermont, The Commissioners on the Part of Vermont, Refused being Present at the time, and so it ended for the day. 6 Very Cold & Fire. Thursday 28th. This morning the President inform’d Congress that the time for which he was Elected, was Expired on which a debate arose and a number of motions and amendments were made. At last a Question was taken, whether the House would Proceed to a New Elec tion Pased in the Negative, 7 some Reports were Read, &c. Friday Sepr 29th 1780. Coml Committee. Sundrie Reports, Letters, Memorials &c. I introduced a motion that no member of Congress should in future draw any money from the Treasury, which with some alterations was Pas’d. 8 Saturday Sepr 30th. This morning a Letter was Reced from General Washington advising of his being Returnd from Hartford and was at West Point at the time of Andries discovery and Arnolds flight, he also sent a Coppy of Arnolds Letter to him dated on Board the Vulture Sepr 25th which letter is a Curriosity. 9 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 See JCC, 18:864-67.


[Page 751]
November 4,1780 717 Army was taken up and debated. A Motion was made and seconded to allow half Pay to the Officers for Life instead of Seven Year, this was long debated, the Yaes & Noes calld and Passd in the Affirmitive 6 ayes, 5 Noes, 1 devided. 6 Then a long debate ensued till a Motion was made to Reconsider the above which was made to Reconsider the above which was carried and then again debated till 4 oClock. Saturday Octr 21st. Com Com. The Plan for the Reform of the Army was taken up after the dispatches were Read, And the Question was put whether half Pay for Life should be inserted, the Yaes & Noes were calld, 6 for, 5 agst., 1 devided, And when the Question on the whole Report was taken, it was carried in the Affirmitive. The States in the Negative were Masachusets, Connecticut & New Jersey. 7 MS (MHi:John Fell Diary). In the hand of John Fell. 1 JCC, 18:931-34. 2 Fell’s entry bears little relation to the proceedings recorded in Secretary Thomson’s journal for this day. Cf. JCC, 18:934-37. 3 JCC, 18:948-50. 4 See JCC, 18:951; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 20:189-92. 5 See JCC, 18:951-54. 6 JCC, 18:956-57. 7 According to the journals, Rhode Island was also in the negative. See JCC, 18:958-62; and these Letters, 16:234-35n.3. John Fell’s Diary [November 1-4, 1780] Wednesday November 1st 1780. Snow. Several dispatches, and Re ports from Committees, the Board of War and Treasury. 1 Thursday 2d. Com Com. Some Reports from Committees &c. The Report for the Exchange of Prisoners was taken up and some Para graphs agreed to, but not finishd, then the Report for supplies was taken up, but little Progress made. 2 Friday Novr. 3d. Com Com. Sundry Letters, Memorials &c and Re ports from Board of War, Treasury, Committees &c. 3 Dined wth. Mr White, Matlach. Saturday Novr 4th. Com. Com. The Report for Raising 6 Million of Dolls in Specia [...] in Specific Articles and Cash was agreed to 4 and State of Delaware, sundry other Business was done [fro]m that State. 5 MS (MHiiJohn Fell Diary). In the hand ofjohn Fell. 1 See JCC, 18:1001-4. 2 No work on these reports is noted in the journals. JCC, 18:1004. 3 JCC, 18:1004-10. 4 See JCC, 18:1011-18. 5 No proceedings concerning the state of Delaware are noted in the journals for this date. JCC, 18:1010-21.


[Page 757]
August 21,1781 723 Not a single Syllable of News. We have not heard lately, either from the South or East or indeed from any other Quarter. Will enquire of Mr. Meade agreeable to your request. I have not yet been able to get a sight of Mr. John Franklin. His lady continues very poorly. Do push for the Medicine & send it me by the Post. Must beg you will visit my lonely family as often as you Can. My kind Love to Mrs. Pintard & kiss my litde Patty. Compliments to Mr. Robin son & family. Am Dr. Sir, Yours most Afftly, Elias Boudinot RC (ViU: William S. Worth Autograph Collection). 1 Pintard has been identified in these Letters, 17:472n.l. For his correspondence with Boudinot, see also ibid., pp. 471-72, 507, 534. 2 That is, the French consul, Jean Holker. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to John Hall Dear Sir, 1 Phila. Augt. 21. 1781 You are in my Debt for two Letters—a remissness that you are not commonly chargeable with, tho one of the Letters I believe the Post was robbed of, & upon second thoughts I am to pass to your Credit. Nothing lately from Europe or Genl Greene. The News Paper will in form you of the News from the West Indias. The Count De Grace I hope will pay our Bay a Visit, if he should he probably may occasion Lord Cornwallis to Fly to his Kingdom. I mean to the Woods. Mr. Carroll writes to my Colleague that the first part of his Answer to Mr JC 2 would be in last weeks Paper & the remainder in this. Be pleased to inclose them to me. With my respectful Compliments to Mrs. Hall, I am, Dear Sir, Your affectionate friend, Dani of St Thos Jenifer RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). 1 Hall has been identified in these Letters, 14:355n.5. For other letters thatjenifer sent to Hall at this time, see ibid., 17:241-42, 298-99, 309, 435-36. 2 Jenifer should have written “S C,” for Samuel Chase, with whom Charles Carroll of Carrollton was engaged in a bitter exchange in the Maryland newspapers, for which see ibid., 299n.l. In this instance, Carroll’s “Answer” to Chase, dated July 16, appeared in Frederick and Samuel Green’s Maryland Gazette of August 23 and 30. Chase’s subse quent reply was published in two installments in the issues of September 27 and Octo ber 11.


[Page 758]
724 October 6,1781 Roger Sherman’s Notes [post October 6,1781] 1 Expence of Presidents Table Mr. Jay Deer. 10 1778 to 28 Sepr. 1779 2975 79/90 Mr. Huntington from 28 Sepr. 1779 to lOJuly 1780 4424 83/90 Mr. McKean from lOJuly to 6 Octr. 1781 1250 83/99 Dollars Specie 8650 72/90 Per Annum Mr. Jay 2834 Mr. Huntington 2500 Mr. McKean 5000 MS (Privately owned original, 1993). In the hand of Roger Sherman. 1 A copy of a 60-page notebook in the hand of Connecticut delegate Roger Sherman was made available for use in this supplement by Mr. Joseph Rubenfine of West Palm Beach, Fla. It contains 24 pages of notes on Sherman’s readings from Emmerich Vattel and the Bishop of Bristol, various personal expense accounts from 1781 to 1784, and copies of reports now in the PCC on Continental expenses and indebtedness, battle ca sualties, and the hospital establishment as of July 23, 1781, of which only the present notes do not duplicate information available elsewhere. These reflect Sherman’s con cern over President Thomas McKean’s table expenses, and were undoubtedly written after the date of McKean’s first quarterly accounting October 6, 1781, and before Sher man left Philadelphia to return home November 4. He seems to have been alarmed that McKean’s account projected to an annual specie expense of $5,000. John Sullivan to John Langdon Si r Durham December 29th 1781 As my Accounts 1 may possibly be taken under consideration the next week and I am called to attend York Court, I hope the Honor able members will r[e]ceive (in Lieu of my personal Attendance) this Explanatory Letter upon the Account, which I have exhibited against the State of New Hampshire. If the Spirit of a Committe could be certainly known by their Re port, I should Suppose, that Every member would without hesitation, conclude that there are no objectionable Articles in my Account Ex cept those which they have marked, And was I convinced that those Articles only, would be considered, I should rest Satisfied with the Ex planation, which I have already given to the House: But Lest the whole of the Articles of Charge (which I have fully explained to the Committee) should be again taken under consideration I must beg Leave to trouble the House with some Observations. Whatever opinion I may Entertain of the Report already made, I have no Doubt of its being taken up & considered by the assembly


[Page 759]
December 29, 1781 725 upon proper principles; I will therefore Endeavor to explain what have been the real Expences, during the time of my Services. At the time my Journey commenced, paper Dollars were in most Cases reckoned Inferior to what Coppers formerly were, and in no Case more than Equal, a moments reflection, must convince every member of the Truth of this assertion; but to remove every possibility of Doubt, I have taken some minutes of Expences in Rhode Island, (which was by far the cheapest State I found in my Rout) & have from that made the following comparative Estimate viz a Breakfast 20 Dollars formerly 12 Coppers Dinner 30 Dollars formerly 20 Coppers Lodging 10 Dollars formerly 6 Coppers Bowl of Punch 30 Dollars formerly 24 Coppers Wine per Bottle 90 Dollars formerly 30 Coppers From this Estimate it appears That the Dollars which I drew before my Departure were in real value not Equal to two thirds the same Num ber of Coppers. I drew more money in Philadelphia, & have in the whole after Deducting the Credit, & making allowance for Miscastg. on my Account, charged the State with the Expenditure of about a hundred Thousand old Continental Dollars; in value Less than two thirds the same number of Coppers, even if expended within the East ern States; & if it be a fact that from about a month after my arrival in Philadelphia to May Last, Speculators were purchasing old continen tal Dollars at three, four, five & Six hundred for one (of Silver) & Sending them forward in Waggons to Sell for Silver, at about a hun dred & Twenty for one; & thereby Drew all the Silver from the Eastern into the Southern States. It must appear, that this money was not there a Quarter part Equal to the same number of Coppers: to make this Evident I must State some few facts. At my Arrival in Pensylvania I found paper nominally at about Seventy five for one; but in one month it fell so Low, that its total Annihilation was feared, by Every member of Congress. Many Efforts were used to restore it, which though they served to prolong its Existence, could not prevent its De struction & in April 1781 it was carried through the Streets on Poles, & in Waggons, by a formidable Mob of Sailors, & burnt by waggon loads: & I believe many members of Congress feared being called upon, to assist at the Executions. From This time it ceased to have cir culation in that State. The many Efforts which had been made to Sup port its Credit, made its progress very irregular & at sometimes, Even, raised its value more than one half for a few Days; yet it soon reas sumed its natural Course. The State of Pensylvania Issued some money (I think) in Novemr 1780 & appropriated Lands for its re demption in a year; This they Supposed would be Equal to Silver & Gold; & fixed it at Seventy five for one, Issued a Proclamation against Exchanging it but Equal to Silver and Gold, & Determined its compar-


[Page 761]
December 29, 1781 727 ing would be the same in the Account Drawn off, as in the minute Book. I shew the Committee some Taylors Bills, & other Articles, which I marked as not being proper Charges against the State; I Laid my voucher before them for Every Material Article except the Bills brought in by my Servant Hull, and the Bills for Extra Expenses. The former I examined when presented, & minuted in my Account; but I know not where the original Bills are. Those Bills were for wood, Can dles, Sugar, Cyder, & other Articles; which he provided. Those which I purchased myself I immediately set down. What he provided, I set Down in that manner. When I asked Company to dine I made all the provision myself, without any Connection, with the family where I Lodged: and Hulls Bills consisted, partly of the Articles purchased for that purpose & partly for wood, cand[l]es, Sugar, Souring &c. While I was at the french ministers Seat, for my health, Hull purchased Every thing for the family. Bills of Extra Expences were for Clubb, when at the Coffea House, & when riding in the Country for my health. It may be thought that these are high but I wish real value may be consid ered, & not meer Sound; I would here ask what the real value of an Extra Bill, of fifteen hundred, or Two thousand Dollars was; when the Sailors were burning waggon Loads of that money in the Street? And whether at that time New Hampshire had furnished me with a Single farthing of any other kind of money? There is an Extra Bill in the hard money Account, which perhaps ought not all to be allowed. It was at a time, when I rode much in the mornings & afternoons for my health, often fell into Company, Drank Tea, punch &c, & bated my Horses: I find it stands charged in my Account, Sixty two Dollars but carried off forty five pounds, when Sixty two Dollars is in Pensylvania money but twenty three pounds, five shillings; I never Discovered this Mistake till Since my return from the assembly. This Bill then when the Charge is rectified will amount to about three Quarters of a Dollar a Day for the time; which was the price of a Bowl of Punch, but per haps the whole of this ought not to be allowed. I am Sorry that any Er rors Escaped me in Drawing off the Account but hope the assembly will Excuse it, as I was the less attentive upon a Supposition that the Committee would be regulated Intirely by the original Entries. I shall make but one observation more upon my Account, which is that my Account of Expences on my return, are very small when compared with any other Period of time, This arose from my adopting a mode in publick life (for saving money) which in private life; I never at tempted. I Expected many objections would be made to my Bill of Ex pences; & as I had a number of friends on the Road, I called on them to Save Expences to the State, I traveled to Princetown with five Shillings and four pence; though detained two Days & a half by a Storm. I took care to rest my Horses at the Army, where the Expence was triffling; & in Every other place where it was possible to save Ex-


[Page 763]
December 29, 1781 729 Philadelphia Several months, only for the purpose of assisting the oth ers: And I was Left alone to argue against those three Gentlemen which I did more than twenty times on the floor of Congress; perhaps I was not Equal to the Task, but if I was not, the fault Lies with those that Sent Me. I did however attempt it; & I flatter myself that there is not a member of Congress, who will say that I proved myself unac quainted with the Question, or with the Laws, by which it was to be Decided. I have also heard it mentioned, that Mr Livermore Served in February & March 1780, for a Dollar a Day. I think that Congress, had at that time, fixed the money at forty for one; & I hear that he was al lowed Eighty Dollars per Day; which if the rule of Congress was Just should have amounted to two Dollars a Day, but perhaps a Little re flection will prove, that Mr Livermore had Some Inducements, that I have never had: his political principles were so much doubted that he could not at that time, obtain a vote for Acting as a delegate, more than a month. Perhaps a Sacrifice of Several Months, to prove himself a friend to his Country, would not at that time have been injudiciously thrown away. It has answered the purpose, of changing the Sentiments of the assembly, respecting his principles: but I am not apprehensive, that I was Ever under the necessity of sacrificing a Single Day to con vince any man in America, or Great Britain, What have been my real Sentiments, from the commencement of the Contest. This Considera tion might have had weight with Mr Livermore & Induce him to Ac cept of a Less Sum for the sake of removing those prejudices, then he will ever be content with in future. Members of assembly in General have not been at the Expence of a Law Education, have not many thousand Dollars worth of Law Books, Laying by them or Spent most part of their lives in that Study, which alone can Qualify them, to argue a Cause of Such importance & Intricacy. Surely I could not believe that any Committee before whom I had laid, all the Circumstances, would have offered Less in real value than I was allowed in 1774 which was half a guinnea per Day; of much more real value, than three Dollars at this Day; which is my charge: though a whole Guinnea, would not now be Equal in the purchase of Articles in General. Should my whole demand be allowed as to both wages & Expences I shall then be a great Looser for I borrowed in Philadelphia Eighty half Johannes, & received from Doctor Bond two hundred hard Dollars, to deliver over to a Gentleman in Boston; which I was under a necessity of Expending in the City & on the way; and all I have to show for the whole of this is, the difference between the two horses, I carried from Home, & a pair I purchased; & that be tween an Excellent Sulkey & a Phaeton. I did indeed purchase some cloathing but I came home, much worse Clad; than I was when I began my Journey; & if the present report should be Accepted & I should receive Seventy Six pounds this must make me full Satisfaction.


[Page 767]
August 27,1782 733 in dispute, agreeably to the Rules provided for that purpose by the Confederation. Reprinted from Joseph Rubinfine Autograph Catalogue, #105 (March 1990), item 23. 1 Middleton apparently drafted this motion in response to a Connecticut effort to delay the opening of hearings on conflicting Connecticut-Pennsylvania claims to the Wyoming Valley by objecting to the sufficiency of the powers granted to the Pennsylva nia agents in the case. Pennsylvania had recently issued new powers to its agents in re sponse to Connecticut’s complaint, and this day agents from both states were admitted to appear before Congress. After debating a number of motions on the case, of which Middleton’s was apparently one, Congress adopted a resolution directing the agents “to appoint, by joint consent, commissioners or judges to constitute a court for hearing and determining the matter in question, agreeably to the 9th Article of the Confederation.” See JCC, 22:390-92; and these Letters, 18:563n.3, 613-15, 668-69. James Madison to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philada. Aug. 27th. 1782. I have examined into the law of this State relating to slaves coming into it from other States, and find an exception for the case of fugi tives which will secure your nephew agst. danger from that source. 1 As the French army however is at this time but beginning to move from Baltimore, I hope the Messenger will recover the slave before he reaches this place. Should it happen otherwise my services shall be freely given. With equal chearfulness will I procure the gold lace as soon as it is in my power. At present, my situation is such that I can give no other proof of a disposition to serve my friends, in any case where the least pecuniary advance is necessary. The balance is so much agst. Virga, in its trade with this place that no draughts on the former can be negociated here. My friends at Richmond are endevering to pro cure some relief for me, but as it will depend on the state of the Trea sury I dare not be very sanguine of their immediate success. We have had not a syllable from Europe since my last. The French fleet is in Boston Harbor. The arrival of a British fleet from the W. In dies is reported, but not confirmed. The proceedings of the Ct. Martial on Lippencut were yesterday laid before Congress by Genl Washington. 2 It appears that the Culprit did not deny the hanging of Huddy, but justified it as a necessary re taliation & warranted by verbal orders from the Board of Refugees. The Ct. acquitted him, on the pretext that no malicious intention ap peared to have dictated the measure. The whole trial would have dis graced a Russian Tribunal before the reign of Peter the first. Carlton explicitly acknowledges & reprobates the crime, and promises to pur sue it in other forms, but complains of the precipitate step of Gel Washington in devoting to execution an innocent & even a capitulant


[Page 769]
September 17, 1782 735 as to inform him that the letter miscarried, & that he must write again? I know not where he resides nor how to convey a line to him. Our Ministers in Europe are still silent, or their dispatches unfortu nate. The arrival of a packet at N.Y. has yielded us the intelligence in the enclosed paper, 5 some of which is very interesting. The new revo lution in the British Cabinet which seems to be throwing the whole administration into the hands of the Shelburne party, has not a very pacific aspect. Unless however they make a coalition with the old min istry, it would seem that their popular & eloquent antagonists will be able to render their triumph of short duration. In any event their councils must be either divided, or their measures obstructed, per haps both these evils may be their portion. If an honorable peace could be ours, then whatever it be would be of little moment to us. Adieu. RC (Vi: Mary Bain Carter Gift). In Madison’s hand, though not signed. Madison, Papers (Rutland), 17:486. 1 See ibid., 5:96-97. 2 Not found, but see ibid., p. 158n.2. 3 See ibid., p. 110n.3. 4 Not found. 5 For the “enclosed paper,” see ibid., p. 120n.33. George Clymer’s “Thoughts on the West India Trade” [ante September 17, 1782] 1 The principal nations in Europe who have West India possessions systematically exclude foreigners from any considerable share in their trade. That general intercourse which untill lately No America had with the British islands implied no departure from the system. We en joyed it only as members of the British empire. But if it can be demon strated that the more this trade is laid open to America the greater will be the benefit to those nations, they will doubtless be induced to alter their systems in this respect. The following state of facts is of fered as demonstrative of this benefit. Lands in the West Indies are employed to much greater advantage in the cultivation of sugars than in the raising any species of provi sions—for instance an acre in sugar cane will in a medium crop yield 25 cwt at 35/ per cwt. £43.15/. and this from the labour of a single slave: whereas an acre in indian corn will not in common produce above 15 bushels at 4/. worth £3—the difference in the two cultiva tions being £40.15/ in favor of the former—’tho it must be acknowl edged in some other species of provisions, as yams and plantains, the difference is not so great. Now the more the inhabitants are obliged to raise of these provisions the more lands and the more labour must


[Page 772]
738 September 17,1782 ourselves, it may follow as a natural consequence that we shall chiefly purchase her manufactures, and otherwise renew that general inter course which has been interrupted by the revolution. From this latter consideration it is easy to foresee, however painful to us the reflex ion, that France will in a great measure lose those commercial bene fits she would otherwise derive from us and is entitled to from the share she has had in the great work of establishing our freedom and dividing the British empire. MS (DNA: PCC, item 25, 2:145-52). In the hand of George Clymer. 1 George Clymer drafted these “Thoughts” in connection with his work as chairman of a committee appointed September 5, 1782, to consider “A paper on the mutual ad vantages of commerce between the U S of America and the West India Islands,” which is in PCC Miscellaneous Papers, M332, reel 9, fols. 282-84, but whose author is not known. Clymer’s “Thoughts,” which was reported to Congress September 17 with a rec ommendation that it be distributed to the American ministers abroad to guide them in negotiating the removal of “restraints imposed by colonial systems on the No. American trade,” preserved “the substance” of the essay referred to the committee. The commit tee’s recommendation was adopted by Congress November 21, when the secretary for foreign affairs, Robert R. Livingston, was directed “to transmit the said paper to our Ministers Plenipotentiary abroad.” See JCC, 23:747; PCC, item 25, 2:143—66, item 186, fol. 52. Although Livingston was somewhat offended by this intrusion into his conduct of foreign policy, having already discussed the issue in a September 12 letter to John Jay, he sent a copy of the “Thoughts” to Benjamin Franklin with a dispatch of January 6, 1783, but apparently made no other use of it. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 5:720-24, 6:200. Clymer’s “Thoughts” was drafted with an eye focused primarily on the trade of the British and French West Indies. For the revival of this issue the following year and its adaptation to the interests of Robert Morris and others eager to gain access to the trade of the Spanish West Indies, see the letter to Francisco Rendon, [August ? 1783], in Mor ris, Papers (Ferguson), 8:467-79. Abraham Clark’s Accounts [November 15, 1782-October 31,1783] The State of New Jersey, to Abraham Clark. Dr. 1782 To my time in attending Congress from the 15th 1 dollars day of Novemr. to the 4th day of January 1783 I 204 including two days going to Philada. & my return home making 51 days at 4 dollars per day ) 1783 To Attending Congress from the 25th February to the 25th day of June inclusive, including my going and returning, making 120 days @ 4 dollars per day 480 To Attendance from July 7th to August 20th inclusive except two days absent at home making 43 days at 4 dollars per day 172


[Page 779]
March 11?, 1783 745 this? suppose They effect their plans in part can any one say that the consequence will be thus or so? can any man feel certain of being at the head? will not the effect necessarily be a general & violent fomen tation? & is it not wholly uncertain in such case who or what will rise to the Top. To me it seems too chimerical & yet there are some things that seem to favour the opinion, but I rather think it mere accident that They assure that appearance. Thus much however is clear that there is a vast deal of finesse & intrigue to be seen—all have not right Views. Congress must have more powers & more money or They will soon name to nothing, They can not possibly be useful much longer without—but how to obtain either the one or the other I know not— you can not, that I see, enable Them to coerce a delinquent State dur ing the War—having a few Ships will enable Them in Peace to punish a State by interrupting its Trade, but money must be had to obtain Ships—if we mean to preserve our present forms of Government I am more than ever opposed to Imposts or any kind of Taxes that ar[e] imperceptible, but I have great doubts whether They can be preserved or are worth preserving. You may remember what has been my opin ion as to the Views, the interest & the policy of France—most people thought I was wrong & indeed I do not recollect any one who came fully into it. Sorry I am to tell you that We are now possessed of certain unequivocal evidence that their policy as to us is such as I expected, nay they have even gone beyond my expectations—& was it not for the firmness of Adams & of Jay I shoud fear the consequences. We must be vigilant & firm or We shall gain nothing more than the shadow—no advices yet from Europe—this looks as if the times were not easy to be adjusted, & it is not in my mind improbable that Our interest may have created some difficulties. We have heard that Terms had been agreed on between us & Brittain, but France would not ac cede to Them. I suppose Them to have been too liberal & advanta geous for us in the opinion of France—the Season however is so far advanced that I think We must soon know—if They mean to try an other Campaign its almost time for Them to begin in the West Indies. The advocates for imposts &c avow the Ideas which some in the Massachusetts supposed They entertained. They tell you that the Con federation must be strengthened, Congress must have more power, energy must in some way or other be acquired, but the people will be oposed to such powers & perhaps it is far from being easy to state clearly what farther powers will answer. You must therefore for want of sufficient constitutional power in Congress, create an influence. Im posts &c will be the surest & readiest means of doing this, if judicious appointments are made—men of property & extensive influence & connexions must be attached to Government in that way—such Taxes being imperceptible will not alarm & the collection after a time will be sure. The monies collected in this way if rightly disposed of will in-


[Page 780]
746 March 11?, 1783 crease that influence & give a Tone to Government which will greatly facilitate the collection of other Taxes. The Creditors to the public, & the Army must be also attached to Governnt., by shewing them that you are anxiously endeavor [i] ng to obtain for them, such Security as They wish, for the paymt. of Their Dues. Let the duties be once granted & this united face, say They, will insure the collection of Them. This is their System, suggested from abroad & supported by a certain influence. I had it from one of the most active & zealous among its supporters, 8 at a time & in a manner that satisfied me it is true. Now is it right to forward & establish this System, to take from the People without Their knowledge, the essences of that liberty which is their chief delight, & this under the Idea of its being for their interest & happiness—suppose We were to fancy that They would live much happier, being the Subjects of the King of France or the Em peror of Morocco than they now do, should We under this persuasion have a right to sell Them to either of those p[owers] I conceive not. I consider myself as sent hither to manag[e the] business & to consult their happiness, taking the Constitution [and] general Ideas & princi ples of Government for my Guide—by this [I am] restrained, nor have I any more right to create a new influence o[r to] invest a new Body with powers divested from the people, than I should have to put Them under the Governmt. & protection of the Emperor of Mo rocco—it is clear in my mind that new powers must be given to Congress if We mean to maintain Our present union, & the States must be abridged of part of their Sovereignty for the general purposes of continental Governmt.—but the particular defects of the present System should be clearly Stated in Them & Then left to judge for Themselves whether the present union is necessary for Their Safety &c, & what other powers are necessary for Congress to be invested with. These are my present ideas, I can not therefore be in favour of a System to steal from the States or to take from Them by surprise part of Their Sovereignty & power—it would in my mind be a gross viola tion of the Trust reposed in me. The Financier has advanced some new principles to encourage the adoption of the Impost &c, he says Congress have by the 8th Article an absolute right to demand money within such friends as They think necessary—the amount of the Debt should be required of Them immediately (as the Creditors are enti tled to immediate payment) & They are bound to pay it or commute it as Congress please. The Requisition being made therefore the States must comply either by paying the Debt instantly or by acceding to any alteration you will please to give Them—this construction of that Article is to me very extraordinary & absurd. Suppose the Mas sachusetts a [re] required to pay £200,000 in an hour, a day or a month, would any one think it a reasonable construction? would it not be [...] an impossibility? can it be right to say to the States you sha[ll]


[Page 781]
May 20, 1783 747 perform what We know to be impossible, or you shall submit to such systems as We please to project, though you believe They will subvert your Liberty & destroy your happiness? the pill it is true is a bitter one but you must swallow it & that without altering its form—these are his Ideas without colouring, his report is to be this day considered & I ex pect warm debates. I am really tired of the business & wish myself at home. We are aground & no one can point out a safer channel—do not let these Sentiments be too extensively communicated, no good can arise from it at present. Pray give my love to all Friends & believe yours affy, S.H. P.S. I hate writing so much that I cannot copy my Letters, you must read Them as well as you can—you may let E Parsons 9 see this if he asks. RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Date conjectured from Higginson’s reference to a previous letter to Lowell [of March 4], his preoccupation with the resignation letter of Robert Morris, the focus of congressional debate March 4-5, and the absence of any reference to the news of the signing of the preliminary peace treaty that arrived in Philadelphia March 12. 2 That is, the “Financier,” Robert Morris. For Morris’ letter of resignation as superin tendent of finance, which had been something of a political bombshell, see Morris, Pa pers (Ferguson), 7:361-71, 462-68; and these Letters, 19:609-10, 761-62, 768. To explain his use of initials, here and below, Higginson wrote the following note in the margin: “It may perhaps be convenient sometimes to conceal names as in this giving the initial & final Letters only & reversing them as in this Letter, the persons I here mean are the Financier, Colo. Bland, Mr. Wilson, Maddison, Colo. Hamilton, Bland, A. Lee & Mercer.” 3 That is, Bland—”the initial & final Letters only & reversing them.” For this Theodorick Bland motion, see these Letters, 19:761-62n.5. 4 That is, [James] Wilson, [James] Madison, and [Alexander] Hamilton. 5 Bland, [Arthur] Lee, and [John Francis] Mercer. 6 Congress. 7 Army. 8 Perhaps Gouverneur Morris. Passages in Higginson’s letter parallel opinions ex pressed in “Observations on the Present State of Affairs” printed in Morris, Papers (Fer guson), 7:304-7, from a document located in the French archives that contains several minor corrections in the hand of Gouverneur Morris. 9 Apparently the Boston merchant Ebenezer Parsons. Virginia Delegates to Benjamin Harrison Sir Philada. May 20th. 1783. Your Excellency’s favor of the 9th inst. was duly reed, by yesterday’s mail. We had communicated to Mr. Thomson the mistake contained in your preceding letter, relative to a recall of the territorial Cession, but have now corrected it as you desire. 1


[Page 782]
748 May 20, 1783 If our official & joint correspondence with your Excelly. be less cir- cumstancial than that which individual delegates may enter into with their private friends, we persuade ourselves that your Excellency is too sensible both of our public & private respect for your Character, to im pute to any defect of either. The difference can only proceed from the necessity in the former case of confining ourselves not only to such matters as are worthy of the public & for which we can be officially re sponsible, but to such also with respect to which no diversity of private opinions may exist. Notwithstanding the numerous arrivals from Europe we receive no other information than what passes through the public prints. Sir G. Carlton in answer to a letter from General Washington on the subject of the provisional Treaty repeats the same sentiments regarding the Negroes, which he advanced in the Conference at Orange Town; en tering a Caution however against their being considered as a final construction of the article. 2 We have the honor to be with great esteem, Yr. Excellency’s obt. & humble servants, J. Madison Jr Theok. Bland John F. Mercer RC (NNPM: Gilder Lehrman Collection). Written by Madison and signed by Madison, Bland, and Mercer. 1 For the “mistake” Governor Harrison made in his May 3 letter, see these Letters, 20:249n.2. 2 For this exchange between Sir Guy Carleton and Washington, see ibid., p. 273n.5. Charles Thomson to Hannah Thomson Dear Hannah, Saturday July 5. 1783 1 Yesterday was celebrated at Princeton the eighth anniversary of the Independence of America. Had I the genius of Milton, the fire of Homer, or the sublimity of Virgil I might attempt a description in heroics. But as these are wanting I shall endeavour, in humble prose, to give you a few sketches of the pomp & parade exhibited. To begin in the usual stile, The Morning was ushered in, I cannot say with the ringing of Bells, but with the jingle of the College bell, which being cracked exhibits exacdy such a sound as a farmer makes with a frying pan when bees are swarming & he wants to setde them. A flag was dis played, on a pole in the street before the college gate, emblazoned with stars & stripes & with a motto, Virtue liberty & independence. At eleven o clock, The Congress were conducted in to what is called a Hall, where two of the young collegians mounted on a platform & de-


[Page 788]
754 July 17, 1783 We are now out of danger. We have had addresses and assurances of protection upon assurances from this state, and a large body of faith ful N.E. troops lying very near Philadelphia. Indeed after the first flurry had passed, Congress was in my opinion in no danger at Philadelphia for a number of respectable citizens in Philad. had taken up the matter seriously and would have stood forth in the defense of Congress had the insult been repeated. There is no prospect of our removing from this place suddenly, and whither we shall move when we do move I cannot tell. Several States, it seems by the generous offers they have made, are desirous of fixing the residence of Congress in them. We are so remote from the Centre that we stand no chance. I rather think Congress will return to Philadelphia before they fix upon a place of continued residence. The conduct of our Assembly doth not much surprize me. I knew that Mawdsley and Deblois had many friends in the Assembly, and I suspected that Stevens and Taylor would vote as they have done. 2 In deed I was so much aware of this that I would have proposed that the town should have instructed their deputies to oppose any admission of refugees before I left home, but I thought it was premature to do any thing in the matter until the Definitive treaty should have arrived, have been ratified, and Congress should have acted upon the fifth ar ticle of peace. Indeed, when it is recollected that the citizens of one state by the Confederation are entitled to the privilege of citizenship in all the others, in a matter of this sort great caution should be used. Interest and friendship will have great influence on mankind, but every thing ought to be postponed to the good of the Society where we live. Our deputies who voted for the admission of the two refugees you mention ought to be displaced, and such put in their places as you can rely on; otherwise instructions should be given to your deputies to vote against the admission of any refugees. But here you should proceed cautiously: You should count noses and have every measure as well taken as at the last election. Fruitless attempts are worse than none. They give strength and courage to our adversaries, and weaken and dispirit our friends. I suspect that some members of Assembly were taken in with the notion of a trial. A trial before the As sembly if the cause is to be determined upon this point—whether the petitioner had borne arms or not against the U.S. will be but a sham trial. The only question ought to be—whether they deserted their country and went to or with the enemy. If they did, agreeably to the law, of reason and the laws of nations, they ought not to be admitted to reside among us. The admission of refugees among us will forever embroil us. If you had the same apprehensions I have of the effects of a perma nent revenue, you would I think alter your opinion. I am very sorry to hear that our mother is so ill. If she should be liv-


[Page 794]
760 September 18?, 1783 John Francis Mercer’s Note [September 18? 1783] 1 In a general Counsul where such a variety of interest & contrariety of sentiment are combin’d, the deputies of the several Legislatures are forced to precede every general act by a mutual concession of their respective views & prejudices,) constrain’d to make mutual concession the basis of every national act, thus that which will be found most advantageous for the whole can never be framed in exact conf[ormity to the] views or prejudices of a [part]. MS (VHi: Mercer Family Papers). In the hand of John Francis Mercer. 1 Mercer wrote this “note” on the verso of a September 9 letter from his brother James while drafting the report of a committee to which he had been assigned this day with James Duane and James Madison, who submitted their report to Congress the fol lowing day. For the context in which the committee’s report on Massachusetts’ opposi tion to the proposed impost amendment was drafted, see these Letters, 20:492n.3. The portion of the report containing this observation was struck out in debate after it was submitted September 19 and did not appear in the final report adopted on September 25. Cf. JCC, 25:611; and PCC, item 20, 1:151. In a footnote reference to this “note” in his treatment of James Mercer’s correspondence, John Melville Jennings misidentified the handwriting as that of James. See “Letters ofjames Mercer to John Francis Mercer,” Virginia Magazine of History and Biography 59 (April 1951): 191. For Mercer’s inclusion in the September 19 report of language from an essay that he had written under the pseudonym “The North American,” which was published in the Pennsylvania Journal of September 17, see these Letters, 20:655—64; and Ronald M. Gephart, “Who Wrote ‘The North American’ Essays?” WMQ, 54 (April 1997): 408-9. Edward Hand to Alexander Fowler Dear Fowler Annapolis 27th Deer. 1783 On my Arrival here 1 Captn. Hutchins put your letter into my hands. I this day on looking over the files found the report of a Committee on your Application, 2 which is as favourable as we could wish. I believe it has not yet been Acted on but you may rest assured that I will endeavour to have it taken up as early as possible, if I see a prospect of its termi nating agreably to your expectations. 3 In the mean time I will out of doors be attentive to your interest. Farewell Dear Fowler, very Cordially yrs., Edw. Hand RC (DNA: RG 233—4th Congress). Endorsed: “Genl. Edwd. Hand, Annapolis 27 De- cemr. 83, respecting Mr Fowlers Petition before Congress for Lands. 10,000 Acres, Mili tary rights.” 1 Hand took his seat in Congress on December 24. JCC, 25:839.


[Page 797]
February 27,1785 763 We have ten states on the floor and have a prospect of twelve pretty soon, when business may proceed with some degree of celerity. Most of the business of Congress requires nine states, and an agreement of nine in ten is not much to be expected. We have lately received letters from our Commissioners. They have announced their commission to negotiate Commercial treaties to the ministers of most of the powers they were instructed to negotiate (with) and received favorable and polite answers; but nothing effectual had been done when their joint letter of the 11th of November was dated. 3 This is all the news I have to Communicate. I wish you would procure of Mr. Peabody two handsome walnut canes, of about three fourths of an inch thickness next the head, & three feet eight inches in length, well polished and armed with good ferrules. I mean to make a present of one of them to the President of Congress. Perhaps if these canes should be well wrought it may induce several persons to become purchasers of Mr. Peabody’s walking sticks. I could wish that the canes may be sent as soon as possible, and that you would desire the Captain who may take charge of them to send them on his arrival at New York to Mrs. Hart’s in Smith’s Street, not far from Pitt’s statue, that being the house where I board. I am affecty. yours, W. Ellery Tr (RNHi: Ellery Papers). 1 This date has been assigned because of Ellery’s reference to having dined “yester day” with the Marine Society of New York and afterward attending “Monsieurs Ques- nay’s concert,” which according to the diary of William Samuel Johnson were events of January 19, 1785. See these Letters, 22:1 lOn. For a transcript of this letter, printed under the date January 28, see these Letters, 22:145-46. 2 Not found. 3 For these letters from John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Thomas Jefferson, which had been referred to committee on January 19, see these Letters, 22:125n.l, 153n.3; and JCC, 28:lln-12n. James Monroe to John Francis Mercer Dear Sir New York. Feby 27. 1785. Two days since John Adams was appointed minister to the court of G.B., having had upon several occasions the majority of votes it was at length acceded to by the States of Maryld. & Virga, wh. gave him his election. 1 A secre[tar]y will shortly be appointed indeed tomorrow is assign’d for it; no one is in nomination nor do I hear any other per son than Mr. McHenry spoke of, but whether he will be elected or not is doubtful. 2 In the course of the last week also your friend the Indian Comr. 3 presented himself here. What his object is I know not or how long he will continue here. Propositions for raising men, regulating commerce & upon many other very important subjects are before


[Page 803]
September 2, 1785 769 not at liberty to mention particulars, yet, you may be assured, it was such, as must be agreeable to every true friend to this country, and if I should ever be so happy, as to have an opportunity of making you my personal respects, I may mention some particulars of what passed that I conclude might be worthy of your attention; you must be sensi ble that there is a propriety in keeping secret, for a while (at least) what passes between sovereign powers: but nothing is to be de pended upon from all this, nor no opinion to be formed, whether that Court will be favorably disposed, in the important affairs Mr. Adams is charged with. Since my last, his Excellency the President of Congress, being out of hea[l]th, has taken leave of us, for the present, & in that case a chair man is to supply his place in congress, & having the honor of being unanimously elected, 3 the important business has engaged my first & constant attention, but if his excellency should not soon return, I fear, I must follow his example, & give up the chair to a third person, or leave my remains in this city, for my hea[l]th is really injured. I remain, with perfect consideration & respect, your sincere friend & humble servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Rev. Wadsworth was the minister of the First Congregational Church in Danvers, Mass., that Holten attended. See these Letters, 12:329n.3. 2 See ibid., 22:527n.6. 3 See ibid., p. 582; and JCC, 29:631. William Ellery to William Charming Dr. Sir, 1 Newyork Sept. 2 1785. I have received your letter of the 27th of August, and am inclined to think that, as you have examined the Schedules of 79 & 80 and have not met with the order subjecting the delegates to the direction of the Assembly, it was not published in the Schedules, and probably might only be enter’d in the minutes of the lower house. If there should be any such order of that house only I could wish to have it; because it seems that would turn the scale in our favour. There is still some of the old leaven in Congress that raised the ferment at Annapolis. I ima- gin our right to a seat until the adjournment would not have been called in question if no dispute had taken place there. 3 We shall con tend earnestly for our right, or rather for the right of the State, but at the same time I must declare that I am so tired with the slow proceed ings of Congress, the difficulty of getting money to subsist on, and with my poor sprained ankle that I wish I was at home.


[Page 804]
770 September 2,1785 I have only money enough to pay a fortnights board; and must take the liberty of drawing upon you for 20 or 30 dollars if Capt. Lawton will advance as much. We are called upon weekly for our board; and it would be a sore mortification to me not to be able to pay it. You mention that the Assembly have not appointed a Judge in the room of Mr. Arnold; 4 but you say not a word about my Judge-ship; nor the letter I wrote to the Governor, 5 inclosed in one to you 6 by Capt. Warner, on that subject. As you say nothing of either of those letters I conclude they have miscarried notwithstanding I deliver’d them with my own hand and gave him, Capt. Warner, particular directions con cerning them. Taxes must be laid and monies must be raised however disagreeable it may be to the people. The requisition has not yet passed. I expect it will get through the house in some shape or other this week. The States not being fully represented is the cause of all the delay of public business; and unless some mode is adopted to bring and keep the del egates together; they may as well almost stay at home. The principal advantage of a Congress not capable for want of members to transact important public business, is the keeping up some visible head of the Union. We have nothing new. I have not tasted one good water-melon this season. The vines I am told have died before the melons were ripe; and as for peaches I have not seen one equal to our rare-ripes. I imagin it must be difficult to transport peaches to Newport in good order. Unless they are ripe be fore they are gather’d they will be good for little, and how to preserve ripe peaches two or three days in baskets without bruising; especially in warm weather, I don’t know. However when Lawton returns again if there should be any melons or peaches worth sending, I will consult with him and if practicable gratify you. I hope there is no longing in the case. I am glad Sweet has at last received to [the] amount of one half of his judgment, and that he is to receive the remainder from the gov ernment. By the way there is something due to me for my services in his cause. I hope I shall not be forgotten. Since I wrote the foregoing I rec’d a letter from the Govr. dated Augt. 29th, acknowledging the receipt of the letter which I supposed had miscarried. By his letter I conclude that I am at liberty to con tinue here until the adjournment, and that my acceptance is admitted on that condition, altho’ the Govr. says nothing about it. I should be glad to know what observations, if any, were made upon that letter. I never wrote a letter in my life which embarrassed me so much. My love to Lucy & the children. Yrs affecty., W Ellery RC (MHi: Channing Family Papers). Addressed: “William Channing Esq, Newport, Rhode Island &c.”


[Page 805]
September 13, 1785 771 1 William Channing, who was married to Ellery’s daughter Lucy, was attorney general of Rhode Island. William M. Fowler, William Ellery: a Rhode Island Politico and Lord of Ad miralty (Metuchen, NJ.: The Scarecrow Press, 1973), p. 178. 2 Date blank in RC; but as Ellery states that he had recently received Channing’s let ter of August 27, and subsequendy wrote to him on September 13, it seems clear that this letter was written at the beginning of the month. 3 For the “ferment at Annapolis”—a May 1784 effort to oust Rhode Island delegates Ellery and David Howell from their seats through a credentials challenge—see these Letters, 21:631n.2. A new challenge to their “right to a seat,” which hinged on the dates they had been elected as well as the dates they had previously served, had opened Au gust 8, 1785. The committee on qualifications reported, however, “that the Delegates of Rhode Island. . .have a right to sit in Congress until the first Monday in Novemr. next.” The report was submitted September 6 and assigned for consideration on the 8th, but no action was taken on it. See JCC, 29:620n, 630n, 682-84; and these Letters, 22:603n.2. 4 Thomas Arnold, justice of the Rhode Island Superior Court. Bartlett, Records of RI., 10:112. 5 Ellery had been appointed chief justice of the Rhode Island Superior Court, but had asked to continue as delegate to Congress until the adjournment of its current ses sion in November. See these Letters, 22:567-68n.3. 6 Not found. William Ellery to William Channing Dear Sir, Newyork Sept. 13th. 1785. I believe that you have found in the schedules of 79, 80, & 81, all that has been done respecting the matter about which I wrote to you. 1 If you should have found any thing more pointed in the journals it will probably arrive in season. A report has been made by the Commit tee of qualifications in our favour, and it was made an order of the day for yesterday; but is postponed because it is supposed that there are not States enough on the floor to give an affirmative vote either for or against our sitting until the first Monday in next Novemr. 2 We cannot be amoved from our seats without a majority of the U.S.—and I think that could not be obtained even if all the States were on the floor; so that in all probability you will not see me until the last of October. I sent your letter to Mr. Shotwell yesterday, the day I received it. I am sorry that any disagreement should have taken place at the last Sessions respecting the trade between Us & G.B. I think the Lower house were right in endeavouring to prevent our vessels using two sets of papers & colours. I think trade ought to be carried on fairly honor ably and equally; and that all the States should unite, if possible, in some measures that might compel G. Brit, to more liberality or draw some money from her. I understand, that, agreeably to your prediction, that mob rose agst one of the Nova-Scotians that went up to Providence; and would have played the mischief; but were prevented by the interposition of some leading characters.


[Page 806]
September 13,1785 772 I think as matters stand we should not admit any provisions to go to Nova Scotia; but in our own bottoms. They bring money among us ‘tis true for provisions; but it is necessity that compels them, and we have a right to avail ourselves of that necessity to promote our carrying trade; or at least to draw their money from them by a smart tonnage on their shipping or some other duty or impost. To suffer mobs to regulate the trade of a State is to say no worse ex tremely disgraceful; but if the legislatures will not do their duty the people will think themselves excuseable, when they endeavour to set matters right, and their rulers will be ashamed to punish them for their good intentions altho’ irregularly manifested. We are still hammering upon the report for a requisition; 3 but as we shall, I believe, this day have 12 states on the floor we shall make some progress. If Congress should recommend some commercial regula tions to the States, I think in the present temper of the people, they might be embraced; and it is the business of Statesmen to regard the tempers, the opinions, the passions, and even the humours of the people at large. But it seems to me, from the observations I made when something of this sort was on the carpet about 6 weeks ago, Congress will not suddenly agree in proposing any system to the States. I told you in my last that I should take the liberty of drawing upon you in favour of Capt. Lawton for a small sum to supply my most ur gent necessities, if he would be so kind as to lend it to me. I wrote to him 4 to that purpose, for the State of my ankle would not admit of my walking so far as the Crane-wharff, where his sloop lay; at the same time desiring him to call at my lodgings before he sailed. I waited until yesterday for a visit from him. Then I sent my letters to him with a verbal desire that he would call upon me. He was upon the point of sailing; and is gone without seeing me. I must pay my weeks board this day, and shall not have a copper for the next week unless you should furnish me with some money. I expect to be here about six weeks longer, and shall want about 100 dolls, to pay my board and other nec essary expences for that period. Let me intreat you, my dear Sir, to make known my distresses to the Treasurer and to urge him in the most pressing manner to relieve me. Unless I am supplied and imme diately I must return home; for my Landlady cannot trust me, and I have no acquaintance here from whom I can ask the favour even of a small loan. I am told that the Genl. Assembly made no provision for supplying their delegates at their last Session; altho’ Mr. Howell wrote to the Govr. on that head. He has lately wrote a pressing letter to the Lieut. Govr. What effect it may have I don’t know. Perhaps some of the Provi-


[Page 807]
September 14, 1785 773 dence Gentlemen may make an advance for him on this occasion. His situation differs from mine only in this respect, that he has some friends here from whom he can borrow. But it is hard, I am sure you will think it very hard, that the servants of the public should be obliged to the benevolence of friends for their daily bread. I have sent a card to Mr. Law; but the servant could not find the place of his abode. When I see him I shall communicate Mr. White’s wishes to him; and will acquaint you with his determination. Col. Barton has been here some considerable time, waiting for a de cision upon an application to Congress for compensation for a dan gerous wound he received at Bristol in repelling the enemy. That wound has become a very serious matter. He has consulted the most skilful Surgeons here, and they are of opinion that unless he submits to an operation at which human nature revolts, that wound will sooner or later prove fatal to him. In consideration of his deplorable situation, and the services he has render’d to his country Congress have unanimously made him a grant of fifteen hundred dolls., 5 and if the State of our finances had not been low they would have granted him double that sum. He is gone to Philadelphia to consult the most eminent Surgeons in that City. I was so lame at the time the grant passed that I could not attend Congress, and therefore our State had no voice in this matter. How ever I am glad that Congress took so favorable a notice of the merit and sufferings of our gallant countryman. Sept. 14th. I am now warranted in telling you that there is no proba bility of G. Britains entering into a commercial treaty with us, until they are compelled to do it by duties on or prohibitions of their trade with us. We must make them feel; before they will act as they ought. I begin to think that as soon as we get through the requisition, we shall take up the business of commercial regulations, and at least recommend to the States some efficacious measures for obliging the British to alter their system. So long as they are allowed to en gross the carrying trade, and to import their commodities, and ex port ours as they please, without any restraint, and to prohibit our vessels entering their port or lay such duties upon our commerce as they shall judge proper, without any prohibitions or duties on our part, we may reason with them but it will be without effect. We must strike at ther interest; and make them feel thoroughly. This is the only way to deal with them. What nation ever admitted another to a reciprocity in trade against its interest? There is no friendship in trade, and nations are governed only by their interest. If by some


[Page 808]
September 14, 1785 774 such compulsory measures as have been hinted at, we can make Britain relax her selfish system; it will influence other commercial powers to relax also; and thus we may trade hereafter upon equal terms with all the world. You have observed that France pursues a system similar to that of Britain. They are rivals, and competitors for naval power; and the aug mentation thereof depends upon their monopolizing as far as possi ble the carrying trade; and as they both draw a great revenue from Commerce their national wealth will be increased also in proportion to the extent and enlargement of their commerce. We have a right to our share, and if we cannot obtain a participa tion with them without, we must adopt their measures. All restraints upon trade are against nature. The exchange of the commodities of one country for those of another, ought to be as free, as the exchange is of articles between the citizens of any particular State or Country. But the lusts of ambition and avarice have induced nations to adopt principles contrary to that equality and freedom which ought to sub sist, and as by habit, and from situation we are a commercial people we must follow suit, and oppose restraints to restraints. France has of late years enlarged her commerce, the Emperor of Germany is ambitious of becoming commercial. Prussia would if he could. Russia & the Emperor of Germany have in constant view the conquest and partition of the Ottoman Empire in order to extend their commerce. In short commerce seems to be the great object of al most every power in Europe, any part of whose dominions border upon the sea. As they extend their commerce, the necessity of navies to protect it will suggest itself. The smaller naval powers will form combinations to support their trade against the interruptions of the larger. From the constant ciashings of interest wars will arise. Naval wars. The Ocean will become if possible an Acaldama; and if such an extravagant idea might be indulged I could conceive that the conflict of numerous navies might hereafter set the sea on fire, and evaporate the channels of Commerce. We have a large territory, and shall have an extensive home trade in a course of years. If we could but moderate our rage for foreign trade, and be content, as the Chinese are, with our domestic intercourse, we might for a long time keep clear of war, and be happy; but alass! avarice & ambition are insatiable. Give my love to Lucy & your children. I am Yrs affecty., WE RC (MHi: Channing Family Papers). 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Ibid., note 3. 3 For this report, which was adopted September 27, see these Letters, 22:499n.2. 4 Not found. 5 For this September 7 grant to William Barton, see JCC, 29:684.


[Page 809]
September 24, 1785 775 William Ellery to William Channing Dr- Sir, New York Sept. 24th. 1785 I had not the pleasure of seeing Mr. Law until within a few days past. I communicated Mr. White’s request to him. Mr. Law says he is engaged to keep a school here; that it may break up in the winter; if it should, and it should suit, he would then open a school in Bristol. I asked him what he should ask for keeping school there, He said thirty dolls, a month and his board. I suppose by this time all our lads & lasses are singers, and they per form most melodiously. I wish to hear them, and to see my dear New port friends. My ankle, under the weakness of which I have long laboured, grows stronger very gradually. I hobble about a little; but with great caution. I plunge my foot in cold water every night and morning, rubb it frequently with flannel, and assist the endeavours of nature to restore the relaxed vessels to their usual tone by all proper means; but at my age her efforts are not so vigorous as in the prime of life, and the sprain I suffer’d was extremely violent. Considering all circumstances my acquaintances say that I have come off well. I be lieve I have. In every affliction it is some consolation to reflect that the calamity might have been greater. We are still hammering at the requisition. 1 We have often been as I thought very near to a decision; but at the crisis some objection has been started, which has put us to a dead stand. The facilities, 2 as they are called, in the opinion of the southern, favour too much the mid dle and eastern States. The latter have more loan-office certificates, and certificates for liquidated debts than the former and these press that debts which they have assumed without any warrant from Congress should be consider’d in the requisition, or at least that they should be liquidated and credited in the general adjustment of the public accounts. There can be no objection to their liquidation, and to the credit demanded; but some plan should be first formed for the liquidation of such debts; otherwise some large and improper charges might be admitted by the Commission [ers]—and to suspend the req uisition until such plan should be formed & established might put it off to too distant a period. Unless a requisition is soon passed, and in operation, public creditors, both foreign and domestic, will have rea son to complain, the civil officers of Congress be unpaid, and the wheels of government stand still. The southern delegates would avail themselves of this necessity, to force a compliance from others with their demands on the score of Assumptions. Here’s the rubb. But they will not be gratified; and the requisition must finally pass. Until we agree in a mode for ascertaining the State’s quotas of the public debt, requisitions for money will meet with great & tedious embarrassments. When this shall be done, and the accounts of individual States with


[Page 812]
778 October 7,1785 best not to do any thing about commercial regulations. They are afraid that restraining the British will throw the carriage of their pro duce into our hands, that the competition for freightage and for their productions will be lessend, and by consequence the former will rise, and the latter fall in its value. The Delegates of the State of R. Island have urged and will urge this matter; but I believe it will be in vain. I lament the indisposition of your Sister Nancy and heartily wish she may speedily recover. My ankle is still weak, and I am sometimes afraid it will never recover its pristine strength. If you can possibly get any money for me don’t wait for Lawton to take it, if an opportunity should offer to transmit it, unless he should be about to sail soon after you have received it; for I shall be very soon destitute. Give my Love to Lucey & the children. Regards to your friendly visitors from abroad, & to all Newport friends. I am Yrs. affecty., W Ellery RC (MHi: Channing Family Papers). 1 See the preceding entry, note 3. 2 See these Letters, 22:298-99, 502-3, 534. 3 See ibid., p. 589n.4. 4 See ibid., 23:175-76n.3; and JCC, 30:268-85. 5 That is, John Rodgers. See these Letters, 22:550. 6 Samuel Provost. Ibid., 23:29-30n. 7 JCC, 29:765-71. 8 As these loan office provisions were adopted September 30 (JCC, 29:792-95), Ellery must have appended this paragraph after writing the preceding one, which he dated September 28. Samuel Holten to John Avery My dear Sir, Newyork, 3d. Oct. 1785. I have been honored with your attention of the 20th ultimo. Since my last we have had 12 States represented, & one gentleman from N.C.; Congress embraced the opportunity & passed the requisitions which I conclude are come to hand but we are again lowered down to nine states. I am sensible the states are apt to consult their own partic ular interest too far in national affairs, & that is one weighty reason why we ought not to meddle with the confederation, if it can possibly be avoided, however, Congress are greatly united and are endeavoring to agree upon some great principles by which the demands of the sev eral states upon the union, may be adjusted & settled, which appears to them to be absolutely necessary. It gives me satisfaction to find that the reasons assigned by the dele gates against a revision of the confederation has your approbation, as it more confirms me in my opinion that we were right, & I should be happy to hear it was approved by the honorable court.


[Page 813]
October 14, 1785 779 Two days were spent in a committee of the whole considering whither any farther powers were necessary to be vested in Congress, respecting commercial affairs, & ‘tho’ they did not agree upon any re port to Congress, yet, it was very evident, whatever is agreed upon, will be only temporary, by way of trial. In my address to you of the 4th of July 1 are these words (viz) “I shall present the pamphlet with your polite respects to the President,” but I acknowledge, I have been wanting in not informing you of the kind & polite reception it met with from his Excellency, & of his desire that I would communicate it to you, with [h]is respectful compliments. I intend to forward by this post a copy of the resolution lately passed, in Mr. Wallcut’s favor. 2 It gives me pleasure to hear your health is more confirmed; & I hope you left my worthy friend Mr. Collins well at Rhode Island. A correspondent has favored me with the names of the gentlemen that were upon the committee, from the honbl. house, to enquire who of their delegates were again eligible, but I have not, yet, been favored with a copy of their report, however, it is observable that two of the gentlemen were elected. I remain, your sincere friend and humble servant FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Not found. 2 See Holten to Thomas Wallcut, this date, in these Letters, 22:658. William Hindman to Gunning Bedford, Jr. Dear sir New-York Octr. [i.e., Novr.] 14th. 1785' You have I fear e’er this determined Me to be a Man not to be de pended upon, having promised to write You & send the Papers, which Promise I should have complied with, but Mr. Vining having remained here some Time after You, 2 said He regularly wrote You, which made it unnecessary for Me, since his Departure Nothing has turn’d up wor thy of Communication. There have been but four States represented in Congress, since the Commencement of the new Congressional Year. I think it probable We shall have a Congress in the Course of this Week. 3 I know not who We shall elect President—Mr. Hancock is talk’d of by some if He comes on. Mr. Bull is talk’d of by others, He intends this Week for South-Carolina. It would give Me much Pleasure to see You in the Chair. When will your Delegation be on? 4 My best Respects to Mr. Vining & am, with much Esteem, Yr. very humble servant, Wm. Hindman


[Page 815]
INDEX In this index descriptive subentries are arranged chronologically and in ascending order of the initial page reference. They may be pre ceded, however, by the subentry "identified" and by document suben- tries arranged alphabetically—diary entries, letters, notes, resolutions, and speeches. An ornament (☆) separates the subentry "identified" and document subentries from descriptive subentries. Inclusive page references are supplied for descriptive subentries; for a document, only the page on which it begins is given. Eighteenth-century printed works are indexed both by author and by short tide. Other printed works are indexed when they have been cited to document a substan tive point discussed in the notes, but not when cited merely as the lo cation of a document mentioned. Delegates who attended Congress during the period covered by this volume appear in boldface type, in cluding those whose service from 1774 to 1786 is referred to in letters printed in the Supplement. Abbeville Co., N.C., address from inhabitants, 346 Abbot, John, 617 Abdul-Hamid I, sultan of Turkey, rejects Russian peace terms, 83 Accounts: French navy, 257; James Madison, 458; Charles Thomson, 533-34; marine committee, 597; secret committee, 597; David Waterbury, 613; Richard Montgomery, 620; Theodorick Bland, 673; Benedict Arnold, 676, 678-79, 693; William Bingham, 678; Samuel J. Atlee, 683; commissary, 692; Ralph Izard, 706; Willie Jones, 720; John Sullivan, 724-30; Abraham Clark, 738-39. See also State accounts Acorns, cork oak and willow oak, 247 Adams, Abigail Smith (Mrs. John), returns from England, 213 Adams, John: letters from, 552, 555, 558, 559, 614, 618, 631; letters to, 212, 487, 503, 505, 661; ☆ elected to Congress, xix; prepares to leave England, 53; ends London mission, 105; negotiates new Dutch loan, 112-13, 120, 124, 204, 252; returns from diplomatic missions, 213; and election to vice presidency, 266, 413, 416, 422-23, 427, 458-59, 463, 470, 472, 479-80, 487, 493, 497-98, 503, 506; rumored to be opposed to Washington, 416; character assessed, 427; considered for presidency of Congress, 478; and genesis of M’Fingal, 553; doubts possibility of war, 553; on naval affairs, 614-15; committee on appeals, 619, 621-23, 632-33; news from, 683; authorized to negotiate Dutch loan, 697; introduced to French court, 702; explains devaluation to French court, 720; appointed minister to Britain, 763; receives royal audience, 768-69; mentioned, 81, 100, 101, 129, 211, 216, 312, 482, 507, 647, 693, 705, 707, 708, 710, 713, 715, 716, 719, 720, 745, 763 Adams, Samuel: letter to, 93; ☆ defeated for Massachusetts lieutenant governorship, 77, 92; mentioned, 656, 716 Adams & Nourse, letter to, 525 Address to the Convention of Virginia (Tench Coxe), 111 An Address to the People of the State of Nao-York (John Jay), 103, 181 Address to the states (on finance), 657 Admiralty, courts of: mentioned, 526, 619. See also Courts of appeal 781


[Page 817]
Index 783 nor of Saint-Domingue, 626 “Anstedes" (Alexander Contee Hanson pseudonym), 22 Armand-Tuffin, Charles, marquis de la Rouerie: seeks promotion, 671; assumes com mand of Pulaski’s legion, 678 Armistead, William, letter to, 667 Arms and ammunition, procurement, 564, 593 Armstrong, Lt., 216 Armstrong, John, Jr.: letters from, 4, 127, 253, 260, 268, 275, 290, 327, 336, 339, 351, 365, 408, 411, 415, 419, 447, 449, 462; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxii, 55, 239, 538-45; elected to Congress, xxii, 54-55; authorship of Newburgh letters, xxvii; por trait, xxvii, 255; declines appointment as Northwest Territory judge, 28, 127, 129; wounded in “Doctor’s Mob” riot, 61—62; on popular government, 128; on marital state, 337-38; defeated in U.S. Senate election, 405; Pennsylvania allegiance ques tioned, 411; and baron Steuben friendship, 419 Armstrong, John, Sr.: letter from, 659; ☆ recommends Horatio Gates, 696; mentioned, xxvii Army. See Continental Army; Militia Arnett, Shelly, 491 Arnold, Benedict: letter to, 639; ☆ court-martial proceedings considered by Congress, 674-76; accounts referred to treasury board, 676, 678; attacks Elbridge Gerry for de laying payment of his accounts, 693; treason of, 713 Arnold, Jonathan, attendance at Congress, 755 Arnold, Peleg: letters from, 109, 142, 146, 224, 374, 375, 434; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxii, 142, 287, 317—18, 342—43, 361, 542—45; elected to Congress, xxii; portrait, xxix, 435; criticized for vote on organization of government, 287, 317-18, 342-43; dispar aged by Hugh Williamson, 317-18; recommends Rhode Island reconsider Federal Constitution, 436 Arnold, Stephen: identified, 110; letter to, 109 Arnold, Thomas, 770 Arnold, Welcome, letters to, 224, 375 Arret du Conseil d’Etat du Roi, 438 Articles of Confederation. See Confederation, Articles of Artillery, 666 Ascheraden, Schultz, baron von, reports Swedish pirate ship, 115 Ashe, John Baptiste, elected to Congress, xxi, 335 Ashmead, John, captured, 665 Atlee, Samuel J.: attendance at Congress, 657; Vermont committee, 657; accounts, 683; mentioned, 600 Audibert, Philip, 722 Austria: declares war on Turkey, 82, 83; war with Turkey, 88, 121 Avery, John: letter to, 778; mentioned, 116 Bacon, Mr., 81 Baldwin, Abraham: letters from, 33, 64, 79, 175, 443; letters to, 366, 420, 442; ☆ atten dance at Congress, xviii, 86, 538—45; elected to Congress, xviii; portrait, xxv, 34; favors removing Ebenezer Hazard as postmaster general, 27; on Indian policy, 33, 35; com mittee on Dutch loan, 112; committee on mail contracts, 175; committee to imple ment Federal Constitution, 221; committee on Indian hostilities, 292; committee on requisition, 323; elected Continental accounts commissioner, 361-62, 366, 374, 400, 420-21; and performance as Continental accounts commissioner, 442-43; takes oath as Continental accounts commissioner, 473, 508; elected to U.S. House of Representa tives, 522; replaced as Continental accounts commissioner, 522; mentioned, 473 Baldwin, Daniel, submits Invalid petition, 169 Baltimore, Md.: considered as location of Federal capital, 221, 271, 275, 277-78, 286-87, 289, 308, 339, 379; money scarcity, 412; Congress convenes at, 599 Baltimore Co., Md., 63


[Page 818]
784 Index Banister, John, 53 Bank of North America, xxvii Bank of the United States, xxvii Bankson, Benjamin: appointed clerk of U.S. Senate, 467; salary of, 533 Barbara Allan (ballad), 268 Barbary States. See Algiers, Morocco Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marquis de, 465 Barber, William, 101 Barclay, Mr. (Albany), 655 Barclay, Thomas, 101 Bard, Dr., 338 Bard, Miss, 269 Barfield, William, role in “Dobbs Riot”, 106 Barlow, Joel: identified, 100; mentioned, 102, 103, 155 Barlow, Joel, The Vision of Columbus, 100 Barnwell, Robert: letters from, 468, 496; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; presents credentials, 469 Barritt, Thomas, 41 Barry, John: letter to, 572; ordered to intercept Roebuck, 572-73 Bartlett, Josiah: letter from, 578; letters to, 561, 651; ☆ elected New Hampshire Senator, 460, 463, 479; secret committee, 563-66; mentioned, 591 Barton, Sarah, 731 Barton, Thomas, 731 Barton, William, compensated for service, 773 Bassett, Richard: elected Delaware Senator, 460, 463; mentioned, 513 Baylor, George, 666 Beatty, John: resignation, 680; committee on western posts, 764 Beaumarchais, Pierre-Augustin Caron de, seeks settlement of wartime claim, 394 Bedford, Gunning, Jr. (1747-1812): letter to, 779; ☆ attendance at Congress, 780 Bedford, Gunning, Sr. (1742-1797), appointed deputy muster-master general, 557 Bedford (H.M.S.), 701 Bee, Thomas: committee on Arthur Lee’s conduct, 716; committee of commerce, 720 Beef: mentioned, 737. See also Cattle Beelen-Bertholff, Frederick Eugene Francois, baron de, 138 Beer, 307 Bees, 203 The Beggar’s Opera (John Gay), 307 Belknap, Jeremy, letter to, 27 Bellini, Charles, 288 Benezet, John: and William Bingham accounts, 678; mentioned, 669 Benson, Egbert: attendance at Congress, xx, 279-80, 544-45; elected to Congress, xx; certifies Abraham Yates’ vote on Federal Constitution, 279-80; committee on Chero kee land encroachments, 340; member of joint inaugural committee, 524; committee on piracy trials, 526; mentioned, 40 Bentson, Capt., 629 Berckel, Pieter Franco van: succeeds father as Dutch minister, 346; John Jay correspon dence with curtailed, 482 Berckel, Pieter Johan van: recalled as Dutch minister, 346, 355; mentioned, 101, 334 Bermuda, 84 Betsey (frigate), 618 Betton,James (messenger), 612 Bible, 277, 583 Big Pigeon River, 348 Big Tree (Seneca Indian chief), negotiates Easton treaty, 601-11 Bill of rights: omission of criticized by Thomas Jefferson, 267; proposed by James Madi son, 427-30; opposed by James Wilson, 430


[Page 819]
Index 785 Bills of credit. See Paper currency Billy (slave), 344 Bingham, William: letters from, 110, 130, 145, 162, 177, 187, 195, 211, 214, 233, 238, 260, 277, 306, 311, 321, 322; letters to, 626, 629; draft resolution, 271; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxii, 111, 279, 322, 542-45; elected to Congress, xxii; promotes Philadel phia as location of Federal capital, 233, 238-39, 271-75, 306-11; committee on requi sition, 323; Continental agent in Martinique, 567; on Anglo-French relations, 624; seeks account settlement, 678; mentioned, 303, 494, 618 Blacks, and smallpox, 162. See also Slavery; Slaves Blaine, Ephraim: appointed commissary general of purchases, 664; salary, 669; men tioned, 688, 707 Blair, John: elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 78; mentioned, 288, 431 Blake, Joseph, elected to Massachusetts General Court, 123 Blanchard, Elizabeth, 159 Bland, Richard, 59, 167, 184 Bland, Theodorick, Jr.: letter from, 747; letter to, 638; ☆ resignation, 665; expenses, 673; criticizes Robert Morris, 744; mentioned, 59, 167, 755 Blankets, imported, 634 Bloodworth, Timothy, 319 Blount, John Gray: letters to, 105, 138, 169, 171, 504; and North Carolina mail contract 170-71 Blount, Thomas, 170 Blount, William, letter to, 504 Board of admiralty: George Bryan appointed, 664; pay and allowances, 672; appoints commissioners to settle accounts, 675; seeks new privateer commissions, 688; naval wages and subsistence, 701; ordered to investigate Seth Harding, 702; mentioned 673, 696 Board of Associated Loyalists, 733 Board of treasury: letters to, 179, 214, 360, 382, 407, 432, 533; order, 620; ☆ reports on Pennsylvania indent credits, 4, 12; rejects Virginia request for extension for settling accounts, 39; reports on foreign loans, 63; rejection of new Dutch loan conjectured, 73; opposes new demands for depreciation, 76; denies Virginia request for extension for submitting accounts, 92; approves new Dutch loan, 112; receives insufficient funds, 118; authorized to sell Lake Erie tract, 145; recommends payment of Virginia accounts commissioner’s expenses, 151-52; recommends extension of Virginia ac count deadline, 157, 178, 190; relies on new Dutch loan, 204; sells Lake Erie tract to Pennsylvania, 214; and John Langdon claims, 227, 292-93; receives John Lawrence claims, 227; and French naval accounts, 257; submits estimates for 1788 requisition, 323; contracts with George Morgan & Associates, 333; and Miami Purchase, 356, 358; investigates George Draper’s compensation claims, 360-61, 382-83, 391-92, 407-8; and pension claims, 432; lets contract for Miami Purchase, 439-40; and copper con tract, 445-46; exclusive right to sell western lands, 460; settles Richard Montgomery accounts, 620; William Denning elected to, 686; and Benedict Arnold’s accounts, 693; mentioned, 15, 37, 101, 138, 312, 426, 675, 678, 681, 683, 684, 685, 688, 692^ 696, 701, 703, 708, 709, 714, 716, 717, 718. See also Denning, William; Lee, Arthur; Livingston, Walter; Osgood, Samuel Board of war: and David Waterbury account, 613; mentioned, 670, 676, 680 681 683 684, 685, 686, 696, 701, 703, 708, 714, 716, 717, 718 Bob (runaway slave), 734 Bogert, HenryJ., 41 Bond, George, 758 Bond, Thomas, 729 Bondfield, John, 101, 303 Boston: visited by comte de Moustier and madame Brehan, 464; Arthur Lee predicts at tack on, 618


[Page 822]
788 Index Cahokia, French settler titles confirmed, 333 Caldwell, Andrew, ordered to intercept Roebuck, 572-73 Caldwell, James, 41 Caley, Percy B., “The Life Adventures of Lieutenant-Colonel John Connolly,” 482 Cambric, 450 Camden, battle of, 708 Canada, regulates inland commerce with U.S., 132-33 Cannon, 593, 633, 743 Cape Cinque Homme, 485 Carleton, Guy: attempts to incite Kentucky against U.S., 481-82, 486; condemns Ameri can conduct at The Cedars, 588; confers with Washington on evacuation, 748; and New York evacuation, 757; mentioned, 593, 625, 743 Carmichael, William: communicates Spanish policy on Mississippi, 223; John Jay corre spondence with curtailed, 482; news from, 692; mentioned, 108, 216, 706, 716 Carpenters, hired in northern department, 580-81 Carrington, Edward: letters from, 66, 69, 71, 77, 92, 99, 102, 123, 130, 132, 133, 155, 156, 174, 175, 178, 189, 191, 248, 249, 284, 360, 370, 382, 391, 407, 422; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxiii, 111, 408, 422, 431, 438, 541-45; elected to Congress, xxiii; returns to Congress, 71, 83; on Federal Constitution, 72; delegate expenses, 84; loses Virginia ratifying convention election, 84; sends publications to Jefferson, 100, 103, 247, 284; committee on French pirate, 132; on Anglo-American trade, 132-34; assesses ratifica tion process, 155; committee on United Land Companies’ memorial, 176; promotes Joseph Martin as Cherokee agent, 185; committee to implement Federal Constitu tion, 221; on implementing Federal government, 250, 370-72; on New York ratifying convention, 250; committee on Indian hostilities, 292; committee on baron Steuben claim, 343; moves to locate Federal capital on Potomac River, 368; committee on Beaumarchais memorial, 393—94; committee on James Reed petition, 406; on amend ments to Federal Constitution, 422; mentioned, 8, 58, 452 Carroll, Charles, Barrister, letter to, 555 Carroll, Charles, of Carrollton: commissioner to Canada, 575; attacks Samuel Chase, 723 Carroll, Daniel: member of joint inaugural committee, 524; appointed chairman of Congress, 759 Carter, Mr., 285 Carter, Clarence E., Territorial Papers, 47, 176, 292, 333, 481, 505, 513 Carter, John, appointed to settle accounts of Canadian invasion, 590 Casdorp, Thomas: letter to, 580; ordered to New York to construct gallies and batteries, 580-81 Cashmere, 686 Caswell, Richard: letters to, 645, 646; ☆ orders account of South Carolina exports, 138-39; mentioned, 106 Caswell (sloop), 623 Cathalan, Etienne, 629 Cathcart, William Schaw, baron, 655 Catherine II, empress of Russia, and League of Armed Neutrality, 713 Cattle: mentioned, 645, 710. See also Beef Cayuga Indians, negotiate Easton treaty, 601-11 Cazeau, Francis, claims of, 101, 216 Cedars, The, American conduct at condemned, 588 Chaloner, John: letters to, 31, 226, 256, 328; mentioned, 329 Champion, Henry: seeks payment for provisions, 684; mentioned, 688 Champlin, George: letter to, 374; elected to Congress, 375 Chandler, James, property seized by Pulaski’s soldiers, 645 Channing, Lucy Ellery (Mrs. William), letter to, 575 Channing, William: identified, 771; letters to, 769, 771, 775; mentioned, 576


[Page 823]
Index 789 Charles III, king of Spain: death reported, 515; mentioned, 101 Charleston, S.C.: siege of, 684, 692; surrender of, 696-97; prisoners of war, 698, 707; evacuation, 741 Chase, Samuel: letter from, 630; -A- opposes Federal Constitution, 88; commissioner to Canada, 575; characterized, 588; marine committee, 614; attacks Maryland Senate, 723; mentioned, 640 Cheese, 450 Cherokee Indians: Joseph Martin appointed Continental agent to, 185, 190-91; setder encroachments on lands of condemned, 340; outrages against complained of, 345, 349; and confederation with Creeks, 505; mentioned, 298, 497, 604, 608 Chesapeake Bay, British fleet patrols, 611 Chester, John, elected to Congress, xvii Chesterfield, 4th earl of (Philip Dormer Stanhope), Letters to His Son, 202-3 Chevallie, Jean August Marie, submits Beaumarchais claim, 394 Chickamauga Indians, 348 Chickasaw Indians, Joseph Martin appointed Continental agent to, 191 Chickens, 203 Childs, Francis, xxix, 294, 491, 504 Chinn, George M„ Kentucky Settlement and Statehood, 1750-1800, 141 Chipman, Nathaniel: identified, 398; letter to, 397; ☆ and Vermont statehood, 397-98 Chippewa Indians, sign Fort Harmar treaty, 505 Chittenden, Thomas: introduces Vermont agents, 673; claims Vermont independence, Chota (North Carolina frontier), 340 Chowan Co., N.C., 476 Church, Mr., 31, 226 Church, Benjamin, 554 Church, John B., 329 Cider, 307 Cipher letters, 247, 286, 317, 378, 380, 426, 463 “A Citizen of North-Carolina,” To the People of the State of North-Carolina, 382 Civil list, expense of, 63 Claims. Sec Accounts; State accounts Clap, Supply, 561 Clarfield, Gerard H., Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution, 30, 233 Clark, Abraham: letters from, 244, 323, 488, 583, 616, 617; ☆ attendance at Congress, xx, 325, 538-45; elected to Congress, xx; committee on Virginia’s western claims, 8; committee to revise Ordinance of 1785, 119; committee on United Land Companies’ memorial, 176; on Federal Constitution, 244; committee on Luzerne Co. insurgency, 260; committee on requisition, 323; committee on Cherokee land encroachments’ 340; committee on Virginia bounty lands, 342; committee on Beaumarchais memo rial, 393-94; on Continental accounts commissioners, 420-21; committee on ac counts commissioners, 424; defends against charges of antifederalism, 489-91; de feated in election to Federal Congress, 491; committee on Benedict Arnold’s accounts, 693; committee on Arthur Lee’s conduct, 716; accounts, 738-39- men tioned, 37, 684, 703 Clark, George Rogers, resigns as Virginia bounty land surveyor, 495 Clark, William Bell, Gallant John Barry, 1745-1803, 573 Clarke, Jabez, letter to, 418 Classical allusions and quotations, 30, 50, 114, 281, 482, 624, 650, 748 Claxton, Mr. (printer), suit brought against, 186 Clay, Capt. (commander brig Rachel), 568 Clay, Joseph: identified, 35; letters to, 33, 473; ☆ mentioned, 706 Claypoole, David C.: letter to, 525; mentioned, 311 Clermont estate, 254


[Page 825]
Index 791 Commissioners for commercial negotiations: Prussian treaty, 776. See also Adams, John; Franklin, Benjamin; Jefferson, Thomas Commissioners to Canada, letter from, 573 Committee at camp (1778), 639-40 Committee at headquarters (1780): letter to board of treasury, 179; appointed, 683-84; instructed by Congress, 683-84; deplores state of army, 692; proposes appointment of emergency committee, 693; proposes reduction of New York regiments, 695; quar termaster reorganization plan, 697, 699-701; on teamster shortage, 703; discharged by Congress, 706; mentioned, 688, 704 Committee for foreign affairs: letter from, 626; instructs William Bingham, 626-27 Committee of claims, 560 Committee of commerce: letters from, 635, 637, 657; ☆ instructs Oliver Pollock, 636; new members appointed, 720; mentioned, 626, 673 Committee of conference (1775): appointed, 558; objectives, 559 Committee of Congress (accounts commissioners), 424 Committee of Congress (Alexander Fowler memorial), 760 Committee of Congress (army deficiencies), 708 Committee of Congress (army reorganization), 710-11 Committee of Congress (Arthur Lee conduct), 716, 718 Committee of Congress (baron Steuben claim), 343 Committee of Congress (Beaumarchais memorial), 393—94 Committee of Congress (Benedict Arnold’s accounts), 693 Committee of Congress (cattle for army), 710 Committee of Congress (Cherokee land encroachments), 340 Committee of Congress (commissary reform), 701-2 Committee of Congress (confer with La Luzerne), 672-73 Committee of Congress (departmental reform), 671 Committee of Congress (department of finance): recommends voiding copper coinage contract, 296; reports of, 405, 432, 445-46 Committee of Congress (deputy paymaster allowance), 688 Committee of Congress (Dutch loan), 112 Committee of Congress (embargo), 718 Committee of Congress (foreign affairs department), 693 Committee of Congress (French aid), 693 Committee of Congress (French pirate), 132 Committee of Congress (general officers), 707 Committee of Congress (Georgia land cession), 86, 231 Committee of Congress (hostilities), letter from, 560 Committee of Congress (implement Constitution), 201, 213, 221, 275 Committee of Congress (independence day celebration), 642 Committee of Congress (Indian affairs): considers Easton, Pa., treaty, 611; mentioned 660 Committee of Congress (Indian hostilities), 292 Committee of Congress (Invalid pensions), 169 Committee of Congress (James Reed petition), 406 Committee of Congress (Jefferson expenses), 380, 426 Committee of Congress (Jesse Lawrence memorial), 328 Committee of Congress (John Paul Jones’ letter), 718 Committee of Congress (John Pierce accounts), 234 Committee of Congress (John Story accounts), 246 Committee of Congress (Kentucky statehood), 140, 213 Committee of Congress (Lake Erie tract), 341 Committee of Congress (loan office certificates), 685, 686, 698, 699 Committee of Congress (Luzerne Co. insurgency), 260 Committee of Congress (mail contracts), 175 Committee of Congress (Massachusetts remonstrance), 760


[Page 826]
792 Index Committee of Congress (Miami Purchase), 355-56, 360 Committee of Congress (Mississippi navigation), 376 Committee of Congress (Nathanael Greene resignation), 704-5 Committee of Congress (New England convention), 708 Committee of Congress (northern army), 631 Committee of Congress (Ordinance of 1785 revision), 119 Committee of Congress (Pennsylvania boundaries), 145 Committee of Congress (Pennsylvania mutiny), 750 Committee of Congress (piracy trials), 526 Committee of Congress (postal irregularities), 27 Committee of Congress (post office), 688 Committee of Congress (post office investigation), 27 Committee of Congress (post office ordinance), 26 Committee of Congress (powder), 561 Committee of Congress (qualifications), 771 Committee of Congress (recruiting southern army), 710 Committee of Congress (southern Indian treaty), 295 Committee of Congress (Swain v. Newman), 620 Committee of Congress (United Land Companies memorial), 175-76 Committee of Congress (Vermont), 657, 673, 695 Committee of Congress (Virginia bounty lands), 342 Committee of Congress (Virginia’s western land claims), 8, 23—24, 66 Committee of Congress (western posts), 764 Committee of Congress (West Indies trade), 738 Committee of secret correspondence: letter from, 612; proceedings, 567, 568; ☆ orders flour and lumber sold in West Indies, 567; orders brig Rachel to carry Silas Deane to France, 568; mentioned, 600 Committee on appeals: Swain v. Newman, 620; Alsop v. Ruttenburgh appeal, 621; Palmer v. Hussey appeal, 622-23; Coit v. Perkins et al. appeal, 632 Committee on ways and means, recommends secretary for Benjamin Franklin, 715 Committee to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments (1778—79): letters from, 650, 654; lifts rice embargo, 650-51 Condorcet, Marie Jean Antoine Nicolas Caritat, marquis de, Essai sur I’application de l’analyse a la probabilite des decisions rendues a la pluralite des voix, 267 Condorcet, Marie Jean Antoine Nicolas Caritat, marquis de, Lettres d’un citoyen des Etats- Unis, a un Franfais, sur les affairs presentes, 426, 444 Condorcet, Marie Jean Antoine Nicolas Caritat, marquis de, Sentimens d’un republicain, sur les assemblies provinciates et les Etats-genereaux, 426, 444 Confederacy (Continental frigate): dismasted, 675-76; mentioned, 702 Confederation, Articles of: lack of provision for admitting new states, 16, 20, 69, 119, 180-82, 210; limitations on delegates’ service, 54; treaty powers under, 66; additional statehood article considered, 140; status of non-ratifying states under, 205-10; repre sentation under, 537; equality of voting in Congress protested by Benjamin Franklin, 584—86; debated in Congress, 587—88; requisitions under, 739-41; amendment rec ommended, 751-52 Congress: letter to, 17; ☆ chronology of, xii-xvi; appoints Richard Winn superintendent of Indian affairs for southern department, 4, 296; receives report on Virginia’s west ern claims, 8; distributes delegate attendance lists, 9, 86, 152, 347; pressed for Dutch interest, 15; considers Kentucky statehood, 16; considers accusations of mail tamper ing, 17, 19; instructs Arthur St. Clair to negotiate Indian treaty, 19; debates Kentucky statehood, 20-21, 68, 131, 137; considers Virginia’s western claims, 21; attendance thin, 24, 35, 38, 42-43, 49, 51, 65, 67, 70, 75, 80-81, 95, 98, 426, 445, 462, 474, 481, 483, 508, 648; orders stagecoach mail delivery, 26; rescinds free postage for newpaper delivery, 26; responds to recall of chevalier de La Luzerne, 26; adopts postal ordi nance, 26-27; receives foreign dispatches, 44; compensates Delaware Indians, 47; or ders Indian lands survey, 47; rejects extension of Maine postal routes, 51; receives Georgia’s western land cession, 65, 86; rejects Virginia western claims compensation award, 66-67; achieves quorum, 77, 87; considers reports on threat posed by Lt. John


[Page 831]
Index 797 eral capital, 149; committee on United Land Companies’ memorial, 176; considers status of non-ratifying states, 205-10; committee on requisition, 323; committee on Lawrence memorial, 328; committee on Cherokee land encroachments, 340; com mittee on Lake Erie tract, 341; committee on Virginia bounty lands, 342; committee on Mississippi navigation, 376; favors Adams for vice presidency, 423; committee on piracy trials, 526; mentioned, 28, 111, 120, 378 Danville, Ky.: convention on Federal Constitution called, 95-96; convention on Ken tucky constitution meets, 96; convention on Kentucky independence called, 421 Danville Political Club, 223 Dart, John Sandford: letter to, 150; nominated paymaster, 719 Dartmouth, 2d earl of (William Legge), xxv Dartmouth College, 660 Davenport, James, 200 Davidson Co., N.C., 185, 349 Davies, William, appointed Virginia commissioner to settle Continental accounts, 510 Davis, Caleb: letter to, 120; ☆ reelected to Massachusetts General Court, 120; men tioned, 144 Davis, Jehu, letter to, 513 Dawson, Mrs., 162 Dawson, John: letters from, 483, 484; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxiii, 484; elected to Congress, xxiii, 459; on New Madrid colony, 485 Dayton, Elias, xxviii Dayton, Ephraim, compensated for pay and clothing, 212 Dayton, Jonathan: letters from, 355, 439; ☆ attendance at Congress, xx, 539-45; elected to Congress, xx; portrait, xxviii, 357; proposes postal reform, 27; committee on French pirate, 132; committee on southern Indian treaty, 295; on Miami Purchase 355-56, 358-59, 439-40 Deane, Barnabas, contracts with secret committee, 566 Deane, Elizabeth Saltonstall (Mrs. Silas), 562 Deane, James, negotiates Easton Indian treaty, 601-11 Deane, Silas: letters from, 553, 561; ☆ validity of Beaumarchais settlement denied, 393-94; and genesis of M’Fingal, 553; complains of political attacks, 562-63; super seded as delegate, 562-63; contracts with secret committee, 566; as Continental agent to France, 568; arrives in America, 644; attacks William Lee, 649-50; mentioned, 570, 588, 648 Deane-Lee controversy, 558, 649-50 Debates, Resolutions and Other Proceedings of the Convention...of Massachusetts, 73, 97 Deblois, Stephen, 755 Declaration of Independence, considered by Congress, 579 Deforest, Mrs., 327 De Grasse, Francois-Joseph-Paul, comte, 334, 723 DeHart, Miss, 425 Delany, Sharp, as Philadelphia customs collector, 530 Delap, John, 630 Delap, Samuel andjohn H., letter to, 612 Delaware: adopts Federal Constitution, 72; payment on 1787 quota, 120; unrepre sented, 199, 361, 478; sends statutes to Congress, 442; first Federal elections, 460, 479; Continental troop quota, 674; Continental troops, 683, 741; mentioned, 718. See also Collins, Thomas; Davis, Jehu Delaware Assembly: letters to, 739, 740, 741; elects Federal Senators, 460, 463 Delaware delegates: favor removing Ebenezer Hazard as postmaster general, 27; oppose New York as capital, 367 Delaware Gazette, 525 Delaware Indians: compensated for depredations at Muskingum, 47; distrusted by other tribes, 47; sign Fort Harmar treaty, 505; at Easton treaty conference, 603-4, 606; granted Continental commissions, 685; mentioned, 560, 709


[Page 832]
798 Index Delaware River: defense, 637; mentioned, 502 Delegates: attendance lists, xvii-xxiii, 537-45; expenses explained, 724-30. See also Indi vidual delegates and state delegations Denman, Mr., 359 Denning, William: appointed commissioner to settle admiralty accounts, 675; appointed treasury commissioner, 686; reports commissary mismanagement, 701-2 De Pauw, Linda Grant, The Eleventh Pillar: New York and the Constitution, 287 Derby, Dr., 655 Dexter, Dr., 378 Dexter, Franklin B., Biographical Sketches of the Graduates of Yale College, Dickinson, John: letter from, 556; ☆ urged to send delegates to Congress, 199; commit tee of secret correspondence, 567; and plan for reorganizing the commissary and quartermaster departments, 664; mentioned, 43 Dilly, Mr., 498 Diriks, Jacob Gerhard, granted leave of absence, 684 Dispatch (brig), outfitted, 577 Dispatch (schooner), 76 Dobbs, Arthur, 750 “Dobbs Riot,” effect on North Carolina reputation, 105-6 “Doctor’s Mob" riot: described, 60-62, 70-71; mentioned, 68 Documentary History of First Federal Congress, 467, 470, 495, 510-11, 514, 518, 524-25, 532 Documentary History of First Federal Elections, 387, 395, 400, 406, 446, 470, 473-74, 476, 480, 483-84, 488, 491, 494-96, 498, 503, 507-8, 514 Documentary History of Ratification, 6, 22, 27, 51, 73, Tl, 84, 96, 100, 111, 156, 163-64, 169, 172-74, 181, 183, 201, 221, 243, 304, 373, 430, 494 Dohrman, Arnold Henry: appointed American agent in Portugal, 698; mentioned, 287, 415 Dolphin (schooner), 621 Donald, Alexander, in Virginia ratifying convention, 247 Dorchester, baron. See Carleton, Guy Dove, Capt., 173 Downer, Eliphalet, submits affidavit, 216 Downs, Robert, 28 Draper, George, compensation claims investigated, 360-61, 382-83, 391-92, 407-8 Drayton, Mr., 78 Duane, James: and “Doctor’s Mob” riot, 71; and New York ratification, 247; attends trea sury board, 620; on New Hampshire Grants dispute, 635; nominated to court of ap peals, 672; committee on foreign affairs department, 693; committee on John Paul Jones’ letter, 718; committee on Massachusetts remonstrance, 760; and Mas sachusetts-New York land dispute, 766; mentioned, 101, 334, 640, 716, 728 Duche, Jacob, delivers first prayer in Congress, 551 Ducher, G.J.A., appointed French vice-consul at Wilmington, N.C., 516 Duer, William: letter from, 640; ☆ committee on admiralty appeals, 619; committee on Swain v. Newman, 620; committee on independence day celebration, 642; mentioned, 330, 432, 654 Dumas, Charles William Frederic: letter to, 570; ☆ warns of Swedish pirate ship, 115; John Jay correspondence with curtailed, 482; mentioned, 101, 216, 334 Duncan, David, 300, 301 Dundonald, 9th earl (Archibald Cochrane), 226 Dunlap, Mr., 583 Dunlap, John: letters to, 525, 649; mentioned, 307, 311, 322, 648, 689 Dunlap & Claypoole, letter to, 525 Dunmore, 4th earl of (John Murray), ships Irish convicts to New York, 375 Dunscomb, Andrew, directed to seek deadline extension for Virginia accounts, 93, 156 DuPont, Pierre Samuel, 426 Duportail, Louis Le Begue de Presle: exchanged, 701; mentioned, 699 Du Simitiere, Pierre Eugene, proposes to collect historical documents, 701-2


[Page 835]
Index 801 dential candidates, 413, 416, 422-23, 426-27, 445, 458-59, 463, 470, 472, 479-80, 487, 493, 498, 505; opposed by Thomas Tudor Tucker, 417; Connecticut elections, 438, 463, 470, 472, 479; Delaware elections, 460, 479; Massachusetts elections, 460, 472, 484, 507; New Hampshire elections, 460, 474, 479; New Jersey elections, 460, 472, 479, 491, 506; Georgia elections, 463; Maryland elections, 463, 472, 479, 496; New York elections, 463, 468-69, 472, 475, 478, 482-84, 488, 493, 508; political con trol of anticipated, 463; South Carolina elections, 463, 472, 497; Virginia elections, 463, 479-80, 505, 510; federalist majority expected, 493; George Washington elected president, 503; John Adams elected vice president, 503; members of Congress arrive in New York, 506; delay in forming criticized, 513-14; and new revenue system, 522; and joint inaugural committee, 524; presidential powers under, 527; creation of Home Department proposed, 532; Confederation records transferred to, 535. See also House of Representatives, U.S.; President, U.S.; Senate, U.S.; Vice President, U.S. Federal Hall, location of, xxiv The Federalist-, publication of, 40, 84; distribution of, 46; sent to Thomas Jefferson, 100, 103, 284, 286; sent to Edmund Randolph, 154, 317; production of explained by James Madison, 286; sent to George Washington, 293; mentioned, 64 Federalists: in New Hampshire ratifying convention, 7, 9; in Rhode Island, 41; accuse Ebenezer Hazard of antifederalism, 49; in Virginia ratifying convention, 71; win Mas sachusetts governorship, 77; recruit support in New York City, 85; elect New York City delegates to ratifying convention, 86, 87; strength in New York, 91; in New York rati fying convention, 125, 135, 173, 204, 224, 250; consider impact of Virginia ratifica tion, 188; seek adjournment of New York ratifying convention, 198; vie for control in non-ratifying states, 205-10; oppose Clinton party in New York, 226; fear New York secession, 227; and location of Federal capital, 307-11; fear antifederalist majority in Pennsylvania assembly, 361; and elections for Federal government, 417; divisions among, 458-59; strength in U.S. House of Representatives and Senate estimated, 463, 482; support constitutional amendments, 464; in New York government, 468-69; in state elections, 478-80 Federal processions: in New York City, 230, 232-33, 237, 251; mentioned, 242 Fell, John: diary, 664, 665, 667, 668, 669, 670, 671, 672, 673, 675, 676, 677, 679, 680, 681, 682, 684, 685, 686, 687, 692, 693, 695, 696, 697, 698, 700, 701, 702, 703, 704, 705, 706, 707, 708, 709, 710, 711, 713, 714, 715, 716, 717, 718, 719, 720; ☆ attendance at Congress, 682, 697, 720; health, 716 Fell, Peter R.: nominated commissioner of accounts, 692; mentioned, 696, 718 Fell, Susanna Marschalk McIntosh (Mrs. John), 718 Fenno,John, identified, 512 Ferguson, E. James, The Power of the Purse, 39, 67 Ferrier, Joseph Marie Anne, charged with piracy by French consul, 132, 248—49 Fevret de Saint-Memin, Charles Balthazarjulien, xxvi, xxviii Few, William: letter from, 339; ☆ attendance at Congress, xviii, 86, 111, 542-45, 693; elected to Congress, xviii; committee on Lawrence memorial, 328; mentioned, 311 Finance: needs of new Federal government considered, 252; fiscal reforms adopted, 651; $20 million Continental loan authorized at six percent interest, 668; Continen tal dollar devalued, 682. See also Accounts; Board of treasury; Continental loan office; Facilities; Impost, Continental; Indents; Lands, western; Morris, Robert; Paper cur rency; Requisitions; Taxation Finlay, Mr., 497, 498 Fischer, Julian D., “Shipbuilding in Colonial Portsmouth: The Raleigh,” 597 Fisher, John: salary of, 533; mentioned, 535 Fitzgerald, John: letter to, 767; asked to promote Virginia-Netherlands trade, 767 FitzSimons, Catharine Meade (Mrs. Thomas), 82, 112 FitzSimons, Thomas: letters to, 6, 20, 51, 82, 84, 112, 174; ☆ elected to U.S. House of Representatives, 482-83; removal from Pennsylvania Assembly attempted, 482-83; de spairs of political reform, 752; mentioned, 302 Flax, 450


[Page 836]
802 Index Flint, Royal: land grant, 63, 358; payments on land grant, 65 Flints, 593 Florida: joint Spanish-American attack proposed, 666 Flour: exportation, 567; for Continental army, 681; price, 736; mentioned, 450, 636, 646, 656, 665, 685 Flowers, Benjamin, 13 Floyd, William, 41 Fly (sloop), 675 Forbes, James: and Charles Lee suspension, 664; mentioned, 668 Foreign affairs: Russo-Turkish war, 52-53, 82-83, 88; Russia viewed as European threat, 73, 121; Austria enters Russo-Turkish war, 83; Turkey rejects Russian peace terms, 83; French entrance into Russo-Turkish war rumored, 88; Franco-American trade en couraged, 108; South Carolina claims, 108; Prussian diplomatic strategy, 121-22; French policy denigrated, 129; Franco-American consular convention negotiations, 132, 248-49; Anglo-Dutch treaty negotiated, 183; Spain seeks Kentucky indepen dence, 222-23, 317; future missions abroad speculated on, 414; spread of European war feared, 437; Anglo-French relations, 624, 641; U.S.-Spanish relations, 624-26; U.S.-Dutch relations, 649. See also Loans, foreign; and individual countries Foreign affairs, department of: transmits circular letter on French commerce, 108; cor respondence with ministers and agents curtailed, 482; powers of secretary clarified, 764; mentioned, 101, 216, 312. See also Jay, John; Livingston, Robert R. Forman, Ezekiel, 708, 709 Forrest, Uriah, and Maryland ratifying convention, 248 Forsyth, Robert, 473 Fort, Jacob, Jr., 41 Fort Montgomery, N.Y., 653 Fort Niagara, N.Y., 603, 605, 608-9 Fort Schuyler, N.Y., visited by comte de Moustier and madame Brehan, 464 Fort Washington, N.Y., American recapture reported, 600 Fowle, Daniel, letter to, 525 Fowler, Alexander: letter to, 760; sumbits memorial on western land claims, 760 Fowler, John, 179 Fowler, William M., William Ellery: a Rhode Island Politico and Lord of Admiralty, 771 Fox, Charles James: becomes Lord Holland, 483; supports regency claim of Prince of Wales, 498 Fox, Edward, 8 France: edict on religious toleration, 6; chevalier de La Luzerne recalled, 26; entrance into Russo-Turkish war rumored, 88; royal arret on improved U.S. trade issued, 108; assembly of notables rejects royal arret on trade, 121; demands for political reform, 121; foreign policy denigrated, 129; and Franco-American consular convention nego tiations, 132, 248-49; king and parliament clash, 195; anticipates general European war, 294; effect of American Revolution on, 431; political turmoil described, 437-38; trade with Virginia, 449-51; proposed exchange of colonies with Spain, 483; fits out warships for West Indies, 592; appoints comte d’ Argout governor of Saint- Domingue, 626; appoints marquis de Bouille governor of Martinique, 626; appoints Gerard ambassador to U.S., 644; restructuring of U.S. mission to proposed, 684-85; and renewed U.S.-West Indies trade, 735-38. See also Barbe-Marbois, Francois, mar quis de; French navy; Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre; Holker, Jean; La Luzerne, Anne- Cesar, chevalier de; Louis XVI, king of France; Moustier, Elenore-Fran<;ois-Elie, comte de; Vergennes, Charles Gravier, comte de Franco-American alliance: treaties printed, 648; mentioned, 641, 642 Frank (schooner), 621 Franking privilege: loss of under Federal government, 507-8, 522; Hugh Williamson use of, 515 Franklin, Benjamin: letters from, 554, 556, 557, 558, 567, 570; letters to, 4, 9, 13, 54, 86, 98, 114, 115, 145, 152, 169, 188, 231, 260, 292, 313, 323, 341, 366, 375, 441, 455; protest, 584; ☆ and Franco-American consular convention, 248; advises grandson,


[Page 842]
808 Index Hillsborough, N.C., 721 Hilton, Dirck, 41 Hilton, Jonathan, 41 Hiltzheimer, Jacob, 82 Hindman, William, letter from, 779 The History of Sir Charles Grandison (Samuel Richardson), 353 Hodgdon, Alexander: identified, 153; letter to, 152 Hodgdon, Samuel: letter to, 306; mentioned, 29, 232, 304 Hodge, William, death, 712 Hodgkins, Mr., 764 Hogs, 257, 645 Hogun, James, 684 Holden, Thomas, elected to Congress, xxii Holker,Jean: and New York lands, 329; mentioned, 673, 722 Hollingsworth, Henry: petitions Congress, 705; investigated for fraud, 705-6 Hollingsworth, Levi: identified, 264; letters to, 264, 275, 278, 279, 412, 420 Holstein River, 347, 348, 424 Holten, Samuel: letters from, 647, 656, 764, 765, 766, 767, 768, 778; letters to, 14, 168, 712; ☆ and three-year limitation, 768; appointed chairman of Congress, 769; health, 769; mentioned, 3 Home, Henry, Lord Kames, Sketches of the History of Man, 691 Home Department, U.S., creation of proposed, 532 Homer, 748 Hooper, William, letter to, 599 Hope (schooner), 629 Hopewell Treaty (1785), violations against reported, 340 Hopkins, Mr., 647 Hopkins, Esek: charges against investigated, 581; censured by Congress, 589 Hopkins, John, letters to, 721, 722 Hopkins, Stephen, attendance at Congress, 576 Hopkinson, Francis: letter from, 594; ☆ satirizes loyalist press, 594-96; attendance at Congress, 596; resigns as delegate, 596; appointed to navy board, 614 Hopper, John, seeks compensation for property burned by enemy, 695 Horace, quoted, 650 Horses, 666 Horsman, Reginald, Expansion and American Indian Policy, 1783-1812, 340, 349 Hosmer, Titus: letter from, 644; ☆ elected to Congress, 563; appointed to court of ap peals, 672; mentioned, 588 Hospital department: reorganization studied, 673; mentioned, 671, 710, 711 House, Mary, 642, 648 House of Representatives, U.S.: Pennsylvania elections, 412-13, 478, 482-83, 497; James Madison seeks election to, 452, 462, 465; Connecticut elections, 470; Massachusetts elections, 470, 484, 508; Delaware elections, 479; Maryland elections, 479, 496; New Jersey elections, 479; federalist majority anticipated, 482; South Carolina elections, 497; opposition to second constitutional convention anticipated, 503; Georgia elec tions, 506, 522; convenes without quorum, 509-10; Virginia elections, 510; achieves quorum, 511; counts electoral ballots, 514; appoints inaugural committee, 524 Houston, William C.: committee on Vermont, 695; attendance at Congress, 698; men tioned, 676, 686, 739 Houstoun, John, letter to, 650 Howard, Mr., 17 Howard, John Eager: letter from, 35; letters to, 496, 513; ☆ attendance at Congress, xix, 538-39, 544; elected to Congress, xix; on Maryland ratification prospects, 35-36; mentioned, 28, 88, 279 Howe, Richard, 4th viscount Howe, 593, 595 Howe, Robert: and Pennsylvania mutiny, 751; mentioned, 710


[Page 844]
810 Index Indian affairs, southern department: Richard Winn appointed superintendent, 4, 296; Joseph Martin appointed Continental agent to Cherokees and Chickasaws, 185, 191; Richard Winn performance as superintendent criticized, 185; Henry Knox recom mends general treaty, 191; treaty instructions adopted, 231; southern states requested to furnish Indian treaty funds, 295; settler encroachments on Cherokee lands con demned, 340, 345, 349; Treaty of Hopewell criticized, 347-50; and application of Treaty of Hopewell, 424; Cherokee-Creek confederation discussed, 505 Indian Commissioners, southern, letter to, 347 Indian corn, 450 Indian Queen (inn), 425, 644 Indians: treaty negotiations with planned, 19, 117; Spanish policy toward, 33, 35; Ken tucky raids described, 90; treaty negotiations with delayed, 108; and United Land Companies treaty, 176; general Indian war feared, 223, 283, 305; removal west of Mis sissippi advocated, 281; treatise on Mohegan language published, 370; attend Easton, Pa., treaty, 601-11. See also Cayuga Indians; Cherokee Indians; Chickamauga Indians; Chickasaw Indians; Chippewa Indians; Conoy Indians; Creek Indians; Delaware Indi ans; Mohegan Indians; Munsee Indians; Nanticoke Indians; Ottawa Indians; Potawatomi Indians; Sac Indians; Seneca Indians; Shawnee Indians; Six Nations; Wabash Indians; Wyandot Indians Industry (schooner), 633 Inflation. See Paper currency Innes, Harry: threatens Kentucky independence, 89-90; mentioned, 95 Innes, James: elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 78; mentioned, 59, 175 Inspector general’s department, reorganization plan, 708 Interstate relations. See Confederation, Articles of; Lands, western; Massachusetts-New York boundary dispute Iredell, James, letters to, 161, 215, 217, 250, 251, 317, 381, 383, 467, 475, 500, 507 Irish, Nathaniel, 13 Iron, 450 Irvine, Callender, 282 Irvine, James: letter to, 259; appointed to survey bounty lands, 259 Irvine, William: letters from, 4, 12, 20, 239, 258, 259, 260, 280, 290, 300, 365, 410, 420, 442; letters to, 131, 322, 366, 443; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxii, 55, 443, 538-45; elected to Congress, xxii; committee on Virginia’s western claims, 8; leaves Congress, 111; committee on United Land Companies’ memorial, 176; committee on Luzerne Co. insurgency, 260; advocates Indian removal, 281; committee on Indian hostilities, 292; committee on Cherokee land encroachments, 340; and Lake Erie tract pur chase, 341; elected Continental accounts commissioner, 355, 361-62, 366, 374, 400, 420-21; committee on Miami Purchase, 355-56, 360; sends map of northwest to Washington, 410; and performance as Continental accounts commissioner, 442-43; takes oath as Continental accounts commissioner, 473, 508; mentioned, 10, 462 Izard, Ralph: considered for South Carolina Senator, 460; joint inaugural committee, 524; accounts, 706; favors return to Philadelphia, 751; mentioned, xxvi, 488 Jackson, Mr., 361 Jackson, Henry, 10 James, James A., and Theodore C. Pease, eds., George Rogers Clark Papers, 1771—1784, 67 Jameson, John, 734 Jarvis, James, fails to honor copper coinage contract, 296, 445-46 Jarvis, Leonard, letter to, 616 Jay, John: letters from, 115, 328, 481, 570, 652, 653, 654, 655, 658; letters to, 151, 438, 656; draft bill, 661; statement, 761; ☆ reports recall of chevalier de La Luzerne, 26; wounded in “Doctor’s Mob” riot, 61-62; communicates Sullivan threat to Spanish minister, 77; transmits circular letter on French commerce, 108-9; transmits circular letter on Swedish pirate ship, 115; recommends extradition of French pirate, 132; seeks permission to attend New York ratifying convention, 151; attends New York rati-


[Page 846]
812 Index Jones, Seaborn: identified, 79; letter to, 79 Jones, Willie, accounts, 720 Jonesborough, Tenn., skirmish site, 45 Jones’s cider, 307 Jordan,John, 13 Joseph (brigantine), 618 Joseph II, emperor of Austria, declares war on Turkey, 82—3 Journal of the Convention of Virginia, 221 Journals of Congress: printed, 13, 671, 698; final edition contemplated, 455; secret jour nal, 460; final volumes transmitted to states, 513; sent to South Carolina, 521; trans mitted to President Washington, 533; and text of first prayer in Congress, 552; men tioned, 312, 313, 333, 374, 432, 434, 686 Judiciary, under Federal government, 371-72 Juno (ship), 78 Kahuah (Munsee Indian chief), negotiates Easton treaty, 601-11 Kaskaskia, French settler titles confirmed, 333 Kean, John: letter to, 468; ☆ appointed accounts commissioner, 523; committee on piracy trials, 526 Kearny, Dyre: letter from, 425; ft attendance at Congress, xviii, 425, 538-45; committee on Virginia’s western claims, 8; opposes Philadelphia as Federal capital, 426; men tioned, 17 Kemble, Peter, 413 Kennedy, Capt., 219 Kentucky: application for statehood, 11, 15-16, 20-21, 48, 69, 95, 119, 142, 144; condi tions for settlement described, 48; fears Federal Congress to cede Mississippi naviga tion, 60, 90, 135; independence discussed, 89-90; holds Danville convention on Fed eral Consitution, 95—96; sends antifederalists to Virginia ratifying convention, 95-96, 140; constitutional convention aborted, 96; opposition to Federal Constitution, 96; statehood bid linked to Vermont, 119; statehood debated, 131, 137; statehood appeal denied, 148; grand committee declares lack of power under Articles for creating new states, 180, 182, 189; opposition to statehood of, 189, 220; statehood deferred to Fed eral government, 210, 213, 219-20; reasons for statehood rejection conjectured, 222; independence encouraged by Spain, 222-23, 317; political future assessed, 270-71; statehood advocated by Virginia, 281; interdependence with U.S. stressed by Thomas Jefferson, 282; fourth of July toasts, 380; convention called to consider statehood, 421, 430; and British separation plot, 481-82, 486; statehood convention addresses, 483, 485-86, 496; submits petition for separation from Virginia, 707; mentioned, 297, 440 Kentucky Gazette, 486 Kidd, John, 693 King, Rufus: letters to, 11, 171; ☆ candidacy for Federal Congress, 445; elected New York Senator, 484; committee on piracy trials, 526; committee on western posts, 764; mentioned, 3, 103, 300, 459, 766 King Charles (Cayuga Indian chief), negotiates Easton treaty, 601-11 King Last Night (Conoy Indian chief), negotiates Easton treaty, 601-11 Kings Co., N.Y., elects antifederalists to ratifying convention, 135 Kings Mountain, battle of, 718 Klein, Randolph S., Portrait of an Early American Family: The Shippens of Pennsylvania Across Five Generations, 615 “Know-Ye” men: led by Jonathan Hazard, 317-18; mentioned, 217 Knox, Henry: letters to, 10, 266; ☆ seeks arrest of Lt. John Sullivan, 77; recommends special agent to Cherokees, 191; travels to New England, 220; considers military bounty warrants, 259-60; granted leave of absence, 266; orders Continental troops withdrawn from Luzerne Co., Pa., 290; considered for vice presidency, 413, 416, 458-59; recommended as engineer, 559; mentioned, 88, 216, 341, 743 Knyphausen, Wilhelm, baron von, 709


[Page 849]
Index 815 Lewis, Gertrude Livingston (Mrs. Morgan), 254 Lewis, Morgan, 254 Lewis, Nicholas, 105, 426 Lexington (Continental brig), 573, 612 L’Hommedieu, Ezra: letters from, 104, 236; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxi, 104, 279-80, 543-45; elected to Congress, xxi; certifies Abraham Yates’ conditional vote on im pelementing Federal Constitution, 279—80; mentioned, 40, 41, 203, 506 Liberty, a Poem; On the Independence of America (St. George Tucker), 244 Limozin, Andrew, 622, 629 Lincoln, Mrs., 378 Lincoln, Benjamin: letters to, 90, 141, 264, 266, 666; ☆ elected Massachusetts lieutenant governor, 77, 92, 266; considered for vice presidency, 416; reports naval action, 680; requests inquiry, 698; returns to Philadelphia, 742; and Massachusetts gubernatorial election, 766; mentioned, 12, 104, 639, 675, 676, 682, 684, 686, 687, 699, 741, 743 Lincoln Co., N.C., 349 Linen, 686 Lippincott, Richard, court-martial, 733 Littell, William, Political Transactions In and Concerning Kentucky, 486 Livermore, Mr., 687 Livermore, Samuel, 729 Livingston, Alida: identified, 254; letters to, 253, 268, 275, 327, 336, 339, 351, 408, 411, 419, 447, 449; mentioned, xxvii Livingston, Catherine Wilhelmina, 654 Livingston, Edward, 254, 268, 353, 409, 411, 419 Livingston, Henry Brockhoist, 204, 653, 655 Livingston, John: offers townships for sale, 487; mentioned, 493 Livingston, John R.: identified, 467; ☆ marries Eliza McEvers, 327-28; seeks U.S. Senate secretaryship, 467; mentioned, 268, 277, 409, 448 Livingston, Margaret Beekman (Mrs. Robert R.), 254 Livingston, Mary McEvers (Mrs. Edward), 254 Livingston, Philip: letter from, 624; ☆ secret committee, 624-26; mentioned, 344, 591 Livingston, Robert R. (1718-1775), 254 Livingston, Robert R. (1746-1813): letter from, 694; letter to, 501; * supports Federal Constitution, 190; and New York ratification, 247; leads federalists in New York ratify ing convention, 250; health, 353; discharged as Richard Montgomery executor, 620; and Convention Army pay, 672; drafts instructions for committee at headquarters, 683; committee on French aid, 693; transmits paper on renewed West Indies trade, 738; committee on western posts, 764; and Massachusetts-New York land dispute, 766; mentioned, xxvii, 254, 409, 467, 642, 668, 676, 682, 713, 728 Livingston, Walter: letter to, 295; granted leave of absence from treasury board, 295 Livingston, William: letter quoted, 731; letters to, 9, 86, 98, 114, 115, 152, 169, 188, 231, 313, 323, 329, 366, 375, 455, 513, 617, 730; ☆ seeks compensation for John Hopper, 695; mentioned, 697 Loan office. See Continental loan office Loans, domestic: to North Carolina, 403—4; authorized, 668 Loans, foreign: Dutch, 63, 70, 72, 112—13, 120, 124—25, 196, 198, 204, 213, 252, 455, 685; French, 63, 68; Spanish, 63; statement of, 97; revival of U.S. credit, 137; men tioned, 767 London, list of aidermen published, 649-50 London (H.M.S.), 701 Long Island, N.Y.: batde of, 590-91; depleted of provisions, 645 Loring, Joshua, 709 Lottery: Continental, 403; mentioned, 673 Louis XVI, king of France: consents to edict on religious toleration, 6; recalls chevalier de La Luzerne, 26; issues arret encouraging Franco-American trade, 108; criticized for weakness, 195; and Franco-American consular convention, 248; portrait, 680; mentioned, 138, 716, 719


[Page 851]
Index 817 ratification, 246; on New York ratification, 247; seeks runaway slave, 256, 733-34; ex plains production of Federalist Papers, 286; slaves of, 302, 344, 444; opposes New York as location of Federal capital, 320; advocates Potomac location for Federal capital, 321, 368-69; committee on Cherokee land encroachments, 340; committee on Lake Erie tract, 341; committee on Virginia bounty lands, 342; committee on baron Steuben claim, 343; committee on Mississippi navigation, 376; explains support of Federal Constitution, 414; committee on accounts commissioners, 424; assesses char acter of John Adams and John Hancock, 427; on need for Bill of Rights, 427-30; con siders effect of American Revolution on France, 431; elected to U.S. House of Repre sentatives, 432, 479; opposes second convention, 437, 453-54; seeks election to U.S. House of Representatives, 452, 462, 465; and Great Falls land speculation, 457, 461; accounts, 458; seeks reelection to Congress, 461; anticipates political control of Fed eral government, 463; criticizes comte de Moustier and madame Brehan, 464-65; nominated to U.S. Senate seat, 479, 480; letter to Thomas Mann Randolph printed, 504; joint inaugural committee, 524; committee on Arthur Lee’s conduct, 716; de fends Robert Morris, 744; despairs of political reform, 752; committee on Mas sachusetts remonstrance, 760; mentioned, 72, 111, 244, 249, 364 Madison, James, Jr., “Observations on the ‘Draught of a Constitution for Virginia’,” 421-22 Madison, James, Sr., letter to, 256, 301, 344 Magaw, Robert, delivers prisoner exchange proposals, 670 Maine, statehood conjectured, 135, 222 Malcom, William, 41 Malt liquor, 450 Mandeville, Bernard de, Fable of the Bees, 127 Manton, Daniel, elected to Congress, xxii Manufacturing Board (Pennsylvania), 494 Marchant, Henry, letter from, 660 Marine committee: letters from, 572, 580, 616; proceedings, 581; ☆ instructs John Barry, 572—73; engages carpenters to build gallies and batteries in New York, 580-81; investigates charges against Abraham Whipple, 581; accounts, 597; sends John Lang don money, 611; criticized by John Adams, 614; need for reform, 614; mentioned, 660 Marsh, Mr., and Miami Purchase, 355, 358 Marshall, John: elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 78; mentioned, 175 Marshall, Thomas, and battle of Brandywine, 634 Martin, Francois Xavier, 106 Martin, Joseph: letter to, 185; ☆ appointed Continental agent to Cherokees and Chicka- saws, 190-91; reports encroachments on Cherokee lands, 340; mentioned, 298, 334, 341 Martin, Luther, opposes Federal Constitution, 88 Martinique, W.I.: Continental agent appointed, 567; marquis de Bouille appointed gov ernor, 626; mentioned, 691, 699, 702 Martin’s North Carolina Gazette, 106 Maryland: prospects for ratification, 35—36; ratifies Federal Constitution, 85, 87—88, 91, 99, 104; payment on 1787 quota, 120; unrepresented, 361, 478; fails to send copies of statutes to Congress, 442; first Federal elections, 463, 472, 479, 496; Continental troops, 591, 683; Continental troop quota, 674. See also Howard, John Eager; Small wood, William Maryland delegates, oppose New York as Federal capital, 367 Maryland Gazette, 723 Maryland Journal, 525 Mason, George: described, 53; elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 78; opposes Fed eral Constitution, 139; and Virginia ratification, 246-47; mentioned, 8, 593 Massachusetts: ratifies Federal Constitution, 72; reelects John Hancock governor, 74, 77, 92; sells New York land tract to Gorham and Phelps, 74, 77, 476-77; and New


[Page 853]
Index 819 M'Fingal (John Trumbull), 553 Miami Purchase: negotiated, 355-56, 358-59; approved, 439-40 Middleton, Arthur: draft motion, 732; marine committee, 614 Mifflin, Thomas: letters to, 365, 476, 492, 513; appointed commissioner on departmen tal reform, 671; mentioned, 561 Militia: New Jersey, 583—84, 601; Pennsylvania, 628; North Carolina, 680-81, 721; South Carolina, 680-81; Virginia, 680-81; mentioned, 625 Miller, Mr., 498 Miller, Patrick, navigational experiments, 100 Milligan, James: French naval accounts, 257; appointed to settle Canadian invasion ac counts, 589; mentioned, 102 Milton, John, 748 Mintz, Max M., Gouverneur Morris and the American Revolution, 466 Miquelon Island, 622 Miralles, Juan de, proposes joint Spanish-American operations, 666 Miro, Estevan, and New Madrid negotiations, 457 Mississippi River: Kentucky fears Federal Congress to cede navigation of, 60, 90, 135; continued Spanish domination of doubted, 66; free navigation of moved by North Carolina, 115-16; navigation cession fears calmed, 180, 182; negotiations over naviga tion suspended, 376-78, 389-90, 455-56; and New Madrid negotiations, 456-57; Ken tucky address on navigation of, 483, 485-86; improved U.S. trade on anticipated, 625 Mitchell, Nathaniel: attendance at Congress, xviii, 538-40, 542-45; elected to Congress, xviii; committee on Lawrence memorial, 328; mentioned, 425 Mitchell, Stephen Mix: attendance at Congress, xviii, 539-42; elected to Congress, xviii; committee on United Land Companies’ memorial, 176; mentioned, 36 Mobile, W. Fla.: capture rumored, 676; capitulation, 696 Mohegan Indians, treatise on language published, 370 Mohickon John’s Town, 281 Molasses, 450 Mole-Saint-Nicolas, Saint-Domingue, W.L, 592 Money. See Paper currency Monroe, Elizabeth Kortright (Mrs.James), 456 Monroe, James: letter from, 763; letters to, 370, 422, 455; ☆ committee on western posts, 764; and Massachusetts-New York land dispute, 765 Monroe, James, Some Observations on the Constitution, 373 Montgomery, Mrs., 314, 338, 448 Montgomery (sloop), 621 Montmorin de Saint-Herem, Armand Marc, comte de, and North Carolina trade with French West Indies, 516 Moore, Stephen, claims damages, 672-73 Morgan, Daniel: assigned to southern department, 697; mentioned, 293, 395 Morgan, George: letter to, 43; ☆ seeks purchase of Miami tract, 333, 358, 439, 485; and New Madrid negotiations, 456-57, 483, 485-86; mentioned, 358 Morgan, John, xxv, 561,682 Morocco, 746 Morris, Gouverneur: letters from, 639, 642, 650; ☆ undertakes European mission for Robert Morris, 466; committee at camp, 640; committee to superintend commissary and quartermaster departments, 650-51, 654; nominated secretary to Benjamin Franklin, 668; mentioned, 462, 747 Morris, Jake, 583 Morris, John, 617 Morris, Lewis: letter from, 557; and “Conch Shell Beauty,” 570-72 Morris, Richard, letter to, 344 Morris, Robert: letters from, 572, 574, 577, 578, 598, 599, 615, 616, 617, 622, 624, 629, 635, 637, 638, 641; letters to, 516, 577, 640; ☆ described, 399; elected Pennsylvania


[Page 856]
822 Index New York Daily Advertiser, 106, 125, 131, 133, 156, 177, 190, 263, 268, 294, 421, 430, 491, 504 New York delegates: attendance at Congress, 43, 51, 67, 103, 104, 125, 279-80, 484, 510; elected to Congress, 466; and Vermont debates, 711 New York Independent Journal, 84, 106, 304 New York Journal, 26, 131, 156, 177, 230, 283, 484 New-York Mercury, 596 New York Packet, 84, 304 Newark, NJ., British raid, 673 Newport, R.I.: British evacuation anticipated, 616; French fleet arrives at, 701; block aded, 703; politics disparaged, 732 Newport Herald, xxix Newport Mercury, 525 Newspapers: stoppage of antifederalist newspaper delivery charged, 26, 49, 51; free postage for delivery rescinded, 27 Nicholas, George, 456 Nicholas, Robert Carter, letter to, 573 Nicholson, John: letters to, 12, 177, 214, 487, 499; ☆ appointed Pennsylvania escheator- general, 499; mentioned, 89, 462 Nicholson, Samuel: submits memorials to Congress, 216; appointed Pennsylvania deputy escheator-general, 499 Ninety-Six, S.C., 497 Nixon, John: appointed to navy board, 614; resigns, 710 North, Col., 42 North, John, petitions Congress, 617 North, William: petitions Congress, 617; mentioned, 129 “The North American” (John Francis Mercer pseudonym), 760 North Carolina: opposition to Federal Constitution, 21; protests Spanish interference with western settlers, 67; French debt, 68; ratification prospects, 72, 143, 261; “Dobbs Riot” over Federal Constitution explained, 105-6; payment on 1787 quota, 120; and mail contract, 170; status under Federal government questioned, 205-10; rejects Fed eral Constitution, 266, 294, 300, 316, 382; ratifying convention meets, 286; requested to furnish Indian treaty funds, 295; seeks constitutional amendments, 318-19, 386; unrepresented, 347, 470; Treaty of Hopewell criticized, 347-50; resolves to adhere to Union, 362, 374; apology for rejection of Federal Constitution published, 383-86; seeks reimbursement for military expenditures, 400-404; and application of Treaty of Hopewell, 424; fails to send copies of statutes to Congress, 442; issues call for second constitutional convention, 468; and Continental claims, 508, 510, 515; trade with French West Indies restricted, 515; trade affected by Federal revenue system, 522; Continental troop quota, 674; militia, 680-81, 721; loyalists, 721. See also Caswell, Richard; Johnston, Samuel North Carolina Assembly: repeals laws inconsistent with peace treaty, 115; instructs del egates on Mississippi navigation, 115-16, 511; appoints agents to settle Continental accounts, 473, 500, 505 North Carolina delegates: letter from, 256; ☆ favor removing Ebenezer Hazard as post master general, 27; instructed on Mississippi navigation, 115-16, 511; raise issue of Mississippi navigation, 116, 376-77; attendance at Congress, 125, 131, 478; disassoci ate from Rhode Island delegates, 318; elected to Congress, 335; and application of Treaty of Hopewell, 347-50, 424; mentioned, 710 Northumberland Co., Pa., internal improvements recommended, 492 Northwest ordinances. See Ordinance of 1785; Ordinance of 1787 Northwest Territory: officers and settlers depart for Ohio, 45; government organized, 116; public records submitted to Congress, 512. See also Ordinance of 1785; Ordi nance of 1787 Notes on Farming (Charles Thomson), 434 Nourse, James, 578 Nourse, Joseph: letter to, 780; ☆ reports money received by treasury, 120; mentioned, 97, 534, 674, 722


[Page 859]
Index 825 Pennsylvania Council: and Charles Pettit’s pay entitlement, 54, 56; orders delegate pay, 89; authorizes delegates to purchase Lake Erie tract, 145; requests aid in quelling Luzerne Co. insurgency, 258, 260, 263; cancels use of Continental troops in Luzerne Co., 261, 290; announces end to Wyoming Valley unrest, 290; seeks permission for Lake Erie tract survey, 492, 495; seeks Congress’s return to Philadelphia, 756—57; mentioned, 462. See also Franklin, Benjamin; Mifflin, Thomas Pennsylvania delegates: letters from, 4, 145, 214, 260, 290, 365, 495, 556; ☆ attendance at Congress, 42, 55, 478, 484, 510; delegate expenses, 88; promote Philadelphia as lo cation of Federal capital, 233, 238-39; request aid in quelling Luzerne Co. insur gency, 260; receive word of Timothy Pickering’s release, 304 Pennsylvania Evening Post, 596 Pennsylvania Gazette, 111, 130, 263, 304, 444 Pennsylvania Ledger, 596 Pennsylvania Packet, 311, 444, 525, 650, 652, 689 “A Pennsylvanian” (Tench Coxe pseudonym), 130, 163 Penobscot expedition: Massachusetts seeks compensation for, 252, 683; New Hamp shire seeks compensation for, 252; mentioned, 660 Pensacola, Fla., capture rumored, 676 Perkins, James, 632-33 Person, Mr., 505 Person, Thomas, 319 Peterson, Mr., 170 Petry, Jean-Baptiste, succeeded as French vice-consul at Wilmington, N.C., 516 Pettit, Charles: letter from, 54; letter to, 388; ☆ delegate expenses, 54; recounts dele gate service, 55—56; seeks money, 679; elected assistant quartermaster general, 702; mentioned, 666, 667, 688 Phelps, Oliver: purchases New York land tract from Massachusetts, 74, 77, 476-77, 487; offers townships for sale, 487 Phelps-Gorham Purchase, 74, 77, 476-77, 487 Philadelphia: considered as location of Federal capital, 149, 221, 225, 233, 235, 238—39, 261-62, 264, 267, 271-75, 277, 279, 283, 285-87, 289-90, 301, 305-11, 322, 324, 327, 329-30, 342-43, 361, 373-74, 379, 426; money scarcity, 412; Congress adjourns to, 599, 642; British attack feared, 616, 624; captured, 636; evacuated, 642; cost of living, 725-27; mentioned, 393 Philadelphia campaign: British maneuvers, 631; Continental maneuvers, 631; naval ma neuvers, 637 Philadelphia Committee of Safety, letter to, 556 Philadelphia Convention. See Constitutional Convention Phile, Frederick, as Philadelphia naval officer, 530 Phillips, Samuel, 446 Phillips, William, proposes prisoner exchange, 670 Pickens, Andrew: and Cherokee Indians, 346; skirmishes with loyalist troops, 721; men tioned, 341 Pickering,John (Massachusetts): identified, 30; letters to, 231, 263 Pickering,John (New Hampshire), elected to Congress, xx Pickering, Rebecca White (Mrs. Timothy), 30, 304 Pickering, Timothy: letters to, 29, 304; ☆ abducted in Luzerne Co., Pa., 232-33, 261, 263; released by kidnappers, 290, 304; appointed commissioner on departmental re form, 671; elected quartermaster general, 705; mentioned, 306, 709 Pickles, William, 696 Pierce, John: letter to, 234; ☆ negotiates Virginia’s western claims, 8; death, 234, 269, 331, 418; nominated paymaster, 719; mentioned, 721, 722 Pierce, Thomas, absent from Virginia ratifying convention, 248 Pierce, William, health, 66 Pinckney, Charles: letters to, 513, 521; ☆ considered as South Carolina Senator, 460; motion on piracy trials, 526


[Page 861]
Index 827 Prudent (H.M.S.), 701 Pruin, Jacob, 135, 193, 194 Prussia: diplomatic strategy, 121; U.S. trade negotiations, 776; mentioned, 774 Public debt: mentioned, 739-41. See also Impost, Continental; Loans, foreign; State ac counts; State assumption of public debt Public lands. See Lands, western; Ordinance of 1785; Ordinance of 1787 “Publius,” 40, 46, 53, 83. See also The Federalist Pulaski, Casimir: delivers accused soldiers to Delaware, 645; death, 667; legion reorga nized, 678 Punch, price, 725 Putnam, Mr. (deacon), 768 Putnam, Enoch, letter to, 764 Putnam, Israel: misidentified recipient, 573; mentioned, 653 Putnam, Rufus, 301 Pyle, John, reportedly killed, 721 Pym, John, 468 Quartermaster general’s department: in need of money, 679; reorganization plan, 697, 699-701, 704; Charles Pettit elected assistant quartermaster general, 702; Nathanael Greene resignation, 703-4; Timothy Pickering elected quartermaster, 705; men tioned, 671, 708 Queen of France (Continental frigate), condemned, 676 Queens Co., N.Y., elects antifederalist delegates to ratifying convention, 135 Quirk, Mr., 219 Quotas. See Requisitions Rachel (brig), chartered to carry Silas Deane to France, 568 Raising Anything Up (Nanticoke Indian chief), negotiates Easton treaty, 601-11 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 597 Ramsay, David, 465 Ramsey, Nathaniel, delivers prisoner exchange proposals, 670, 672 Randolph, Col., 59 Randolph, Mr. (Virginia), 417 Randolph, Beverley, letters to, 484, 494, 509, 513 Randolph, Edmund: letters to, 7, 9, 23, 38, 61, 86, 92, 98, 114, 115, 133, 151, 152, 156, 169, 178, 188, 211, 229, 231, 241, 243, 248, 267, 287, 292, 313, 323, 340, 341, 367, 375, 387, 391, 407, 431, 443, 452, 455, 461; ☆ requests deadline extension for submit ting state accounts, 39, 92—93; described, 53; notified of Virginia’s western claims compensation, 66; elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 78; refuses to extradite French pirate, 132; seeks adoption of Federal Constitution, 163-64, 166, 168, 173, 175; addresses Virginia ratifying convention, 174; reports Cherokee unrest, 191; sends Virginia ratification to Congress, 201; asked to assess Virginia military bounty lands, 234, 241; receives The Federalist, 317; reports on Mississippi navigation, 317; re ports encroachments on Cherokee lands, 340; protests Virginia bounty land infringe ment, 342; favors second constitutional convention, 378; inquiry on pension claims, 432; considered for vice presidency, 445; mentioned, 194, 444 Randolph, John: health, 326; educational expenses of, 417-18; mentioned, 60 Randolph, Richard: educational expenses of, 417-18; mentioned, 60 Randolph, Theodorick: health, 326; educational expenses of, 417-18; mentioned, 60 The Ratification of the New Fcederal Constitution. . . With the Amendments Proposed by the Several States, 430 Ray, Mr., 135 Read, George: letters to, 467, 513; ☆ elected Delaware Senator, 460, 463; attends U.S. Senate, 514; mentioned, 581 Read, Jacob, favors return to Philadelphia, 751 Read, John, loses Massachusetts General Court election, 120, 123


[Page 862]
828 Index Reed, Esther DeBerdt (Mrs.Joseph), death, 712 Reed, James, Invalid pension recommended, 406 Regnier de Roussi, Pierre, resignation, 687 Reid, James R.: letters from, 4, 88, 131, 145, 214, 260, 311, 325, 365, 495, 499, 500; ☆ at tendance at Congress, xxii, 239, 538-40, 542-45; elected to Congress, xxii; leaves Congress, 42; requests pay, 88; committee on James Reed petition, 406 Reinagle, Mr., 303 Rendon, Francisco, 738 “Republican,” letters of, 243 “A Republican” (Hugh Williamson pseudonym), 386 Requisitions: 1788 quotas delayed, 120-21; 1788 quotas set, 323; South Carolina quota, 345; military credits, 401; North Carolina payments, 403—4; Rhode Island quota, 434, 777; 1780 quotas set, 663, 671; in kind quotas set, 675-77; apportionment of, 739-41; facilities allowance, 775; quotas by polls considered, 776; 1785 quotas set, 777; men tioned, 746, 768, 770, 772 Resolution (H.M.S.), 701 Revenge (Continental cutter), 712 Rhode Island: ratification debate, 41, 69; rejects Federal Constitution, 43, 85, 108, 217, 291; status under Federal government questioned, 205-10; and “Know-Ye” men, 217, 317—18; debt structure explained, 217; politics of denigrated, 226; congressional rep resentation ends, 291; and 1788 requisition, 434; reconsideration of Constitution rec ommended, 436; fails to send copies of statutes to Congress, 442; unrepresented, 538-41; admiralty court proceedings, 621; Continental troop quota, 674; blockaded, 703; Continental troops, 722; opposes Continental impost, 740; appoints William Ellery chief justice, 771. See also Collins, John Rhode Island Assembly: refers Federal Constitution to town meetings, 108; and read mission of loyalist refugees, 754 Rhode Island College, xxix Rhode Island delegates: letters from, 142, 146; ☆ attendance at Congress, 142, 287, 291, 318, 342-43, 478; delegate expenses, 142; request instructions on state account dead line extension, 146; criticized for votes on organization of Federal government, 287, 290, 317—18, 342-43; favor New York as location of Federal capital, 287, 291, 318; dis paraged by Hugh Williamson, 317-18; present credentials, 576; oppose half-pay plan, 717; credentials challenged, 769, 771 Ribbon, 450 Rice, embargo lifted, 650-51 Richardson, Samuel, The History of Sir Charles Grandison, 353 Rivington, James, 127, 649 Roberdeau, Daniel, 576 Robertson, Col., 504 Robeson, Andrew, 633 Robinson, Moses, Vermont agent to Congress, 673 Robinson, William, 504 Roche, John, 597 Rocky River, N.C., 750 Rodgers, John, appointed chaplain to Congress, 776 Rodney, Caesar: letters to, 645, 654; ☆ protests property seizure by Pulaski’s soldiers, 645; mentioned, 698 Rodney, George, 712 Roebuck (H.M.S.), 573 Rogers, John, 50 Rogers, Robert: imprisoned, 579; escapes, 580 Roman Catholic church, 160 Rooney, John, 37 Root, Ephraim, letter to, 721


[Page 870]
836 Index Trussell, John B., The Pennsylvania Line, 258 Tuckasegee River, 348 Tucker, Daniel, 167 Tucker, Frances Bland Randolph (Mrs. St. George), death, 59 Tucker, Henry, Jr., 244, 326 Tucker, J., 84 Tucker, J., Jr., 84 Tucker, Nathaniel: identified, 58; ☆ follows Emanuel Swedenborg, 56, 58; behavior de scribed, 326; mentioned, 244 Tucker, Richard, 326 Tucker, St. George: letters to, 56, 58, 84, 167, 184, 191, 243, 326, 417, 497; ☆ appointed general court judge, 59; financial difficulties, 59; laments wife’s death, 59; health, 184 Tucker, St. George, Liberty, a Poem; On the Independence of America, 244 Tucker, Thomas Tudor: letters from, 56, 58, 78, 84, 108, 167, 184, 191, 243, 296, 326, 345, 417, 496, 497; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxiii, 445, 538-45; elected to Congress, xxiii; portrait, xxvi, 57; on brother Nathaniel’s religious conversion, 56, 58; considers religious beliefs, 58; counsels brother St. George, 59; committee to implement Fed eral Constitution, 221; committee on southern Indian treaty, 295; favors New York as location of Federal capital, 325; opposes Philadelphia as location of Federal capital, 327; committee on baron Steuben claim, 343; committee on Miami Purchase, 355-56, 360; opposed to Federal government, 417; elected to U.S. House of Repre sentatives, 497; prepares to attend U.S. House of Representatives, 506 Tupper, Benjamin, 301 Turberville, George Lee: letter to, 453; mentioned, 19 Turkey: relations with Russia, 52; war with Russia and Austria, 82-83, 88, 121; men tioned, 774 Turnbull, Marmie & Co., 101 Turner, Orsamus, History of the Pioneer Settlement of Phelps and Gorham’s Purchase, Tl Turpentine, 139, 450 Turpin, Thomas, Jr., elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 84 United Land Companies, present memorial to Congress, 175-76 United Provinces. See Netherlands, United Provinces of University of Edinburgh, xxvi Van Benson, Mr., 187 Vance, Mary: letter from, 37; mentioned, 37 Van Dyke, Abraham, appointed lieutenant of marines, 702 Van Dyke, Nicholas, letter from, 645 Van Engen, Mr., 187 Van Loon, Mr., 187 Van Rensselaer, Margaret Schuyler (Mrs. Stephen), 42 Van Rensselaer, Philip, 41 Van Rensselaer, Stephen: identified, 42; letter to, 40, 46 Van Vranken, Maus, 41 Varick, Richard, letter to, 631 Varnum, James M.: appointed judge of Northwest Territory, 37; mentioned, 301 Vattel, Emmerich, 724 Veeder,John, 41 Vergennes, Charles Gravier, comte de: and Franco-American consular convention, 248; criticizes devaluation of Continental dollar, 720 Vermont: sends representative to Congress to promote statehood, 94; statehood conjec tured, 135, 144, 213, 222; favors Federal Constitution, 141; pays New York impost, 218; statehood prospects discussed, 397-98; and New York boundary, 398; dispute with New York, 635; congressional arbitration authority over sought, 661-62; sends


[Page 871]
Index 837 agents to Congress, 673; claims independence, 710; congressional hearing on re sumed, 710-11, 713; mentioned, 20, 130, 681 Vice President, U.S., electoral ballots for, 503, 514, 518-19 Vining, John: identified, 532; letter to, 532; ☆ proposes creation of home department, 532; attendance at Congress, 780; mentioned, 779 Virgil: quoted, 114; mentioned, 748 Virginia: withholds payment of fiscal quota, 8, 12; western land claims considered by Congress, 8-9, 66-67, 712; sets conditions for Kentucky separation, 11, 21; Continen tal claims, 12; negotiates with claims commissioners, 21; opposition to Federal Consti tution in, 21; ratifying convention elections, 39, 65; seeks deadline extension for sub mitting state accounts, 39, 92-93, 146, 156, 178, 214; ratification prospects, 53, 60, 71, 87, 91, 95, 99, 140, 143, 153, 155, 172-73, 175, 183, 194, 196-97; antifederalism in, 71, 463; makeup of ratifying convention described, 73, 78; payment on 1787 quota, 120; accused of haboring French pirate, 132, 248-49; and western land compensa tion, 137; favors Kentucky statehood, 144, 281; ratifying convention assembles, 163-64, 168; ratifies Federal Constitution, 200-201, 246; notified of Kentucky state hood deferral, 211; ratifying convention journal, 220; and military bounty land assess ment, 234, 241; crops abundant, 248; cotton cultivated, 262; militia requested for In dian expedition, 291; and New York call for second convention, 313, 319, 369, 378, 422, 437, 453-54, 460-61; bounty land infringement protested, 342; conduct consid ered critical to success of Federal government, 364; and pension claims, 432; trade with France, 449-51; agricultural production, 450; first Federal elections, 463, 479-80, 505, 510; and Continental accounts, 573-74; arms for coastal defense, 593; Continental troops, 634; pilot boat construction, 641; grain tax, 659; Continental troop quota, 674; militia, 680-81; trade with Netherlands, 767. See also Harrison, Ben jamin; Randolph, Beverley; Randolph, Edmund Virginia Assembly: seeks amendment to land cession conditions, 8, 21; instructs dele gates on Mississippi navigation, 115; resolutions on navigation of western rivers, 388; opposition to Federal government, 452, 457-58; elects delegates to Congress, 459; elects Federal Senators, 463, 479—80; requests second constitutional convention, 494; repeal of western land cession rumored, 747 Virginia Council: instructs William Heth on western claims, 23-24; seeks deadline ex tension for submitting state’s accounts, 156 Virginia delegates: letters from, 23, 38, 66, 92, 191, 248, 360, 382, 391, 407, 747; ☆ pre sent application for Kentucky statehood, 20; on Virginia western land claims, 23-24, 44, 48, 66; delegate expenses, 51; report denial of accounts deadline extension, 92; recommend commissioner submit original state accounts, 93, 156, 178; receive in structions on Mississippi navigation, 115; seek deadline extension for submitting state accounts, 157; answer charges on George Draper claims, 360-61, 382-83, 391-92, 407-8; attendance at Congress, 478, 484, 510; oppose Indian land purchases, 715; mentioned, 334 Virginia Independent Chronicle, 243, 380, 504 The Vision of Columbus (Joel Barlow), 100 Vulture (H.M. Sloop), 713 Wabash Company. See United Land Companies, 176 Wabash Indians, scalping reported, 433 Wade, Francis, 654 Wadsworth, Benjamin, letter to, 768 Wadsworth, Catherine: letters to, 229, 293, 311, 353; mentioned, 14 Wadsworth, Daniel: letter to, 389; mentioned, 14 Wadsworth, Harriet, letters to, 14, 24, 229, 293, 311, 353, 389 Wadsworth, Jeremiah: letters from, 14, 24, 31, 224, 226, 227, 229, 256, 292, 293, 311, 353, 388, 389; letters to, 35, 36, 126, 199, 460, 470, 644, 688; ☆ attendance at Congress, xviii, 199, 224, 226, 353, 538-40, 544—45; elected to Congress, xviii; por-


[Page 875]
Index 841 Winn, Richard: letter to, 4; ☆ appointed southern superintendent of Indian affairs, 4, 296; performance as southern superintendent of Indian affairs, 185; requests funds for Indian treaty, 295; mentioned, 191, 341 Winne,Jellis, 41 Winthrop, Mr., 37 Witbeek, Thomas, 186 Witherspoon, John: attendance at Congress, 657; Vermont committee, 657; mentioned, 612, 756 Wolcott, Erastus, elected to Congress, xviii Wolcott, Oliver: letters from, 568, 616; letter to, 227; ☆ elected to Congress, 563; ma rine committee, 614 Woodbridge, Mr., 159 Woodford, William, 688 Woods, John, 175 Woodside, John, 533 Wooster, David: ordered to convey Skene and Lundy to Connecticut, 556; cleared of misconduct, 588-89 Wyandot Indians: hostile intentions of, 292; sign Fort Harmar treaty, 505 Wylie, Thomas, 13 Wylley,John, 102 Wyoming Valley, Pa.: mentioned, 602, 660. See also Luzerne Co., Pa. Wythe, George: elected to Virginia ratifying convention, 78; appointed to court of ap peals, 672; and Massachusetts-New York land dispute, 765-66; mentioned, 53, 288 Yale College, xxviii Yams, 735 Yates, Abraham, Jr.: letters from, 125, 134, 173, 186, 193, 196, 198, 203, 387; declara tion, 279; ☆ attendance at Congress, xxi, 125-26, 542-45; elected to Congress, xxi, 466; presence in Congress considered undesirable, 40; opposes Federal Constitution, 126; opposes new Dutch loan, 196, 198, 204; declares conditional vote on implement ing Federal Constitution, 279-80; mentioned, 104 Yates, Robert: attends New York ratifying convention, 173; mentioned, 193 York, Pa., Congress adjourns from, 642 Yorke, Joseph, 624 Yorktown, Va., 343 Young, Moses, 611, 658 Younglove, John, 46 Zall, Paul M., ed., Comical Spirit of Seventy-Six: The Humor of Francis Hopkinson, 596 Zantzinger, Paul, 731
