Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 15, April 1, 1780 to August 31, 1780
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_15/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 5]
April 1-August 31, 1780 Paul H. Smith, Editor Gerard W. Gawalt and Ronald M. Gephart Associate Editors LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON 1988


[Page 6]
Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data (Revised for vol. 15) Letters of delegates to Congress, 1774-1789. Vol. 15; Gerard W. Gawalt and Ronald M. Gephart, associate editors. Includes bibliographical references and indexes. Supt. of Docs, no.: LC 1.34:15 1. United States. Continental Congress—History— Sources—Collected works. I. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931- . JK1033.L47 973.3'12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set) ISBN 0-8444-0577-9 (v. 15) Xi LA7 ® The paper used in this publication meets the requirements for permanence estab lished by the American National Standard for Information Sciences “Permanence of Paper for Printed Library Materials” (ANSI Z39.48-1984). For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington, D.C. 20401


[Page 8]
Editorial Mei hod and Apparatus TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [. . .], [....] One or two words missing and not conjecturable. [. .]' More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. [ ] Number or part of a number missing or illegible. [ ]' Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub ¬ joined footnote. [roman] Conjectural reading for missing or illegible mat ¬ ter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. [ita/ic] Editorial insertion in the text. (italic) Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the descriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed documents) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manu scripts in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 13th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1985). Each volume of this edition will contain a revised list. CSmH Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. Ct Connecticut State Library, Hartford CtHWa Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford CtHi Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford CtY Yale University, New Haven DLC Library of Congress DNA National Archives and Records Administration DNDAR Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.C.


[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v ICHi M-Ar MA MDaAr MH-H MHi MdAA MdBJ-G MdHi MeHi MiD-B MiDbEl MiU-C N NHi NN N’NC NNPM Nc-Ar NcU Nh-Ar NhD NhHi Nj NjMoHP NjP NjR OCIWHi PBL PHC PHarH PHi PPAmP PPIn R-Ar RPB-JH ScC ScHi Chicago Historical Society Massachusetts Archives, Boston Amherst College, Amherst, Mass. Danvers I listorical Society, Danvers, Mass. Harvard University, Houghton Library, Cambridge Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Md. Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland Burton Historical Collection, Detroit Public Library, Detroit, Mich. Edison Institute, Henry Ford Museum & Greenfield Village Library, Dearborn, Mich. William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich. New York State Library, Albany New-York Historical Society, New York New York Public Library, New York Columbia University, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord New Jersey State Library, Trenton Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown,- NJ- Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio Lehigh University, Bethlehem, Pa. Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia Independence National Historical Park, Philadelphia Rhode Island State Archives, Providence John Hay Library, Brown University, Providence Charleston Library Society, Charleston, S.C. South Carolina Historical Society, Charleston


[Page 10]
vi Editorial Method and Apparatus ScU University of South Carolina, Columbia Vi Virginia State Library, Richmond ViU University of Virginia, Charlottesville ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TIT LES Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963—. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. Bartlett, Papers (Mevers) Bartlett, Josiah. The Papers of Josiah Bartlett. Edited by Frank C. Mevers. Hanover, N.H.: Published for the New Hampshire His torical Society by the University Press of New England, 1979. Bartlett, Records of R.I. Bartlett, John R., ed. Records of the State of Rhode Island and Prov idence Plantations in New England. Vols. 8-10. Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1863-65. Bio. Dir. Cong. U.S. Congress. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774- 1971. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1971. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Con gress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. Clinton, Papers (Hastings) Clinton, George. Public Papers of George Clinton, First Governor of New York, 1777-1795, 1801-1804. Edited by Hugh Hastings and J.A. Holden. 10 vols. New York and Albany: Wynkoop Hallenbeck Crawford Co. et al., 1899-1914. DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Du mas Malone. Evans, Am. Bibliography Evans, Charles. American Bibliography. 12 vols. Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34. Freeman, Washington Freeman, Douglas S. George Washington, a Biography. 7 vols. New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1948-57. Greene, Papers (Showman) Greene, Nathanael. The Papers of General Nathanael Greene. Edited by Richard K. Showman et al. Chapel Hill: Published for the Rhode Island Historical Society by the University of North Carolina Press, 1976-.


[Page 25]
List of Delegates to Congress xxi Willie Jones Elected: April 30, 1780 Attended: June 22 to August 31, 1780 John Penn Elected: May 8, 1779 Did not attend April to August 1780 William Sharpe Elected: April 30, 1780 Did not attend April to August 1780 PENNSYLVANIA John Armstrong, Sr. Elected: November 12, 1779; May 31, 1780 Attended: May 30 to August 31, 1780 Jared Ingersoll Elected: May 31, 1780 Attended: June 5 to August 9? 1780 James McLene Elected: November 12, 1779; May 31, 1780 Attended: August 17-31, 1780 Timothy Matlack Elected: May 31, 1780 Attended: June 1 to August 31, 1780 Frederick A. Muhlenberg Elected: November 12, 1779; May 31, 1780 Attended: April 1 to August 31, 1780 James Searle Elected: November 12, 1779; May 31, 1780 Attended: April 1 to July 9, 1780 William Shippen, Sr. Elected: November 12, 1779 Attended: April 1 to May 19? 1780 RHODE ISLAND John Collins Elected: May 5, 1779; May 3, 1780 Attended: April 1 to May 10, 1780 Ezekiel Cornell Elected: May 6, 1780 Attended: June 5 to August 31, 1780 William Ellery Elected: May 5, 1779 Attended: April 1 to June 2, 1780


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress Stephen Hopkins Elected: May 5, 1779 Did not attend in 1780 Henry Marchant Elected: May 5, 1779 Did not attend in 1780 Daniel Mowry Elected: May 3, 1780 Did not attend in 1780 James Mitchell Varnum Elected: May 3, 1780 Did not attend April to August 1780 SOUTH CAROLINA Thomas Bee Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: June 6 to August 31, 1780 Nicholas Eveleigh Elected: May 27, 1780 Did not attend in 1780 Francis Kinloch Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: April 1 to August 31, 1780 Henry Laurens Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: July 1 to August 12, 1780 John Mathews Elected: February 1, 1780 Attended: April 1 to August 31, 1780 (on mission with Committee at Headquarters, April 25 to September; committee discharged August 11) Arthur Middleton Elected: February 1, 1780 Did not attend in 1780 Isaac Motte Elected: May 27, 1780 Attended: July 17 to August 31, 1780 VIRGINIA Theodorick Bland, Jr. Elected: June 21, 1780 Attended: August 30-31, 1780


[Page 27]
List of Delegates to Congress xxiii William Fitzhugh Elected: June 18, 1779 Did not attend in 1780 Cyrus Griffin Elected: June 18, 1779 Attended: April 1 to June 13? 1780 James Henry Elected: December 14, 1779 Attended: April 21 to July 6, 1780 Patrick Henry Elected: June 18, 1779 Did not attend in 1780 Joseph Jones Elected: December 14, 1779 Attended: April 24 to August 31, 1780 James Madison, Jr. Elected: December 14, 1779 Attended: April 1 to August 31, 1780 John Walker Elected: December 14, 1779 Attended: May 22 to August 31, 1780


[Page 29]
Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jeffreys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jeffreys, A General Topography of North Amer ica and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). Oliver Ellsworth 100 Ellsworth (1745-1807), a Connecticut native and a student at both Yale and the College of New Jersey, turned early to the study of law and a career that eventually took him to the post of chief justice of the United States Supreme Court. At the outbreak of the American Revolution he represented Windsor in the Connecticut Assembly, but he soon moved to Hartford and subsequently served as state’s attorney for Hartford County, as a member of the Governor’s Coun cil, and as a delegate to Congress for most of the period from October 1778 to July 1783. Thereafter he was elected a judge of the superior court of Connecticut, a delegate to the Constitutional Convention, and a United States senator under the new Constitution, before his appointment to the Supreme Court in 1796. As a delegate to Con gress, Ellsworth was a member of numerous committees, including such standing bodies as the Committees on Appeals, Foreign Affairs, the Marine, and the Treasury. He sat upon the hearing of the appeal in the noted case of Gideon Olmsted and the sloop Active, often labored on committees struggling with problems concerning the sup ply of the Continental Army, and during the period covered by the present volume was particularly interested in the response of the states to Congress’ March 18, 1780, resolution devaluing the Con tinental dollar. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54670). James Madison, Jr. 237 Madison’s years in the Continental Congress, 1780-83, 1787-88, represent only a small part of a long and distinguished career, but they were formative ones that significantly shaped his public life. He arrived in Philadelphia on his 29th birthday in March 1780 just in time to witness Congress’ repudiation of the Continental dollar, the collapse of congressional finances, and the failure of the “in-kind” xxv


[Page 30]
xxvi Illustrations system of state requisitions for provisioning the Continental Army. As a result, he readily became a proponent of vigorous measures for restoring public credit, eventually urging proposals to ensure Con gress a dependable revenue and even offering a motion for com pelling states “to fulfill their federal engagements.” As a member of the Board of Admiralty and of the committee for corresponding with the southern department, Madison gained experience in the Con tinental dimensions of congressional responsibilities, and the per sistent vulnerability of Virginia to British invasion heightened his concern for improving the fighting capabilities of Washington’s army. He also ably defended Virginia’s claims to western lands in the face of efforts of the landless states to secure them in trade for Maryland’s ratification of the Articles of Confederation, and he consistently op posed proposals to relinquish American claims to the navigation of the Mississippi River to curry favor with Spain. One highlight of Madison’s private life in Philadelphia was his courtship of the 16-year-old daughter of New York congressman William Floyd, Catherine, who seemed to have capitulated to his overtures when the couple marked their engagement in 1783 by exchanging miniature likenesses executed by Charles Willson Peale. But “Kitty” soon gave her heart to another, wounding Madison and leaving posterity the Peale watercolor on ivory reproduced here, a reminder of Madison’s youthful appearance at that stage of his ca reer, just four years before his work during the Federal Convention earned him the sobriquet “father” of the United States constitution. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. Treasury Office tables for the payment of loan office certificates, July 29, 1780 383 Faced with the collapse of the Continental dollar, staff department officers had increasingly turned to issuing commissary and quarter master certificates to pay for military supplies and provisions, and by early 1780 these instruments seemed destined to follow the dollar to catastrophic depreciation. Continental loan office certificates, on the other hand, continued to stand as the “preferred” securities of the United States despite considerable erosion, and to maintain their value Congress pledged on April 18, 1780, to “make such provision for discharging . . . loan office certificates, as that the holders of them shall sustain no loss thereon, by any depreciation.” Accordingly a plan was adopted on June 28 for computing a depreciation rate from September 1777 to March 1780 to enable loan office commissioners to pay “the full current value of the bills when loaned,” and the Treasury Office implemented this congressional plan on July 29 by ordering the publication of a “Table for the Payment of Principal and Interest of Loans” pursuant to the June 28 resolutions.


[Page 37]
Elbridge Gerry to Samuel Huntington Sir, Philadelphia 3d April 1780 I was honored on the 22d of February last, with your Letter in closing a Resolution of Congress of the same Date; & having since been frequently informed by Members of the House, that there was a general Disposition therein, to consider with Candor my Letter of the 19th Feby last, I have patiently waited more than a Month for an Answer to the same. 1 I have also omitted to communicate the Affair to the State which I have the Honor to represent, lest their Harmony with Congress might be interrupted at a Time when the publick. Interest renders it necessary, that every State should support them. But seeing no longer a Prospect of being restored to the priv ilege of a Member, or even of having my Claim to it considered, painful as it is to contend with a Body of which I have long been a Member, or to adopt any Measures which may appear inconsistent with an ardent Desire to promote their Dignity & Honor, I am never theless constrained by a Sense of Duty to my Country and Constit uents, to enter into a full & free Discussion of this Subject, & to close it with Congress. The Decision of Congress “that I was not in order in requiring the Yeas & Nays on a Question of Order” was, as I conceive, clearly against the Rules & Usage of the House, referred to in the Letter last mentioned. 2 Congress have undoubtedly a Right to alter these whenever they think it expedient, but they will give me Leave to deny their Authority, for determining that a Member is out of order, when he conducts agreably to both. Had Congress at that Time thot it necessary, & actually passed a Resolution to discontinue the Yeas & Nays on questions of order, still it is difficult to conceive, that as impartial Judges, they could determine a Member to have been out of order, for using that privilege previous to the passing of such a Resolve. If that Decission was intended as an Act for discontinuing this privilege, it may be necessary to enquire, how the States are to be informed of the Conduct of their respective Members in Congress? or, by what Means the Fountain of the Confederacy is to be kept pure, & Members supported in the faithful Discharge of their Trust? Perhaps it will be said, that the privilege of requiring the Yeas & Nays is still continued, excepting on questions of Order, & is sufficient for the purposes mentioned. But the Answer to this is plain, that the Conduct of Members may thus appear on all propositions decided by Congress; but will be concealed on all Motions by them sup pressed, which is the particular Greivance now complained of under such Circumstances, if a Member makes a Motion, & a Majority are disposed to be arbitrary, they may call him to order, & silence him, 3


[Page 38]
4 April 3, 1780 whilst strictly conforming to the Rules & Usage of the House—they may thus prevent propositions, however useful & necessary, from being considered by Congress—they may for partial or private pur poses, devise & pass plausible Resolutions, & refuse to consider Mo tions for detecting the fallacy of, or for amending them—they may continue to debar particular Members from the Use of their privi leges, &, by preventing Entries on the Journals, may conceal from the States, the Conduct of themselves, & others, in the premisses. Whereas, by continuing the Yeas & Nays on questions of order, every Member may have an Oppertunity to check or expose such arbitrary proceedings; & the Stigma will rest on those who adopt them. But what is the Sense of Congress & of the several States on the Subject, in the Articles of Confederation? Therein it is expressly provided, “that the Yeas & Nays of the Delegates of each State on any question, shall be entered on the Journals, when it is desired by any Delegate;” from whence it is evident, that no Member can be deprived of the privilege of having the Yeas & Nays on a question of order, when the Articles of the Confederacy are fully ratified, without a direct Violation thereof. If on the other Hand, the Decision was not intended to discontinue this privilege, I am no longer at a Loss for the Reasons of its not being entered on the Journals; because it would thus become a gen eral Rule, & equally affect the several Members but the proceedings of Congress on this occasion, will still appear extraordinary; for they have not only adjudged a Member to be out of order, whilst strictly conforming to the Rules & Usage of the House, but leaving these unaltered, which establish the contested privilege, they have in Effect determined that Congress have a Right to support some, & restrain other Members in the Use of the same privilege, & have thus impaired that equal Representation in Congress, which is considered by the States so essential to their Liberties. With Respect to the Resolution of Congress of the 22d of Feby last, relative to the Mode of hearing a Member who thinks himself aggreived, It may suffice to shew, that it does not apply to the present Case. The Resolve is as follows “That any Member thinking his priv ilege infringed by anything said or done in the House, ought of Right to be heard in his Place.” It appears by the Journals of that Date, that the Words “& not otherwise” were moved as part of the original Proposition, 3 & rejected by a Division of the House; by What Rule of Construction then does the Resolve determine, that a Member shall not “be heard” unless “in his Place”? But should even this be admitted, yet it is presumed, that Congress did not mean to subject a Member to an ex post Facto Act, which under the Appearance of regulating the Mode of supporting his Claim, materially affects the Claim itself. When an essential privilege of a Member is infringed by Congress, 8c he cannot obtain Redress, it becomes his Duty to appeal to his Constituents; and how is he to make his Conduct appear, if in


[Page 43]
April 4, 1780 9 of the state of New-Jersey, and you will perceive they are desirous of an interchange.' The committee that has under consideration the affair respecting the charges of the Penobscot expedition have not yet reported, but when I consider, it is no more than just, that the united States should pay the reasonable expences, I don’t even doubt, but that Congress will be of the same opinion & determine accordingly. 2 The business respecting the New-Hampshire grants (so called) is not to be taken up ’till nine states are represented in Congress, ex clusive of the states which are supposed to be interested, & it is not my expectation that it will be determined upon at present, nor my desire that it shou’d ’till after the war. We have no intelligence from the southern army since about the first of March. The Honorable Mr. Partridge being about taking leave of us in order to return, he will be able to give the Honorable assembly the best information respecting affairs in Congress. 3 I have the Honor to be with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten 4 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honorable The President of the Council of Massachusetts-Bay.” ' Precisely which New Jersey acts were enclosed by Holten is not known, but he may have enclosed a copy of public acts of the New jersey legislature for either the October 1779 or February 1780 session, for which see Evans, Am. Bibliography, nos. 16883 and 16884. New Jersey had also expressed a desire for a legislative “inter change” the previous year. See these Leiters, 13:405-6. 2 Congress resumed debate on Massachusetts’s request for Continental funding of the Penobscot expedition the following day. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, April 9; and Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Powell, April 14, 1780. 5 Holten subsequently noted George Partridge’s departure from Philadelphia in his diary entry of April 9. MDaAr. 4 Holten had also written a brief letter to the Board of Treasury the previous day seeking a warrant for $5,000 (“for which the state 1 have the Honor to represent will be accountable”), a request that Congress acted upon on April 5.JCC, 16:331. The draft of Holten’s letter to the Treasury is in the Holten Papers, DLC. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 4 April 1780 I know Your Excellency’s awakened Attention to the publick Good, and take the Liberty to express to you the keen and oppressing Anxiety I feel at present respecting the Situation of our national Affairs. The Army is again suffering for want of Provisions; the Departments halting and deranged; Money inadequate to their De mands for procuring the Supplies; the Campaign opening upon us.


[Page 47]
April 5, 1780 13 MS (MDaAr). 1 See the following entry, note 6. Philip Schuyler to George Washington My Dear Sir: Philadelphia April 5th, 1780 On the 3d Instant 1 was favored with Your Excellency’s letter of the 30th ult. 1 I have for ten days Successively deferred writing In hopes that I Should have been able at last to have advised you that public business was closely attended to In this quarter, 2 and that we had adopted Measures to disencumber us from that variety of embarrasment we experience, but alas! We have made little or no advances. Mifflin, Pickering, Jones and General Sherman have furnished the first part of a Voluminous system for the Quarter master department. The Second part is to direct the Commissary General of Issues in the discharge of his Duty, and the third will point at the regulations for the Hospital. I do not mention the purchasing Department be cause that is to be abolished, the States are to do All; As General Sherman roundly asserts this System will strike off four thousand Officers from the Civil departments, as It is replete with absurdity and petiness It will pass into a law, unless It Should be thought proper to Confer with the Commander In Chief on the Subject. There has been some wicked work respecting a Certain appointment which Gen. Greene will advise you of Verbally. 3 The Gentleman I have last mentioned adressed Congress in a letter of the 3d Inst wishing for their Sense on his Genral Conduct in the QMaster department, 4 a Resolution was proposed, that Congress had full Confidence In his Integrity And Ability, and requesting his fu ture exertions—this brought on much debate, amendments were moved, and the house got Into heats, and an adjournment was deemed necessary to give the members time to Cool. A member more zealous for the Generals reputation than prudent, Observed that he was an officer In whom the Commander In Chief had the highest Confidence, that he was the first of all the Subordinate Generals In point of Military knowledge & ability, that In case of an Accident happening to Gen. Washington he would be the properest person to Command the Army, And that General Washington thought so to, an other Observed that, he had a very high Opinion of G. Greens Mil itary abilities, that he believed the General had too, but that he believed no person on Earth was Authorized to say as much as the words above Scored, Implyed. I mention this that your Ex. may guard against any misapprehensions which this may occasion with Your officers. Gen. Greene will Inform you who delivered the Imprudent Speech. 5


[Page 49]
April 6, 1780 15 prised the committee appointed to prepare the letter, wrote the first draft which was read in Congress on April 4, but it was then assigned to a new committee consisting of Thomas Burke, Robert R. Livingston, and John Mathews. This committee sub mitted variant drafts on April 7, 10 and 20, when the letter was referred to still a third committee composed of Abraham Clark, William Ellery, and Ellsworth. On April 21 their draft was debated and then submitted to William Churchill Houston “to re draught the same with amendments.” His version was finally adopted on April 24. It was printed under that date by Gaillard Hunt in the Library of Congress’ edition of the journals. See JCC, 16:312-13, 328, 337, 345-48, 379, 384-87. Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters [April 6-13, 1780] 1 In Congress April 6. 1780. Resolved, That a committee of three be appointed to proceed to Head Quarters to confer with the commander in chief on the subject of his letter of the third instant, together with the report of the board of war and the letter from Baron Steuben on the subject of a reduction of the regiments, and the report of the commissioners on the arrangement of the staff departments of the army, and that a committee of three be appointed to prepare instructions for such committee. 2 April 12. 1780. Copy of instructions to the committee appointed to go to camp. 3 Gentlemen You are to confer with the commander in chief on the subjects contained in the resolution for your appointment, and such others as are committed to your charge by the following instructions. 1. You are to consult him about the propriety of reducing the number of regiments: you may with his advice reduce, incorporate or unite to state lines the several additional corps. 2. You together with the commander in chief are to limit the number of horses to be kept by the officers of the line and regimental staff, and to make such regulations with respect to the soldiers em ployed as servants as will, as far as is consistent with the convenience of the officers they serve, enable the United States to avail themselves of their services as soldiers. 3. Together with the commander in chief you are to suggest such measures, and to form such plans for the general advantage of the officers and soldiers with respect to cloathing and necessary supplies as will tend to remove all just ground of complaint, which Congress sincerely lament that there should be any room for, and to adapt them to the abilities & circumstances of these United States, and immediately to lay them before Congress.


[Page 50]
16 April 6, 1780 4. You are to consult with the commander in chief and the com missary and quarter master general about the defects of the present system, the abuses to which it is liable, and the best methods of reforming the same. In doing this you will pay a particular attention to the report referred to you in your appointment and adopt, amend or alter the same in such manner as shall upon full consideration appear to you most adviseable, and you are hereby fully empowered to carry into execution any plan for conducting the quarter master and commissary departments which upon advice with the com mander in chief and the heads thereof you shall approve; always reflecting that supplies are to be drawn forth by the respective states agreeably to the resolutions of the 25th of Feby. last. 5. You are to inquire minutely into the management of the hos pitals and medical departments, & after consulting the commander in chief & director general, you are empowered to discharge unnec essary officers, to retrench expences, to abolish purveyorships, unless when they shall appear absolutely necessary. To contrive modes for checking their accounts, and to limit the number of horses which the officers of that department shall be permitted to keep, providing that they be as few as possible, bearing in mind that the resources of the country are much drained; and that it is more expedient that individuals should feel temporary inconveniencies, than to involve our affairs in general ruin. 6. You are to inquire into the management of the hide department and to reform or abolish the same, substituting contracts in the lieu thereof, if upon advising with the commander in chief it shall appear most salutary. 7. You are to pay particular attention to the department of ord nance and military stores, and after consulting with the commander in chief and the heads of the departments, to lay down such rules for the management thereof as to you shall seem necessary. 8. After the establishment of general regulations you shall visit the different posts as far as you shall judge necessary, in order to see the same carried into execution. In doing of which you are vested with joint and seperate powers; you are at liberty to call to your assistance any officer in the service of the United States, whose exp ences shall be borne by the states. You are to abolish unnecessary posts, to erect others, to discharge useless officers, to stop rations, improperly issued, and are hereby further authorized to exercise every power which may be requisite to effect a reformation of abuses and the general arrangement of those departments, which are in any wise connected with the matters committed to your charge. You are from time to time to inform Congress of the measures you have taken in consequence of these powers and instructions, & to transmit them lists of the names and occupations of the persons


[Page 51]
April 6, 1780 17 you shall discharge and of those new officers, if any, which you shall find necessary to appoint. April 13. 1780 Congress proceeded to the election of the committee to proceed to Head Quarters, and the ballots being taken, Mr. Schuyler, Mr. Matthews & Mr. Peabody were elected. 4 Extract from the minutes Geo Bond Depy Secy. MS (DNA: RG93, M859). In a clerical hand. 1 This is a composite document, copied from the journals of Congress for April 6, 12, and 13, for the use of the committee appointed on the 13th—John Mathews, Nathaniel Peabody, and Philip Schuyler. This committee, referred to at times as “The Committee of Cooperation” or “The Committee at Camp,” was most often called the Committee at Headquarters, the designation used in these Letters. For the origins of this committee, see John Mathews to Horatio Gates, March 14, 1780. For the role of the committee in Congress’ management of the war, see E. Wayne Carp, To Starve the Army at Pleasure: Continental Army Administration and American Political Culture, 1775- 1783 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1984), pp. 191-95; and Edmund C. Burnett, The Continental Congress (New York: Macmillan Co., 1941), pp. 446-65. “ The members of the committee chosen on April 6 to “prepare instructions” were Oliver Ellsworth, Robert R. Livingston, and John Mathews. JCC, 16:332-33. 3 These “instructions” adopted on April 12 had been considered by Congress since the 8th with principal attention focused on the first article describing the powers granted the Committee at Headquarters, in consultation with the commander-in-chief, to reduce the number of regiments in the Continental army. In an initial draft, pre pared by Livingston, the committee was “invested with every power necessary to carry [theplan] into execution.” Livingston Papers, NHi. In Livingston's second draft “every power necessary” was changed to “full powers.” PCC, item 21, fols. 225-26. Although secretary Thomson clearly endorsed the latter document “Delivered April 8, 1780” with “Monday next assigned for the consideration of it,” he did not record its pres entation in the journals. Congress began full debate on the instructions on Tuesday, April 11, when it eliminated altogether the section granting powers, merely directing the committee at headquarters to “consult” with Washington on “the propriety of reducing the number of regiments.” The remaining sections of the instructions, as adopted the following day, do not differ significantly from either of the Livingston drafts. For the debate in Congress, see JCC, 16:350-52, 354-57. 4 For the election of the committee, prior to which Thomas Burke secured passage of a resolve that “no person shall be considered as duly elected to serve on any committee empowered to take order or carry any measure into execution unless he shall have the votes of a majority of the states present in Congress,” see JCC, 16:359- Samuel Huntington to George Clinton Sir, Philada April 6. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 4th Instant by which your Excellency will be informed that Congress approved of the raising a Body of eight hundred Militia in the State of New York for the Defence of that State and that when raised they


[Page 65]
April 11, 1780 31 air since February when it was proposed by John Mathews that Congress appoint “a resident, instead of a secretary to the Minister Plenipotentiary at the Court of Ver sailles,” see Livingston to John Jay, February 10, 1780, note 3. The issue became moot on April 17, however, when Mathews’ motion was rejected by a vote of six to two, with only New York and South Carolina supporting the proposal. JCC, 16:371- 72. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Sir, April 11th. 1780 I have this morning reed your Favor of March 25/30 1 but it is not possible for me to give you a Tenth of the Portion in Return. I will attend to all the Points; but, on Mr. Partridge’s Return and Con versation you will know I have rigid Attendance to perform in Con gress, and to the full as much Duty of the Quill out as ever. Wherefore you are not to expect many Letters from me. I am now standing at a Window to scratch this while Esqr. Burke is speaking. We are about sending a Comtee. to Camp the Instruc tions for them are under Debate. A Reduction will be one of the Points on which they will have discretionary Power, late in the Season as it is; and altho’ we lately put off a Report of the Bd. of War on that Subject till Deer. 1 st —80. 2 A Preparitory Dulcedo was yesterday passed relating to the Staff of the Army, 3 but it was not possible to go into a Detail of Regulations respecting them so as not to throw Money away upon D D D D D’s. But you may depend upon it that every Thing proper will be done for the deserving Classes of the Staff upon the Principles which have governed us as to the Line vizt. Resolved, That when Congress shall be furnished with proper Doc uments to liquidate the Depreciation of the continental Bills of Credit, they will, as soon thereafter as the State of the public Finances will admit, make good to the Line of the Army & the independent Corps thereof, the Deficiency of their original Pay occasioned by such a Depreciation; and that the money and Articles heretofore paid or furnished or hereafter to be paid or furnished by Congress or the States or any of them as for Pay, Subsistance or to compensate for Deficiencies shall be deemed as advanced on Account until such Liquidation as aforesaid shall be adjusted, it being the Determination of Congress that all the Troops serving in the continental Army shall be placed on an equal footing Provided that no Persons shall have any Benefit of this Resolution except such as were engaged during the War, or for three years and are now in Service or shall hereafter engage during the War. Resolved That a Committee of three be appointed to report a proper Compensation to the Staff of the Army in Consequence of the Depreciation of the Currency. Holten, Peabody & Burke.


[Page 66]
32 April 11, 1780 This will prove agreable to our State on the Principles already adopted by the Court as signified to Congress. Please to acknowledge to Genl. Warren my Rect. of his Letter of March 17th this Moment; Assure him of my affectionate Respect and that 1 will forward his letter to R H Lee. I am dear Sir, yrs. J L RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Adams’ March 25, 1780, letter to Lovell is in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:183- 87. Adams’ March 26, 27, and 30 postscripts to the letter were mistakenly printed by Cushing under a 1779 date and therefore appear at ibid., pp. 142-45. 2 Congress had taken this action on March 25. The reduction of the Continental Army to sixty regiments had been proposed originally by Robert R. Livingston on January 8. See JCC, 16:28, 36-38, 178-80, 272, 287; and Committee of Congress to Washington, January 11, 1780. 5 That is, Congress had appointed a committee “to report a proper compensation to the staff of the army in consequence of the depreciation of the currency,” so that staff officers would become eligible for the same depreciation allowances provided line troops in the April 10 resolution quoted by Lovell below. JCC, 16:344-45. George Plater to the Maryland Council Gentlemen Philadelphia Api. 12th 1780 Since my last 1 we have Intelligence of an Embarkation of two thou sand Men at New York destined to Charles Town & some more Transports are at the watering Place which indicate another Move ment. Genl. Lincoln writes on the 14th March 2 that the Enemy had been lying before the Bar of Charles Town with a Number of Ships of War viz. one line of Battle, one fifty, two forty four, two Frigates, two twenty, one Sloop & a Galley, with some Transports which had been lightening the heavy Ships—their Intention to come in the first favorable Opportunity. Our Ships were anchored so as to act in Con junction with Fort Moultrie. The Enemy had thrown up a Battery opposite the west Part of the Town, on the north Side of Wappoo Creek, from which they fired on our armed Vessels. The Balls reached the Town, but it is at too great a Distance to annoy our Works. It will prevent our Ships lying in Ashley River, which wou’d intercept their Passage, if they meant it by Boats. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, Yr most obt. & very hble servt. Geo. Plater RC (PHi: Etting Collection). 1 Not found; although Plater had written the following brief letter, concerning an unidentified enclosure to Gov. Thomas Sim Lee on April 4. “The inclosed Letter came to my Hand yesterday, & as I find it superscribed on public Service, have thought it proper to forward it to your Excellency.” Red Books, MdAA. 2 Lincoln’s March 14 letter had been read in Congress on April 11. JCC, 16:349.


[Page 68]
34 April 13, 1780 Congress, when I consider your long Absence [from] family & do mestic Concerns, in the Service of your [country]. But I have your Warrant for the Call. You will not think Me too importunate. In a few days I expect to [be] alone—Col Floyd & Mr. L Hommedieu mounted for [home eig]ht or ten days ago. 1 Mr. Livingston by his Lady’s Condition [expects to] be called from hence in two or three days; & proposes [. . .], & not to return until sent for. General Schuy ler [& Messrs.] Matthews of S. Carolina & Peabody of [New Ha]mpshire are a Committee to reform abuses in the [army &?] are to set off in four or five days for HeadQuarters. [It is] part of their Business to visit the posts and [. . .] Spot, there is little Reason to expect the General’s [return? at] all, till late in the Summer. You see then how [our state?] must necessarily depend for Representation, on Me unless you join Me. I need urge no other Reasons for your coming without delay. Nothing is yet [done on] Vermont. We moved it once or twice soon after my [arrival] but it was made to give Way to the Business of [the . . .] plan of which has doubtless reached You. I beg [you] to lend your Interest for its Support before You [leave the] State. The Vermont Business thus postponed, as I [have?] men tioned, has been attended with a further delay, [. . .] by the Sickness & death of Mr Forbes of Maryland, [. . .] that State having only one Member (Mr Plater) [is] unrepresented. Georgia being without a Representation, We have only 11 States—New Hampshire, Massa chusetts & N. York are objected to—So that a Representation [of] Maryland seems absolutely necessary for taking up the Business. We every Moment expect that R[epresen]tation will be perfect. As soon, as it is, tho our afgent] should be absent, I shall, without waiting for You [seek] the Determination, with respect to the Independence of] Vermont, which I believe will be favorable. Thi[s . . .] is by the Res olution to be determined by Congress[. . .] cannot after assuming the Business refuse [to . . . the] Controversy between the three states N. Hampshire [...]& we stand on friendly Terms with them. [. . .] not submitted; & I believe they mean to elude [. . .] on. This part of the Business You know must go [. . .] Train from the other & will require more Time; [when we?] will have the Benefit of your presence—I hope [you br]ing with You all the Evidence that may have been [gathered] since I left the State. I long to see You. Let not your heels tarry! You have doubtless heard of the Affairs of Gibralter &c., [they] are not very pleasing. I therefore do not Chuse [to enlarge]. We are big with Expectations from the [reports that] Clinton’s disaster has obliged him to call for [reinforcements] from New York. I hope the Measures We [. . .] the Support of our Interest in that Southern Quarter may [. . .] Time only can determine it. [Please? . . .] to lose no Time in setting off. You will be exceedingly [. . .] our State seems to stand well with a Majority. I am [hoping to]


[Page 69]
April 14, 1780 35 avoid any Offence to either of them. The proposed Cession on our Western Skirts will not probably [. . .] this Summer, for want of a representation [. . .] requires. The Business has been Committed but [. . .] of a disagreement of the Members of the Council [. . .] they have been discharged—Since which, Business [of a] general & press ing Nature has engrossed all our I[nterest]. You should not set out immediately, let me be [. . . .] I am, Sir, with great Respect, Your most obedient, Jno. Morin [Scott] RC (NHi: Duane Papers). ' William Floyd and Ezra L’Hommedieu obtained leaves of absence on April 1, but both were still in Philadelphia on April 4. See JCC, 16:322; and New York Delegates to George Clinton, April 4, 1780. Oliver Ellsworth to Abigail Ellsworth Dear Nabby, Philadel. Apr. 14th 1780 Yesterday, I received Mr. Lyman’s letter of the 3d of this month, am glad to hear you & my other Nabby are well, & that you are not like to want for anything in my absence. I will look again in this town about some callico & linen & inform you in a day or two. This letter comes by Mr Sherman who setts off this morning for New Haven, 1 & will come directly onto Hartford, & I hope will be so good as to call & see you & comfort you a little. I expect as soon as he gets to the assembly that he will hasten on some body for my relief if there should none be coming on sooner. I suppose it is a stormy time in Connecticut just now. I hope it will be more calm by the time I get home & that all things will come right again after awhile. You will remember me to all our friends & believe me to be with the sincerest affection, Your obedt humbl Servt, O E. [TS. ] Love to little Nabby & have sent three fine plumbs that she may not forget daddy if he does stay so long. Tr (CtHi: Ellsworth Papers). 1 Roger Sherman’s last vote at this time was on April 13. JCC, 16:361. Sherman was probably the courier for another letter to Connecticut this day as well, from which the following “Extract of a Letter from an Hon. Member of Congress, dated April 14, 1780,” was printed in the April 25 issue of the Connecticut Courant and Weekly Intelligencer. “A Resolution has just passed for making up depreciation to the army. A committee are also appointed to go to Camp, and see what further can be done for the benefit and good understanding of the Army, and to endeavor to introduce some (Economical arrangements in the Staff Department. (Economy, Justice and Taxation are of high


[Page 71]
April 15, 1780 37 I have the honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obt hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Addressed: “The Honble The President of the Council of Massachusets Bay.” ' JCC, 16:339-41. For the presentation of Massachusetts’ request for compensation for the expense of the Penobscot expedition, see Massachusetts Delegates to the Coun cil, March 20; and James Lovell to Samuel Adams, April 9, 1780. 2 See Huntington to Washington, April 9, 1780. Thomas Burke to Cornelius Harnett Dear Sir Philadelphia April 15th 1780 I have had from you, very lately, a letter which announced to me your safe arrival at your own home. 1 I am very glad that you have surmounted the difficulties of a journey which I have often thought of with very great and severe apprehensions. Your Spirits I perceive are good, and your health, I hope will always continue as well as you can wish it. Mine 1 find declines apace and 1 am satisfied that another year’s close application in Congress would make me a perpetual Cit izen in Philadelphia, and give me a right to the soil from whence nothing short of the Final Judgement of this World could Eject me. Gen. Jones and myself continued at our old quarters until about ten days ago, and had the pleasure of the company of our old agree able friends Mrs. & Miss Viney. But even their Society could not render our Situation any longer tolerable, and we changed our Quar ters formerly occupied by our friend George Ross, which we have taken ready furnished. We live here as comfortable as we can, but not as well as we wish. I will not trouble you with a detail of the proceedings of Congress but will inclose you papers which contain our New Money Act which together with the call for specific Supplies, the Requisition for quotas of Troops, a Resolution for making good the pay of the Army, and a resolution appointing a Committee of three, Schyler, Matthews, and Peabody to go to Camp with powers to adopt and carry into execution any plan respecting the Quarter Masters and Commissary’s Department, constitute all the business of great consequence which has been completed. The last appears to me to be a contrivance to prevent our making any considerable al terations in those departments and to give consequence to a certain Individ. 2 in whose personal qualities and Individual Utility and im portance, Congress have found much business and much alteration [altercation] and embarrassment. 3 Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letterbooks). 1 Harnett’s letter of February 22, 1780, is in N.C. Stale Records, 15:341-42.


[Page 84]
50 April 18, 1780 at this time, Congress nevertheless resolved this day to “make such provision for [loan office certificates] ... as that the holders of them shall sustain no loss thereon, by any depreciation.’’ Two months would elapse, however, before Congress adopted a sliding scale for adjusting the principal and interest due on loan office certificates and de veloped “proper tables’’ for the direction of the Continental Loan Office commis sioners in the several states. See JCC, 16:374-75, 17:567-69; and Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, June 27, note 1. See also Committee of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council, May 22, 1780, note. For a catalog of objections raised against Congress’ decision this day to protect loan office certificate holders from the effects of inflation, see John Morin Scott to George Clinton, April 19, 1780. The attempts by Congress to respond to the needs of the holders of Continental obligations during the later stages of the war have been placed in perspective and analyzed by E. James Ferguson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 62-69. Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 18-19, 1780] 18. Tuesday. I wrote to Mrs. Holten (no. 114).' I met the medical committee. 19. Wednesday. It is five years this day since the war commenced. I dined with the president of Congress. MS (MDaAr). 1 Only an extract from this letter to his wife has been found: “don’t think I despair of the great cause—no, not if the army should be disbanded, which many suppose will soon be the case.” The Month at Goodspeeds 31 (May 1960): 196. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 18, 1780 1 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Acts of Congress of the 6th & 13th Instant appointing a Committee to repair to Head Quarters to confer with the Commander in Chief &c and containing Instructions for their Government. 2 Also another Act of the 10th Instant containing Assurances that as soon as Circumstances will admit to make [good] to the Line of the Army and independant Corps thereof the Deficiency of their original Pay occasioned by Depreciation including whatever they may have received as expressed in the Act, and limiting this Provision to such as were engaged during the War or for three Years and are now in Service or shall be hereafter engaged during the War. 3 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, your Excelly’s hbble Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington.


[Page 86]
52 April 18, 1780 preservation, & had the remedy at that time been applyed, I have little doubt of it’s having proved effectual, let it’s loss fall on those Shoulders, whom, it of right ought to do, & let them, if they can, acquit themselves to the union, to their Allies. The subject is too melancholy to be dwelt on. We have no European news except the affair of taking the Spanish Ships off Gibralter, which you have in the public papers. As to Do mestic, I know of none. A Committee of Congress are appointed—Genl. Schuyler, Mr. Peabody, & myself—to regulate the Staff departments. 1 What success we shall meet with, or whether we shall do any good, time only can shew. That there are abuses, & very gross ones, no body doubts & its high time some enquiry was made into them. I am Dr sir, with much Esteem & Regard, yr. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). 1 For the selection and mission of this committee, see Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters, April 6-13, 1780. Philip Schuyler to George Clinton Dear Sir, (Private.) Philadelphia April 18th 1780. The news papers announce all the foreign Intelligence received by Congress and something more, except that of the Enemy’s In tended plan of operations for the Opening Campaign which we be lieve we are possessed of. I enter not Into a Minute detail, least this letter Should Miscarry; let It Suffice to observe to your Excellency, that I think It will, on their parts, Evaporate as the last did especially to the Northward, If Supplies can be furnished for the Army To the Southward, 1 fear they will make an extensive penetration Into South Carolina, for I have no great hopes that the troops In Charlestown will be able to make Effectuall opposition. I wish they may not be Caged; all was well there on the 21st ult. but a private letter of a later date advises that the Roebuck had passed the bar and would have her Cannon on board In ten hours. If this is fact, we shall soon have some serious Intelligence from thence. The Enemy have published one of my Letters which they took from Mr. Crane at Paramus; 1 one to Your Excellency, another to Mrs. Schuyler & a third to Colo. Lewis have not Yet appeared In print 2 —their view in publishing mine appears to be to announce to their friends that we were under some difficulty with respect to our Finances, for it otherwise afforded them little consolation. Maryland & Delaware continue unrepresented, so that the Ver mont business still hangs by the Eyelids.


[Page 87]
April 19, 1780 53 Mr. Livingston is gone into Jersey. 3 I am one of a Committee directed to repair to the army, for the purpose of arranging all the staff departments, thereof; this business and that of visiting the dif ferent posts East of Jersey will take much of my time, so that General Scott will be left alone, and altho our business will not Suffer In his hands, Yet Sickness may prevent his constant attendance; would It not, therefore, be prudent to hasten Mr. Duane on. I hope Your Excellency has received the act of Congress allowing pay & subsist- ance to the men to be raised for the defence of our frontiers. 4 Please to make my respects acceptable to Mrs. Clinton. I am, D’r Sir, your Excellency’s most obedient Servant Ph: Schuyler. RC (N: Clinton Papers); Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:642-45. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See Schuyler to Jacob Cuyler?, March 11, 1780. 2 These three letters have not been found. 3 Robert R. Livingston apparently left this day for New Jersey to attend his wife during the birth of their child. He attended Congress on April 17. JCC, 16:371. 4 See New York Delegates to Clinton, April 4, 1780, note 2. Committee at Headquarters’ Orders In Committee of Congress, for arranging the staff departments of the Army, retrenching public Expences, &c. April 19th. 1780. 1 Ordered, That the Commissary General of Issues, or his Deputy, in the middle district, be, and hereby are directed, on the first day of May next, to abolish the Office of magazine keeper at the post of Philadelphia and to discharge, from that service the following per sons—Vizt. No. 1. George Baker—keeper of the Magazine. No. 3. John Coleman. Asst, to do. 5. Christian Stearly. Laborer to do. 7. Casper Stooble. Labourer to Do 9. Adam Custend. ditto 11. Max Neisett IS.Jno. Hymer. Ditto. 15. John Norton. Cooper. 17. John Faulkner. Cooper. 19. Jno. Jacob Butler Ditto And That the business lately be for the future transacted by No. 2. John Sprout—Clk to Ditto. 4. Casper Washman. Asst, to Ditto. 6. Jno. Asmenger. Labr. to Do. 8. Philip Hoffman, do. do. 10. Jacob Benner. Ditto. 12. Mathias Dulman. Ditto. 14. Phillip Spillman, Ditto. 16. Jno. Mouse. Cooper 18. George Housen. porters Ditto. te and transacted in that Office, Assistant Commissary of Issues,


[Page 88]
54 April 19, 1780 who shall be allowed one additional Clerk, if necessary, to enable him to discharge the duties thereof. P. Schuyler (Copy) Jno. Mathews Nathl Peabody In Committee of Congress, April 19. 1780. Ordered, That the Quarter Master General, or his deputy in the City of Philadelphia, do, on or before the 1st day of May next, dis charge from the public service the following Persons employed under his direction in the City of Philadelphia—Vizt. 17 Carpenters—One Assistant store Keeper, One Assistant Barrack Master, and his Clerk and 4 Messengers, and that he do make return to the Committee of the names of the persons so discharged, and also of those retained in the service in the places before mentioned, We are &c. 2 P. Schuyler Jno. Mathews copy Nathl. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). 1 For the election of the committee and its mission, see Congress’ Instructions to the Committee at Headquarters, April 6-13, 1780. Before proceeding to headquar ters, the committee exercised its directive “to abolish unnecessary posts” and “to discharge useless officers” by ordering these reforms in the civil establishments in Philadelphia. 2 This day the committee also wrote to Solomon Maxwell, appointing him super intendent of provisions at Christiana, Del., and authorizing him to employ a full-time cooper and to hire others as needs dictated, for which he would keep “regular ac counts.” PCC, item 11, fol. 287. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia April 19th. 1780 We have been obliged to advance the Sum of six hundred Dollars upon the Principles mentioned in our Letter of the 15th Instant, 1 to three valuable young Sailors, whose Receipt we do ourselves the Honer now to inclose. We are, with much Respect, Sir, your most obedient, humble Serv ants, E Gerry James Lovell S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell, and signed by Lovell,


[Page 93]
April 20, 1780 59 8 For the resignation of Lt. Col. Pierre Regnier de Roussi, see JCC, 16:372, 376. 9 See JCC, 16:272-73. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly, Morris Town Head Quarters 20 April 1780. I wrote you two days since 1 from Mr. Lot’s by Doctor Thompson which he promised to dispatch to make you easy on Account of my Journey. I have spent the time since very agreeably with the General & his Family. The Chevalier Luzern Minister of France his Secretary and my old Acquaintance Don Juan Miralles, who all reached Head Quarters on a Visit the day after my Arrival. The Minister appears to be a polite Gentleman of easy manners, very affable & attentive. Monsieur Gerard the late minister, he says, mentiond me to him with particular Regard. The Secretary Monsieur Marebois is a Gentleman of great Knowledge and agreeable address, & every way calculated to please. They with the Don are here merely on a military Visit. There is to be a Review and Ball on Monday for their Entertainment, but I shall stay no longer than to have an Interview with General Schuyler who will be up to morrow with a Committee on Business with the Commander in Chief & be detaind probably a fortnight or longer. I do not wish to go forward till I have some Conversation with him on the State of our publick Affairs: especially as I hear the Chancellor 2 has left Congress with an Intention to return home. We have no news from South Carolina to be depended upon later than the 14t March. At that time the Enemy had made no Impression; but from every appearance they meant to beseige the Town in form. They have a very considerable Land force; indeed they have bent almost their whole strength against that State, and I am not without Apprehensions for the Event. They have shewn their policy in At tacking our weakest side; after despairing of Conquest in the more settled & populous States. With God’s blessing they may yet meet with a second disappointment in their efforts against that remote & devoted State. I shall write to you next week God willing from Philadelphia. In the mean time let me intreat you to make yourself as happy in my absense as possible—and to present my dutiful Regards to our Par ents and my affectionate Compliments to every Branch of the Family; & to Kiss & Bless for me our dearest Children. I need not tell you how much & how sincerely I am—my dearest Polly, Your Affection ate & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). ' Not found, although a letter of April 15 from Duane to his wife written while he was enroute to Morristown is in the Duane Papers, NHi. 2 That is, Robert R. Livingston.


[Page 94]
60 April 20, 1780 Samuel Huntington to the States Sir, Circular Philada April 20. 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 15th Instant herewith enclosed you will be informed, that any State shall have Credit in their Account with the United States for such Clothing as they may furnish to the Officers of the Hospital, and medical Staff agreeable to the Act. 1 I have the honour to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA; PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 16:366-67. Samuel Huntington to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir, Philada April 20. 1780 The Act of Congress of the 19th Instant herewith enclosed contains an Answer to your Letter addressed to the Board of Treasury of the 3d of August last, which will be a sufficient Direction for your Gov ernment in the Matters therein referred if not too late. 1 I am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 16:377. For Wadsworth’s original inquiry about paying for rations issued to frontier troops that were not distributed by Continental commissaries, see these Letters, 13:360. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia April 20. 1780 By various Accounts from the West Indies it seems to be beyond a Doubt that some twelve Ships of the Line, seven Frigates and a Number of Transports with Land Forces some Accounts say 10,000 from France are arrived at Martinique. I have the honour to transmit your Excellency the Extract of a Letter enclosed which was intercepted by an American Cruiz.er to the Southward. The Plan adopted by the Enemy as mentioned in the Extract when compared with their late Movements seems highly probable. 1 Your two Letters of the 17th were this Day received and laid before Congress. 2 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, your Excelly’s hbble servant. Sam. Huntington 3


[Page 97]
April 21, 1780 63 affairs, but almost put a total stop to all the movements of our armies. Is the Hone, assembly really sensible of our situation & their own danger (I fear not); men, money & provisions, are what is so much wanted, but the two last gives me the greatest concern, for without them, it will be impossible for the army to keep together; I can truly say I have met with nothing like it since the war, but don’t (my worthy friend) think I despair of the common cause, no, not if the army disbands which some think will be the case? My fears are that we shall be reduced to still greater difficulties before the good people will be fully sensible of their danger & exert themselves accordingly; I leave it with you to judge how your Delegates in Congress must feel when in company with the Minister of France and other Gentle men of Distinction from foreign nations, who sees our distress & knows to what state congress are reduced, and at the same time think that it is in the power of their constituents to releive them; you may think an apology necessary for some part of this tedious epistle, but be assured Sir I feel myself sensibly effected. I am, Sir, with great respect & esteem, your most obedet. P.S. I think it must appear evident that if the important recommen dations of Congress of the 18th ultimo are carryd. into effect im mediately, 3 it will soon put a new force upon our affairs. Last evening I saw a news paper from Ireland as late as the 14th of Feby by which it appeared that Lord Norths late acts was far from being satisfactory to that people. Yours as before, FC (PPIn). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 'Josiah Batchelder, Jr. (1734-1809), Beverly, Mass., ship captain, was a member of the Massachusetts General Court, 1775-79. Edwin M. Stone, A History of Beverly, Civil and Ecclesiastical From Its Settlement in 1630 to 1842 (Boston: James Munroe and Co., 1843), pp. 97-98. 2 Not in PCC. ’ That is, Congress’ resolutions on finance of March 18, 1780. JCC, 16:261-67. James Lovell to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia April 21st. 1780 Upon the joint Opinion and Desire of my Colleagues I do myself the Honor to forward at this Time an Extract from one of General Washingtons last Letters interesting to the State of Massachusetts Bay in particular. 1 I am with much Respect, Sir, your very humble Servant, James Lovell RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “Honble. President of the Coun cil, Massachusetts Bay.”


[Page 98]
64 April 22, 1780 ' Lovell inclosed an extract in his hand of General Washington’s April 17 letter to President Huntington setting forth his reasons against another Penobscot expedition. See Samuel Huntington to Washington, April 9, 1780, note 2. Samuel Huntington to Daniel Brodhead Sir, Philada, April 22. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 18th Instant directing that six blank Commissions be sent to you (which will be forwarded by the Board of War) to be filled up with the Names of such faithful Indians of the Delaware Tribe as you shall judge to be deserving of that Honour but no rank to be given any of them higher than Captain. 1 You will further observe by the Act enclosed, Copies of your Letter of the 27th of February (addressed to the Board of War) and the Papers therein referred to are sent to the Governor & Council of Virginia and Pennsylvania, and that Congress have resolved to sup port you in any Acts or Orders which the Nature of the Service and Discharge of your Duty as Commanding Officer at Fort Pitt hath made or shall make necessary. 2 I am Sir &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA:PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 16:372-73. 2 In his February 27 letter to the Board of War (which is in PCC, item 78, 3:441- 44, and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:119-20), Colonel Brodhead had explained that a suit had been filed against him in a Virginia court by two men he had evicted from a house near Fort Pitt while fortifying the site against an expected Indian attack. See also Huntington to Thomas Jefferson, April 23, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 22 April 1780 Enclosed is an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant impowering your Excellency when properly applied to for that Purpose, to au thorize an Agent or Commissary of Prisoners appointed by the En emy to reside in these United States; and with Powers similar to those granted to a like Officer on behalf of the United States and allowed by the Enemy to be exercised within their Lines. 1 The Extract of a Letter from Genl. Lincoln contains the latest Intelligence I have received from Charles Town. 2 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, your Excelly’s hbble servt, Sam. Huntington President


[Page 99]
April 23, 1780 65 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 16:383-84. 2 This extract from Benjamin Lincoln’s March 24 letter to Congress, reporting the tightening encirclement of Charleston by British forces and his dim prospects for immediate reinforcements, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philada April 23. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 18th Instant with Copies of sundry Papers therein referred to No. 1 & No. 2 by which you will be informed that a Suit at Law is said to be instituted in Yoghogania County against Colo Broadhead Commanding Officer at Fort Pitt, in Consequence of Orders given by him to some of the Troops under his Command to take Possession of a House occupied by Edward Ward & Thomas Smallman Esquires which he judged necessary for the Safety of that Post. 1 You will observe that by the Act enclosed Congress have resolved Colonel Broadhead shall be supported in any Acts or Orders which the Nature of the Service, and the Discharging his Duty as Com manding Officer at Fort Pitt hath made or shall make necessary with which I have no Doubt the supreme Power of Virginia will concur, and that proper Measures will be adopted to prevent Colo Broadhead his being unjustly vexed on Account of any Orders or Act by him given or performed, in the necessary Discharge of his Duty as Com manding Officer. I have the honour to be &c., S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 16:373. In addition to this April 18 resolve, Huntington’s enclosures appar ently consisted of a February 27 letter from Daniel Brodhead to the Board of War explaining the circumstances that had led Ward and Smallman to file suit against him in Virginia, and papers related to that suit which Brodhead had sent to the board. Huntington also sent these enclosures with a similar letter this day to Pennsylvania president Joseph Reed. PCC, item 14, fols. 335-36. For Brodhead’s letter, see Hun tington to Brodhead, April 22, 1780. Philip Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston My Dear Sir Philadelphia April 23rd 1780 When you mentioned your Intention to return to our State as soon as Mrs. Livingston should be In a Condition to travel I made no opposition, but Since your departure hence the necessity of your Returning here has so forcibly Struck my mind that I should deem myself Inexcusable and failing in duty to my Country If I did not


[Page 100]
66 April 23, 1780 urge you to lay aside Every thought of leaving us In the present Critical not to say extreamly distressing Conjuncture. The Intelli gence we yesterday receivd from South Carolina the particulars of which Mr Mathews will transmit You, 1 will Evince to you that we ought not to Entertain a Belief that Charles town is even now In our possession. The loss of that place perhaps of that whole state will superadd to the difficulties we already Abundantly experience; In such Conjunctures we have Occasion for the aid of Every man of Abilities In public life, we have Occasion for an uncommon Stock of Wisdon and Vertue and you that know how little of either pervades our directing Council must not quit the Stage and leave the political Ship to the danger of becoming a wreck thro the Incompetency of the pilots. I need not tell you that our affairs are running rapidly to Some violent Crisis, that the present disorders do not seem to admit of remedy In the ordinary Course of things, that a Convulsion now would Indefinitely prejudice our affairs both at home & abroad as It will evince a want of means or a want of Wisdom to apply them, and that either would bring our cause Into discredit, perhaps totally ruin . . . . 2 Let me Intreat you to take a ride to Morris Town the soonest you possibly can. I faithfully executed the Commission you charged me . . . .’ RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). In the hand of Philip Schuyler. 1 See the following entry. 2 MS torn; approximately seventeen lines missing. 5 MS torn; remainder missing. John Mathews to Robert R. Livingston My Dear sir, Philadelphia April 24th. 1780 If it is in your power, I should be extremely happy you would meet us at Head Qrs. in the course of two or three days, that we might have an opportunity of confering on some matters highly important to the Interests of these States. 1 If it will not be convenient to you to meet us at the above place, I must take the liberty of intreating your return to Congress, where the exertion of your abilities was never more necessary, than at this time. The loss of South Carolina (which we must every momet look for) will involve in it consequences, truely alarming to the Union. Their extensiveness a few moments reflection will suggest to you. You may suppose my apprehensions arise from local prejudices, & my spirits rather depressed from the loss of the Country to which I belong. Such a conjecture is natural enough, but permit me to Assure


[Page 102]
68 April 25, 1780 Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 25-26, 1780] 25. Tuesday. I wrote to the Honl. Mr. White, to Mrs. Holten (no. 116). 1 Mr. Peabody Sit out for head quarters. I rode out with him 5 miles. 26. Wednesday. Fastday, 2 I attended public worship in the fore noon, Dr. Duffield preached from Lamen[tatio]ns 1 & 20. “Behold, O Lord, for I am in distress.” Stormy weather. MS (MDaAr). ' Not found. 2 For Congress’ decision to set aside the last Wednesday in April “as a day of fasting, humiliation and prayer” throughout the United States, see JCC, 16:252-53 Samuel Holten to Israel Hutchinson My dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia Api. 28th 1780 You have been so kind as to ask me several times when I expected to return, & I think I engaged to inform you. Last evening Colo Palfry arrived here from Boston & informed me I might expect Genl. Ward & Mr Adams here in a short time, if so I shall set out soon after they arrive; Therefore I think it is likely I shall be in Boston some time in June next. I have given my constant attendence in congress from the time I first took my seat having not been absent one day except about a week I was confinded to my chamber by sickness. Some of my best friends have told me that unless I leave Congress 8c do less business with my head 8c exercise more they think I shall lay my bones in this City before another year, 8c I believe they judge prety right; But I am not Sure that 1 could return to private life 8c leave my distressed country in such a Situation 8c be content if I should be as well as I am now; However it lays with my friends at Court to Consider whether my past services justly intitles me to their further notice. 1 never intend to return to Congress. 2 A few days since Congress agreed upon a circular letter to the States which (for want of time) I must refer you for my sentiments upon the state of public affairs. 3 I inclose you the last news paper which contains the intelligence of the day. I am, my worthy friend, with sincere respect, your most obedt. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Col. Israel Hutchinson (1728-1811) of Holten’s hometown of Danvers, had been Lt. Col. of John Mansfield’s Massachusetts Regiment at its formation, and was com-


[Page 109]
May 3, 1780 75 condole with you on the death of Mr. Muralles 1 at which I am sensibly affected Both on his own account & the particular situation of our affairs. I hope that you have reed, some further light on the subject of his proposals & that Mr. Francisco 2 will be authorized to carry them into execution if they shd be publick in their nature. They never could be offered more seasonably than at present. I have already reed. Letters from Genl Schuyler & Mr. Matthews which break in greatly upon my plans of domestick tranquility, they intreat to go down to Philadelphia or at least to meet them at camp in order to hear their reasons more at large for this request & this last I shall do as soon as I can possibly leave Mrs. Livingston. 3 And from thence if you give me any encouragement I may again be en- duced to trouble you. In the mean time I can only request you to remind my friends with you of the esteem I bear them And to be persuaded that that which I profess for you is preferred with the utmost sincerity. I am, Dr. Sir &c FC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). In the hand of Robert R. Livingston, and endorsed by him: “Dt. of Letter to Mr. Marebois—3d May 1780.” 1 Don Juan de Miralles, unofficial Spanish agent to the United States, died on April 28 of “a violent biliary Complaint” while visiting Washington’s headquarters at Mor ristown with the chevalier de La Luzerne. For Washington’s report on Miralles’ death to the Governor of Cuba, Diego Jose Navarro, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:316-17. A long discussion of Miralles’ illness, death, and burial, written by his secretary, Francisco Rendon, to Navarro on May 5, is in Procedentes de Cuba, Legajo 1281, Archivo General de Indias, Seville. 2 Francisco Rendon, Miralles’ secretary and successor, served as the Spanish agent in Philadelphia following Miralles’ death until 1785, when he became secretary to the newly appointed Spanish minister to the United States, Don Diego de Gardoqui. Hermonio Portell-Vila, Los “Otros Extranjeros” en La Revolution Norteamericana (Miami, Fla.: Ediciones Universal, 1978), pp. 92-100. 3 For the attempts of John Mathews and Philip Schuyler to convince Livingston that he should return to Congress, see Schuyler to Livingston, April 23, and Mathews to Livingston, April 24, 1780. Livingston, who was in New Jersey to be with his wife (the daughter of John Stevens) during the birth of their child, was wrestling with himself over attending to his duties as a delegate and had voiced concern over the crisis of public affairs in a letter to James Duane written from “Valley Lebanon” the previous day. “By this time,” he observed regarding Duane’s recent return to Con gress, “I may condole with you on the new scenes of trouble and anxiety which have opened upon you—these were sufficient to try the fortitude of any man before I left them, and, if I may judge from Letters which I have received from Schuyler, & Matthews they have not diminished since. God send you that spirit of firmness & decision, which becomes every hour more necessary. I am greatly mistaken if daily experience will not teach you that the bond which ties us together is too weak for the exertion that our circumstances require, and that the confederation even if agreed to, would only prove a nominal union. Greater powers must lodge some where, or our efforts will continue to be what they have hitherto been, weak & disjointed, & as the respect for a powerless body will every day diminish, the evil will every day encrease till the voice of the people shall vest elswhere what Congress are unwilling to trust themselves with. Or some daring genious with necessity for his plea, shall seize what they dare not give. This language would surprize you if you did Evidently discover from the ground on which you are now placed the ineficacy of resolutions, & the


[Page 110]
76 May 4, 1780 inequality of the burthens that are born by the respective states.” Duane Papers, NHi. Whatever his personal inclinations, Livingston soon left his family to confer with Mathews and Schuyler at Washington’s headquarters and was back in Congress by May 16. See Schuyler to George Clinton, May 15, 1780; and JCC, 17:432. James Duane to George Washington My dear General Philadelphia 4th May 1780 We are here in anxious Suspence for the Fate of Charles Town: it is not to be wondered at when we consider the greatness of the Stake, and the Uncertainty and Importance of the Event. The Governour, Council and Magistracy have shut themselves up in the Town de termined to share the Glory of preserving it, or to perish in the Attempt! We understand that this Resolution was submitted to with Reluctance by the principal Officers of the Army, and in my Opinion it is rather a display of Heroism then of deliberate Policy. The In fluence of Goverment would have been well employed, as far as we can Judge at so remote a distance, in preparing against a Disaster and drawing the Internal Strength of the Country to some point for it’s Defence. On the present plan the Loss of the whole State seems to be hazarded with the Capital. We learn from a Mr Cannon who left the neighbourhood of Charles Town on the 12th and parted with General Lincoln on the 9th, that the Garrison and Inhabitants were greatly elated on the Arrival of the Virginia Line; and in full ex pectation of Success: and it is his opinion that if the Maryland Line were near the Scene of Action Sir Henry Clinton woud be glad to raise the Siege. We have endeavourd to learn from Him the Senti ments of General Lincoln on the Fate of the Town: but it appears that he is as reserved in his Conversation as his Letters ’tho his Activity & Vigour inspire the highest Respect and Confidence. These Circumstances do not appear in any Correspondence and I conclude tho’ they are not very material you will not think them too trivial to be communicated. We are exerting every Means in our power to expedite the March of the Reinforcement destined for Charles Town. It is committed to the Joint Efforts of the Board of War and the Treasury and I hope every Obstacle is surmounted. I have but one wish left, that Virginia may on so decisive and interesting an Occasion be able to detach a Body of Militia which in Conjunction with the Continental Rein forcements will be sufficient to support the Communication between the Town and Country and harrass the Besiegers in their Rear. The Reluctance against the Southern Service, tho’ easy to be accounted for, is much to be deplored; and I reconcile myself to the Embar- rasments which our Weakness in that Quarter Superadds to all our other Difficulties.


[Page 112]
78 May 4, 1780 similar act of the Massachusetts General Court was laid before Congress by the Mas sachusetts delegates on May 29. See JCC, 17:422-23, 471. Cyrus Griffin to Samuel Huntington Sir, Philadelphia May 4th. 1780 The appointment of Congress to the Court of appeals does me great honor. 1 I thank them exceedingly for the confidence they re pose in my Integrity and abilities, but as the nomination was unso- lictied and even unknown to me, and being delegated by the state of Virginia to a very different employment I do not think myself justifiable in a peremtory acceptation of the office without the ap probation of my constituents. In the mean time, the state of Virginia being so ably and fully represented without my attendance, if Con gress shall think proper I will undertake the business of a Judge and endeavor to pay that attention which so important and distinguished a commission may require. I thank you, Sir, for the very polite manner in which the act of Congress has been communicated to me, and as I always profess the utmost affection for the dignified and extensive body over which you preside so believe me to be with the highest personal esteem and regard your excellency’s most obedient and very humble servant, C. Griffin 2 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). 1 See Huntington to Griffin, May 1, 1780. 2 Griffin’s letter was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 16:411. He cast his final vote in Congress on June 13, the same day that he wrote his “last letter” to Gov. Thomas Jefferson “in my oficial capacity,” for which see ibid., 17:507; and Griffin to Jefferson, June 13, 1780. James Lovell to John Adams Dear Sir May 4 1780 The Bearer Mr. Mease is Brother to the late Cloathier General 1 and is intimately connected with an Irish Gentleman here for whom I have great Regard as a zealous Republican & Friend to America. It is more on account of that Connection with my Friend than of any personal Acquaintance that I have been led to introduce Mr. Mease to your Civilities. His Care of sundry Pacquets for you would indeed alone have been sufficient to merit your Attention. I chiefly rely on Them and his Conversation to what ought to be the Task of the Committee of foreign affairs if that Comtee was not a mere Shadow without a Quorum, a Secretary or Clerk. I send regularly


[Page 121]
May 5, 1780 87 MS (MDaAr). 1 Only Holten’s letter to Joseph Palmer has been found. 2 That is, the chevalier de La Luzerne, with whom Holten dined a number of times during his term at Congress. Samuel Holten to Joseph Palmer Dear Sir. Philadelphia May 5th 1780. Four days since I was favored with yours of the 10th ulto. & thank you for the information therein given. To answer your letter fully wou’d be to commit to paper that which I dare not by any means do, & therefore I desire you to consider me as writing under restraint, ‘tho with an inclination to write freely. I consider it as unnecessary to mention to you under what dis advantages we engaged in this war with one of the greatest powers on earth, they can’t but still remain upon a mind like yours? While Congress emited bills & the good people tho’t they were growing rich, there was no great complaints (ownly of the enemies cruelty), but nowithstanding all the endeavours of congress they depreciated to such a degreee & still increasing, that the good people (in these parts) were more alarmed than by the late resolutions you are pleased to mention, & what added to the difficulty was, they tho’t it was in a great measure owing to Congress’s continuing to make paper bills; & therefore petitioned in great numbers to stop the press & tell them what to do & they wou’d exert themselves to the utmost to support the common cause; Notwithstanding, Congress was aware of the dif ficulties attending the stoping the press as well as the dangr. of keep ing it open, and of two great difficulties they chose that which they tho’t the least, & I believe have never repented it; However they took care not to stop it ‘till they were able to finish the last campaign; which they had reason to hope wou’d be the last and upon stoping the press they informed their constituents how long they cou’d go on without taxes being paid in, & let them know what they tho’t wou’d be the consequences if they were not supplied with money according to their recommendations & notwithstanding the good intentions & exertions of the people, they have not been able to supply us? And now, sir, I wou’d ask your attention to take a short view of our distressed & reduced state for four months past; an empty treas ury & a Starving army not paid for some time & poorly cloathed &c, &c, &c; Please to consider our worthy Genl, using his great influence with the exertions of congress to git the good citizens near the army to supply their wants, without which they must disband; view the civil magistrates & Citizens exerting themselves & supplying them even to the last provisions they had, & their families, in consequence thereof, ready to starve around them, coming to Congress for pay


[Page 130]
96 May 8, 1780 of specific supplies are complied with by the States. It appears that this is likely to be done with great decision and energy in the Eastern States. And if Virginia fulfils the expectation and hopes of the public, I flatter myself that however objectionable past[?] measures may be thought we shall in future stand on firmer ground than we have ever done. The terms on which the new money is to be emitted will certainly give it a more substantial and intrinsic value than the old ever had, and the experienced folly of tampering with public credit, will it is to be hoped prevent any mischief to it from that source. Our great danger at present arises from the dilatory proceedings of the States and the real difficulty of drawing forth those resources which the new System is to operate upon. The Treasury and the Army both require immediate relief; and every thing must be in a state of stagnation, to say the lea[s]t, till the contributions of Money & Stores arrive. It is not to be expected that Congress can do any thing further of themselves. The only real power they ever had of supporting the war was that of emitting money on the faith of their Constituents. Their vote for stopping the press was a voluntary re linquishment of that. They are now totally dependent on the supplies from the States. They can not execute a single measure but as the means are first put into their hands. It is absolutely necessary that the States should attend to this change of circumstances and regulate their conduct accordingly. Any further reliance on the {independent) separate resources of Congress will infallibly end in disappointment & ruin. A Vessel from the West Indies brings information that Mr Gerard & Mr Jay had arrived at Cales [Cadiz?] in 22 days from their leaving Martinique. 3 The English fleet at St. Lucia consists of 22 Ships of the line and a few frigates. They had collected their force at that place in order to make an attempt on Grenada & St. Vincents. But the french reinforcement has stopped that enterprize. The Marquis de Bouille has also strengthened those places with 800 troops sent to one and 600 to the other. The Enemy at N. York have received late despatches from Europe. But a profound silence is as yet observe[d] with regard to the news in them. An Opinion prevails there that Paul Jones is on the Coast with a small squadron. They say in their papers that the Galatea has been chased by it and that a 74 & some other ships are going out in search of it. The Marquis de la Fayette is arrived at Boston and probably will be here in a few days. 4 His return was not expected and is considered as an omen not unfavorable. I suppose you must have heard of the death of your friend Don Juan de Miralles. We were this morning on the invitation of [the] Minister of France, at the celebration of the service for the repose of his Soul. He died at Head Quarters whither he attended the Min ister on a visit to the Genl & the Army. Every mark of sincere regret


[Page 131]
May 9, 1780 97 is visible in all those who were acquainted with him. The lying genius of Rivington has converted his death into that of the Chevalr. de la Luzerne who he says was obliged to fly to the Army for protection against the vengeance of the people. With very sincere esteem & regard I am Dr Sir [Yr.] Obt. & humble Servt James Madison Jnr. Reprinted from Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:21-22. 1 Not found. 2 Apparently the new subscription rate for John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet or the General Advertiser, which had changed from a triweekly to a semiweekly newspaper on April 8, 1780. 3 See John Fell to William Livingston, May 7, 1780, note 1. 4 See Philip Schuyler to James Duane, May 6, 1780, note 3. James Duane to George Washington My dear General. Philadelphia 9th May 1780. I Judge of your Excellency’s Anxiety for the Fate of Charles Town by my own. When we have much at Stake Events, tho’ not very important, are interesting: I shall not therefore fail to give you every Intelligence which comes well authenticated from that Quarter tho’ it may probably often happen to be no more than a Repetition of your official Information. The President yesterday receivd dispatches with a Copy of a Letter from Mr Jervais, who is either paymaster or Commissary for the Detatchment of the Army to the Southward, dated the 6t Ultimo; 1 and it appears that our Cavalry under General Huger was surprized by the Enemy & sustaind a Loss of 20 men & 30 Horses: That this Success enabled the Enemy to head Cooper River, and take post on the North side, and that it will eventually compleat the blockade of the Town: That the Injury from their Operations against the Garrison is very inconsiderable; from the Land side having killed only a woman & a Child and two Privates of the Virginia Line; & set on Fire three Houses: from the Water they have made no Attack. It is the Letter writer’s opinion that if the expected Reinforcement from North Carolina arrives in any Season, the Party of the Enemy posted on the North side of the River— separated as they are from their main body—must fall into our Hands, Mr Lawrence the late President, to whom this Letter is ad dressed, observes that what Force cannot, Famine may effect. But if the Town, as it is reported, is Supplied with provisions for a Six month’s Siege, and the Fire of the Enemy shoud not become much more formidable; the danger of a Reduction seems to be very remote. The account adds—and it gives me pleasure—that Governour Rutledge & five of the Council have been prevailed on to quit the


[Page 138]
104 May 9, 1780 Delaware and Maryland are ordered to South Carolina, and have passed this City several Days since; and will be hastened as fast as possible on their March to the Southward. I am much concerned for Charlestown, hope the Country will rally, and afford such Succours as to keep open a Communication and support the garrison until this reinforcement arrives. 1 have the honour to be &c &c. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Governor Nash’s April 24 letter to Congress, which is in PCC, item 72, fols. 73- 74, was “referred to the Board of War.” JCC, 17:415. Nash wrote it at the request of the North Carolina Assembly and enclosed with it intelligence concerning the grave threat to South Carolina posed by the British siege of Charleston. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May 9. 1780. I have been honoured with your Excellency’s Despatches of the 28th Ulto and 5th instant. 1 By Letters from Martinique (via Eustatia) I have the Pleasure and Satisfaction to find that the Honble Messrs Jay and Gerard arrived safe at Cadiz on the 22d of January after a Passage of twenty five from Martinique. The enclosed Extract of a Letter from one of the Council of South Carolina will give your Excellency the latest Intelligence received from that Quarter. 2 I have the honour to be, with Sentiments of the highest Respect & Esteem, your Excelly’s obedt hbbl servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Washington’s two letters of April 28 and one of May 5 are in PCC, item 152, 8:531-41, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:312-13, 329-31. 2 Enclosure not identified. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington Sir, Morris Town May 10th. 1780 The necessary enquiries at the posts in the communication from Philadelphia hither, & the heavy rains which fell, retarded our Jour ney so much, that we did not reach this place untill the 28th Ulto. Judging it advisable to inform ourselves, as fully as possible on the general subject of our Mission, before we attempted an alteration in any of the departments, We held conferences with the Commander


[Page 139]
May 10, 1780 105 in Chief for several days succeeding our arrival. The result of which, was, that the distressed State of the army, in point of provisions, should claim immediate attention, to the arrangement of the two great staff Departments, so as, to adapt them to securing & bringing on the supplies called for from the several States, by the act of the 25th of February last. Systems for both have been attempted, & some progress made therein. We find little difficulty in establishing one for receiving, securing, issuing, & properly accounting for, the ex penditure of supplies to be furnished by the states. But, embarrass ments of a serious nature arose, through a want of money on the one hand, to pay for the transportation thereof, a want of forage on the other, in those States which are not called on to furnish any, & in which the Continental officers are probably inhibited from pur chasing, as they are in this State, & where the quota of that article, is already expended, at the same time, that the State Officers cannot go beyond the quantities assigned them. And yet, a vast land trans portation must of necessity take place, in & through States, under either predicament. The impracticability of conveying Forage from States remotely situated is too evident to require any comments on our parts. Hence, unless the States are requested to repeal so much of their laws as prohibit the Continental Officers from making pur chases, whenever Congress, or some superintending board, or Mil itary Commander, shall judge it necessary, the public service must inevitably be retarded, if not totally stagnated. Nor, should the repeal be confined, to a mere permission for procuring forage, but, be extended to every enumerated article under the restrictions men tioned. For it is beyond a doubt that cases will arise, in which the army will be resupplied in particular States, when the quotas of such States have been expended, And those of others not only so remote, as to afford little prospect of immediate relief, but, too much so, to draw the supplies from thence, on any principle of (Economy, if they could be got at hand, as the mere charge of transportation, would greatly exceed the prime cost. But the repeals We have stated to be necessary, are not alone sufficient, for unless money is immediately furnished to pay for the transportation of supplies from the different magazines in hired carriages, & to redeem the public working cattle which the farmers in every quarter hold in pledge for the payment of their subsistence through the winter every plan of supply must prove nugatory, & all we have done, or can do, relative to the ar rangement of those departments, will be inadequate to the great object. Indeed such are the accumulated distresses of the army at this conjuncture, & such the effects of a repetition of want, that it has had a very pernicious influence on the soldiery. Their patience is exhausted, by being exposed to such frequent sufferings, that they already begin to ascribe to a defect of resources, what they have hitherto been taught to believe arose from accidental impediment.


[Page 140]
106 May 10, 1780 Their starving condition, Their want of pay, & the variety of hard ships they have ben driven to sustain, has soured their tempers, & produced a spirit of discontent which begins to display itself under a complexion of the most alarming hue. If this spirit should fully establish itself, it must be productive of some violent convultion, infinitely to our prejudice at home, & abroad, as it would evince a want of means, or a want of wisdom to apply them. Either of which must bring our cause into discredit & draw in its train, consequences of a nature too serious to be contemplated without the deepest anx iety. Permit us therefore to intreat tbe immediate attention of Con gress to this necessary supply, for the purpose we have mentioned. And, for the payment of the troops, to whom the Paymaster is now greatly in arrears, and the Officers so entirely destitute, that many for want of their subsistance money, with which they made some addition to their single rations, are now reduced to the disagreeable necessity of making it their whole support. On examining into the State of provisions in Camp we find there is not more meat than will last untill the 12th Inst. Collo. Blane is come up, & we learn from him that he has no prospect of an im mediate supply of this article. The only resource we can turn our eyes to, in this exigency is, the State of Pensylvania. If they fail to make instantaneous exertions for the relief of the army—We will not pretend to say, what may be the event! Before we had an opportunity closely to view and examine into the real State of things, we had no conception of the almost inex tricable difficulties, in which we found them involved. We have stated matters plainly. We have been impelled to it by every consideration of duty, by the sincere desire we have to fulfill the views & expectations of Congress, in our appointment, And by the principles of unbounded affection for our Country. These will lead us to every exertion And without a moments delay to lop of[f] every exuberancy which can be effected without material injury. We have omitted observing that the Medical department are des titute of those necessaries, which are indispensable for the sick. They have neither wine, Tea, sugar, Coffee, Chocolate, or spirits. We wish orders may be given for an immediate supply, as the army grow more sickly every hour. Inclosed is a Copy of a letter from the Commissaries Genl, of purchases, & Issues, to the Commander in Chief. 1 We have the Honour to be, sir, with the highest Respect Yr most Obedt. Servts. P Schuyler Jno Mathews Nathl Peabody RC (DNA: PCC, item 39, 1:12-13). Written by Mathews and signed by Mathews,


[Page 141]
May 10, 1780 107 Peabody, and Schuyler. Endorsed: “Letter from the Comee sent to headquarters, May 10. 1780. Read 12. Referred to Mr Ellsworth, Mr Muhlenberg, Mr Houston.” FC (DNA: PCC, item 39, 1:1-11). In the hand of Philip Schuyler and dated “May 9th 1780.” ' Copies of this May 9 letter from Ephraim Blaine and Charles Stewart to Wash ington concerning the “distressing” state of supplies for the army are in PCC, item 3^ 1:14-15, and 3:287-90. The original is in the Washington Papers, DLC. Samuel Holten to Richard Derby Dear Sir. 1 Philadelphia May 10th 1780 Your favor of the 20th ultimo, was delivered me by Mr Millet a few days Since & as he is about sitting out sooner than I expected I can write but a few lines. You may be assured I am fully Sensible that a peace is much to be desired, and as Mr. Adams has full powers & the ultimatum of Con gress, it is to be hoped, that it may not be far off. There was a time since the war commenced that it was disagreeable to me to think of parting with Britain but that particular connection is all over forever & the kindness we have received from the King of France & that nation in General must always indear them to me; However, not as I understand some people say that we are to be provinces to France, for you may be assured, that Congress treat with no King or nation, but as Sovereign & independent, & I am sure never will. I am sorry to hear the trade is embarrassed “in the West Indies”, and I am very sure it is not known to our Good & great ally for if it was, it wou’d soon be removed! You may not be Sensible that the 11th & 12th articles of the treaty of commerce are made null & void by consent of both parties, 2 I tho’t it had been published, but I will make some more inquiry about it. It gives me some satisfaction to hear paper Bills are more in de mand in this part of the country since the 18th of March & that Congress are informed the state of Connecticut has fully complied with their recommendations respecting the currency & supplies for the army; yet I fully agree with you, it must be a peace that will enable us to put all our affairs in order. I inclose you a newspaper which contains the intelligence of the day. As I expect soon to set out for New England I hope to have the pleasure of paying you my respects in person. I am, my dear sir, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (PHarH: RG 27). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ' Richard Derby (1712-83), Salem, Mass., merchant, and a member of the Massa chusetts Council. DAB.


[Page 144]
110 May 12, 1780 appears to the Committee by an original Acct, furnished by Duff & Co to said Executors that payment of the said bill was made in Cadiz on the 20th Augst. 1779. They further Certify that the said Executors made application to the Committee some Short time after the 27th March aforesaid re questing them to anticipate the payment for the said bills Which some of the Committee declined As the Conditions upon wch. they pur chased the said bills were to pay for them as Soon as they shoud hear of their being duely honored in Europe, at the rate of Nine pounds Currency for One pound Sterling. By Order, James Searle MS (DNA: PCC, item 31). Written and signed by James Searle. 1 For the background and resolution of this case, which originated in a January 27, 1780, petition from the executors of Chevalier’s estate, see Committee of Commerce Certification, March 25, 1780, note. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear Friend Philad. 12th May 1780 I need not tell you that I was much disappointed in not meeting with you at Camp. 1 Besides the pleasure of your Conversation I had in view to consult you on business. I am now launcd forth without the Advantage of your late Observations and Experience on the Floor, and must trust to my little Stock. There are two Points which I have much at Heart and which will fall within the powers of your present important Mission. It is reported that a Quantity of Cloathing is arrived or expected from France: 2 you will see I feel the distressed Circumstances of our State Line. Let those worthy Men be provided for, as they are peculiarly destitute: and I have but feeble Hopes that any Measures in the power of our State will afford them seasonable Relief. My Feelings for them were painfully touched at a late Review. I did not indeed want such a Proof of their distress: Nor can you want arguments to awaken your Attention. The other point requires some Investigation before there will be use in communicating it, which I this moment recollect. Thus far I had written when I was honourd with your Favour of the 6t. s I agree with you that the Detention of the party to the Senecas Country affords no prospect of the Success of their Visit. I never apprehended matters were sufficiently ripend for a peace with the Six nations. Present good is their only motive to any Action; & our Enemies have the means of gratifying them. Our Friend Col. Louis’ 4 Remark to me upon this very Subject will be Justified. In substance it was this: The Six nations are fools—they will forget the Loss of their Country in contemplating the Bawbles & Trinkets bestowd upon them by the british Agents. The Oneidas claim our Protection and


[Page 145]
May 12, 1780 111 our Promise of a Residence. As far as I can Judge the Upper Castle will be the most proper. It will be a great discouragement to the Western frontiers if they are drawn down to Fort Hunter & have the Apperance of abandoning the whole county of Tryon as too insecure for the Residence of even the Indians. How far there is the necessary Soil or Accommodation for these our distressed friends at the upper Castle, Or whether they will be contented with such an Assignment I cannot decide. The Marquiss La fayette I presume is with you before this day. From Hints we may expect essential Support from our great Ally in the present Campaign. When we have more authentic Advice it will be worth communicating: but you may perhaps have speedier In formation thro’ the Marquiss. 5 We have nothing from Charles Town since my last Letter to Gen eral Washington. 6 I am pleasd to hear of Mrs. Schuyler’s Intention to visit us: Among other Reasons that we shall have the pleasure & advantages of your Company & Council. Your Publick Letter 7 is referred to a Committee And nothing will be left undone to excite this Government to exert herself for the supply of the Army. Adieu my dear Sir and believe me always, your affectionate & most Obedient Servt, Jas. Duane P.S. Present my respectful Compliments to the General, the Gentle men of the Committee & of the family. RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Duane had visited Washington at Morristown on his way to Philadelphia, while Schuyler had left Philadelphia for Morristown on April 25 as a member of the Com mittee at Headquarters, but the two had obviously missed one another. 2 Duane had undoubtedly learned that France was sending aid to America from the despatches of William Carmichael at Madrid that were read in Congress on May 11, for which see JCC, 17:423, and Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, this date, note 2. ’ See Schuyler to Duane, May 6, 1780. 4 Probably Col. Morgan Lewis, deputy quartermaster general at Albany, N.Y. 5 Duane’s surmise was correct. For Schuyler’s report on Lafayette’s visit to camp, see Schuyler to Duane, May 13, 1780. 6 That is, Duane to Washington, May 9, 1780. 7 See Committee at Headquarters to President Huntington, May 10, 1780. John Fell to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. May 12th. 1780 Being informd by Colo Lowry that the last letter I had the honour to adress to you was agreeable, it induces me to venture again, And


[Page 147]
May 12, 1780 113 doing which You were under the Necessity of advancing Your own Money. The Board of Treasury conduct strangely in this affair, for it would have been much more reputable to have informed the Mem bers that they could not be supplyed, than to have deceived them in the Manner mentioned. I remain sir, with Esteem yours sincerely, E. Gerry RC (NNPM: Signers of the Declaration of Independence). 1 Although Gerry omitted the day from the dateline, it is clear from his opening sentence that he wrote it on May 12—the day after Congress received the “Feby” letter from William Carmichael which Gerry staes was received “Yesterday.” 2 These consisted of Carmichael's February 19 letter to Congress and copies of his letters to John Jay of February 15 and 18, 1780, which he had enclosed. See JCC, 17:423; PCC, item 88, fols. 47-56; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:496-97, 502-3, 507. As proof of French friendship for the United States, Carmichael had reported to Jay on February 15, the king of France had agreed to provide annually “during the continuance of the war” three million livres “to enable us to purchase the necessaries for our army,” and in addition “to send a considerable marine and land force early in the year to America, to be at the disposition and under the direction of our general.” Word that French troops and supplies were being sent to America was formally conveyed to Congress by the chevalier de La Luzerne on May 17, after he had received offical despatches from the comte de Vergennes that were delivered to him by the marquis de Lafayette. See Samuel Huntington to La Luzerne, May 24, 1780. Samuel Holten’s Dairy [May 12-13, 1780] 12. Friday. I wrote to Mrs. Holten (no. 121) & to the Honl. Mr. Cushing at Boston. 1 I dined with the minisr. of France. 13. Saturday. I rode out with the President of Congress, Genl. Fulsom, & Mr. Ellery. We have no new intelligence this day. MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir Philada. 12 May 1780 I take the Liberty to enclose to your Excellency for the Inspection of the Legislature, Copy of an Act of the General Assembly of the State of Connecticut for carrying into Execution the Recommen dation of Congress contained in their Proceedings of 18th March last on the Subject of Finance, 1 marked No 1 and Extract of a Letter from a Member of Congress for the State of Massachusetts bay, lately


[Page 157]
May 14, 1780 123 cess. To allow six weeks from this, for that arrival is giving Competent time. In that Six weeks how much is to be done, what a variety of necessarys to be procured, what force to be purchased. Indeed my friend so much must be done that Congress cannot In time make even the necessary resolutions unless they reduce them to one, which shall lodge dictatorial powers either In the Commander In Chief, or In him, Conjointly with a Small Committee of Congress. 2 Should the latter be adopted It will be necessary to Chuse men of Abilities and Consideration, but as that Cannot always be done and that there is a necessity of temporizing, would It not be well to put Elsworth on It, as so many Supplies must be drawn from and thro the state he represents;—I wish one of you to be another, and If possible Jones from Virginia, a third. When Sir Harry Clinton receives the Account of the french Force coming to America he will In all probability raise the Siege of Charles Town If he has not taken It, In order to Concentre his force at N York or at any other point against which he may suppose our op erations will be directed. He will do the Same If Charles Town is taken, only leaving a Garrison there. In either case It appears un necessary that the Maryland troops Should prosecute their march to South Carolina as their Services will be lost, would It not therefore be well to hasten them back to this Quarter? America is much Indebted to the Marquis for his exertions In Its favor. I hope Congress will feel It, and hasten that reward so pleasing to a Sensible mind. Adieu my Dear Sir, I am Yours Sincerely, &c &c, Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Duane Papers). Endorsed by Duane: “General Schuyler, 13 May 1780. Answerd 21 May 1780.” 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780, note 2; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:11-13, 20-23. 2 For this proposal to vest a “Small Committee of Congress” with “dictatorial pow ers,” see the following entry. Committee at Headquarters Memorandum [May 14, 1780] 1 The Committe deeply impressed with the Necessity of the most immediate and Strenuous exertion to enable the Army to Take the field, to provide for its Support and for affording that Aid of Pro vision which the force of our Ally will probably Need on its arrival in these States—Wish the Gentleman going to Congress to State the Necessity of delegating to a Small Committe or other persons to be appointed, with advice of the Commander in Chief, Ample Powers


[Page 158]
124 May 14, 1780 for Drawing forth the resources of the Country on this interesting ocasion 2 —to make immediate applications to the Several States to repeal any Laws they may have made inhibiting Continental agents or officers from purchasing on this ocasion to invest for a limited time, in Congress or Such persons as Congress may appoint Dicta torial Powers—to pass Laws authorizg Congress or Such persons to impress Carpenters, Caulkers, Teamsters, waggoners, batteau men, horses, Carriages, Vessels, provisions, materials for building and in General whatever may be Necessary to enable our Military force, and that of our ally to operate with Vigour, to intreat the Legislators of the States to give the Strongest assurance to their Constituents that they will Cause payment to be made for Services done or articles furnished for the public use, if the Continental officers Should not be able to make immediate payment—to urge the States to hasten on their respective Quotas of Continental Troops—and to intrust the Supreme Executive Council of each State with full powers to draw forth such & so many Militia as may be deem’d Necessary to act in Conjunction with the Combined force of these States and france. 3 (To get rice from Carolina.} (The reduction of the Regts, absolutely necessary unless immediately fdled up, being totally unfit to take the field in their present State.} (The reduction attended with great loss to the U.S. as they can never be recovered.} {If they are to be reduced a resolution should pass empowering the Com mittee to make provision for the officers.} {The army may possibly be supplied from hand to mouth by the act of Congress, were it stationary, but was it obliged to move e contra—The army must go into State after State, in order to consume the provisions. The teams can’t go through some States for want of forage. The nearer the supplies approach the army the more teams will be required. No two states can furnish sufficient for the purpose. Besides the expence is enormous. Were the whole collected they are insufficient.} {Let the State Supplies go as far as they can, the deficiency must be supplied.) MS (DNA: PCC, item 39). In the hands of Nathaniel Peabody and John Mathews. Endorsed: “Memorandum Delivered to Congress, by Mr. Mathews, May 14. 1780.” 1 This memorandum was undoubtedly drafted on May 14, but it fits chronologically after the committee’s report of May 15, which records the decision to send John Mathews “without loss of time to Congress.” From the journal entries for May 19 and Mathews’ motion of the 20th, it does not appear that the memorandum was actually intended for presentation to Congress, but only to serve as a guide for Ma thews. See JCC, 17:438-40, 442. 2 Although the committee’s original charge of April 12 had been to reduce the number of regiments in the army and reform abuses in the staff departments, it had become quickly apparent to Washington and the committee that the condition of the army, the problems associated with state supply, and the promise of French support


[Page 159]
May 14, 1780 125 pointed to stronger measures. Thus in his May 13 letter to James Duane, Philip Schuyler had called for lodging “dictatorial powers” in Washington or a “Small Com mittee,” composed of “men of Abilities,” specifically Oliver Ellsworth, Joseph Jones, and Duane or Robert R. Livingston. And in letters of May 14 to Jones and to Duane, Washington also found it of “absolute necessity that a small Committee should be immediately appointed to reside near head Quarters vested with all the powers which Congress have so far as respects the purpose of a full co-operation with the French fleet and Army on the Continent.’’ As for members of such a committee, Washington felt that no one could be “more useful” than Schuyler. He also spoke favorably of Mathews’ “understanding and integrity,” but of Peabody he observed that “I should be willing to trust every thing to the goodnes of [his] intentions, if I had not some doubts of his discretion.” Finally, he favored the addition of Duane or Livingston to ensure a “well composed committee.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:356- 58. For the frustration of these efforts to shape the composition of the committee and to augment its powers, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, May 20; and Duane and Livingston's letters to Schuyler, May 21, 1780. 5 Remainder of MS in hand of Mathews. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Madam May 14th. 1780 The inclosed Papers will show you how the Business of Mr. A’s Accts, has been conducted with indecent Delay. 1 I presume the Treasury will draw a Bill of Exchange for the Balance. You had all the News respecting Mr. Adams which has yet to come to us. We hear some agreable Things from Mr. Carmichael at Madrid where he was preparing for Mr. Jay’s Reception who remained at Cadiz. 2 It is not necessary for you to send any Extracts to Mr. A of what is here conveyed respecting his Accounts as I have already done it in Cyphers of which I shall make duplicates. 3 I can only add to what I before said about Exchange, that you will certainly do well to get all the continental you can just at this Time. It cannot fail to be a Benefit. Yrs. with Esteem, JL RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:343. 1 For the “inclosed Papers,” consisting of the relevant congressional resolves and report on John Adams’ accounts, see ibid, pp. 343-46. 2 For Carmichael’s “agreeable” reports concerning French aid to America, see El bridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780, note 2. 3 See Lovell to John Adams, May 4, 1780. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir, May 14th 1780 I have reed, yours of the 7th 1 and have made the Enquiry you


[Page 160]
126 May 14, 1780 desired respecting the Syringe. Mr. Charter has been sick, but hopes to finish the Work in a day or two. We have had Letters from Mr. Carmichael at Madrid Feb. 19th. The Intelligence he gives is agreable so far as it goes but it chiefly relates to Florida. France will furnish us with an annual Sum of 3,000,000 Livrs. during the War to enable us to purchase neces saries. 2 Nothing can exceed our Poverty. I have not been able to get a Dollar of hard from Boston nor of Soft from the continental Treasury though I have had a Warrant on the Treasurer many days. I reed, the inclosed Letter for you by Brown the Express. 3 Your joint Information of the 10th to Congress is distressing. 4 It has been just committed to Mr. Houston, Mr. Ellsworth & Mr. Mu- lenberg who are to confer with the Council & Assembly and to cor respond with you. Mr. Partridge got to Boston in 12 days having laid still 3 of them. Our State were in favor of the Proceedings of Congress respectg the Money. I have Nothing material to communicate respecting the Nonesuch or the Stiffnibbed Pen. Yours affectionately J L RC (NhHi: Nathaniel Peabody Papers). 1 Not found; but in a brief May 16 letter Lovell informed Peabody that “I send you what you wrote for to Mrs Clarke to whom I shall pay 20 Dollrs on yr account. “I need not say any Thing of foreign News as you have had the Marqs de Fayette with you. “Every Thing looks well from abroad-, but, Good Lord! how is it at Home? 1 shall miss the post if I do not close.” N.H. State Papers, 17:391. 2 Lovell wrote "Secret” in the margin alongside this paragraph. ’ Perhaps Samuel Livermore’s April 29, 1780, letter to Peabody, which Lovell en dorsed and forwarded. See N.H. State Papers, 17:390-91. 4 See Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, May 10, 1780. Thomas Burke to Charles Pettit Monday morning [May 15, 1780] 1 Mr. Burke presents his Compliments to Mr. Pettit informs him that he draughted the letter of the 9th Instant from the Board of Treasury, and was one of the board by whom it was unanimously approved. Mr Burke never makes the Privilege of Office a cover for any language & usually speaks his sense in plain direct terms—re gardless of consequences, which he wishes Mr. Pettit to be assured he is on this occasion. Tr (MiU-C: Nathanael Greene Papers). In the hand of Charles Pettit. 1 This document, undoubtedly written by Burke on “Monday morning,” May 15, reflects the difficult and sometimes bitter relationship that had developed in 1780


[Page 163]
May 15, 1780 129 erne; whilst here the Marquis detailed the Contents of the dispatches, of which he was fully advised, to a select few. They evince the most decided determination on the part of France to Support us thro the Contest, and an event will soon take place which will announce to all Europe and America that his most Christian Majesty will not confine himself to mere professions of amity to us or to pecuniary aids. I am not at present permitted to be more explicit; 1 but a common friend of ours 2 has wished me to Communicate thus much, with the Express view that the legislature may not seperate until they hear from Congress on the Subject I have alluded to. If, therefore, there should be a disposition to a speedy close of the session, it may perhaps be proper to signify that I consider it a duty incumbent on me as their servant in Congress, to intreat the legislature may not rise, as there will most assuredly be a necessity of reconvening them at an early day. Mr. Livingston has been here and proposed to do himself the honor to wait on the legislature, but was prevailed on, to return to Congress to afford his aid on the important business which will immediately claim the attention of that body; 3 he has intreated me to mention this to your Excellency that the legislature may be advised of it; altho I am closely engaged with the committee appointed to the arrang- ment of the Staff departments. Yet if your Excellency and the leg islature shall deem my presence necessary at Kingston for the purpose of giving any information they may require, I shall with great alacrity attend. I am, Dear Sir, with every sentiment of Esteem & affection your Excellency’s most obedient Humble Servant, Ph: Schuyler. [PS.] Charlestown safe on the 1st Instant; little Impression made by the Enemy. If it is not reduced before this day, there are reasons to believe it will not be at all. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:708-10. 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780. 2 Probably George Washington, who wrote to Clinton in this same vein on May 18. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:383-84. ’ Robert R. Livingston had been prevailed upon to return to Congress to help develop support for overhauling the system for feeding the Continental Army and for the Committee at Headquarters’ proposal to lodge “dictatorial powers” in the hands of Washington or a small committee to insure effective support for the joint Franco-American armies during the coming campaign. See also the following entry; and Livingston to Schuyler, May 21, 1780. Philip Schuyler to James Duane Dear Sir Morris town May 15th 1780 In the letter which I did myself the pleasure to adress you by the


[Page 166]
132 May 16, 1780 suited the Commander in chief about the propriety of reducing the number of Regiments, and in conjunction with his Excellency fully discussed the matter, Considered It under a variety of views and Concluded that no Capital reduction could be adopted without haz ard at this Conjuncture for altho a very Considerable diminution of the public expence would attend a reduction even If the Officers retired on full pay during the war, and were to participate in every advantage And Emolument after It with those remaining in Actual Service; And Altho a variety of Embarrasment In the formation of the Division, Brigades &c &c and in the disipline of the Army result from the paucity of the numbers which Compose the Several Corps; Yet reasons exist which forcibly militate against the reduction and which arise from the following facts—The certainty that the Cam paign will be opened, and the Army take the field, before the nec essary arrangements Incident on a reduction can possibly be Effected—The particular Conjuncture of the day—The aversion which the Soldiery in general entertain to a change of Officers— The personal Attachments which Induced many to Engage In the service during the war or which has been acquired since they have been In It—The necessity of Attending to, and temporizing with the feelings of Men whose virture is put to the Severest tryal by the distresses they experience from a Combination of Almost every specie of hardship; A Consideration of these facts has led the Committee to determine not to Attempt a present reduction of more than the 5th New York, and She[r]burns and Livingstons Regiments, and we do ourselves the honor to Inclose Your Excellency Copy of our res olutions, for the reduction of these Corps. 1 it appears Improper to publish them here until Congress has decided on what terms the reduced officers are to retire from the service which decision we Intreat to be favored with as soon as may be. In considering the Subject we have Stated It became necessary to Examine Minutely the returns of the Army In detail And we have the mortification to Observe that some Companies are reduced to four rank and file—That a Majority of the Residue do not exceed fifteen—That the number of recruits which have Joined towards compleating the quotas called for by the act of Congress of the 9th February last are very Inconsiderable Indeed—That Should the de ficiencies called for by that act be furnished the army would Still be much weaker than It was Intended to be at that time, as many have been discharged and great disertions have taken place Since—That some states appear to have considered as part of their quota Citizens employed In the various Staff departments of the Army, and who were never engaged either as soldiers or Even as regimented or Inlisted artificers During the war—That from Information which the Committee has Obtained, It appears the mode adopted by several of the States, perhaps by all, to Comply with the requisition of Con-


[Page 168]
134 May 16, 1780 from the Army, and liable only to be Calld upon in future in Common with other Citizens, And retire on full pay during the War And entitled to all Emoluments after that period, that are held up by any resolutions of Congress to Officers who Should Continue to Serve in the Army during the War. All which is Humbly Submitted by, Ph. Schuyler Nathl Peabody ENCLOSURE (“No. 4”) Resolved That the executive powers of the States be severally re quired to forward to the Army with all possible dispatch, all recruits already raised towards compleating the Quotas assesed to them re spectively by the Act of Congress of the 9th day of February last. Resolved that the states be severally required to Compleat said quotas by drafts from the Militia to Serve in the Continental Army until the last day of December next Inclusive unless sooner dis charged, On the Estimates of deficiency transmitted them by the Commander in chief. Resolved that the Commander in chief transmit to the executive of the states respectively, returns of all additional deficiencies which have arisen from Casualties since the Estimates mentioned In the preceeding resolution. Resolved that so much of such additional deficiency as is occasioned by death, desertion or discharge of men who were engaged to Serve beyond the last day of September next, or during the war; be made good by the States in the Manner directed by the Second resolution. Resolved that the drafts directed to be made by these Resolutions be delivered on or before the 20th of June next, to the Inspector General or any of his deputies or assistants with the Army or with any detachment thereof, to be annexed to And Incorporated with the line of the States respectively, In such Manner as the Commander In chief Shall direct. Resolved That the Inspector General make Returns to the board of war, and to the Commander In chief from time to time Of all men received by himself or any of his deputies or assistants in virtue of the resolutions of the 9th of February last, and of these; noting the States from whom the men are received, And distinguishing those engaged to Serve during the war, from those engaged to Serve to the last day of December next Inclusive. RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). Written by Schuyler and signed by Schuyler and Peabody. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “A Letter from the comee. at headquarters, May 16, 1780, Read 22. Enclosed, 1. Return of the Army, 2. Remarks on the return, 3. Resol. for reducing certain regts., 4. Res. for recruiting the army.” Enclosures: MS (DNA: PCC, item 39). For enclosures nos. 1 and 2, which are in a format unsuited for printing, see note


[Page 176]
142 May 16, 1780 we may conclude it was in our hands as late at least as to the first of May. Great apprehensions prevail in New-York of a visit there from a naval force. A packet arrived in a short passage from England the 3d of this month, upon which two dispatch boats in less than 48 hours were sent off to Sir Henry Clinton. New works are throwing up at the narrows, and a large number of vessels are loaded with stone ready to sink in the channel. Lines are also forming across from the east to the north river just without the chain of redoubts, and the militia are continually exercising and on fatigue. Congress have lately received dispatches from abroad, down to the 4th of March. The disposition of Europe never appeared more fa vourable to our cause than at present. The resources of France and Spain will be greatly drawn forth against the common enemy this year; and America, comprehending the West Indies, will be an early and capital object of their attention. Great Britain has received a fresh denial of assistance from Russia; and has by her late insolent and piratical proceedings against the Dutch roused the spirit of that nation also against her. Nor is the like to receive any aid from Denmark, which though armed is armed against the insults of Great-Britain. No troops will be drawn this year from Germany more than to recruit the regiments already in the British service. The claims of Ireland are in a regular train, still advancing; and will probably stop short of nothing less than independence of the British parliament, which is certainly the point they ought to aim at. The conventions and committees of correspondence in England have given so much alarm that spirited measures are taking to suppress them. His majesty has been advised to break every county lieutenant that has given countenance to the late meetings and consultations of the people, which advice he has thought fit to accept, and time must shew with what success. Our agent at Nantz writes that ten thousand complete suits of cloaths for the army would be shipped in a very short time and fifteen thousand stands of arms. Cloth was also purchased for seven or eight thousand suits more. The fund in France for payment of the interest bills of exchange, notwithstanding some evil surmises to the contrary, still remains good and punctual payment will continue to be made. The credit of these States is in no danger of failing abroad, and with prudent manage ment it can never fail at home. MS not found; reprinted from Connecticut Courant and the Weekly Intelligencer, May 30, 1780. Identified by the printer: “Extract of a letter from an Hon. Member of Congress, dated Philadelphia, May 16.”


[Page 180]
146 May 17, 1780 greatest consequence that our friends in Carolina should be imme diately made acquainted with our expectations in this matter, as it may be attended with no Small influence upon their councils. As my Colleague Matthews is on a committee at Camp, 1 I am deprived of his advice with respect to that part of your letter, which hints the expediency of transmitting to Mr. Adams, a Similar commission, to that which you now hold, but have thought it best upon reflection, not to mention any thing about the matter, answering in general terms to all enquiries, that you were at Wilmington, & waiting for a Safe opportunity to embark. Should we be so unfortunate as to lose Charles Town, it will not then be too late to transmit a commission to Mr. Adams, but should our enemies be disappointed, you will in that case, I flatter myself, my dear Sir, be prevailed upon to make the attempt, & may do it with a far greater prospect of Success, if not embarrassed with the interference of another Person. We have had quires of paper from our Ministers abroad, but they contain little else but extracts from French & English Newspapers, except on one head which I have alluded to in the other page of this letter, & which prudence forbids my discussing on paper. Should any thing material take place, I should esteem it a particular favor to hear from you, & will endeavor to deserve it, by giving every degree of infor mation from this quarter. I am, dear Sir, with the greatest respect & esteem, Your most obdnt. & hum. Servant, F. Kinlock [PS.] The Marquis de la Fayette is arrived, & has, I believe, some information to communicate. Governor Morris had the misfortune, to be thrown out of his Phaeton the other day, & has lost his leg by amputation. I enclose the last Newspapers, which I beg you would be so kind as to forward to the Governor. Tr (CSmH: HM 18772). 1 Kinloch, who had been elected to Congress on Feburary 1, 1780, and first attended on March 25, had been South Carolina’s lone delegate since April 25 when John Mathews left Philadelphia for Morristown as a member of the Committee at Head quarters. JCC, 16:285. Mathews returned this day to petition Congress to strengthen the powers of the committee, but left for headquarters soon after submitting a motion to Congress on May 20. The South Carolina delegation was thus depleted until the arrival of Thomas Bee on June 6 and Isaac Motte the following month. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Dear Sr. Philadelphia May the 18th. 1780 The Inclosed newspapers under Philadelphia head Contains the Principle Part of the information we had by the last Packet from our


[Page 188]
154 May 19, 1780 wanting in numbers. Nothing respecting our domestick affairs has turned up here Since my last, that deserves your particular attention except inexcused embarrassments, and as to foreign intelligence, I apprehend you collected the chief from the marquis; Such parts as has been tho’t proper to publish you have in the enclosed paper; The “Extracts of several letters from a gentleman of good information, in Europe” were wrote by a person well known to you. 1 The intel ligence from Madrid that we reed, a few days before the dispatches by the Marquis is also agreeable. 2 We have no official intelligence from Genl. Lincoln since about the middle of April, but expect every day to hear important news from that quarter, God grant it may be in our favor. I have this moment heard that private acct, say all was safe at Charlstown the first instant. I wish you always to consider me under some restraint when writing upon our national affairs; But as I hope to have the pleasure of paying you my personal respects in the course of the summer, I will then express my Sentiments to you without reserve. Congress sit about half the last night & I expect before this comes to hand, you will receive the most pressing calls from Congress for money & supplies for we have not a moments time to lose if we expect to reap immediate advantage by the exertions of our ally in our favor. Can’t inlarge, Farewell, my dear Sir, [P.S.] Notwithstanding all our public distresses are we a penitent & reformed people, I fear we are not, & if so, what have we not to fear. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 That is, John Adams. For the letters received from Adams, see Holten's Diary, May 15, 1780, note. 2 For this intelligence, see Elbridge Gerry to Nathaniel Peabody, May 12, 1780, note 2. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Circular In Congress May 19th. 1780 Congress have reed authentic information that his most Christian Majesty is preparing to send a powerful Naval & Land force to some part of the Continent of North America. 1 This force generously calculated either to produce a diversion in our favour, or to forward the Operation of our Arms by being directed to the same object, may either by our exertions be made the means of delivering our Country in the course of the Campaign from the ravages of War, or being rendered ineffectual through our supiness serve only to sully the reputation of our Arms, to defeat the benevolent intention of


[Page 189]
May 19, 1780 155 our great Ally & to disgrace our Confederacy in the Eyes of all Europe. Every State that reflects upon the depreciation of the Currency & their own deficiency in the payment of their taxes must necessarily conclude that the Treasury is exhausted. The military departments are at a stand for the want of money to put them in motion. Congress have no resources but in your spirit & Virtue, upon these they con fidently rely. You know the value of the prize for which you contend, nor need you be informed how much you are interested in a speedy termination of this distressing & expensive war. But as the smallest disappointment in the requisitions they make may be attended with the most serious consequences, they have en deavoured so to limit their demands as not to exceed your power to comply with them. The sum for which you are called upon by the within resolution they flatter themselves you will furnish to the Treasury by the fif teenth of June at furthest, without neglecting to discharge the orders that have been drawn upon you for the whole of which, you will receive credit on your account of taxes due on the first of March last. 2 As this Money is absolutely necessary to put the Army in motion, independant of the purchase of provisions, we trust you will by no means remit your attention to the forwarding your quota of supplies, which the present exigency renders more requisite than ever. It may not be improper to suggest to you, that if a strict & im mediate collection of taxes should be insufficient to procure the nec essary sums within the time limited, it may perhaps be more speedily obtained by Loans. Congress for the greater dispatch, have thought it expedient to appoint a Committee to assist the Commander in Chief in drawing out supplies—As their powers will be inadequate to the purposes of their appointment unless they shall derive their force from the States to whom they will be under the necessity of applying. They most earnestly request you, if you should find it inconvenient to continue your sessions to lodge such powers in your Executive, or some part of your Legislative body, as will enable them at this interesting period on the application of the Committee to call forth the resources of your State. 3 Congress trust that these requisitions will not appear unnecessary, when compared with the information on which they are grounded. In the importance of which they doubt not that you will find a suf ficient Apology for the demand, and the warmth with which they intreat you to carry these measures into immediate execution. By Order of Congress Sam Huntington President RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). In a clerical hand and dated and signed by Hun-


[Page 190]
156 May 19, 1780 tington. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To the several States from New Hampshire to Virginia inclusive.” 1 See Huntington to La Luzerne, May 24, 1780. 2 For this May 19 resolution, adopted in response to a recommendation of the committee appointed to consider the consequences of the arrival of French land and naval reinforcements for the coming campaign, see JCC, 17:433, 436-38. 5 See JCC, 17:439-41. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Sim Lee Sir Philadelphia 19 May 1780 I am directed to acquaint you that there being but one Delegate from Maryland attending at Congress that State is not represented. That Matters of great Importance are now lying before Congress, which require the United Councils, and vigorous Exertions of all the States; and it earnestly requested that Maryland may be represented in Congress as soon as possible. 1 With great respect & Esteem, I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s hbble servt, Sam Huntington President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For Congress’ May 17 resolve directing Huntington to urge Maryland and Dela ware to send a representation to Congress, see JCC, 17:435. Huntington also wrote an identical letter this day to Delaware president Caesar Rodney. Although several matters of importance were before Congress, this resolve was undoubtedly adopted at the request of New York, which had long been pressing for a congressional decision on the Vermont issue. See New York Delegates to George Clinton, May 21, 1780. For Governor Lee’s May 26 letter to John Hanson and John Henry urging “an immediate Compliance” with Congress’ request, see Md. Archives, 43:182-83. The two Maryland delegates took their seats in Congress on June 14 and 23 respectively. Robert R. Livingston to George Clinton Sir [May 19, 1780]' I wrote to your Excellency yesterday. I trouble you again about matters of a private nature if those can be called so in which the honor & justice of the publick are materialy interested. On the last assessment I was rated at £3300. By a Letter reed, yesterday from my Agent I am informed that I am again rated at £9000 & that the whole of my income notwithstanding the most assiduous endeavour to collect it does not amount to 600 Bushls. of wheat. I have no personal property & occupy a small farm which does not half pay the expence of cultivating it. The profits of a valuable profession & my whole time I have devoted to the publick for a very triffling compensation which I have seldom reed, but to give to others who I thought more distressed than myself together with considerable


[Page 194]
160 May 20, 1780 72-76; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:476-78, 515-16, 529-30; and Jay, Papers (Morris), 1:715-16, 737-38. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. 20 May 1780. On the Receipt of your Excellency’s Favour of 11 March last, I made it my Business to cast about for some Mode in which Colo. Diriks might be employed to better Effect for the Publick and more agreeably to himself, than was the Case at that Time and unfortu nately continues so still. 1 Finding that suitable Expedient was attain able, I informed him in such Manner as to deserve, as far as possible, your Excellency’s recommendation of my Frankness and Candour. Shortly after this some Circumstances turning up which it was thought probable would call the attention of Congress more partic ularly than heretofore to the Affairs of Holland, Colo. Diriks, with the Advice of his Friends, applied for Leave to return thither with a Recommendation to Mr. Laurens for Employment, the means of defraying the Expenses of his Passage, such Testimony in Favour of his Merit as might be thought proper and the Commission instead of the Brevet of a Lieutt Colonel. Congress were not willing to grant the first and last of these requests, lest they should embarrass Mr. Laurens, to whose Discretion they had confided the Employment of such Persons as he should find necessary in managing his Mission; and lest they should make an improper use of Rank in the army, upon which Subject they have for some Time past become very cau tious. The Resolutions which they passed not being satisfactory to the Colonel, they were revoked. He has lately made a second appli cation, which has been referred to a Committee to which I happen to belong. 2 How sucessful our report may be, I am not able to con jecture; but am not greatly sanguine though for some Reasons, not of Moment to detain your Excellency, I advised the Application. It remains only that I do my utmost for a Man who is active, informed, and closely attached to our Cause, and who, I believe, from his Con nections in his own Country, would be very useful to us there. As Mr Laurens has not yet left America, and we have some Circum stances favouring his Return to this Place before he sails the Matter is delayed a little for the present and I have to assure your Excellency that I shall continue to pay due Attention to your Ideas on the Sub ject. I am extremely sorry for Mr Laurens’s Disappointment in not being able to embark from Charlestown, agreeably to his Expecta tions when he went from hence. The State of Affairs in Holland is,


[Page 209]
May 22, 1780 175 three delegates were reappointed a committee to consider “means” for discharging the certificate debt issued by the commissary and quartermaster departments. For their May 24 report and the resolves adopted by Congress on May 26 recommending that the states declare such certificates receivable by collectors of Continental taxes, see JCC, 17:441-42, 455-57, 462-66; and Samuel Huntington to the States, May 29, 1780. See also PCC, item 69, 2:201-4; Pa. Council Minutes, 12:360; and William C. Houston to William Livingston, May 26, 1780. As currency finance gradually disappeared as an option for meeting Continental obligations early in 1780, the issuance of certificates by staff officers, often resorting to force, had become the principal device for meeting the army’s needs. As E. James Ferguson observed of the system, “the line between purchases and impressments was vague and unmeaningful,” and in 1780 a large certificate debt became concentrated in Pennsylvania where procurement efforts to meet the demands of Washington’s army increasingly focused. Pennsylvanians had understandably become alarmed at the trend, and therefore insisted upon legislation for making certificates receivable for taxes levied to meet Continental requisitions. For the work of Ellsworth’s committee and discussion of some of the practicalities and fiscal intricacies debated at this time, see William C. Houston to William Livingston, May 26, 1780. For analysis of Con tinental fiscal policy and the steps taken by Congress in May and in August 1780 to cope with its massive certificate debt, see E. James Ferguson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 64-68. See also Philip Schuyler to Ezra L’Hommedieu, June 10, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 22 May 1780 I have the Honour to enclose for the Use of the Legislature a Boston Paper of the 8 inst which I have this Day received by Post, containing the Act of the Legislature of the State of Massachusetts bay on the Proceedings of Congress of the 18 March last, relative to Finance. 1 I think it my Duty to communicate every Thing on this Subject which comes to my Hands, as to me the Matter appears of the most indispensible Importance; but shall not detain further upon it, having already explained myself pretty fully. I only beg Leave to observe, that if I had not thought the Interest of the State deeply concerned, I should not have been so explicit, especially since I have heard that a Variety of Sentiments prevails among those who are certainly capable of judging. This has aroused my Caution, but upon a careful review of the whole Subject, and Examination of all I have read and heard, I must still venture to say, that Something is necessary to be done, and that no Expedient appears to me so promising and adviseable, every Circumstance considered, as the one now in Ques tion. By communicating the several Acts as I receive this I do not expect that the Legislature will be so much influenced by Example, as as sisted in framing a Law on the Subject. It may indeed be Matter of Encouragement that the Measure is elsewhere adopted, but as one


[Page 211]
May 23, 1780 177 1 The “Act of the Legislature . . . relative to Finance” appeared in both the Boston Gazette, and the Country Journal and the Independent Ledger, and the American Advertiser on Monday, May 8, 1780. 2 For Congress’ appeal to Delaware, see Samuel Huntington to Joseph Reed, May 24, 1780, note. 5 See the preceding document. 4 Houston is apparently referring to the events of Friday and Saturday, May 19 and 20, when Congress, responding to La Luzerne’s May 16 memorial apprising Congress that French forces were being sent to America for the coming campaign, passed several resolutions which were communicated to the states in Samuel Huntington to Certain States, May 19, 1780, which is probably “the Letter” to which Houston referred. James Duane to Alexander Hamilton Dear Sir, Philad. 23d May 1780 The Marquiss de la fayette handed me your favour of the 14 Instant which woud have been sooner Answerd had not my Time been fully employd. 1 You will learn the difficulties of constituting a Commitee plenipo. from another Channel; tho’ a little Reflection upon human nature and a republican Government, might have brought them fully to your View without Assistance. What is not committed Congress stand ready to Support by their united Voice and Efforts, being resolved to Act with Vigour and Decision; so as to render the present Cam paign glorious & Successful. The Committee have all the powers Congress can give to render them useful in drawing forth Supplies; & in opening the Necessary Communications with the Civil Govern ments. As to Military operations they must rest solely with the Com mander in Chief; & Congress will not suffer any of their Committees to interfere in the Exercise of his free Judgement. Sometimes advice might be useful, but it is possible it might embarrass; & that Possibility woud have been enough to decide against the Powers had there been no other Objection. The Marquiss I hope is pleased with the respect paid him by Con gress; if it is not altogether agreeable it was not for want of the best and kindest Intentions. He luckily did not think, or at least speak, of the Captain of the Frigate as it must have embarrassed exceedingly from an opposition between the point of Propriety, & a disposition to please a Man to whom America is much indebted & who deserves to be gratified and is in every Respect entitled to my utmost atten tion. 2 I agree with you my dear Sir that the Conjucture is critical and that much Very much depends on our employing it to advantage: Vigour and diligence in Government and Zeal and Liberality in the People must in the embarressd State of our Affairs conspire to give us a prospect of Success and prevent our disgrace. To you who see things in their true Light I shall not enlarge. May Love and Glory unite to make you as happy as I wish & then you will have nothing


[Page 212]
178 May 23, 1780 more to claim your Sollicitude: for I am with real Esteem & Affection, Dear Sir, Your most obed Sert, Jas Duane PS. Present my respectful Compliments to the Family; comprehend ing Miss Schuyler. I have said nothing of Charles Town as Mr Kinloch who has the best Intelligence is careful to communicate every thing to Mr Matthews. The Approaches of the Enemy are Slow but they seem to gain Ground & to maintain it by a decided Superiority. I wish my Judgement & my wishes on this interesting Occasion were better reconciled. RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). ' Hamilton’s May 14 letter to Duane, pleading for the adoption of Washington’s proposal that a small select committee be empowered to manage the American activ ities required for effective cooperation with the French forces enroute to the United States, is in the Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:321-22. See also Duane to Philip Schuyler, May 21, 1780, note 2. 2 In his May 14 letter, Hamilton had explained that the marquis de Lafayette desired Congress to adopt a resolution of thanks for Louis Rene Madeleine, comte de La Touche, commander of the French frigate L’Hermione on which Lafayette returned to America. William Ellery to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia May 23d. 1780. Since my letter by the last post 1 I have been informed that Genl. Cornell, who was chosen first delegate by the Assembly, was to set out very soon after the election; so that in all probability the money I requested might be sent me by the first delegate that should come on will not come by him. I have now to request your excellency that it may be transmitted as soon as possible for the reasons assigned in my last. I have applied to my acquaintances for a small sum to pay my washer woman and cannot even get that; so scarce is it and so difficult to be had. One of them told me that he had been offer’d thirteen per Ct. for two hundred dollars. I have a warrant on the treasury which I would sell, and sustain the loss of a discount if I could do it; rather than sustain the reproach of repeated dunning, and of continuing here at the expence of the State without being in a capacity to be useful to it. I am not the only poor delegate here, many are in the same circumstances, and have been obliged to write to their States for a supply of Cash. I hope that this matter may be attended to, and that my earnest request may be complied with. We have no late accounts that may be depended on from Charl estown. Yesterday it was reported that the enemy had attacked the works on the 25th ultimo and were repulsed. This day’s report is that no attack had been made on the 28th, that the enemy had


[Page 213]
May 23, 1780 179 cannonaded them for 15 days with but small effect. That they had invested the town; but our troops were in good spirits and deter mined to hold possession to the last. If they have held out to this time it is my opinion that the enemy will abandon the siege. The letter which your excellency will receive from Congress before this reaches you contains the foundation for this opinion. There is a prospect of an active campaign. I wish we may be prepared to oppose them vigorously with the force which may come to our assistance and compell our enemies to be at peace with us. I am in haste, but with great respect, Your Excellency’s, most obedt. humble Servant, W. Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Staples, Rhode Island, p. 289. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ' See Ellery to Greene, May 16, 1780. John Fell to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. May 23d. 1780 By Mr. Faish I had the honour of Receiving a Letter from you, inclosing one for Mrs Potts, which you suppos’d came from me, or Mr. Stewart, neither of which was the case, as we neither of us know any thing of it, having never seen it before, and in order that you might have no further trouble about the letter, I have given it to Mr. Bradford the Commissary of Prisoners, which I hope will meet with your approbation. I am much oblidg’d to you for your Particulare care with regard to John Hopper, Your Letter to Congress was Read, I said all that I could on the Occasion, but as I expected, without any Effect. The Letter was Committed but no Report has yet been made. 1 I have nothing new to communicate, And am with the highest Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt Humble Servt. John Fell RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). ' In his May 7 letter to Livingston, Fell had described the case of John Hopper of Paramus, NJ., and asked the governor for a “Recommendation.” On May 16 Liv ingston appealed to Congress to reimbuse Hopper for the house and mill that had been “burnt by the enemy” while attempting to dislodge an American detachment quartered in the house. The presence of the Continental troops, Livingston explained, not “the Violence of the Enemy according to the common Fortune of War,” had occasioned the destruction, and such losses “should be made good by the Public.” See PCC, item 68, fols. 541-44. Livingston’s letter was read in Congress on May 22 and referred to a committee which reported on May 24. On June 1 Congress resolved that Hopper’s case was “not distinguishable” from numerous others and, until peace was restored, it would be inexpedient to consider “the particular relief of such suf ferers.” Livingston was formally notified of Congress’ decision by President Hun tington on June 3. See JCC, 17:444, 459, 480-81; and PCC, item 15, fol. 14.


[Page 223]
May 25, 1780 189 to induce the utmost exertions to fill the magazines, which the com mander in chief has directed to be formed, would be needless, as a matter of such importance will certainly claim the most immediate attention of the legislative and executive powers of the States. Congress, in their act of the 25th of February last, have not called on the States for the transportation of any of the articles of supply, enumerated in that act, beyond the limits of the State furnishing the same. If the officers, whose business it is to direct the transportation, were, or could be furnished in time, with money, for that service, it would probably supercede the necessity of any intervention of the State: As they are not, nor is it probable they can be, even with the best exertions of the States, we humbly recommend, that authority be given by your legislature, to the executive authority, or to such other persons, as they may think proper, to furnish such carriage to the officers acting under the authority of Congress, or their com mittee, as may be needful, to convey those supplies, or any other, for the public use to the Army, or to such posts and places, where they may be required: And that until the public officers shall have cash in hand to pay for the same, we intreat the legislature of your State, to give assurances to its citizens, that speedy and effectual measures will be taken to make payment of the debts which may be thus incurred, and remain unpaid, with an interest of six per cent, per annum, as stated in the resolutions of Congress, of the 19th instant. It is more than probable necessity will require, that some States should be called upon for additional supplies to those apportioned to them in the Act of Congress of the 25th of February last; both because our Army, and that of our ally, may take such a position, as that supplies from remote States cannot be brought; and because some States are so exhausted, that they cannot even furnish the quo ta’s assigned them: It therefore becomes essential that similar powers to those stated in the preceding paragraph, should be lodged in the executive authority, or other persons, for furnishing such extra-sup- plies, on the application of this committee, or officers appointed for that purpose: And to this matter we also intreat permission to draw the attention of your legislature. As it would be hazarding too much to depend on the precarious supply of horses and carriages, which might be furnished by the inhabitants occasionally, to move the ar tillery, baggage, and stores immediately attached to the Army; and as the aid of the States to procure the horses and carriages in the present exhausted State of the public Treasury, is evidently necessary, we are also constrained to intreat the attention of your legislature to this capital object, and to request that the executive authority, or other persons, may be empowered to comply with the requisition of this committee, or persons by them authorized for that purpose, on the condition mentioned in the paragraph next preceding the last.


[Page 227]
May 26, 1780 193 James Duane to George Washington My dear General, Philadelphia 26th May 1780 We have Intelligence from Charles Town which leaves it in our possession as lately as the 3d or 4th Inst, and we may from the Silence of the Enemy at New York extend our Hopes to the 10th or 12th. The best and most direct Account is to our Friend Mr Jones from Gen Woodford. He has this moment promised me to communicate it to your Excellency which he will do much better than I can from my Memory;' otherwise I should attempt it. The Contempt with which Sir Henry Clinton treated the propositions of the Garrison is a sufficient proof of the strong Confidence he entertains of Success: and indeed the gradual Approaches, and the Contiguity, of his Works, which we have not been able to prevent, or even obstruct, free him from the Imputation of Presumption. The determin’d Res olution of the Garrison to defend the Town to the last Extremity will do honour to our Arms, and woud go far to relieve my Appre hensions, if I did not see the utmost probability of their being pushed from the only defensible Ground in our possession, by the Weight of a superior force, operating under an impenetrable Cover, with all the Advantages of deliberate Caution, and military Skill. If, under such discouraging Prospects, we shoud come off Conquerors it will be a further proof of one of the mottos which we have appropriated to our Cause, and often seen verified—nil desperandum! North Car olina is in motion, but something is always deficient. The want of arms is now the Cry! A St. Kitts paper, which you have probably seen gives an Account of a naval Engagement between the French and English Fleets in the West Indies. 2 It is so palpably absurd that nothing can be collected from it, but that there has been a Rencounter. More Authentic In formation is impatiently expected. Be pleasd to present my respectful Compliments to Mrs. Wash ington, the Gentlemen of the Committee, and of the Family; and to give me leave to assure you, that with All possible Attachment and Regard—I have the Honour to remain, Dear Sir, your Excellency’s most Affectionate & most Obedient huml Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This letter from Joseph Jones has not been found, but Washington acknowledged receipt of it in a letter to Jones of May 31. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:452- 53. 2 Undoubtedly an account of the April 17 battle between the French and British fleets in the West Indies.


[Page 229]
May 26, 1780 195 Cash, and being open to Frauds, Impositions and Abuses of many Kinds, were to be obviated. The same caution suggested the Pro priety of the Oath or Affirmation. I must however observe here, that if the Legislature find they have, in general, passed from the first Holders, and that the Transaction ought to be countenanced, as far as it has proceeded, it is not impracticable to give the Transferrees an opportunity to pay them in, under the Oath or Affirmation of those named in the Certificates, which might not be attended with bad Effects if confined to Transfers already made. In some Cases, indeed, this would be attended with Trouble, and in others it would be impossible; but I should think comparatively few. The Case of Executours and Administratours would also seem to require partic ular Attention. I have not mentioned, what I have often suspected, that where assignments of these Certificates have been made the Purchasers have taken Advantage of the Sellers. Many of them may, perhaps, have been bought with the best Motives; but in such Cases as these the ignorant and credulous are too apt to become the Prey of the de signing, and the far greater Number may have been obtained at a shameful and oppressive Discount. I have heard of Paymasters in the Army who, under Pretence of being without publick Money, have offerred to buy Soldiers’ Dues with their own, at one Half or two Thirds Value, and put the Proceeds of the Negociation into their own Pockets. I do not say that any of the Staff Officers in the civil Departments of the Army have done such Things, or procured them to be done, for I do not know it. I am well assured many of them are too honest to be guilty of such management, but it is not the general Impression of the People that they are all Saints. It will be noted that the Resolutions extend only to such Certifi cates as have been already given; and this will not I suppose, affect our State as the State-Purchasers have now the Business under their Direction, where doubtless a better Superintendence can be exer cised, and more Honesty and Economy will take place. In many Cases the Certificates paid in will be above the Amount of the Tax due from the Person paying them. Therefore that he may have Credit for the Surplus, and have it afterwards discounted, he ought to receive a Voucher as his Evidence from the Collectour, which the Law will particularly check and describe. And by exam ining the Resolutions of 6 October last, and those referred to, as well as of 5 January and 21 May preceding, 4 it will appear a Matter of Consideration, whether the respective State ought not to be charged with the Interest on that Surplus, because an Interest is allowed to the State on the whole Amount paid in, of which this Surplus is a Part. It was necessary to except, as in the Proviso, Orders already drawn, because they are generally, if not altogether for similar Purposes


[Page 230]
196 May 26, 1780 with these Resolutions, to discharge the Debts of these large Staff departments, and also the Requisition of the 19th instt 5 for the ex press Purpose of putting the Army in a Condition to move, should Necessity require it, or the interesting Event, which we are taught to expect early in this Campaign, take Place. On the whole of this Matter if the Legislature, upon Consideration of Facts and Circumstances, should find that the Provision made by these Resolutions will avail to the Relief of the People, in the Extent to which they are carried, it will be the more fortunate, as the Object will be attained without deranging other Parts of the publick Meas ures; but if, as I suspect, they are not adequate, the Legislature, as best able to judge, will determine how far they can be extended compatibly with the other Objects of publick Concern, particularly the Resolutions of 18th March last, and the Exertions of the opening Campaign. Could it be depended on that an Option to the Holders of the present Bills of Credit, to bring them in for Exchange with the new Bills to be emitted, so that the Benefit of the five Millions intended to be raised in the Course of the thirteen Months and a third, by the Plan of Finance lately recommended, might not be lost, would take and operate effectually, much might be ventured. There can be little reason to doubt it, if the advantages of a stable medium are duly considered; but it must also be confessed that no Certainty can be predicated of that which is not only future and contingent, but also depends on the different Ideas of so many different Indi viduals. The Amount of the Continental Taxes due from the State to the 1st March last, is five Millions, two Hundred and seventy Thousand Dollars; the Orders drawn, including the Requisition of the 19th inst are to be counted against this; and how far the Balance will be over or under the Remainder of the Taxes paid in, the Knowledge the Members have of the State of the Collection in the different Counties, will enable the Legislature to decide. I have more than once heard it mentioned, that in the Counties where few publick Purchases had been made the Taxes were generally paid up, but that great Arrears remained in the Counties where such Purchases had been principally made and of Course these notes or Certificates given. It is to be recollected that by the Resolution of 6 March, 6 it was recommended to the State to take Order respecting the Purchases made in Consequence of General Washington’s requisition of last winter. Part of the supply then sent to the army, was, I suppose, procured by the State-Purchasers, and Part by the Continental Agents, and many of the Debts yet unpaid will probably fall under the Provisions made by these Resolutions. I am to inform Your Excellency that we have, as yet, no further Information from the Southward, tho that Charlestown becomes more and more closely begirt by the Enemy. Very little Damage has


[Page 232]
198 May 26, 1780 to have the vote of the State entered upon the journals of Congress against its essential interests, if he supposes they have any in this controversy. You will feel with me for poor Morris’ misfortune, & will therefore receive some satisfaction in being informed that he is in a fair way of recovery. Present my compts. to the Genl. & the family & the Marquiss. I need not mention the ladies, for they are of course in cluded in remembrances. I do not know whether you have it still in view to make your preparation towards Canada. If you should an expedient which I mentioned to the Marquiss would give it some complection—The ordering boats to be built to the northward—The sending Arnold to command there since the enemy would naturally conclude that if any thing of that kind is in Agitation he would be employed & if known at Philadelphia they will not long be ignorant of it. If it shd. be inconvenient to him perhaps it might be sufficient to let him be served with an order (with private permission to stay where he is) & in the mean while to make publick preparations for his departure. We have accounts of a very severe engagement between the fleets in the West Indies but nothing from which we can form any other judgment, than that they treated each other very roughly, & made a drawn battle of it. I am Dear Sir, with great esteem, Your Most Obedient & Hum. Servt Robt. R. Livingston RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 See Livingston to Schuyler, May 21, 1780. 2 The report of the committee “appointed to confer with the Minister of France on the subject of supplies,” to follow up decisions reached on May 19 concerning the anticipated arrival of French troops enroute to America, was read in Congress this day. For this report and resolves adopted the following day to implement the com mittee’s recommendations concerning the preparation of Continental ships to be de ployed in cooperation with the French fleet, see JCC, 17:466-69; PCC, item 25, 1:197- 98; and Samuel Huntington to the States, May 29, 1780. ’ For the considerations involved in countermanding the original decision to assign Maj. Henry Lee’s legion to the southern department for the relief of Charleston, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, June 6, 1780, note. 4 See New York Delegates to George Clinton, May 21, 1780, note 4. 5 That is, Nathaniel Folsom. Philip Schuyler to George Clinton D’r Sir, Morris Town, May 26” 1780. Should the State agreable to General Washington’s Request com- pleat the regiments to 504, I conceive it will Suffice instead of a new draft, to Convert the 800 men now raising to that purpose, tho probably the Situation of affairs will require they should remain to the Northward. If so—I would advise the State to inform the general


[Page 233]
May 27, 1780 199 of it, as I shall be on the Spot & will try to remove any difficulty which might arise. Letters from Philadelphia announce a Naval engagement in the West Indies between the two capital fleets in that quarter, in which the French Flag was triumphant and drove the British into port. The particulars are not Stated; corroborating advices have also been re ceived from the Eastward, and both wear the Complexion of truth. A Dangerous mutiny has taken place in a Connecticut Brigade; the Soldiery insist on returning home. 1 It is for the present quelled, but we have too much reason to apprehend that it will shew itself soon and more seriously unless provisions arrive. The Officers live chiefly on bread & water to give the men all they can, and the latter have for ten days past much oftener been without than with any and at no time when that period have they had more than half allowance. Our greatest distress is in the article of meat. I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, most Sincerely your Excellency’s Obedient Humble Serv’t Ph: Schuyler. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:759-61. RC (N:Clinton Papers). Charred. 1 For the mutiny of two regiments of the Connecticut Line at Morristown on May 25, see Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, May 28, 1780. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Dear Sir, Philada. 27 May 1780 I have the Pleasure to acknowledge your Excellency’s Favour of 24 inst received by the Hands of Mr. Clarke. Mr. Hand has been so obliging as to call on me to-day and will deliver this with mine of yesterday to your Excellency. I have some Reason to believe he will be an Accession to the Affirmative for the Finance bill. Having no particular News I shall not trouble you farther. Am your Excellencys most obedt and very hble Servt. William Ch Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). Samuel Huntington to the Marquis de Bouille Sir, Philada May 27. 1780 I am honoured with your Letter of the 23d of March last by Mr Bingham.


[Page 243]
May 29, 1780 209 2 Schuyler clearly began composing his response to Washington’s questions on May 28 and apparently completed most of it at that time or shortly thereafter. In his June 5 letter to James Duane, he referred to this “answer,” but without acknowledging the surrender of Lincoln’s army at Charleston, the circumstance to which he is obviously referring here. Schuyler undoubtedly drafted these final paragraphs between the time he learned of that event and the “July 7th 1780” date appended at the close of the letter, but probably after he returned to headquarters on July 5, for which see Schuyler to John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody, July 6. Samuel Huntington to John Bradford Sir, Philada May 29. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 27th Instant directing you to dispose of three Hundred Hogsheads of the Sugar in your Hands as Continental Agent, for Money, and transmit the same to the Continental Treasury without Loss of Time not withstanding any former resolution of Congress to the contrary. 1 I am Sir &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “John Bradford Esquire Agent at Boston.” 1 See JCC, 17:470-71. For the “former resolution of Congress to the contrary,” apparently one adopted December 2, 1779, instructing Continental agents not to dispose of prize goods coming into their hands, except perishables, “without orders for that purpose,” see JCC, 15:1342. Samuel Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters Gentlemen, Philadelphia May 29. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed three Acts of Congress, of the 19th, 26th & 27th Instant, by which you will be informed among other Matters, of the Measures adopted by Congress to obtain the necessary Supplies for the Army, as also to aid & assist our Ally in obtaining such Supplies as they may need, and to facilitate the Co operation of such combined Forces as may be engaged in the ap proaching Campaign. 1 The Act of the 16th 2 would have been forwarded at an earlier Period for your Information and Direction had I not understood that the Honble Mr Mathews was possessed of it before he last left the City. We are yet kept in anxious Suspence respecting Charles Town. I have the honour to be, with Esteem and Respect, gentlemen, your most obedt & hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President 3


[Page 245]
May 30, 1780 211 Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May 29. 1780 I have been honoured with your Letter of the 19th Instant covering duplicate Despatches for Governor Rutledge, one of which I sent forward by Express the same Hour it came to hand and sent the other by the Post. 1 Enclosed your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 26th Instant submitting to your Discretion the Mode of carrying into Execution the Act of Congress of the 21st of April respecting an Agent or Commissary of Prisoners. 2 I have also enclosed a Copy of the Communication received from the Minister of France of the 16th Instant, which should have ac companied my former Despatches with the Acts of Congress of the 17th & 20th Instant, 3 of which last mentioned Acts I have also en closed Copies, there being an Error committed by the Secretary in the former Copy, which you will please to note, in the Act of the 20th, The Committee at Head Quarters are said to be requested to confer with the Minister of France, on the means of supplying the Forces of his most Christian Majesty &c where as it should be, the Committee who brought in the report as expressed in the Copy inclosed. We still remain in anxious Suspense respecting the Fate of Charles Town. I have the honour to be, with the highest respect & Consideration, your Excelly’s most obedt & most humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 The journals do not record the receipt of Washington’s May 19 letter and there is no copy of it in PCC. It has been printed from the draft in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:385. 2 See JCC, 17:462; and Huntington to Washington, April 22, note 1. 5 See Huntington to Washington, May 20, note 2. Abraham Clark to William Livingston Sir, Philada. May 30 1780 Last evening and this morning we were Amused in the Town by a Report from Charles Town that the Enemy having made two As saults on the 8th & 9th Inst, had been repulsed with the loss of about two thousand killed & wounded; And that a French fleet was off the Bar & had taken possessn. of Stono & the Shipping there. These flattering Accounts upon enquiry Appears to have but little foun dation; I can find no intelligence to be relied upon more than con-


[Page 251]
May 30, 1780 217 inclose the Gazette and tell you to be cautious about believing the very good Reports from the Southward which will travel on from hence to you. I do not despair about the Safety of the Garison at Charlestown but there is nothing at present to boast of. Your affectionate humble Servant, J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir May 30th. 1780 You will, e’er this reaches you, have had many Reports of grand Doings in our favor at Charlestown, but nothing absolute is here known except that Fort Moultrie is in the Hands of the Enemy. We do not venture to assert that there has been a second assault upon the Lines. Col. White & Col. Washington have escaped after being “surprised” 1 by the Enemy. They swam their Horses over Santee River the deepest & most rapid thereabout. I pity poor Lincoln, but really I do not yet give up Charlestown. We must reserve for more laughable Times several Matters which have turned up near Home. Broadhunt is returned, and is going to live at Baltimore. Tr n 2 will not see a Body on the opposite side of a narrow Street—But, I cease. I am running into Tete a Tete Subjects. I have pd. Shield. But I have got not a line from Mr. H 3 nor one Half Joe from Boston. Yrs affectionately J L RC (Nh-Ar: Miscellaneous Revolutionary Documents). 1 At this point Lovell inserted a caret, to which he keyed the following comment in the margin: “The Letter writer should have said overtaken as they were returning with Prisoners and had actually embarked them.” ! Lovell’s meaning is unclear. ’ That is, John Hancock. New York Delegates to Marinus Willett Dear Sir, Philadelphia 30th May 1780 We received your favour respecting the Reduction of the 5th New York Regiment attended by a Memorial from the officers of that Corpse. 1 It will be sufficient to assure you that it had the full Effect you wish; as Congress convinced of the hardship of dismissing mer itorious officers at the Instant of opening a Campaign which promises to be active, have unanimously resolved that it is not expedient to


[Page 252]
218 May 30, 1780 reduce any of the Line. 2 Give us leave to request you to communicate this agreeable Intelligence to the Gentlemen interested in it, and to assure them of our best wishes for their Happiness. With regard to your own Appointment to the Command of the Corps, be pleased to be referred to an Act of Congress passed on the 16th September 1776, 3 by which it is declared that the Appoint ment of all Officers and filling up Vacancies, except general Officers, be left to the Governments of the several States. Congress conse quently have no Authority to interfere. The Legislature of New York will we are perswaded take great pleasure in this opportunity of doing Justice at An officer of your distinguished Merit. If any Intervention of our own coud be proper or Serviceable you may freely command it, for we are with great Regard, Dear Sir, your most Obedient, huml Servants, Jas. Duane Jno. Morin Scott RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts, Willett). Written by Duane, and signed by Duane and Scott. 1 Lt. Col. Marinus Willett had writen at least two letters to the New York delegates protesting the “reduction” of the “fifth New York Regiment.” In his second letter of May 24, 1780, Willett entered a “caveat against the reduction” of that regiment and repeated his claim to the command of it—“This I am anxious to have compleated as soon as possible because it is my right.” Miscellaneous Manuscripts: Willett, NHi. 2 Congress took this action this day. See Samuel Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters, May 31, 1780. 5 JCC, 5:763. Willett was appointed commander of the 5th New York Regiment on July 1, 1780. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 436. Philip Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston My Dear Sir Morris town May 30th 1780 In my last 1 covering the letter from Governor Clinton I apologized for not having answered your favor of the 21st since which I have had the pleasure of yours of the 26th Inst, which was delivered me last evening. When assurances had been given by Congress to France of an Effectual Cooperation with any force she might send, when not a single Adequate Step had been taken to bring the promised number of troops into the field, or to Supply them properly, when Congress was Informed that the armament from france was Actually ordered hither when they had every reason to believe It would arrive here by the last of June, It seems unaccountable that they should not have taken bold and decisive measures to have preserved the honor and promoted the Interests of this Country. What have they done? They have appointed a Committee 2 with powers not to draw forth the resources but merely to apply to the States for those resources, And


[Page 254]
220 May 30, 1780 neither the one or the other. We cannot Attempt the recovery of Charles town; the french force would be Inadequate; and we cannot make a detatchment because we have no salted meat and the Live Stock cannot be sent, And It would be too Imprudent to depend upon the precarious supply of the Country. Where then can we point our Operations, to Penobscot, that does not seem an Object of Suf ficient Importance, Niagara we cannot approach In this Campaign unprepared as we are, and the Enemy have no other posts, within the united States, and beyond them It seems by the resolutions of the 20th May and those of January, that the General cannot point any oper ations. Is it wise thus to limit him? 4 If we cannot reduce the first Object N York, should we not Attempt the Second? I think we should, the reduction of Canada is Important. It secures the whole chain of fronteer down to Virginia, enables you to Act with more vigour on the sea board, The temper of the Canadians affords you an Almost Certain prospect of Success—five thousand men In addition to the french force would be amply Sufficient, and these, If the States have the Exertion to Compleat their battalions as the General & Com mittee have proposed they shoud, could be spared from an army here to act only on the defensive. Why then If we should discover the Imposibility of operating with any probable prospect of success against N York, should we not adopt the only Alternative which Seems left, If those who think like me on the Subject mean to Attempt an extension of the Generals power? It might be well to point In their arguments at Halifax as an object. This might Induce the East ern members to Join in extending the powers of the Generals. Measures have been adopted to turn the Enemies attention to Canada but they will not succeed for they will obtain the knowledge that our operations are to be confined to these states. The secret cannot be kept, large popular bodies are equally Incapable of Secrecy as of dispatch. Colo Sheburne 5 whose regiment is reduced wishes to go to Hys- paniola as Consul or Mercantile agent. Wether such an Officer is to be appointed or not, It may be well to mention It to General Cornel, he wishes It, and I have promised to mention the Matter. A little Management will attach him to you. Make my Compliments In your own terms to the female Circle of our acquaintance, Alas! I am become a man Emmerzed In business— business, that tax on pleasure, that bane to the system of the laughing philosopher. Adieu my Dear Sir, I am most Sincerely Your affect Friend & Humble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 Not found. 2 That is, the Committee at Headquarters.


[Page 257]
June 1, 1780 223 Excellency will observe, they deem it not expedient at present to make any partial Reduction in the Army of the United States. This Resolution passed in Consequence of a report from the Com mittee at Head Quarters for reducing some of the New York Bat- tallions, and a Petition from a Number of the Officers in those Battailions, earnestly intreating they might not be constrained to leave the Service now at the Opening of the Campaign. 1 Your Excellencys Despatches of the 27th Instant have been re ceived and laid before Congress. It is painful to reflect upon the Distresses and Difficulties therein mentioned. I presume Congress will not be wanting on their part to do every thing within the Compass of their Power to remove them. 2 I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excelly’s hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Washington’s May 27 letter pleading the distress of the army “for want of meat,” and reporting the recent mutiny of two Connecticut regiments because of the hard ships they had had to endure, is in PCC, item 152, 8:579-85; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:428-32. See also James Duane to Washington, May 30, 1780, note; and Committee of Congress to the Pennsylvania Council, this date. Committee at Headquarters to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. In Committee of Congress. Sir, Morris town June 1st. 1780. The commander in chief has laid before us letters from General Howe commanding at West point, 1 and from the commissaries at that post and those depending; from those we have the mortification to find that there is not a days provision in the garrison of any kind, that that which had been lodged in the redoubts, and the most pos itive orders given to preserve it for the subsistence of the garrison in case of an attack from the Enemy, has thro’ necessity been also expended. 2 It is exceedingly improbable that the Enemy should be ignorant that the garrison now subsists from hand to mouth, and as they have the highest inducement to attempt a reduction of that post, we ought to suppose they will; (Indeed private intelligence has been received that the[y] contemplate it) as soon as the troops from Car olina arrive, and they are hourly expected. Should they gain it, the consequences would be distressing in the highest degree; permit us to state one. The French force is expected to arrive in an Eastern port, to co-operate with them against New-York or any other point ours must of necessity cross Hudsons river, hence if the Enemy is in


[Page 258]
224 June 1, 1780 possession of the fortresses in the highlands as the quantity of flour east of Hudson’s river is so amazingly inadequate to the supply of such an Army as we ought to bring into the field, we should have to convey it, from the Delawar by the circuitous route of Sussex County in this State, thro’ Orange and part of Ulster in that of New York, thence by a long land transportation to the point of operations, but all the carriage that could be collected, would be incompetent to the business. And if even a sufficient number could be obtained, yet the forage on the rout would be exhausted before the Army could operate offensively. Thus every prospect of makeing an impres sion on the Enemy in this campaign, must vanish—the succour of our ally prove rather a misfortune than an advantage—the disaf fected encouraged, and a spring given to their hopes, if even the result should not be more fatal. It therefore becomes indispensibly our duty not to lose a moment in furnishing that post so amply as that the garrison may maintain itself, until this Army can march to its relief. Your exertions, Sir, and those of the State over which you preside, we are no strangers to, and we note with confidence, that they will be evinced on this occasion, both in a supply of salted and fresh meat, the former cannot be dispensed with in a seige, as cattle cannot be maintained in the redoubts which cover the capital fortress, nor be thrown in if the Enemy should invest them. We have to intreat your Excellency to keep the substance of this letter, as secret as possible, least the Enemy should take an advantage before the supplies can be thrown in. We have the honor to be, With perfect Esteem and respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedient Hble servts. Ph. Schuyler Nathl Peabody 3 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In the hand of Abraham Brasher and signed by Peabody and Schuyler. 1 Over a dozen letters from Gen. Robert Howe written in April and May 1780 are in the Washington Papers, DLC. ! For which see Washington’s June 1 letter to Howe, Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 18:463-64. ’ The copy of this letter in the committee’s letterbook, which was created at a later date by secretary Abraham Brasher, also includes the name of John Mathews as a signer of this letter. Brasher probably used Schuyler’s unsigned draft of the letter for the text of his letterbook copy and apparently assumed that Mathews had signed the RC. See PCC, item 11, fols. 198-99; and item 39, 3:81-84. This day the committee officially appointed Brasher as its secretary and Benjamin Brown as his assistant, although it is clear that Brasher had been serving as committee secretary for more than a week. See PCC, item 11, fol. 293. On May 30th, for example, Brasher had responded on behalf of the committee to a request from Joseph Howell, Jr. & Co. for information concerning the terms under which hides and shoes would be delivered to the army, for which see PCC, item 78, 12:33-34; and item 11, fol. 260.


[Page 265]
June 2, 1780 231 of February last, but the requisition on your State, as on others, for extra-supplies, could not be dispensed with, and the amount thereof, together with the transportation of any, must be charged in account with the united States. We have not apportioned to your State any flour, beef, salt, or hay, as we were apprehensive that calls might be made on you from the Southward, should that not be the case, you will forward as much beef, and flour, monthly, as will amount to about a fifteenth part of the quota assigned you of those articles by the act of Congress of the 25th of February last. What follows, is circular. We believe it would be advantageous to the States in general, that the carts, oxen, and horses, should be procured by hire, in preference to purchase, as the drivers who will then accompany them will be more careful of the cattle; should your State adopt that mode, we recommend that the contracts may be made, payable in specie, or in paper money equivalent, and that the value of the carts, waggons, oxen, and horses, should be appraised on oath, and a return of the appraisement be made to the quarter master general. As the object against which the military operations will be directed cannot be positively ascertained, we have it not in power to call on you for a determinate quantum of transportation, but believe it will be considerable. The continental troops already engaged, and with the Army, to gether with the addition requested by the generals letter of the 25 ultimo, to complete the batalions to 504 rank and file, will still, in his opinion, and our own, be inadequate to insure success, in the intended operations. In our circular letter of the 25th ultimo, we intreated your legislature to adopt measures for drawing forth your militia, on the shortest notice. We have now to request that such arrangements may be made, as that your quota of militia, which, with the concurence of the commander in chief, we state at (The number of militia requested from the several states, is contained in the first column of the estimate of supplies, see page 63) 3 rank and file shall rendezvous at the Army, or at such posts and places, as the General shall direct, by the fifteenth day of July next, at furthest, and to continue in service for the term of three months, computing from the day of their arrival at such rendezvous, as aforesaid. Such of the supplies, herein required, as made part of the quota assigned to your State, by the act of Congress of the 25th of February last, and which it is requested you will transport to, and deliver where the quarter master general or commissary general shall direct, will be receipted for by the Continental officers appointed for that pur pose, before either they, or your agents, convey or transport the same beyond the limits of your State. If however such continental officer should not be present, you will give directions, that the weight, or quantity of the articles may be estimated, and an account, or


[Page 267]
June 2, 1780 233 but next day feeling better I went again and on a Persumtion that I should continue well, Mr Houston unluckily took a Jaunt in the Country and next day I was very Ill, but thank God I seem now quite Recoverd except a sore face which suppose was occasiond by the fevor, and Prevents my going out yet. I hope your Eyes are got well. Yesterday I had a Letter from Peter, 1 he tells me Mrs. Fell has also got sore Eyes, which she never had before in her Life. However if she has sore Eyes and a sore [Throat] it is not to be wonder’d at, to be in such a [. . .] and miserable situation at Our time of Life. After the late unfortunate affair at Paramus I wrote her and begged her for Gods, as well as for her own, mine and Our Sons to quit Petersfield and come here immediately, but she has more Prudence and forethought then I have, she has desired to know if I can maintain her, to which I must answer in the negitive, as I cannot by my allowance maintain my Self. Then what is to become of the Old Negroe, the Horses, Cattle and furniture [. . .] questions Put so home that I cannot get over them. My Daughter Colden 2 is now with her Mamma and she writes me, she will take a Jaunt in the Highlands If I will meet her there, which I intend to doe as I think it will be a means of Restoreing my lost health in this dead hole. I expect Peter here soon and if I can get him setled here, I shall goe soon after. I find by Mr Clark my absence has been of no bad consequence as they have been the chief of the time on the Vermont Business. I am told there is good Accounts to day of the French Victory over the British In the West Indies. Rivingtons Pompious Acot. [of Captur]ing Charles town I do not beleive one word of. My situation is so truely distressing that am quite out of Spirits. If I have any inquiering friends in your Quarter Pray remember me kindly to them. And believe me to be with great Esteem, Your Sinceare Friend, John Fell RC (NjR: Robert Morris Papers). 1 That is, Fell’s son, Peter. 2 Elizabeth Fell, who had married the grandson of Cadwallader Colden, former lieutenant governor of New York. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 2 June 1780 I take the Liberty to enclose for the Use of the Legislature, The Act of the State of New-Hampshire on the Proceedings of Congress of 18th March last, relative to Finance.On former Occasions I have


[Page 269]
June 2, 1780 235 first will be necessary on the part of Mr. Swan as Jack writes me he had 500 dols. of his money left and his Horse and Saddle &c to dispose of. I am surprised no more Tobacco has come down as the persons owing it promised it should be down as soon as the Roads were in order. I have written to Mr. Jones about it. A Gazett ex traordinary of Mr. Rivingtons was brot. here yesterday giving an acct, of the surrender of Chs. Town on the 12 th ult. But from various circumstances the Truth of the intelligence is much questioned. A day or two will clear up our Doubt. Sr. Jno. Johnson with three Companies of Regulers and a party of Indians are laying waste pt. of the Frontier of New York, having burnt and destroyed many Houses and killed and taken many of the Inhabitants and it is said the Enemy are collecting in considerable Force at Montreal with design to distress our Frontier. 3 It is not improbable the Indians united with some British Troops and Tories may be troublesome this Summer in resentment for Sulivans treatment the last year wch. served rather to provoke than destroy or ruin. The engagement between the Fleets in the W. Indies appears to be indecisive and it depends upon another struggle to determine the Superiority. I will so soon as it shall be in my power make the inquiry you desire abt. the Maryland Certificates but believe you may be sooner informed by application from Mr. Carrol than from me. It will I think be difficult to get any of them here. With Compts. to yr. Lady, I am, D. Sr, yr. most obed. Servt. Jos. Jones RC (ViU: Hunter-Garnett Papers). 1 James Hunter (1721-84) managed the public stores at Fredericksburg and operated a nearby iron works that was vital to the war effort in Virginia. See Mason, Papers (Rutland), l:lxii; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 4:329-30. ’John Dawson (1762-1814) of Spotsylvania Co., Virginia, a student at Harvard College. DAB. 5 General Washington’s May 27 letter reporting these alarming developments had been read in Congress on May 31. See JCC, 17:473; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:428-32. James Lovell to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia June 2d. 1780 I think it my Duty to forward to you for the Information of the Honorable Council Copies of some Papers in the Office of the Sec retary of Congress necessary to explain a Resolve of that Assembly passed on the 30th of May in Respect to an Officer of the Line of the Troops of Massachusetts who thinks himself aggrieved. 1 Your most humble Servant, James Lovell


[Page 270]
236 June 2, 1780 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “Honble. President of the Council of Massachusetts.” 1 The “aggreived” officer was Col. John Bailey, the commander of the 4th Mas sachusetts Brigade. For his complaint that he had been repeatedly passed over for promotion, which led him to request permission to resign if he could not be appointed brigadier, see Samuel Huntington to Bailey, June 10, 1780, note. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir. June 2d 1780 Though I presume you will not, you cannot now go with Mr. G 1 yet I must renew my Hint to you that you would not go into any domestic confidentials in Regard to what used to be the midnight Subject of our Fam[ily]. 2 You cannot think of all the Reasons I have for renewing this Caution. Yrs. affectionately, J L RC (Nh-Ar: Miscellaneous Revolutionary Documents). Endorsed: “Rec’d June 5th answer’d the 6th, by Master James S. Lovel.” 1 That is, Elbridge Gerry, who was returning to Massachusetts via Washington’s headquarters at Morristown. 2 The “midnight Subject” has not been discovered. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia June 2d 1780 I have written several private letters to you since my arrival here, 1 which as they contained matters that I should be sorry should fall into other hands, I could wish to know had been received. If your Excellency has written any acknowledgments of them, they have never reached me. Mr. Griffin tells me he has seen several letters just reed, by Mr. Bingham from Martinique 2 which give information that three suc cessive engagements have taken place between the Fleets in the W. Indies, the two first of which were indecisive but that the third was so far in favor of the French that the English had gone into port, and left the former entirely master of those Seas: that they were gone in consequence of it to invade Barbadoes, and that the general ex pectation was that both that Island and St Kitts would speedily be in their possession. It appears from sundry accounts from the Frontiers of N. York and other N. States, that the Savages are making the most distressing incursions under the direction of British Agents, and that a consid erable force is assembling at Montreal, for the purpose of wresting


[Page 273]
June 2, 1780 239 New York Delegates to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 2d June, 1780. The Want of a competent Representation in Congress to decide on the Business of the Vermonters still continues. 1 We wish however for some intermediate act to check their Career, and it is in the Expectation of such a Measure that Major Hunt is prevailed on to delay his Journey a few days longer. We had the Honour of writing to your Excellency on the 21st Instant by the post; among other things we mentioned the necessity of our Legislature’s providing some fund for the support of their Delegates, and of a speedy remitance to disincumber us from the debts we have already contracted for our Subsistance. Lest that Let ter may have miscarried we beg leave to repeat that the Inconveni ence of permitting members to draw money out of the publick treasury at their pleasure called for a Check; it was not less improper with respect to the Community than indelicate as it regarded the Applicant. It is true that we gave into the practice but it was not that it ever had our Approbation: general acquiescence only gave it Sanc tion. At present the publick Exigencies are such as to close the Treas ury against the private Wants of even the members of Congress, and we must entreat your Excellency to recommend a suiteable Provision for us without Loss of time. They demand from us £270 Cont. money a week for a gentleman & Servant exclusive even of Table beer, every thing else is in proportion, and exchange 60 for one. We take it for granted that it is the Intention of the Legislature that our Expences should be defrayed and we wish for no more. If we should be asked for an Estimate it is our opinion that the Value of six dollars a day specie will be no more than sufficient. It is indeed a third more than the original Allowance to the delegates of our state: but it must be observed that every Article of Expence to which we are exposed is raised to double it’s former price. We enclose your Excellency a Resolution of Congress to establish the post you recommend; 2 and we hope that it is expressed in the manner you wish and that it will answer the Ends you propose. The general Measures pursued at Head Quarters to oppose the Irruptions of the Indians and British into our distressed state cannot but meet with approbation and produce salutary Effects: But horror and dev astation will always mark the footsteps of those dastardly foes; and while no adequate Defence can be provided against the Assassin & Incendiary we must be exposed to feel with inexpressible Solicitude and regret the reiterated Sufferings of our frontier Feilow Citizens. We are still anxious for the Fate of South Carolina. Rivington by a handbill has made a present of it to Sir Henry Clinton: but the Tale is not credited.


[Page 274]
240 June 2, 1780 We shall have the pleasure of writing again to your Excellency by Major Hunt, probably in a day or two. And remain with the highest respect, Sir, your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servants, Jas. Duane. Jno. Morin Scott. P. S. Neither of Us have as yet received one Shilling from the Treasury. J. M. Scott has attended ever since the 18th Feby last. J. Duane RC (N: Clinton Papers). Written by Duane and signed by Duane and Scott. Tr (Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:777-79). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. ' Despite this assertion, Congress did take explicit action on the Vermont contro versy this day, censuring Vermont officials for claiming independent status and en joining them “to forbear and abstain from all acts of authority . . . over the inhabitants of any town or district” claimed by one of the parties to the dispute. Congressional proceedings on the New Hampshire Grants claims were then postponed, but Congress pledged to resume its inquiry into the case “as soon as nine states, exclusive of those who are parties to the controversy, shall be represented.” See JCC, 17:482-85. See also New York Delegates to Clinton, May 21, note 3 and June 5, note 1; and Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 6, 1780. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Clinton, June 3, 1780. Philip Schuyler to Benedict Arnold My dear Sir, Morristown, June 2, 1780. The letter which I did myself the pleasure to write you on the 11th of May, you had not received when yours of the 25th was writ ten. 1 In that I advised you that I had conversed with the General on the subject which passed between us before I left Philadelphia; that he appeared undecided on the occasion, I believe because no ar rangement was made, for he expressed himself with regard to you in terms such as the friends who love you could wish. When I received yours of the 25th May, I read it to him; he was much engaged; next day he requested to know the contents again. I put it into his hands; he expressed a desire to do whatever was agreeable to you, dwelt on your abilities, your merits, your sufferings, and on the well-earned claims you have on your country, and intimated that as soon as his arrangements for the campaign should take place, that he would properly consider you. I believe you will have an alternative proposed either to take charge of an important post, with an honourable com mand, or your station in the field. Your reputation, my dear sir, so established, your honourable scars put it decidedly in your power to take either. A State which has full confidence in you will wish to see its banner entrusted to you. If the command at West Point is offered, it will be honourable—if a division in the field, you must judge


[Page 275]
June 3, 1780 241 whether you can support the fatigues, circumstanced as you are. 2 Mrs. Schuyler proposes a jaunt to Philadelphia; if she goes I shall accompany her, and have the pleasure of seeing you. She joins me in every friendly wish; please to make my respects to your lady and her amiable sisters. Believe me, with the most affectionate regard and esteem, Yours, most sincerely, &c., &c. Philip Schuyler. MS not found; reprinted from William B. Reed, Life and Correspondence of Joseph Reed, 2 vols. (Philadelphia: Lindsay & Blackiston, 1847), 2:276-77. 1 Schuyler’s May 11 letter has not been found, but Arnold’s letter of the 25th concerning “who is to have the Command of the No. River” is in the Schuyler Papers, NN. 2 For Arnold’s efforts to secure command of West Point and the development of his plan to betray the post to the British, see James T. Flexner, The Traitor and the Spy. Benedict Arnold and John Andre (New York: Harcourt, Brace and Co., 1953), pp. 307-17. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, June 3d. 1780. The Gentleman who will have the honor to wait on your Excellency with this letter is the honourable Elbridge Gerry Esquire, one of the Delegates of the State of Massachusetts Bay, who is returning from Congress after a term of more than three years faithful service. He will be happy in paying his respects to your Excellency and in com municating any information in his power. 1 I have the honour to be, with the highest Respect, Your Excellen cy’s most obedt. humbe. servt. Oliver Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Gerry, who had been boycotting Congress since February, left Philadelphia this day to return to Massachusetts. Enroute he planned to confer with various state of ficials, especially concerning fiscal affairs, on which he had acquired considerable expertise because of his long service on the Board of Treasury, and with the Committee at Headquarters at Morristown. There he also agreed to undertake an additional mission for the committee, for which see Committee at Headquarters to Gerry, June 11; and Gerry to Robert Morris, June 11, 1780. Gerry’s first stop on his journey home was Trenton, NJ., from which he wrote the following letter to Ellsworth on June 4. “I have only Time to inform you that I have conferred with Governor Livingston this morning on the subject of obtaining Supplies of money by promoting the exchange of the old Bills for new, at the rate established by Congress. He entirely approves of the Measure and is determined to use his Influence for giving it Effect, as the best Means for speedily supplying the Treasury. It now rests with you to expedite this business by sending on the new Bills to the several states with all possible expedition, & you are so well convinced of the Importance & nescessity of this, as to render every argument in favour thereof, unnecessary. The Assembly of this State are considering


[Page 287]
June 5, 1780 253 It is thought most proper, & likely to be attended with least Em barrassments that the french Commissary Monsr de Corny should make his Purchases with the same Currency with which the Conti nental Purchasers procure Supplies for our Army; and that proper regulations be observed to prevent Competitions among the Pur chasers. From the Character this Gentleman sustains I doubt not he will render himself agreeable, and his Conduct acceptable, and take the Liberty to recommend him to the favourable Notice of your Excel lency. I have the honour to be &c &c &c, S. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To Governors Livingston, Clinton, Trumbull & Green.” In the original resolve drafted for enclosure with this letter, the executives of New York, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire were specified. JCC, 17:489. 1 Dominique-Louis Ethis de Corny (1736-90), was the French commissary of war who had accompanied Lafayette to Boston in April to make preparations for the arrival of the French expeditionary force enroute to America under the command of the comte de Rochambeau. Lafayette’s arrival was the first good news Congress had re ceived in some time, and as it coincided with British victories in South Carolina the welcome accorded him was extraordinarily enthusiastic. When it became known that he brought news of the impending arrival of a French army, plans for launching a Franco-American attack against New York City came to dominate Washington’s stra tegic thinking for the 1780 campaign. Such an offensive would require new recruits and an enormous amount of provisions, and Lafayette was at the center of arrange ments that were made during the following weeks to coordinate deployment of the allied forces. In addition to the logistical work of Corny, Lafayette was also aided by the French minister La Luzerne who often intervened in congressional affairs to promote the various measures required by Rochambeau’s arrival. For the work of Corny and Lafayette at this time, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 3:1-2, 20-24, 28-31, 39-40, 45-49, 55. 2 For La Luzerne’s May 16 memorial notifying Congress of French plans to send troops to America, and Congress’ May 20 resolve for conferring with the French minister “on the means of supplying the forces of his most Christian Majesty,” see Huntington to La Luzerne, May 24, 1780, note 2. For Congress’ resolves of May 27 and June 5 that resulted from conferences held with him for “promoting harmony and forwarding the common views of France and America,” and to ensure the co operation of state officials for Corny’s procurement activities, see JCC, 17:466-69, 487-89. Huntington also sent Congress’ June 5 resolves for cooperating with the French under cover of a brief note to La Luzerne this day. PCC, item 15, fol. 17. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia June 5. 1780 I have been honoured with your Letter of the 31st Ulto covering Rivingtons Gazette extraordinary. 1 I have received no official Intelligence from the Southward of the Surrender of Charlestown.


[Page 288]
254 June 5, 1780 All the Information from that Quarter which is come to hand, I received this Day in a Letter from Governor Nash, covering Copies of a Letter from Govr Rutledge to him, and of an intercepted Letter signed James Simson Copies of all which are enclosed. 2 Your Excellency will observe, that although Govr Rutledge’s Letter of the 16th of May was enclosed in the Letter from Governor Nash of the 25th of May addressed to me, yet he takes the Liberty to doubt whether Charles Town had surrendered; that the Account wants Explanation though I fear it may eventually prove true. I have this Moment received authentick Information that the Span iards have taken Mobile, the Garrison consisting of about 800 regular Troops are made Prisoners, the Articles of Capitulation which are come to hand you will see in the Paper enclosed. 3 I have the honour to be, with the highest respect, your Excelly’s obedt hbble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Washington’s May 31 letter to Huntington is in PCC, item 152, 8:587; and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:454. 2 Hutington’s enclosures, all in the hand of Charles Thomson, are in the Washington Papers, DLC. They consist of (1) a May 25 letter to Congress from Gov. Abner Nash of North Carolina; (2) a May 16 letter to Nash from South Carolina governor John Rutledge; and (3) an intercepted May 5 letter from James Simpson at British head quarters near Charleston to a Rev. Wickman of North Carolina encouraging the loyalists of the Carolina backcountry to hold themselves in readiness to join their British liberators. Simpson, the last royal attorney general of South Carolina, was an adviser to Sir Henry Clinton on southern loyalism. Although Governor Rutledge had conceded to Nash that he no longer doubted that Charleston had surrendered, Nash avowed that he would not forward such a report until he could “obtain a certainty of the fate of Charlestown.” 3 See William C. Houston’s third letter to William Livingston, this date. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 5th. 1780. This day the President of Congress received a Letter from Gov ernor Nash, enclosing a Copy of one that he had received from Governor Rutledge; Copys of both I have transmitted to you. 1 From Mr. Rutledge’s information, and from a handbill published by Ri vington, I fear Charles Town has fallen, & the Troops made Prisoners of War. This will be a severe blow to us if true & there is but a bare possibility to hope it is not so. I need not have Posted to Phila. in the haste I did, As the business relating to Vermont was the occasion of the Summons. The New York Delegates are impatient to subdue the people setled on the New


[Page 291]
June 5, 1780 257 “of Fryday last” seemed to indicate that they “were given a second reading” this day, a more likely interpretation is merely that the June 2 resolutions were printed over the week-end and received a proof reading this morning before Secretary Thomson certified them with his signature. There is no mention of the subject on the journals of Congress this day. See New York Delegates to Clinton, June 2, 1780, note 1; and Burnett, Letters, 5:192n. See also Nathaniel Folsom to Nathaniel Peabody, this day. 2 See Samuel Huntington to George Washington, this date, note 2. Philip Schuyler to James Duane My Dear Morris town June 5th 1780 My friend General Arnold Complains that he has not received a line from me since I left Philadelphia. I am however not culpable, and my letters must have miscarried, to prevent the like I take the liberty of Inclosing one to him. 1 When the Commander in chief afforded the Committee here a perusal of the resolutions of the 20t ult. the necessity of secrecy on the Contents, was mentiond, and I believe no Communications have been made by any of the Gentlemen, nor by the General or any of his family, And yet I find some people here are advised that the Operations are to be confined to the united States, and that If the Minister of France is not Informed of them, he will soon be; what will be Consequences? I fear more favorable to us, I have already in a former letter 2 Observed on the Impropriety of the restriction, and every reflection I make on the Subject convinces me more and more of It. I could point out to you as I have done to the General In answer to some questions which he stated to me on what ought to be the object of the military operations, 3 that they cannot be pointed to the Southward, except in one case and there is not the most distant probability that that will happen, but to transcribe what I have said on the Subject would require more time than I can at present spare. You {have seen) will see our last letter to the States, 4 and the Estimates which Accompany that to Congress of this date, you will observe how vastly deficient we are in what is necessary to prosecute an Enterprize where such a force is required, as is stated In the letters. Is it probable these can be procured under the present circumstances? I really think not, and that restricted as the General is, little advantage is to be expected from this Campaign, Indeed I wish we may not be Exposed to disgrace and ruin. Webbs regiment wants several Officers, the General will write to Congress on the subject. 5 I wish the promotions may take place, and the General requested to recommend the officers to the vacancy. Capt. Van Dyke who has suffered so much In New York, who under the severest tryals has abided by and maintained his principles has a claim to our Attention. Let me Intreat my Colleagues to aid


[Page 292]
258 June 5, 1780 him In procuring some appointment he wishes to be in the naval line, 6 every body about head quarters speaks well, very well of him. Will you be so good as to send me the newspapers, pray do not forget a box of Segars. Mrs. Schuyler wishes to return to Albany, I believe I shall Accompany her, will It be proper for me to request that a member be appointed In my place on the committee here, or will that be of Course, pray advise me. I shall not be long absent from the Army but I wish to be with It as a volunteer, that I may not be confined as I am at present. For one that has been a General Officer to Attend the army as a Committe man, when It takes the field, is rather a disagreeable sit uation, It will be more so when the French troops Join. Adieu re member me to your Colleagues, to the ladies of the house, and the Virginia Gentlemen with you. I am Dear Sir, with great Esteem & Affectionately Your Obedt, Hum Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Duane Papers). ' See Schuyler to Benedict Arnold, June 2, 1780. 2 See Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston, May 30, 1780, note 4. 3 See Schuyler to Washington, May 28, 1780. 4 Committee at Headquarters to the States, June 2, 1780, note 4. 5 Washington apparently did not broach the subject of the officers of Col. Samuel B. Webb’s Additional Continental Regiment until he wrote to the Board of War on July 5. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:123-25. Webb’s regiment had been re organized on April 9, and the Connecticut Assembly on May 11 had authorized its incorporation into the Connecticut Line. In July it was redesignated the 9th Con necticut Regiment. See Wright, The Continental Army, p. 238; PCC, item 39, 3:469; and Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, July 23, 1780. 6 Capt. Abraham Van Dyke was appointed on July 24, 1780, lieutenant of marines on board the Continental ship Saratoga. JCC, 17:612, 650-51, 661. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Dear General Philada. 6th June 1780. I am now to answer or rather acknowfledge] the receit of yr. favour of the 10th Ultimo—as being but a few days here, I shall rather give you a Scetch of present appearances & things to be early apprehended than at present attempt any formal answer to yours. The French troops (expected to be about eight thosand including Marines) are not yet arived tho’ daily expected either into the Del aware Bay, or at Rhode Island—of the Land forces, 5000 effective is said to be the nearest mark, these in conjunction with ours, aug mented by Militia to the number of 40,000 men, are thought of to form a Blockade agst. N K. This effort if made will try our finances & other resources (I mean provisions, Forage, Waggons &c) to the very bottom—the treasury is already empty or nearly & of


[Page 299]
June 6, 1780 265 I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect, your Excellency’s most obdt. humb. Sert. Oliver Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). 1 Ellsworth most likely enclosed this day’s Pennsylvania Packet, which printed Gov. Bernado de Galvez’s letter on the capture of Mobile. 2 See Ellsworth to Trumbull, June 8, 1780. ’ For the official arrival of New York’s act to implement the congressional resolves of March 18, see New York Delegates to George Clinton, June 16, 1780, note 3. 4 This day’s Pennsylvania Packet printed the Pennsylvania act for “Funding and Re deeming the Bills of Credit of the United States.” Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June the 6th. 1780 Last evening I Reed, your Favor of the 8th of May 1 and you may Rely upon it nothing Shall be wanting in my Power to forward the new Emission as Soon as it can be got Ready—which I Expect will be in less than a month. We have Reports to day from all Quarters that Charlstown is taken but no Certainty from any Quarter. However it Seems we have Rea son to fear it will be the Case Soon. We have not yet Reed, any authentic accounts of the ingagement in the Westindes boath Sides Claiming the Victory but we have the most Reason to believe the English came off Second best. The Derangement of our finances and the length of time it takes for the new Plan of Supplying the army to take Place Creates many Difficultys in the Camp and trouble on that account in Congress. I am Sr. with grate Respect your most obt. Humle Servent. Nath. Folsom P.S. I Rote you last Fryday 2 on the Subject of your Letter, hope you will Recive it. RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 Not in PCC. 2 Undoubtedly Folsom’s letter to Weare of Thursday, June 1. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia June 6th. 1780 I have the honor of inclosing a copy of a letter from Governor Rutledge of S. Carolina to Governor Nash of N. Carolina, which came to hand yesterday by express; 1 I am sorry the contents are so


[Page 303]
June 6, 1780 269 ommending that Lees corps be ordered immediately to resume its march, no such resolve of Congress was entered on Secretary Thomson’s journal. The issue was moot, however, for even before he received this directive Washington had already decided to order Lee’s corps to return to the main army in consequence of his certainty that Charleston had fallen. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:179, 183-84, 238- 39, 258, 397, 488-89, 19:51; JCC, 17:491-92; and PCC, item 1, vol. 27. James Madison to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia Jun 6th. 1780 A Vessel from West Florida has brought to the President of Con gress intelligence from Govr. Galvez of the surrender of Mobile. No other particulars than those contained in the inclosed paper are men tioned, except the verbal report of the Capt. that the Garrison con sisted of about 800 including inhabitants &c. Seven or eight vessels have just arrived from the W. Indies as you will also observe in the inclosed paper but they bring no satisfactory information concerning the late engagements between the two fleets. The Address from the Genl Assembly was yesterday immediately on its receipt laid before Congress and referred to a Special Committee, on whose report it will probably be considered in a committee of the whole. 1 I flatter myself that the arrival of the French Armament which is hourly expected will place our affairs in a less melancholy situation than their apprehensions seem to paint them. There is little doubt but the conquest of the Southern States was the object of the operations of the present Campain, but I can not think the Enemy will pursue that object at the manifest risk of N. York. It is more probable they will leave a strong Garrison in Charleston, and carry back to N. York the residue of their forces. If they should endeavour to extend their acquisitions in the Southern States, it must proceed from an Assur ance from England that a superior naval force will follow the french fleet to frustrate their views on the American Coast. I cannot suppose that however intent they may have been on taking post at Ports mouth, that they will venture in the present prospect to spread them selves out in so exposed a situation. With great respect & sincerity I am Dr Sir, Yr. friend & Servt. James Madison Junr. RC (DLC: Madison Papers). Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:39. ' The May 24 “Address” of the Virginia assembly concerning the defense of the southern states was read in Congress on June 5 and referred to a committee whose report of June 7 was postponed for “farther consideration” on “friday next.” The previous day, however, Congress had already made “the state of the southern de partment” an order of the day “on Friday next.” By June 13, the day Horatio Gates was ordered to take command of the southern department, Congress had decided to appoint a second committee “to consider and report a plan for the defence of the southern states.” The committee report of June 7 was subsequently endorsed “Ob-


[Page 305]
June 6, 1780 271 have not been so productive, as, after paying the drafts on the Treas ury to leave any Money in it. If so, surely there must be some capital defect either in the Imposition or Collection of the Taxes which call, loudly call, on theWisdom & Honor of the Legislature for Correction. The Reputation of our State with Congress, with the Army, with the Minister of France stands foremost in the List. For God sake, for the Sake of Liberty & the hitherto immaculate Honor of our State let us maintain that first Rank; let Us continue to be prime inter paresi Let no Means be unessayed, no difficulty unsurmounted. Tho’ I am sorry that there was a Necessity for selling any of the Confiscated Lands so soon; yet I am glad they sold at so good a price. I wish for the future we may be sparing of such Sales; and endeavor to supply our Wants by Taxes. I forgot to mention to You that the Legislature of this State have also passed a Law in favor of our plan of finance; the preamble to which You have in the inclosed paper, 2 as also another for Supplies. Besides this just before they rose they vested the Governor & Ex ecutive Council with most ample powers for rendering the Abilities of this State productive in Supplies to relieve our Army in their present distressed Condition. Their want of Necessaries, as well as the destitute Condition of the posts in the Highlands, are almost daily painted in the most lamentable Colours in Letters from the General & the Committee at Head Quarters. About a week ago two New England Regiments paraded with their Arms, Accoutrements and Packs, and seemed determined to go home or seek a Sustenance by Arms. The Mutiny ran: so high that one of their officers in At tempting to quell it received a Blow. They were however after much difficulty prevailed on to retire to their Tents with a Sulleness & Gloom in their Countenances which clearly expressed that their mu tinous Temper was by no Means subdued. And can any Thing less be expected my dear Friend, from an Army who have for Months past lived almost entirely without Meat and been almost seven Months without pay? It is said they are preparing for the Field. But how are they to take the field, without provisions, without a Suffi ciency of Tents & Camp Equipage, without horses, or a Sufficiency of Forage if they had them? All these are wanting; not because the Country is destitute of them; but because our Credit & our Treasury are both exhausted. There are I believe Members in the Legislature who know I disapproved of the Address of Congress of Sepr. last 3 and was the only Member who opposed the Republication of it. I was displeased with it because it was calculated to cast the Odium of our Calamities on the States, when it justly laid elsewhere-, because it excited most impolitically the Tender Feelings in favor of Widows & Orphans whose Losses should have been provided for in a Special Way, & not by an Appretiation of the whole Currey, to the inriching of Commissaries, Quarter Masters and Speculators at the Expence


[Page 306]
272 June 6, 1780 of the Ruin of the Country, by compelling it to pay a debt of nominal Value, by a Tax equal to Specie; and because Congress thereon pledged their Faith agt. New Emissions on the delusory promises of ample Loans and the equally delusory Expectation of a punctual payment of the Quotas by the States. Hence have sprung all our present distresses. Whereas had Emissions been continued, Depre ciation which grew rapid by stopping the press, would have continued to be gradual; and even had it attained to 120 for one, the Evil might have been as effectually remedied by our plan of Finance as it now can, and we should have had Money to enable our army to take the Field properly appointed. Congress now see this; and are grown Sick of Addresses. I hope they never will in future substitute the Flowers of Rhetorick in the room of plain unadorned Good Sense; or if they should, I hope those painted Shadows will never more so fatally & successfully alleviate the eager Embraces of the States. We have been taught enough by Experience that Handsome Addresses & Resolu tions however agreable they may appear on paper, never make an Army figure in the Field, never vanquish a potent Enemy. They please a while; then vanish, “and like the airy Fabrick of a Vision “Leave not a Wreck behind.” Before I quit the subject of Finance I must tell You, that there is the greatest Reason to believe that the Legislature of New Jersey now sitting will adopt it and that the like will be Done by Virginia whose Legislature is now sitting; that Maryland whose Legislature is to meet in a very few days after having ended their last Session without bring ing the Business to effect, because they unhappily connected it with another Subject of great Contest between the two Houses, deter mined on their parting to separate the two Subjects at their next Meeting, which will be This day week; and that Delaware, tho’ their Legislature broke up without doing any Thing with the plan of Fin- anace, probably waiting to see what the other States would do, will now be ashamed of a Singularity on the Subject. I doubt not but the New Emission will be speedily sent forward to our State. But re- member my Friend that it can only issue in a certain proportion to the Money brought in by Taxes, which from the experienced Back wardness in Collection; & the Substitution of Certificates in the room of Money, in our & some of the other States, & the repeatedly nec essary drafts on the different Treasurys will disable the issuing of the new Money in such immediate large Quantities as our present critical Exigencies require. You ask for my Sentiments on the tender Law. Tho I heartily wish my plan could be adopted as to old debts, I have no great Objection to its being extended to debts contracted since depreciation began. The difficulty with Me on that Head is how a Scale of depreciation can be settled. Depreciation has been some Time stationary, some-


[Page 308]
274 June 6, 1780 6 Specie or their Value at 60 for one. We hope it will not be thought unreasonable. I hope an immediate Remittance at that or some other reasonable rate may be made so that I may be Reimbursed for my Support from the 18th of Feby. till this Time and for my future Support. I most earnestly entreat We may not be left in such pressing difficulties. The inclosed Resolutions we procured as a temporary Relief agt. the disorders on the Grants till nine States exclusive of those inter ested in the Controversy shall be represented. 4 The Report of the Committee containing those Resolutions was violently opposed & voted agt. by Ellery who is no longer a Member, was voted agt. by Holton & by Matlack a New Member for this State & by Mr Jennifer the only Member from Maryland. The Yeas & Nays were called and the only Nays were Ellery, Holton, Matlack and Jennifer. 5 By the arrival of Mr McKean there are now nine uninterested States. We shall therefore attempt to get a day fixed for a Hearing. 6 I hope our Legislature will continue sitting till the last Moment in June. The French fleet will probably arrive by that Time; & perhaps something will be wanted further of the State towards the Operations of the Campaign. A most violent Fit of the Fever & Ague obliged Me to leave this Letter unfinished till just now. 7 It is gone off; and I can now with Composure tell You how much & how sincerely I am, Dear Sir, Your sincere friend & most obedt. Servt. Jno. Morin Scott P.S. Be pleased to present my Compliments to the Lieutenant Govr. & the Members of Senate & Assembly. RC (Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). 1 See Scott to George Clinton, May 12, 1780. 2 The Pennsylvania Packet, June 6, 1780. 5 Scott was referring to Congress’ September 13, 1779, circular letter to the states, for which see these Letters, 13:495. 4 See New York Delegates to Clinton, June 2, 1780, note 1. 5 See JCC, 17:484. 6 The New York delegates attempted to obtain a “Hearing” on June 9, but they were disappointed when New Hampshire was granted a delay until “the second Tues day in September next.” JCC, 17:499. See also New York Delegates to Clinton, May 21, 1780, note 4; and Samuel Huntington to Certain States, this date. 7 When Scott resumed writing and completed this letter can only be conjectured. Samuel Holten’s Diary [June 7-8, 1780] 7. Wednesday. I dined with the minisr. Mr. Lovells son arrived here. 8. Thursday. I reed, a letter from Mrs. Holten & Mr Kettell. It is


[Page 309]
June 8, 1780 275 said Charlsn. was not taken the 18th of May. Mrs. Holten informs me Mr. Nourse dec[ease]d Api. 7th. MS (MDaAr). Charles Thomson to John Jay Dear Sir, Philadajune 7. 1780 I reed, your favour of 29 Feby. 1 Would it not be convenient to count down as well as up distinguishing the former thus 186 and the latter 166. I is still in LXIV. 2 I am afraid {Charles Town is gone}. 3 There is a great {change in Congress} since you left us. {Matlack} is in for {Pennsylvania}. {Rhode Island} has made a total change except {Collins}. We are waiting with anxious expectation for {arrival of fleet} & {army} from {France}. There has been an engagement in the West indies between the two fleets, but the particulars are not yet come to hand. I shall do my self the honor of writing more fully soon, in the mean while with my most respectful Compliments to Mrs. Jay, I am, Sr., Your obedt humble Servt. Chas Thomson RC (Photocopy: Joseph R. Sakmyster Catalog, No. 5 [March 1985], p. 38). 1 A copy of Jay’s February 29 letter to Thomson, containing a list of 69 frequently used proper names to be included in cipher letters exchanged between the two men, is in the Jay Papers, NNC. 2 Although Jay deciphered this letter in his own hand, interlining words above Thomson’s numerals in the manuscript, the words he added above the roman numerals I and LXIV in this sentence are illegible. Unfortunately, the list of proper names contained in Jay’s February 29 letter to Thomson does not fit the cipher used here by Thomson. In that list, for example, the name “Fitzhugh” corresponds to I, and “Arnold” to LXIV. Furthermore, the editors of Jay’s papers advise us that none of the cipher lists known to them fit this letter. However, for a discussion of Jay’s cipher correspondence, see Jay, Papers (Morris), p. 662. ’Words printed in braces in this text were written by Thomson in cipher. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, June 8. 1780 The various accounts we have from the Southward still leave it a matter of some doubt whether Charlestown is taken or not; tho’ It is now generally beleived to have been safe on the 12th of May, & by many as late as the 18th. A body of the Enemy from New York supposed to consist of 4,000 or, 5,000 marched into Jersey the 7th as far as Springfield—some


[Page 322]
288 June 10, 1780 of the bills will be Competent, If prudence takes the lead in disposing of the Confiscated property and Oeconomy In the Expenditures. You request my thoughts on a Supply bill. I have not been in bed for three nights past and on horseback much the greatest portion of time since Wednesday morning, hence I feel myself very little in Condition to Arrange my thoughts with propriety on Any Subject. I will however commit myself to your discretion In confidence that your friendship will make every allowance. Beef or pork, flour, hay, and short forrage were allotted to our state as their quota of supplies; of some, or all of these, I suppose considerable quantities have been collected by the Continental offices since the 1st of December last. The deficiencies must be made up at least. To do this I would advise in your act to recite that Quota assigned to you, to observe that part hath already been furnished, and that you now mean to provide, not only for making up the defi[ci]ency, but Also to procure additional supplies for every de partment of the Army, If they should be required. Perhaps It would be proper at this Conjuncture when exertion is so much wanted and when objects of such vast magnitude display themselves, to authorize the Governor to appoint agents, to Collect, purchase, or even If necessary to Impress the supplies which may be wanted, but as you may not have money to furnish the agents with, they should be directed to give Certificates for what they receive payable at one or more pay offices to be Established by the state, and the day of payment fixed to a Certain time after the date of the Certificates. In paying these no regard ought to be had to the prices fixed by Congress. The Currant price should be given whether It be more or less than that, for if the real price of the Commodity (no matter from what cause) was higher than that which the state can charge In Account with the United States, It would be evidently unjust to Confine the Individual to the fixed price, as he would then bear more than his proportion of the public burthen. On the Con trary If the Currant price should be less than the fixed one, the state ought to have the advantage. Otherwise the Sellar would bear less of the public burthen than his proportion. This Method I think should be pursued until the whole of the allotted articles are fur nished—and In order to Determine with competent precision when that is, certificates should as early as possible be procured of all Supplies furnished Since the first day of December last, the Quarter Masters & Commissarys to furnish these certificates. Indeed it is Es sential to the Interest of the state that these should be obtained, as will Evidently appear by having recourse to the act of Congress of the 25th February last. 2 Whatsoever additional articles like those enumerated In said Act, or whatever others may be wanted, should be procured by the same Agents, and In the same Manner together with the transportation, but the certificates on the pay offices should


[Page 324]
290 June 10, 1780 for the New, the treasury would be Strengthened by one dollar in Value equivalent to every forty brought in, and the Credit Estab lished by the Exchange, would not subscriptions for the purpose have a good Effect? Or Would It be too bold a stroke to Call In the Old by act of the legislature, and give in Exchange the new? We have compleated a System for the Quarter Master department, not the best, but I believe as good a one as the times will admit of. This business ought to have been done in November, then a compleat reform might have been made, but had we [lopped off?] of every exuberance at this Critical moment all had been confusion. We were therefore under the necessity of temporizing. The outlines are three Great divisions, the first N. York Inclusive East, and the second thence west to Maryland Inclusive, and the third the remainder of the States. In Each division a Superintendant—one Deputy QM Gen eral In Each State to be approved of by the Executive authority of the State If necessary—with a competent number of assistants—No Forage Masters. I believe Colo. Hay will be the Deputy In our State, and Mr. Cuyler the Superintendant In the Commissary Branch. In the night between Tuesday and Wednesday the Enemy landed at Elizabeth town point with between four & five thousand men and Immediately pushed forward, pointing to this place. Maxwells bri gade supported by the Militia who turned out with alertness and behaved with Spirit, made what opposition they could at every post which promised fair to retard the Enemy. By Eleven the enemy had advanced to the Connecticut farms, about nine Miles on this Eliza beth town point, here a Sharp Contest ensued, the Enemy to gain a passage over the bridge near Springfield, ours to prevent them, the former retired to their main body with Some loss, ours kept the Ground; the troops from hence were put In Motion and Arrived about four on the heights between this and Springfield, from that time until dark was Spent In reconnoitring each other and on their part In burning houses; about Eleven at night they retired to Eliz abeth town. Maxwell and the Militia followed In the Morning. At one in the afternoon on Thursday Our main body began to move forward to the heights the Enemy had left, there to remain until their Strength, position & Intentions could be ascertained; We re connoitred them from Halsteads point which afforded us a good view. Judged their number as has been Mentioned, which was too heavy for us to venture an Attack. On Friday very Early they were rein forced by about three hundred horse and some foot. As our force Including militia was still Inferior we retired to our first position above Springfield. Some Intelligence having been received that they should Attempt the destruction of our stores by turning our flanks with their light horse, the General requested me to repair here, and make a disposition of the troops. Nothing has happened. It is now ten oClock, not a word from the army, whence I conclude that the


[Page 325]
June 11, 1780 291 Enemy are still at Elizabeth town. If they were not well Informed of our weakness they would not remain where they are. If the General had three thousand men more they must be ruined, but his numbers without such a reinforcement are Incompetent. I dare not tell you our Strength or rather our weakness. I have this moment received a line from Mr. Duane, 3 Inclosing a paper he sent me 4 which I have transmitted to the legislature thru Mr. Benson. I have urged much to pay a visit to the legislature but neither the General nor the Committe will Consent that I shall leave this. Pray make my Compliments to all friends. I am Dear Sir, with Sincere Esteem Your friend & very Hum Servt, Ph. Schuyler [P.S.] I find the Enemy were made to believe that If they came out in force, our army would not fight, the Country would submit, and that they would possess themselves of all our stores. They were sur prised to find the Militia so firm—some were heard to Say the Amer icans fight like bull dogs. Every general officer in N. York was out, the Titular Governor came out In his Coach followed by fifty or sixty of the most Capital toadeaters in the town. If the legislature should not approve of making the Quarter Master an Agent under an apprehension that an Improper person might be appointed to that office, If they have no objection to Colo Hay they might appoint him by name, altho I think It may be attended with Inconvenience If sickness or death Should deprive us of his services. RC (Andrew Fiske, Shelter Island, N.Y., 1980). Addressed: “To the Honorable Ezra Lhommedieu Esqr., Kingston.” 1 See Schuyler to L’Hommedieu, May 20, 1780, note 1. 2 See Huntington to the States, February 26, 1780. 5 See James Duane to Schuyler, June 6, 1780. 4 Enclosure not identified. Committee at Headquarters to Elbridge Gerry Sir, In Committee of Congress, Morris Town, 11th June 1780. As you are on your journey to the state of Massachusetts Bay— We embrace the opportunity and intreat you to give such information to the Executive powers of the Eastern States, respecting the dis tressed situation of the Army, as you, from your own observations, and our communications, are enabled to afford. We are happy, Sir, to find your sentiments coincident with our own, on the necessity there is at this important and alarming conjuncture, of the most strenuous exertions of the states. You have been an Eye witness to


[Page 334]
300 June 12, 1780 the urgency of the occasion, the period which is to end our liberty, and commence the most disgraceful state of slavery which human nature has ever experienced, is not far distant. But dark and gloomy as the prospect is, America has it in her power to dispel the cloud, by those exertions of which she is abundantly capable, 8c to which it is her duty to rouse, from every consideration which can affect the human heart. We are, most indubitably, possessed of the means wherewith to expel the enemy from every part of the continent; but it requires a display of that virtue which distinguished the Citizens of Rome when their state was, as ours is now, on the brink of ruin, And we trust Americans, impressed with a proper sense of the blessings of peace, Liberty, and Independence, will follow the bright example, and ev ince to future ages, what great minds are capable of, when driven to the extremity of distress. We dare not suppose, Sir, that efficient measues have not [been] adopted by your state to complete your Battalions to the establish ment recommended in the letter above referred to; on the contrary, we beleive that the men are raised, or raising, but we have to conjure you to hasten them on to the Army, without a moments delay. We intreat you likewise, to give the most pointed direction, to induce an unremitting attention to forward the supplies allotted to your State to be furnished, as specified in our letter of the 2d Instant. Had the Enemy on Wednesday last, pursued what we generally beleived to be their object, our heavy Cannon 8c stores, would inev itably have fallen into their hands, as our Military force was incom petent to their protection, and the means of conveying them to places more distant, for want of horses and Carriages, out of our power. Since writing the above, a second letter, from the General, has been handed us, a copy whereof we inclose. 2 Previous to our rec ommendation to compleat the Battalions to five hundred 8c four rank and file, we had a conferance with the general on the subject, in which the matter was thoroughly canvassed, and the necessity of the augmentation clearly evinced; the reduction of Charles Town, was then problematical; we had even hopes that it would have been saved, and the Maryland 8c Delaware lines, have returned to this Army, which then, with the quota requested of the states would have amounted to about Twenty five thousand men, the number which Congress had promised our illustrious ally, should be brought into the field, to co-operate with his troops. It is now beleived, that Charles Town is reduced, and the troops which defended it, prisoners, con sequently we shall not have the Maryland and Delaware troops: hence those in this quarter will be less, by nearly three thousand men, than our estimate, we therefore most earnestly intreat that no deduction may be made from the numbers we have stated as necessary.


[Page 335]
June 12, 1780 301 We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedt. Hubie Servts. Ph. Schuyler, Jno. Mathews, Nathl. Peabody. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). 1 For Washington’s letter of June 11 describing the new British threat in New Jersey and New York and urging the committee to call upon the states “to carry all the recommendations of the Committee into the most vigorous and immediate execution,” especially “completing our battalions by a draft,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:504-6. 2 In his June 12 letter to the committee, Washington reemphasized that anything short of “filling our batalions to their full complement” for the coming campaign would “compel us to confine ourselves to a mere defensive plan” and therefore "dis appoint the expectations of our allies and protract the war.” Ibid., 19:2. Committee at Headquarters to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Morris town June 12th. 1780 We have the honor to Inclose your Excellency letters for the Gov ernor of Rhode-Island and the Presidents of Massachusetts bay and New-Hampshire which we beg the favor may be forwarded by Ex press. 1 The Enemy still retain the position they took on Thursday last at Elizabeth town point in this state, various are the Conjectures on what they may have in contemplation. That which prevails most gen erally, is a rapid movement to attempt our posts in the Highlands of New York, as soon as Sir Henry Clinton with the troops from Car olina Arrives. It affords great satisfaction here to find that so con siderable a quantity of Salted meat from your state is on the point of arriving at the Highlands. The Commander in chief has Intreated us to press the states of Pensylvania, Delawar And Maryland for an Immediate supply of flour for that post, without which he concieves he shall not be in Condition to venture the army in that Quarter, even should the Garrison be Invested. If It is possible, we Intreat the Aid of a thousand barrels from your State for that post and that It may be expedited thither. We have the Honor to be, with Sentiments of Great respect And Esteem, Your Excellency’s most Obedient, Humble Servants, Ph: Schuyler Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody


[Page 342]
308 June 12, 1780 to draw an Army Into field, such as we have promised our ally— Indeed, Indeed, I fear we shall become a reproch amongst the na tions. You say not a word of the ladies—are they all well, Is, [. . .]‘or where is She, Kiss her hand for me, since you pretend that you dare not Venture on her lips. Adieu. I am Dr Sir affectionately, Yours &c &c Ph. Schuyler RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 Schuyler here wrote three or four words which clearly referred to Livingston’s wife, Mary, but they were subsequently lined out and are indecipherable. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia June 13. 1780 Tho’ we are yet without official Accounts respecting Charlestown, there scarce remains a dout of it, being taken, & that the Garrison surrendered on terms the 12 of May. The Capitulation, published in New York is in this City, but I have not yet seen it to note the particulars it contains. General Gates is ordered to the Southward to take the Command. 1 The Enemy remain in force at Elizabeth Town point—there object is yet unascertained. I have forwarded by the bearer 120,000 dollars of the new bills for Connecticut & have more on hand to be forwarded in a few days. The State of New Jersey has also adopted the measure recommended the 18t of March. I beg leave to express my sincere condolance with your Excellency for the loss of Mrs. Trumbull. 2 I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s most obed hum. Servt. Oliv. Ellsworth RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). ' See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, this date. 2 That is, the governor’s wife, Faith Robinson Trumbull, who died on May 29, 1780. Oliver Ellsworth to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dr Sr Philadelphia June 13. 1780. I am faverd. with your letter of the 3d of this month with its enclosure—And I herewith transmit you a resolution of Congress respecting the subject of it, which I hope will be so practiced upon as in some measure to facilitate a close of the publick Accts. 1 Tho we are yet without official information respecting Charles-


[Page 343]
June 13, 1780 309 town, there scarce remains a doubt of its being taken; & that the Garrison surrendered in terms the 12 of May. The Capitulation pub lished in New York is in this city, but I have not yet seen it that I can give you the particulars it contains. Genl Gates is ordered to the Southward to take the Command. I can easily beleive you are yet Commissary, Quartermaster &c & I hope, waving all personal considerations, you will continue to be whatever the extreeme exigency of our affairs require. I am, Sir, with much Esteem & Respect, Your obedt. Hbbl. Servt. Oliv. Ellsworth P.S. 14th. I have enclosed to Mr. Lyman a paper of this day that has the Capitulation mentioned on the other page. O.E. RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Ellsworth enclosed a copy of a June 12 resolution for expediting “the settlement of outstanding accounts” by providing additional commissioners of accounts to settle them.JCC, 17:504-5. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June the 13th. 1780 I inclose you two Resolves of Congress one of June the 2d the other of the 8th 1 by which you will See what hase been done with Regard to the Newhampshire grants and the Several Claimants. I find a Very grate backwardness in many of the members of Congress to Proseed on this buisness untill the Conclusion of the war—and the members Continualy Comeing & going it is impossible to foresee what opinion Congress may be off three months hence with Regard to Puting a final end to these unhappy Disputes. I am Sr. with grate Respect your most obedt. Hume. Servent, Nathl. Folsom P.S. The inclosed Papers Contain all the intelligence of importance. RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). ' The resolve of the “8th” was undoubtedly Congress’June 9 resolution postponing action on the New Hampshire Grants question until “the second Tuesday in September next.” JCC, 17:482-85, 499. Cyrus Griffin to Thomas Jefferson June 13th [1780] As this 1 will be the last letter I shall have the honor of writing your excellency in my official capacity—I hope to obtain the governor’s approbation that whilst alone and at the head of the Delegation to Congress I have done my part in making those representations and


[Page 349]
June 13, 1780 315 I have a most painful Finger to manage the Pen which assures you of the Continuance of my great Esteem as yr. humble Servt., J L RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:365. 1 For Abigail’s May 24 letter to Lovell, see ibid., pp. 355-56. 2 The “authentic Resolve” referred to here by Lovell was adopted on May 31, 1780, directing Benjamin Franklin to pay the salaries of John Adams and Francis Dana. The document sent to Abigail, in Lovell’s hand with authenticating signature by Charles Thomson, was forwarded by her to John on July 5. See ibid., pp. 365-66, 370-73. John Walker to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philada. June 13th. 1780 I hoped before I had been here so long, 1 to have had the pleasure of a few lines from you, if it was merely to inform us of your health and that of your Family, in which you know we are so deeply inter ested. My Family is perfectly recovered from the small-pox, which to them was so favorable that they never lay’d by for it. Mrs. Walker had only two pustules & Milly one for each of the united States. We are comfortably enough lodged & but for the exorbitant expences of the place, might do well enough. As there is no provision made by our State for furnishing us with the needful & the Continental Treasury is empty, our situation is disagreeable. I found one Man (Levi Hollingsworth) who agreed to advance me 10,000 dollars for which sum I have taken the Liberty of drawing on our Treasury & hope my Bill will be honored; otherwise judge what will be our Sit uation. We wish our State would fall on some expedient to furnish such Supplys as may be intended for us, as we find it extremely difficult to get Cash here. Genl. Gates was this day appointed to take command in the South ern department. The further arrangements &c for that Quarter are yet unfinished for want of the necessary information, having as yet rec’d no Accts of our Misfortune there, but by way of New York. Is not this astonishing when Chas. Town is said to have surrendered on the 12th Ult? The inclosed paper will inform you of the Enemy’s late incursions in New Jersey, which is the only news here. This & the neighbouring States are making the most vigorous exertions to oppose their op erations. Pensylvania is about to fill up their Continental Line by subscription & I believe they will effect it, so great & laudable is their Zeal. The very Ladi[e]s contributing large sums on the inclosed plan, drawn up by the Minister of France’s Secretary. 2 Virginia’s conduct in rejecting the Scheme of March the 18th Ap-


[Page 354]
320 June 15, 1780 I am dear General with every cordial wish for your Conduct and happiness, Your truly Affectionate friend & humbe. servt. John Armstrong [P.S.] I am much concerned for Major Armstrongs delicate consti tution in that warm Climate, but the Lot appears to be cast & heaven presides. You cannot with any prospect of health to your troops in the warm Months Encamp anywhere near Charlestown. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Armstrong returned to this subject a few weeks later with the suggestion that his son, and Gates’ aide, Maj. John Armstrong, Jr., receive a promotion by brevet. See Armstrong to Gates, July 21, 1780. Armstrong’s son, John, Jr., also wrote to Gates this day, in the course of which he reported several interesting tidbits of Philadelphia gossip concerning two of Gates’ opponents, delegates Philip Schuyler and Ezekiel Cornell. “[William] Clajon [Gates’ secretary] has I suppose,” young Armstrong wrote, “advised you of the many tricks practised to get Scuyler at the head of the Qur. Mr. General’s Dpt.—& that he has condescended to suggest that if restored to his militry rank—rather than the service should suffer under the resignation of Green—he will accept of the Appointment. Disinterested Man! But it’s too gross an imposition for Congress to go into, or the army to relish. Were it a meer pretension to high Office, & a generous pursuit of fame I could speak of It without acrimony—but when the little, envious vindictive spirit governs the man, a wish to stand between you & [;.£., Washington], I cannot but feel resentments & should not hesitate a moment to decree him an halter. What meanness will not man be guilty of? But I wish not to moralize upon the subject & shall only give you a fresh instance by way of illustration. Cornell you must have heard is in Congress—& certainly in the vulgar phrase, for want of a better. When a late proposal was made to call you down to Philada. upon obvious principles—it was controuled 8c he was among the number who voted against it—nor did he blush to avow that he was determined in his opinion by the probable effects it would have upon General Washington—who could not but interpret an order from Congress that you should be consulted upon the operations of the Campaign, as an instance of too great partiality to your judgment. . . . My Brother [Dr. James Armstrong] will explain the circumstance of Cornell—as he heard him express the sentiment.” Gates Papers, NHi. Thomas Burke to Anthony Wayne Dr Sir Philadelphia June 15th, 1780. I am very Sorry that your Sudden departure for Camp prevented me from the pleasure of Seeing you again after the day I so agreeably Spent with you—and I am Still more Concern’d that I cannot hope to Succeed in having your Abilities engaged in the Command of the department where I am an Inhabitant, and whither I am Just Setting off. 1 I found, on examining the resolution I mentioned to you, that it was entered into on a particular Occasion of disputed rank, 2 and Commissions were cancelled and renewed agreeably to the principle adopted. Had the affair Occurred in the Winter, and a proper Scru tiny taken place, I am persuaded the principle would and ought to


[Page 355]
June 15, 1780 321 have been applied to you; and your Commission would, Conse quently, have been made out So as to give you the indisputable rank. But as that was not done, and the time at present would not admit of Such disquisitions; I despaired of being able to fall on any mode that would Satisfy your Just, and delicate feelings, that forbids your offering the least possible Shadow of Injury to those of others, or of reconciling the wishes of my self and my Colleagues with the General, and more prevailing Considerations of public utility. We were there fore obliged, reluctantly, to forego a favorite object. I received yours, inclosing a Copy of what you wrote to Major Lee on the affair to which my last to you related. 3 We were both peculiarly fortunate in a Mediator who possesses Such a Just Sense of honor and of propriety; and whose friendly regard to both, as well as his peculiar merit engaged our unlimitted Confidence. A different Char acter, most probly, would have perplexed the Misunderstanding still more, and Initated dispositions, of too much Sensibility, to lengths whose Consequences might have been unhappy. As a proof how en tirely I acquiesse in your Sentence, I declare that my Esteem for and disposition towards Major Lee are not in the least impaired by the like Incident. Long life and health are the only things which, your own Merits cannot command, and these give me leave to wish you, Glory, and every thing else worthy your ambition, will always play round with the fondness of an enamoured mistress. Adieu my dr Sir and believe always truly yours, Thos. Burke RC (PHi: Wayne Papers). 1 Burke’s last vote before departing for North Carolina was cast the previous day. He did not return to Congress until December. JCC, 17:514, 18:1154. 2 For the “occasion of disputed rank” and seniority among the senior officers of the Pennsylvania Line to which Burke may be referring, see these Letters, 12:424-25. 9 For the “affair” referred to here, see Burke to Wayne, June 6, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Philadajune 15. 1780 Congress repeat their Applications to your State. 1 They would willingly hope that their former representations have not been in effectual, and that the States are pursuing Measures to enable our Armies to take the Field with a Force superior to that of the Enemy, and with such ample Supplies of Provisions as will not only maintain them in Plenty, but enable the Commander in Chief, if necessary on any extraordinary Occasion to avail himself of the Aid of the Militia. But upon these hopes Congress dare not rely. Every Moment presses. It is necessary they should have the most explicit Assurances, not


[Page 365]
June 16, 1780 331 ceived dispatches from General Lincoln, and I am sorry the contents are not so agreeable as we cou’d wish, the enemy are in possession of Charlestown, yet, I have no reason to think but what the General & our little brave army did all that cou’d be expected under their circumstances; for particulars respecting the capitulation, I beg leave to refer you to the printed paper, ’tho’ not published by the authority of Congress (because it did not come to hand time enough to be in this paper) yet, I think the articles of capitulation are nearly the same. By letters lately received from General Washington, I perceive he is under apprehensions that he should be obliged to withdraw the army under his immediate command to the southward of the Del aware for want of supplies; and if that shou’d be the case, the states of New York & N. Jersey will be greatly distressed; and I understand the important posts on the highlands are in great danger for want of provision; But as I expect the bearer of this will bring you another earnest address of Congress, it may be unnecessary for me to add. It gives me sensible satisfaction to hear of the exertions of the state of Pennsylvania, & the citizens here in particular who are contrib uting largely for the relief of the army; I am informed the President of the state is preparing to take the field, at the head of a large number of his militia in case the enemy advance. Congress has directed General Gates to take the command in the southern department. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten 2 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “Honble. the President of the Council of Massachusetts.” 1 See Holten to the Massachusetts Council, June 6, 1780. 2 Holten also wrote the following brief letter on June 17 to the newly elected pres ident of the Massachusetts Council, James Bowdoin: “I had the honor of addressing you yesterday, but this mornings paper contains more authentick intelligence from Charles town, & some other matters which may be worthy of your attention; Therefore I do myself the honor of inclosing it.” Revolu tionary War Letters, M-Ar. William Churchill Houston to William Livingston Sir, Philada. 16 June 1780 Your Excellency’s Favour of the 13th inst. I received the same Day. When you wrote the President of Congress on the 11th inclosing Lord Sterling’s of the 10th, we took the earliest opportunity next Morning to bring the Question for sending a reinforcement of Militia


[Page 366]
332 June 16, 1780 from this State into New-Jersey, under Debate. 1 There is the utmost readiness in Congress to make the requisition, and in the Executive of the State to comply with it, but the Scantiness of Supplies makes it necessary to avoid as much as possible, for this Moment, multiplying numbers beyond what is absolutely essential. However that every Thing might be in the utmost Forwardness for an Occasion, a large Body have Orders to be in momently readiness, and will, I hope, march with alacrity on the shortest notice. By a Letter from New- Jersey received Yesterday, I am informed that the Commander in Chief has dismissed all the militia, except fifteen Hundred for special reasons, which I suppose to be the State of the Supplies and to prevent the improper appearances of dropping off without orders added to the Expediency of their being at Home as much as possible that they may turn out when wanted, with more readiness. The Militia have obtained the highest Credit on this Occasion, every Body speaks in Terms of Commendation concerning them. There remains no longer any Doubt of the Fate of Charlestown. Lt Colonel Ternant arrived Night before last with General Lincoln’s Dispatches. 2 The whole material Substance is published by the Enemy at New-York, and will be found in the inclosed Paper, which doubtless your Excellency will have been informed of before this reaches you. The Numbers are exaggerated, but every Thing else is pretty exact. It appears that every idle Excuse and unfair Contrivance has been used to detain Mr. Ternant, and as to the vessel stipulated to General Lincoln, and in which he comes himself, we have heard nothing of it. Honour and Faith has, I apprehend, been committed in Order to keep us in Uncertainty. But this is not unusual with the Enemy. Whatever Particulars have not yet been communicated will be pub lished as soon as possible officially. It remains now that we make the best of this Disaster, and I am of opinion, that instead of being a Detriment when considered on the general Scale, by proper Attention, we may turn it to Benefit. Deeply is to be regretted the Loss of a meritorious General, a brave Garrison and a large Supply of Stores; but if this arouses us to double Exertions, the Effect will be in our Favour finally. Providence has always appeared most eminently in our Favour, and we have ever exerted ourselves with most Spirit when pressed with Losses and Difficulties, and it is reasonably to be hoped this will soon be repaired. Mr. Woodruft returns to-day. We have procured from the Board of War a Ton of Powder, five Cwt of it Cannon Powder, and also twenty Reams of Cartridge Paper. The publick stores cannot supply us, at this Time, with Lead, but if I am not mistaken we have a tolerable supply on Hand, as much as is equivalent to our Powder with this addition. We have also, I think, Cannon Shot and Flannel for making up the Cannon Cartridges. Besides this the Board of War


[Page 368]
334 June 16, 1780 Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Si r> Philadelpia June 16. 1780 Since my Letter of the 13th Instant Congress have passed the Acts enclosed of the 14th & 16th Instant. 1 By the latter you will be informed that Brigadier General Weedon, and Colo Morgan are again called into Service in the southern De partment, under your Direction. 2 By the former you will observe thirty thousand Dollars are ad vanced to defray your Expences &c (which the Board of War will forward), and that Warrants are issued on the States of Virginia & North Carolina for 100,000 Dolars each, towards furnishing a mil itary Chest for the southern Army. That you are authorized to call on the southern States from Virginia inclusive for Aids of the Militia & Supplies, and also to appoint a Deputy Adjutant General, Deputy Paymaster General, & all other Staff Officers necessary in the south ern Department. The Measures to be adopted for the Defence of the southern States are left to your Discretion. Since passing the enclosed Act of the 14th Instant I have received Information, that Mr Clay the Deputy Paymaster in the southern Department was not made prisoner in Charles town, and that he has Warrants on Virginia & North Carolina to a large Amount, which it is supposed in whole or in part yet remain unpaid. You will doubt less obtain certain Information on these Matters (which were un known to Congress) and perhaps find it practicable & expedient to retain Mr Clay in the Office of Deputy Paymaster. You will also receive enclosed triplicate Copies of an Act of Con gress of the 14th Instant, which, you will please to transmit, or not, to either, or all the states of North Carolina, South Carolina, & Georgia as from the Circumstances of those States shall appear most expedient. I have only to add, that the Board of War will take all Measures in their Power that shall be deemed necessary for your Support, and will give you the necessary Information of their Proceedings from Time to Time. 3 I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & respect, sir, your most hbble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. ' See JCC, 17:510-11, 518-19. 2 Huntington’s letter to George Weedon transmitting this resolve, which is in the Myers Collection, NN, is dated June 16, although the presidential letterbook copy (endorsed “The like to Colo D. Morgan”) is dated June 18. PCC, item 15, fol. 32. He sent the same resolve to General Washington with a brief covering note on June 18. Washington Papers, DLC. 5 Two letters to Gates from the Board of War of June 15 and one of June 16 are in the Gates Papers, NHi.


[Page 369]
June 16, 1780 335 Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia June 16. 1780 I am honored with your Despatches under the 9th Instant, and have laid them before Congress. They are referred to the Board of War & Committee on the Post Office. Due Attention will be given to the several matters contained in those Despatches. 1 Enclosed your Excellency will receive an Act of Congress of the 14th Instant authorizing Genl. Gates to call on the Commonwealth of Virginia, and the more southern States for Aids of Militia & Sup plies &c and recommending to those several States to give every Assistance in their Power to carry into Execution such Measures as Genl Gates shall judge most proper. 2 I have the Honour to be, with very great respect, your Excelly’s most hbble servt, Sam. Huntington President RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. ' See JCC, 17:517; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:425-27. *JCC, 17:510-11. Robert R. Livingston to Philip Schuyler Dear Sir Philadelphia 16th June 1780 The loss of Charlestown & the wants of the army have occasioned a general alarm here, from which I promise myself such exertions as will make us rise superior to the dangers which threaten us. A few days ago Mr. Meredith & Grason being at table with us we went largely into the state of our supplies, when I happened to drop a wish that the Merchants of this place would undertake a temporary supply upon their own credit Congress countersecuring them. Gra son pushed it, Meredith embraced it, & upon its being broke to the Merchants they appointed a committee to consider the proposition & I imagine upon good ground that they will undertake for four million of rations. Should this go thro’ it may not only help to releive our present necessities but put matters in such a train as we may find it convenient to keep them in. 1 As to what you observe upon the propriety of an expedition to Canada in case of N Y. being put out our reach I think it is at least in the present State of our affairs a very disputable point. 2 Should the enimy quit Charlestown with a weak garrison I shd. concieve that we might act with more advantage in that quarter—And thus reen- state our affairs & at least [. . .] the account of prisoners & success. From the measures of the enimy to the southward as far as we can learn them, it seems doubtful whether they do not mean to push


[Page 370]
336 June 16, 1780 their conquests there & rely upon the strength of their navy at home for preventing the force from France from coming over, or for fol lowing them & extending their operations. They have advanced a party to Georgetown nor had any part of them embarked the 26 of May. All seems to be submission in South Cariolina. Govr. Rutledge has dismiss’d his militia least they should be found in arms. But as far as I can understand North Carolina & Virginia begin to shew signs of life. If they rouse and shake themselves they will not fail to appear formidable to the enimy. I am apprehensive for the post in the highlands, how are they commanded? Not I hope by Heath? Genl. Howe I have not the pleas ure of much acquaintance with him. He by no means stands high with his countrymen. For God sake give some attention to this busi ness, it is not less important than a supply of men or provisions. I say nothing of the fair because as you inform me you have no time to think of them & I am much in the same predicament myself. Beside that most of those I love (perhaps I should have said esteem) are out of town. You will easily believe me when I assure you that I anxiously wish it were in my power to execute your commission but alas, Delaware flows between us. Condole for me with Mathews in the misfortune of his country, remember me to Mr. Peabody & at headquarters, I fear [I] should not be able to hold out much longer here and I am, Yours, with the most sincerity & regard, Robt. R. Livingston 3 RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). ' For further information on the Philadelphia merchants’ plan for provisioning the army and Schuyler’s response, see James Duane to Schuyler, this date, and Schuyler to Washington, June 18, 1780. 2 For Schuyler’s observations on prospects for an invasion of Canada, see Schuyler to Livingston, May 30, 1780. s Livingston also wrote the following brief letter this day to his brother John at Clermont. “I wrote to you not long since & have nothing to add but my wishes to see you here as soon as possible. Mr. Morris told me that you had half ruined him by drawing upon him for £4000 when he was in no situation to advance the money, he has got the Bill holders to wait for payment. He says your ship has exceeded all his calculations. 1 wish you may neglect nothing necessary to ensure her success as much of your mercantile reputation will depend upon it. I wish you would send my map or any other of the great patent & I must if possible dispose of a part of it to support myself here & pay my extravagant taxes. Money is uncommonly scarse here & goods very plenty & daily ariving. 1 enclose the papers. Remember me to the family & believe me to be affec tionately, Your Brother, Robt R. Livingston.” bMS Am 1649.5, MH-H. New York Delegates to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, 16th June 1780. We do ourselves the honour to enclose the last resolution of Con-


[Page 371]
June 16, 1780 337 gress relative to the New Hampshire Grants. 1 We sincerely wish it had been in our power to proceed at an earlier day, but an exparte hearing would have been of little use to us. And to have pushed it with too much warmth would have answered no other purpose than to expose us to the censure of wishing to take advantage of our antagonists, especially as New Hampshire which has hitherto gone with us, threw its whole weight against us. The loss of Charlestown, & the great scarcity of supplies has ren dered our situation extreamly critical, and calls for the utmost ex ertion. Congress have endeavoured to rouse this by every means in their power, particularly by a circular Letter which you will receive with this. 2 We feel for the situation of our state, threatned on one side & actually invaded on another. We submit it to the judgment of the Legislature whether they should not continue sitting till the storm is overblown. We conceive that not a moment should be lost in sending forward the bill for the adoption of the resolution of Congress of the 18 of March last as considerable advantage may be derived both to the state & the continent from the sums that may be procured by the exchange of their bills. 3 And as the preparing them is a matter which will take some time, & those who send on their laws are to have the preferance, expedition becomes an object of some moment. We have no account from the southward of the enimies having yet embarked any part of their force; they have detatched a body of them as far as Georgetown. The people of South Carolina will give them little opposition, tho’ we have great hopes that the approach of the enimy will rouse N. Carolina to the exertions of which she is fully capable. We forgot to mention, that it would be proper to send up with our law, the name of some person who is to sign on the part of Congress that we may recommend him so that no time may be lost on that account. This we presume will be the Loan officer but it may be well to have a second in case of accidents. We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect your Excellency’s Most Obt. Hum. Serv’ts, Robt. R. Livingston, Jno. Morin Scott, Jas. Duane. P.S. The Secretary informs us that the Resolutions above refered to are already dispatched. Reprinted form Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:837-38. Addressed: “His Excellency Gov’r Clinton; to be opened in his absence by the Hon’ble P. Van Courtland, Esqur., Leiut. Gov’r.” RC (N: Clinton Papers). Charred. 1 The delegates inclosed Congress’ June 9 resolution postponing hearings on the New Hampshire Grants controversy until September. See JCC, 17:499; and Samuel Huntington to Thomas Chittenden; June 10, 1780. ! See Samuel Huntington to Certain States, June 15, 1780.


[Page 374]
340 June 17, 1780 contained in yours to the President, 3 will I doubt not, be immediately comply’d with. Business in Congress goes on better than I expected, each Member appearing willing to contribute all in his power to the good of the whole. This State is making Exertions worthy of imi tation. The Merchants have lately subscribed a sum, which is thought sufficient to fill up their Continental Line, & have moreover advanced £200,000 Sterling upon Loan, to supply the Army with provisions in which they have lately been very deficient for want of Cash. This Patriotic fire ’tis to be hoped will spread both North & South. My Family is perfectly recovered of the small-pox, but we are all unwell perhaps occasioned by our change of Life & want of Exercise. Our affectionate wishes attend you all. Adieu. Jn. Walker [PS.] Please present my respectful Comps to the Gentlemen of your board. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:454-55. 1 Not found. 2 This letter of the Virginia delegates to the assembly has not been found. 3 Jefferson’s June 9 letter to Samuel Huntington was read in Congress on June 16, for which see JCC, 17:517; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:425-27. For the president’s reply, see Huntington to Jefferson, June 16, 1780. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 18th. 1780. When I had the honour to write your Excellency from Morris town, 1 I wished our Publick affairs, to wear a more Pleasing aspect, before I wrote you again. Which moment hath in some measure arived; tho far from being so "promising as I could wish. The heart felt distress, for the salvation of our Country; hath been visible in the Countenance of all her true Friends. Char[l]estown with all the shiping & stores in the hands of the Enemy, Seven General officers, and near one Quarter part of our Continental Troops; Prisoners of War. General Kniphausen in Jersey, at the head of a Superiour Army, to General Washington, endeavouring to force his way to Morris town: where were all the Ar tilery and stores of the Army, and not one publick Horse to move them. General Clinton hourly expected, and that West point would be his object, in which there was not one pound of provision. Our Army in Jersey only fed from day to day, the Militia could not be called to the field for want of Provisions. This was the Situation of our publick affairs untill within a few days. At present every friend to their Country, both Male & Female appear to be roused (in this part of the Country) either upon the principals of Honour, virtue, or danger, to make an Common defence, which you will see by the inclosed papers, to which I beg liberty to refer


[Page 380]
346 June 19, 1780 pledged capital. See JCC, 17:542, 548-50; and Robert L. Brunhouse, The Counter- Revolution in Pennsylvania, 1776-1790 (Philadelphia: Pennsylvania Historical Commis sion, 1942), p. 86. 5 No letter from the Virginia delegates to Jefferson containing this recommendation has been found. 4 That is, Col. Abraham Buford whose 3rd Virginia Regiment was annihilated by Lt. Col. Banastre Tarleton at the battle of Waxhaws, S.C., on May 29. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In Committee of Congress Sir, Morris Town June 19th. 1780 We received your favor of the 15th Inst, inclosing two acts of Congress of the 12th and 13th Inst, which will be duely attended to. We inclose you a Copy of Genl. Washington’s letter to us of this day and of our circular letter to the several States from New Hamp shire to Virginia inclusive,' for the information of Congress. We have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, yr. Excys most Obedt. servts. Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). Written by Mathews and signed by Mathews and Peabody. 1 See the following entry. Committee at Headquarters to the States In Committee of Congress, Morris Town Sir, Circular, No. 5 June 19th., 1780. We inclose you a copy of General Washingtons letter to us of this day. 1 We have in our former letters dwelt so forcibly on the several matters contained in the generals letter, that it is now become almost unnecessary for us to say any thing more on them. But when we consider the season for operation wears fast away; the small force we now have in the field, being still fed in a scanty and uncertain manner, the hourly expectation of the fleet and Army of our Ally, on our coast, And that the Commander in Chief, as well as ourselves, are as yet totally uninformed what are to be our expectations on the subject of our former letters; Be assured, Sir, we feel an anxiety congenial with his, you will therefore, we are persuaded, pardon us for being thus solicitous, when we again intreat you in the most earnest, in the most urgent manner, to use every exertion in your power to engage your state, to a speedy and decisive complyance


[Page 381]
June 19, 1780 347 with our former requisitions. The two points we would wish to im press most forcibly on yours, and the minds of the legislature of your state, are immediately forwarding your quota of troops, necessary to complete your batalions in the Continental Army, and of supplies of provision agreable to the estimates inclosed you in our letter of the 2d Instant, at the same time, we would not wish you to consider any part of our former requisitions as become in the least degree un necessary; on the contrary, we are more strongly convinced that they are already as small as the important objects in view, can possibly admit of; we only mention the two first as the most immediately, and indispensibly necessary, for reinforced as the enemy now are, by the return of their troops from the reduction of Charles Town, we mo mently expect an attack will be made on our weak and almost re sistless Army; Should this event happen whilst in this state, we seriously dread the result. From the well known indefatigable attention of your state to the welfare of the United States, we cannot entertain a doubt of its exertions, at this interesting conjuncture, and we most earnestly in treat you to give us the earliest information of the final determination of your state, on the subject of this, and our former letters. 2 We are Sir, with the highest respect, Your most Obedt. Servants, Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). Directed to the 10 northernmost states. 1 Washington’s June 19 letter informing the committee of “the indispensable ne cessity of writing again to the different States” concerning the men and provisions to be supplied for the ensuing campaign, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:31- 32. 2 The committee’s letterbook contains a further paragraph directed “To the State of Pensylvania.” “We take the liberty of again calling your attention to the urgent necessity of forwarding the flour to West Point. The reasons for this pressing call are fully contained in our public letter of the second instant, to which we beg leave to refer you.” Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June 19th. 1780 I received your letter of the 27th of May the day before yesterday, and this day laid the same before Congress. It was referred to a Committee who are to report thereon. 1 Although the requisition was by Several of the members in the Course of the debate allowed to be just, yet all but the delegates of Massachusetts Bay opposed it being granted at Present on account of the Critical situation we are in for Want of money to feed the


[Page 384]
350 June 19, 1780 of the State. Your Excellency will find him a Gentleman of Merit and Information. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your very obedt hble Servant, Wm Churchill Houston RC (NN: William Livingston Papers). 1 Resolve Smith had been elected a “commissioner of accounts at the treasury office” at the time of the treasury’s reorganization in September 1778, and soon thereafter was appointed one of the commissioners of the newly created chamber of accounts. See JCC, 12:967, 1096; and Jennings B. Sanders, Evolution of the Executive Departments of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1935), pp. 65-66. Samuel Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters Gentlemen, Philadelphia June 19. 1780 You will receive enclosed a Letter from Ebenezer Hazard, which Congress have referred to the Committee at Head Quarters. 1 It has been suggested by some that an Head Quarter Postmaster is unnecessary, that all Letters for Head Quarters might be left in the Quarter Master Generals Office, and the Expence of a Postmaster at Head Quarters wholly saved. Every one sees the Necessity of re trenching Expences as far as possible. You Gentlemen will be under proper Advantage to judge what is necessary and best to be done in this Matter which is referred to you. I have the Honour to be, with the highest Respect, Gentlemen, your most humble servant, Sam Huntington President RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 17:518. The enclosed June 7 letter from Hazard to Postmaster Richard Bache (PCC, item 39,2:118), explained that John Durham Alvey had recently inquired about the salary and allowances due him if he accepted appointment as “Head Quarter Post Master,” explaining in detail the complications involved in compensating a postmaster attached to the army. For letters from Alvey to Hazard and post office surveyor James Bryson discussing various issues related to this subject, see PCC, item 78, 1:365-80. Additional references to Alvey’s career as “postmaster with the main army,” are in JCC, 22:80, 92, 121, 24:229, 315-16. Samuel Huntington to John Lawrence Sir Philadelphia June 19th. 1780 Necessity obliges me to draw upon you for one thousand dollars


[Page 386]
352 June 20, 1780 1 This letter was undoubtedly written on Monday, June 19, a conclusion supported by both the endorsement and the first two sentences of the letter. Committee at Headquarters to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. In Committee of Congress Sir Morris Town June 20. 1780 Since we did ourselves the honor of addressing your Excellency in our Circular letter of yesterday inclosing Copy of a letter of the same date from the Commander in Cheif, He has thought proper to direct Brigadier General Parsons to repair to your state in order to Collect, arrange, and forward the drafts & recruits from thence to the Army, as you will be advised by the inclosed Copy. General Parsons is fully acquainted with the numbers, Situation and wants of our army, and the indespensible necessity for the states immediately filling their Continental Regiments to the number of five hundred & four Rank & file agreable to the Generals proposal, and of forwarding the quota of Militia and supplies allotted to the states, agreable to the requisitions of this Committee. We therefore most earnestly request your Excellency to pay the earliest attention to his representation on these important subjects, and to give him every aid in your power to effect the matters com mitted to his charge by the Commander in Chief. 1 We have the honor to be, With respect & Esteem, Your Most Obt. Humble, servts. Jno. Mathews Nathl. Peabody 2 RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Mathews and signed by Mathews and Peabody. 1 For Washington’s June 20 letters to the committee, to Samuel Holden Parsons, and to Trumbull, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:38, 42-45. 2 Mathews and Peabody also wrote a brief letter on June 21 to Ephraim Blaine, commissary general of purchases, requesting a number of articles needed “for the use of this Committee,” and listing sugar, coffee, chocolate, “milk Bisquet,” tea, mustard, pepper, vinegar, “Oyl,” and “One Quarter Cask of maderia Wine. . . , One Barrel of good spirits & One Barrel of Rum.” PCC, item 39, 2:61. Samuel Holten to John Avery Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 20th. 1780. Your favor of the 1st inst. has been reed. 1 I forwarded a number of blank commissions, &c by the last post; 2 the reasons of my not sending them before was because the form


[Page 387]
June 20, 1780 353 has been altered & it took some time to git them printed, & not from any inattention to your request. You was so kind as to inform me that I was appointed to a Seat in Council; And the Boston papers Announced my being returned with Colo. Hutchinson to represent the Town of Danvers but my letters from my correspondence there do not mention it, neither have you in your letter; Therefore I wish to know whither that is the case. I took notice of the Honble. Mr. Gills compliments & please to return him the like salute; And let him know that I consider it will add to the Honor & pleasure of a seat at the board to be favored with his company. It gave me sensible pleasure to see Genl. Ward here yet, I felt some disappointment in Mr. Adams’s not accompanying him, 3 as I intend to sit out soon after his arrival. For the public intelligence, I beg leave to refer you to the printed paper. I am, with sincere respect, your most obedient P.S. In the Boston papers I took notice of the arrangement of the Honl. Board in which I had not the place that I formerly was honored with; I wish to know whither it was done by order of the Board, but I am inclined to suppose it might be thro’ inattention when the list was sent to the printer, Yours ut supra FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 'John Avery’s June 1 letter notifying Holten of his election to the Massachusetts Council is in the Holten Papers, DLC. This reply was drafted by Holten on the bottom and verso of Avery’s letter. 2 In his June 1 letter Avery had repeated his request for “a Number of Blank commissions for Privateers.” 3 Samuel Adams, en route to Philadelphia, was this day in Hartford, Conn., where he and Elbridge Gerry wrote joint letters to Gen. John Fellows, Gen. Robert Howe, and the Massachusetts Council calling for General Fellows to march his Massachusetts militia brigade to West Point. Adams and Gerry also wrote to Fellows and Howe the next day, June 21, on the same subject. The letters are printed in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:191-96. Samuel Holten to Jeremiah Sheldon Friend Jere. Phila. June 20th. 1780. Yesterday I was notified of my being appointed to a seat in the Honble. Council of Massachusetts and desiring I wou’d take my seat accordingly; Therefore I have returned an answer by this post that I shall return & take my seat as soon as I can with propriety.' So that you may see I shall sit out as soon as I can after you return, but two things you must mind, one is your own health not to worry yourself but proceed with great moderation, The other is to take


[Page 388]
354 June 20, 1780 the best care of my horses, for if they shou’d be poor when you return, I can’t sit out, but must wait here till they recover which will be a great disappointment. I depend upon your buying me one horse, and I shall not take it amiss if you buy me another before you git to this City if you can make such a bargin as you think will do. I repeat it again do not hurry, the horses will walk. 15 miles in a day & that is full enough this hot weather, & the middle of the days you can feed them; if you buy me a saddle let it be a good one, but common stirrups will do as I shall put my brass ones on it. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 For his “answer,” see Holten’s diary, June 19, 1780, note. He did not, however, leave Philadelphia until August 2. See Holten to Mary Holten, July 28, 1780, note 2. Charles Thomson to the States Sir (Circular) Secretary’s Office June 20th. 1780. The commissions to private armed vessels of war were heretofore ordered to be attested by the Secretary of Congress, But upon es tablishing a board of Admiralty it was judged proper that they should issue from that board and be attested by their Secretary. Accordingly on the 2d of May last having made some alterations in the form of the commission, bond and instructions for commanders of private armed vessels of war, Congress passed the following resolutions. “Resolved, That the Board of Admiralty be empowered and di rected to cause to be printed so many copies of the said forms as they shall judge necessary. “That the President transmit to the Governors or Presidents of the respective States so many copies of the said forms as the board of Admiralty shall advise.” 1 You will therefore, please for the future to apply to the Board of Admiralty for the commissions, bonds &c which may be wanted in your State, and transmit to the said board the Bonds given by the commanders to be lodged in this office. I have the honor to be, Sir, your Obedient humble Servt, Chas Thomson LB (DNA: PCC, item 18). 1 For the May 2 resolves quoted here by Thomson, see JCC, 16:408-9. For Congress’ decision the following month to transfer back to Thomson’s office responsibility for issuing blank privateer commissions, see Thomson to the States, July 28, 1780. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dr Doctr. Philadelphia June 21st 1780 I wrote you by the post Fryday last 1 —inclosed you have this days


[Page 389]
June 21, 1780 355 paper. Inteligence from the Jerseys to day is that Clinton had arrived at New York with part of his Army from S Carolina. That he had sent two regiments over to Elizabeth Town point to reinforce the Army there and that it was Conjectured he would Immediately pro ceed up the north River against West Point. He seems to be acting with vigor, but all his Efforts I am persuaded will be ineffectual. Nothing but Exertion on our side was wanting And all ranks of people Seem now to be properly Annimated. The Jersey, York and Pensil- vania Militia are turning out fast. The merchants and other Inhab itants of this Town (to their immortal honour be it spoken), have undertaken to Supply the Army With provisions, and rum for two months at their own present Expense and are sending it forward very fast. They have raised £300,000 hard money. They are hereafter to be refunded by Congress. This is a most Seasonable assistance and will give time to lay in proper Supplys by the time the two months are expired. A patriotic flame is Kindled too Amongst the Ladys. They have raised £200,000 for the encouragement of the officers & Soldiers in the Continental Army, which is to be deposited in the hands of Mrs. Reed the Presidents Lady, to be by her delivered to Mrs. Washington, to be put into the hands of the General. A Delegate to Congress from N. Carolina arrived here last night. 2 He says that General Cornwallace with 5200 men with some field peices is making a rapid March through S. Carolina, that he had defeated Colo. Beau fort who Commanded about 300 men, near Camden, had Killed and taken about 170, that he was expected to penetrate into N. Carolina but that 4000 of the Militia of that State had embodied & with the assistance of the Virginians and the regular troops belonging to the Maryland and Delaware line, they should be able to give a good Account of them which God grant. I think I mentioned to you in my last that General Gates was appointed to take the Command of the Southern Army and that General Weedon and Colo Morgan were ordered into that service. My love to Janey, and am, yrs. &c. J.H. RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). 1 Dr. Philip Thomas (1747-1815) of Frederick, Md., a member of the Maryland House of Delegates, 1777-78, was married to Hanson’s daughter Jane. This letter is the first of some 50 surviving letters Hanson wrote to his son-in-law while attending Congress, but his letter “by the post Fryday last” has not been found. 2 That is, Willie Jones. Samuel Holten to George Partridge Dear Sir. Philada June 21st. 1780. Your favor of the 5th instant came to hand at a luckey moment,


[Page 390]
356 June 21, 1780 Mr. Livingston was making inquiry in Congress whether the members could inform the house what their states where doing at this alarming crises; Therefore I asked leave to read in my place such parts of your letter as were to the point 1 & I am sure it did honor to the State; and you may be assured that I consider the Courts proceedings to be a work of necessity & therefore has my full approbation ‘tho’ done on the Sabbath. That part of your letter which you desired me to speak to the Treasury about, I have caused an Extract to be laid before them. 2 There has been nothing done about the certificates Since you left us, but I expect there will be soon, as there is a report lately Bro’t in. 3 Mr. Laurens is expected here in a few days; Congress have lately instructed Mr Adams to proceed to Holland upon the same business Mr Laurens is charged with, But if Mr. Adams shou’d think it is necessary for him to continue in France Mr Dana is to proceed to Holland with the same powers. As to the prospects of a loan in Spain I can inform you nothing more than I consider you possessed of, By the last intelligence from Mr. Jay We had reason to expect he would be kindly reed, at that Court, but he had not then been acknowledged there in his public character. I have not heard that any state to the Southward of Pennsylvania has come into the new system of finance but I believe they will as I am very sure Congress will insist upon it. Mr. Ellwoth informs me you may have the new bills next week. Connecticut & New Hampshire has had a number. Exchange here I understand is 58 & 60. It is said Sir Harry has returned from the southward & is about moving up the north river to take possession of our posts there. The late letters from Genl. Washington are as pressing as words can ex press for assistance both of men & provisions; Do my Dr. Sir endea vour to impress upon the minds of the honble. Court that they have not a moments time to lose in affording the General every Assistance in their powers; I can’t Suppose the States will leave that worthy man to fall before our cruel enemies for want of their support. I can’t inlarge the bearer is near siting out. I am my worthy friend, with sincere respect, your most obedient FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 Holten must have interjected Partridge’s June 5 letter on June 17, when Robert R. Livingston’s motion directing the states to inform Congress about steps taken to provide provisions was adopted, but it is not mentioned in the journals. JCC, 17:525. 2 “I have the honor of enclosing an extract of a letter from one of my colleagues,” Holten wrote to the Board of Treasury this day, “by which you’ll perceive he is desirous you shou’d be made acquainted with the contents.” Holten Papers, DLC. The “con tents” of this extract from Partridge’s June 5 letter have not been discovered.


[Page 396]
362 June 22, 1780 Instant, by which you will observe that they behold with Pleasure the Zeal & Solicitude of the Minister of France to advance the mutual Interest of his most Christian Majesty and these United States; and will also be further informed of their repeated Exertions to put their Forces in a Condition, effectually to co-operate with those of our illustrious Ally; and although from the Nature & Constitution of the several Governments, Preparation cannot be made with that Expe dition which were to be desired, you may be assured Sir that no Endeavours will be wanting on the Part of Congress to call forth the military resources of the Country with all possible Dispatch. 1 I have the honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Although he had received assurances in January that the states were prepared to wage a vigorous campaign in 1780 and would be able to provide support for the French forces that were enroute to America to cooperate with Washington’s army, La Luzerne was apprehensive that Congress could not live up to its pledge. He had therefore sent Congress a reminder of its pledge on June 18, hinting that promises to reinforce Washington remained unfulfilled and that prospects for effective coop eration with the anticipated French squadron were dim. JCC, 17:527; and PCC, item 95, 1:100-107. His letter has been printed in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:334-35, and a translation of it in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 8:803-5. La Luzerne’s appeal was referred to committee on June 19, and on June 21 Congress adopted the committee’s recommendations to assure him that they had used “every means in their power to fulfil their engagements of January last,” and that renewed appeals to the states would be immediately delivered to ensure that plans previously made would be fulfilled. For the enclosed “Act” of the 21st and Congress’ renewed appeal to the states therein promised, see JCC, 17:538-40; and the following entry. Samuel Huntington to Certain States Sir, Circular. Philadelphia June 22. 1780 You will herewith receive an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant, which will no doubt be duly attended to. 1 Those Parts of the Act in particular that relate to giving Infor mation to Congress & their Committee at Head Quarters it is most earnestly requested may be attended to with the utmost Expedition & Punctuality. The Time is come when we may expect the Arrival of the Forces of our Ally, and the Plan of Operation ought to be completely formed, & ready to communicate upon their Arrival, which cannot be done without proper & certain Information of the Number of Forces, Quantity of Supplies &c which the States will furnish. Under these Circumstances you will easily perceive, that Congress & the Commander in Chief are placed in a most painful Situation, and that the Interest, Honour & Safety of the States are too much


[Page 397]
June 22, 1780 363 effected to admit of the least Delay, or Neglect, of any & every Exertion which the present Situation of our public Affairs demand. I have the honor to be, with great respect, Sir, your obedt servant. Sam. Huntington President June 23. Since writing the foregoing I have received a Letter from His Excy Genl Washington, an Extract of which is enclosed, together with an Act of Congress of this Day, by which you will be further informed, of the pressing Necessity of forwarding the Supplies of Men & Provisions with the utmost Expedition and the repeated re quest of Congress to transmit to them & their Committee at Head Quarters, the Proceedings of the state over which you have the honor to preside in such Manner that the Commander in Chief may rely, & be enabled to regulate his future Operations thereon. 2 I have the honor to be &c, Sam. Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “To the States from New Hampshire to Mary land inclusive.” 1 See JCC, 17:538-40; and the preceding entry. 2 For Washington’s June 20 appeal to Congress for an immediate delivery of pro visions and supplies from the states, see JCC, 17:551; PCC, item 152, 8:615-18; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:34-38. Robert R. Livingston to George Washington Dear Sir Trentown 22d June 1780 My anxiety for the supplies of the army have brought me to this place in order that I might satisfy myself as to the quantity on hand, & the means of forwarding them. Genl. Nox has communicated to me your Excellencys orders on this subject. Nothing short of this would I am fully persuaded be of sufficient force to produce the desired effect—And knowledge of them will in a great measure ren der the execution of them unnecessary—impressed with this Idea, I have been long labouring to bring Congress to assume the power which will enable them to call forth the resources of the States but unhappily without effect. 1 However I hope much from their pressing & reiterated demands. What principally induced me to trouble your Excellency at this time is an apprehention which I, in common with many other gentlemen, entertain of the propriety of leaving the com mand at West point in the Hands of Genl. Howe. 2 Having no personal acquaintance with him I can have no prejudices. But the Gent, from the Southward by no means speake so favourably of him as I could wish. But independent of this I conceive that as he has yet had no opportunity of acquiring a military character—that Confidence which is so necessary to inspire courage especially in militia will I


[Page 399]
June 23, 1780 365 consequences that must have resulted from a defeat, (which would inevitably have been the consequence, had the enemy at first, and still will be, should they even now pursue their object) We are con strained, again to call on you in the most pressing manner, to forward your quota of men and supplies agreable to our estimate of the 2d Instant, and prevent the total sacrifice of the few brave and intriped spirits that at present compose our Army, and avoid the indelible strain that must consequently be fixed on those states, should such an event take place. (Thus far Circular) To the States of Pensylvania, and New Jersey. That part of the Generals letter respecting the state of the stores here, is a matter of such pressing necessity, that we conceive it to be our duty to give the earliest attention to it. The situation of the magazines at this post, is truely deplorable, the enemy are certainly pushing at them, and we are in no condition to move them for want of teams. If they do not effect their purpous at this time, it is evident they mean to persist until the situation of our affairs renders it nec essary for the remains of our Army to move from hence, when there will be no impediment to the execution of their plan. We therefore hope, Sir, you will enable the officers of the department to improve this interval so as to effect their removal to a place of greater safety, by having the teams which are requested of your state immediately sent forward. We have the honor to be, with the highest respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedt. Hble servts. Jno. Mathews, Nathl Peabody. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). Directed to the 10 northernmost states. 1 In the enclosed letter of June 23, Washington urged the committee to ask the governors of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to “bring out all the Waggons they can” to prevent Continental stores from falling into the hands of the enemy, who “are now in full force bending their march towards Morris Town,” and to ask all the states to “redouble their exertions to comply with the demands that have already been made upon them.” See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:57-58. This threat to Morristown had also led Mathews and Peabody, the previous evening, to request assistant deputy quartermaster Joseph Lewis “to give every assistance in your power to have the stores removed from this post to night.” PCC, item 11, fol. 261. Oliver Ellsworth to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia, June 23d. 1780. I enclose for your Excellency’s perusal the papers last published here. The Enemy have gained some advantages to the Southward since


[Page 402]
368 June 23, 1780 the left wing of our army toward the North, so as to prevent the Enemy from out flanking him with their Right. This morning Early Genl Kniphausen with thirteen Regts. Con sisting of about 5000 regular troops, exclusive of New levies, Ad vanced upon our Right, which was Commanded by Majr Genl Greene. The progress of the enemy was Slow, at least Six hours moveing from the point to Springfield—did but little mischief on their march—when they arrived were Checked by The Spirited Con duct of a few Continentals and Some Militia who gave them So warm a reception They thought proper to halt—And burn every house except 2 or 3 in the Town of Springfield. 1 6 o Clock P.M. the Enemy retire to Eliza. Town. 11 o Ck Their main body are at the point below the Town. 24th. It is reported that Clinton is gone up the North river with all the force he Can make exclusive of Kniphausens Division And it is thought by Some he will Soon Join. The loss of Kill’d & wounded on both Sides must be very Consid erable. Colo Angels & Colo. Datons Regts, have Suffered much. A Captn. Thompson of Col Lambs Regt. Killd. Further particulars I have not yet been able to obtain And have No doubt but Your Exclly will receive Authentic information of every important Circumstance, more Just and minute than is possible for me to Give at this time. However Concluded, that even these imperfect hints might Not be disagreable. I have the honr. to be with perfect Esteem, Your Excelys Most obedt & very Huml Servt, Nathl Peabody RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). ' For this enemy attack, see also Peabody to Meshech Weare, June 24; and Wash ington's June 25 report to Congress in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:63-65. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In Committee of Congress Sir Morris Town June 24. 1780. We inclose you for the information of Congress, copies of the Commander in Chiefs letter to us of the 23d Inst, and of our circular letter, of the same date, to the several states from New Hampshire to Virga, inclusive. Your Excellency will observe those to New Jersey & Pensylvania


[Page 413]
June 27, 1780 379 in directing the same to be sold, and the Money to be deposited in the Hands of Mr W. Bingham, until the Legality of the Capture should be proved. 1 These Proceedings as the Case was then circumstanced, shewed the strictest Attention to the rights of the Claimants and the highest respect to the Opinion of Congress. I have the honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). Addressed: “The Marquis de Bouille Governor Genl &c at Martinique.” 1 For the context in which Congress adopted the resolves enclosed with this letter, see Huntington to the Massachusetts Council, June 24, 1780. John Walker to George Weedon Dear General: Philadelphia, 27 June, 1780. I received with great pleasure your favour of the 16th Inst, and should have been very happy to have seen you at Fredericksburg. Before this reaches you, you will no doubt have heard of your being called into service. 1 This I am sure will be agreeable to you, and may you render your country that service she stands in need of and that which I know you wish to do. Our affairs ’tis true are critical, but an adverse stroke is now and then necessary to rouse us to action. Our resources are undoubtedly sufficient and we want but exertions to work out our salvation. We are now roused and I hope the work will be finished before we fall into another fit of the lethargy. I think your scheme for recruiting our army an excellent one and wish with all my soul it were adopted. This and the neighbouring States are straining every nerve to bring the present campaign to a happy con clusion; let it not be said that Virginia was exceeded either in zeal or exertions by any one of them. Virginia has so distinguished herself in former times no less trying, that now the more is expected of her. The enemy have burnt Springfield, but were so roughly handled that they thought it prudent to return with a quick step to Elizabeth Town. ’Tis generally thought their next object will be West Point, but should they delay their operations a little longer, I think we shall be prepared for them at all points. Where in the name of Heaven are the Monsieurs all this time? We heard of their sailing from Brest the 9th of April. Wherever the service of your Country may call you, I shall always rejoice to hear from you and shall not fail to answer your letters. I have not yet seen the packet of the day, but intend to inclose you one and to it refer you for the news. Remember me cordially to all friends and believe me to be, My dear General, Your’s sincerely, Jn. Walker.


[Page 414]
380 June 27, 1780 MS not found; reprinted from Thomas Balch, ed., Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line During the Revolution (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1857), pp. 111-12. ' See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, June 16, 1780, note 2. George Walton to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 27 June, 1780 After congratulating you & the Citizens and army in the Southern Department, upon your late appointment, permit me to request in general your care of letters which I shall, for safety, send thro Head- Quarters; and in particular the one now enclosed. 1 Should the Ma jor’s Parole have been extended, and he be out, be pleased to have the letter sealed & forwarded. On the contrary, should he be yet in Charles-Town, that you will send it in by the first flag. I am, Dear Sir, with regard & esteem, Your most Obt. Sevt. Geo Walton RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). ' The enclosed letter has not been identified. Artemas Ward to Thomas Ward Dear Tommy 1 Philadelphia 27 June 1780 I am at this time as well as expected and hope these will find you and all the family in like health. I have not heard one Syllable from the family since I left it. I have wrote your mother three times, and Mr. Sumner once since I left home. 2 The mair stood the Journey better than the horse, she looked near as well when I arrived at Philadelphia, as when I left home & had more Spirit. The horse lost the most of his flesh by the time I had got to my Journeys end. This may be assigned to two reasons, viz. First to his being too young and secondly to his not having got seasoned to grass, and I don’t know but I may assign a third namely his having had the horse distemper so lately. I have had him blooded, & hope he will recruit. His blood was Exceeding black. I arrived in this place the thirteenth of June about Eleven O.Clock which was the twelfth day after I set out. I rested the horse two days & a half, so that I was travelling but nine days, which was pushing rather too hard for so long a Journey; however I believe I have not hurt the horse. It is well I did not take the other horse for I immagine he would not have held out, Hope he answers for you as well as the


[Page 416]
382 June 28, 1780 inadequate to the great objects in view. Our feelings have more than once been tortured, by seeing the General, with his little army, in volved at a most critical moment in such complicated embarrassments as few Generals would have encountered, when at the same time his sensibility must have been greatly wounded by reflecting that this labyrinth of distress was in a great measure owing to the cruel neglect of those whose indispensible duty it was to have supported their cause by furnishing him with an Army and supplies equal to the exigency of the time; and the importance of establishing their independence, and bringing the war to a speedy and honorable termination; yet we are fully convinced such is his delicacy and candour, such his affec tionate regard to the case and convenience of the state, that he would undergo every species of hardship and fatigue, run every risque that did not with temerity endanger a total loss of the Army; the con sequences, inevitable to such an event, you will readily conceive. In short, that he would sacrifice every thing but his honor and integrity in support of the independence of these States, rather than they should be burthened by any unnecessary requisition. We shall there fore rely with the most intire confidence, that the condition and proposals mentioned [in the gen]erals letter to you, and upon which he was induced to accept the propositions of your state, will be most rigidly observed, and fully complied with on their part. We have the honor to be, with the greatest respect & Esteem, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt. Hble Servts, J. Mathews N. Peabody Tr (DNA: PCC, item 11). ' Jenifer and Beall were president of the Maryland Senate and speaker of the House of Delegates respectively. Beall signed their “joint letter of the 22d” to Washington “Josia Beall.” Washington Papers, DLC. His name is entered as “Josias” in A Bio graphical Directory of the Maryland Legislature, 1635-1789, edited by Edward C. Papen- fuse, et. al. (Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1979-84. 2 vols.), 1:123-24. He is variously listed as “Josias” and “Josiah” in Maryland sources. 2 For Washington’s June 27 letter to the committee expressing his pleasure over the Maryland legislature’s intent to raise “an extra [Continental] Battallion in lieu of the Militia required” and asking the committee to inform the assembly “of their approbation of the measure,” see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:76-77. For his reply to Jenifer and Beall, see ibid., pp. 85-86. This day Mathews and Peabody also received a letter from Philip Schuyler, undated but endorsed by Abraham Brasher “Genl. Schuyler to the committee—dated Pompton. . . reed. 28th June 1780,” which indicates that he too had reviewed Washington’s June 27 letter, while on his way from Morristown to headquarters at Ramapo the previous day. “I have perused the letter from the legislature of Maryland, and the Generals answer,” Schuyler explained. “I heartily approve of what the legislature proposed, and think It advisable If you do so, that the letter which Signifies our Approbation Should contain a Compliment on the Exertions of the State. . . . Pray come on soon as you possibly can as the Genl. May want us.” PCC, item 153, 3:531- 32. See also Committee at Headquarters to Washington, June 24, 1780, note 2.


[Page 418]
384 June 28, 1780 Samuel Holten’s Diary [June 28, 1780] 28. Wednesday. I dined with Colo. Pickering. The Honl. Mr. Ad ams arrived here from Boston. 1 A fine rain. MS (MDaAr). 1 Samuel Adams took his seat in Congress on June 29. JCC, 17:571. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia June the 29th. 1780 I embrace the eairlest oppertunity to inclose you the Resolution of Congress Respecting loan office Certificates which hase been un der Consideration every opportunety for a long time Past and Post pond and Put off upon Different views and Different motives to this Day, 1 hope it may be agreeable. Alltho not exactly according to my mind, yet it is the nighest to Justice Could be agreed on. As Soon as the treasury Board have Prepared the Proper tabels for the Several loan officers in Paying off the Principal and Interest they will be forwarded to the Respective loan officers. By a letter this Day Reed, from general Washington dated the 24th Instant 2 we are informed he wase on his march for West Point on the North River where he expected to meet general Clinton with all the force he Can muster. Much is Depending on that fortress, and what sittuation they are in on account of Provision we Know not, a large quantity of Salted beef being ordered there from New London but whather arrived Seasonabley we have not been informed. Yesterday I Sent off our Preportion of the new money by Capt. John Brown of Boston who hase ingaged to Deliver it with out loss of time to the treasurer at Exeiter for which he hase Reed, three thousend Dollers in full for the Same, hope it may arive Safe. It wase Some of the first Struck off and as soon as it wase Ready immediatly Sent off. I have the Honour to be with grate Respect, your most. obt. Humle. Servent, Nathl. Folsom P.S. I Shall expect to be Releived in Sepr. as I must then Returne home. N F. RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 The enclosed resolution “Respecting loan office Certificates” was adopted on June 28. See Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, June 27, 1780, note 1, and illustration. 2 Folsom was referring to General Washington’s letter to President Huntington of June 25, which was read this day in Congress. JCC, 17:571.


[Page 425]
June 30, 1780 391 I inclose you a copy of a late resolution of Congress which I tho’t necessary you shou’d be made acquainted with. 2 I took notice that your letter was addressed to me as a member of Congress, but by the contents it shou’d have been to the Chairman of the medical committee and as I may not be here when your next letter comes to hand, I advise (as a friend) to keep your public & private Letters separate. The Hone. Mr. Adams arrived here safe the day before yesterday. I am Sir, with Sincere respect, your most obedient servant. FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Hoken. 1 Holten’s official letter of this date to Foster on behalf of the Medical Committee has not been found, but see the following entry. 2 Holten probably enclosed a copy of the June 26 resolution authorizing the Medical Committee “to take proper measures for carrying on the business of the said de partment” in the wake of the arrest of the director general, William Shippen, Jr. JCC, 17:561-62. Samuel Holten to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir. Philadelphia June 30th. 1780. I was favored with yours by Genl. Schuyler 1 & intended to have done myself the pleasure of writing to you by him, but he sit out sooner than I expected. You mention that you have not the last returns. Dr. Brown, I think, made two returns of the Medical Gentlemen not long since, & as I have but one of them I did suppose you had the other, as I tho’t I had some remembrance of your taking of one: the return I have is at this time wanted by the comittee, as they are considering what Gentlemen are most proper to join the Southern Army; but if you stand in need of the return, I will send it or a copy; I inclose you a late resolution of Congress respecting the department: 2 And the com ittee have wrote to Dr. Brown 8 directing him to let them know the state of the middle district, & what stores & medicines are absolutely necessary; Mr. Henry of Virginia is added to the committee, & we are doing all in our power to afford supplies. It gives me concern that the General shou’d be under embarras- ments from a resolution of Congress, 4 & I gave it as my opinion to Genl. Schuyler that it might be removed, but it has not been men tioned in Congress. It is a great misfortune to our country, that when we shou’d have our armies in the field, we have the men to raise & money & supplies to collect, and ’tho’ I am not disposed to find fault with any, yet I think there has been delays, & we must now suffer the consequences. Genl. Lincoln is with us here, and agreeably to the resolutions of


[Page 429]
June 30, 1780 395 the 3d & 4th of this month inform us of the arrival of a Spanish Frigate announcing that 12 Spanish Ships of the line, 4-50 Gunship[s] and six Frigates with abt. 10,000 Troops were abt. 200 leagues to windwd. when the Frigate left them, coming forward to join the French Fleet and forces. The Ct. Guichen was going out with 16 sail of the line to meet them. Upon the junction of their Fleets, the superiority of the Combined Force will be decided, and we may ex pect soon to hear of some important stroke made in that Quarter. It was conjectured their first attempt wod. be St. Lucia if the ap proach of the hurricane months did not discourage the enterprise— then Jamacia and from thence come round and by uniting the whole Forces sweep the Coast of North America. The representation is grand and opens so pleasing a prospect to us I will not lessen your pleasure by a doubt of it being verified. These Letters further inform us that the Armament carrying on at Brest and wch. they expected was for the Wt. Indies is for North America and that it was expected to sail abt. the 15th April. It is said to consist of ten ships of the line and a large Body of Troops—no doubt they will make it as large as they well can as it is evident the War will be principally here and in the Wt. Indies. Between the 12th & 19th of last month Rodney and Guichen have had three engagements, the last a severe action in wch. the Count kept the Sea. For further particulars I refer you to the inclosed paper as well as for the account so far as we are yet informed of the action at Springfield in the Jerseys between our Troops & Militia under Genl. Green and the British & Hessians under Kni- phausen. The Jersey Militia acquired immortal Fame as indeed they do upon almost every occasion where they are engaged with the Enemy. With great respect, I have the honor to be yr most obedt. Servt., Jos. Jones [P.S.] Congress have formed the Scale of Depreciation to apply to Loan office Certificates. from the 1st Sept. 1777 to 1st. March 1778 at 1 3 % Thence to Sept. 1st. 78 - -- -- 78 - - 4 Thence to March 1st. ----- 79 - - 10 Thence to Sept. 1st. ----- 79 - - 18 Thence to Mar. 18th. -----80 - -40 The intermediate time of the respective periods to be calculated in Geometrical proportion. The Resolves will be immediately pub lished. This will reduce the principal of Loans from 46,559,235 to 11,053,573. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). ' See Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, June 21, 1780. 2 The Virginia legislature was already reconsidering its “late determination respect ing the Scheme of Finance” and in early July adopted an act redeeming the money in circulation and funding new bills of credit. The legislation would take effect, how-


[Page 430]
396 June 30, 1780 ever, only when the governor received confirmation that a majority of states, not including South Carolina and Georgia, had acceded to the resolutions of March 18. Meanwhile, to meet “the present urgent necessities of this commonwealth,” the leg islature realized Jones’ fear of placing more paper money in circulation by authorizing the emission of up to £2 million of additional treasury notes. See William W. Hening, The Statutes at Large: Being a Collection of All the Laws of Virginia (Richmond: J. & G. Cochran, 1809-23), 10:241-54, 279-86. See also Jefferson’s July 26 and 27 letters to James Madison and to Huntington in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:506-12. 5 Maryland’s instructions to its delegates had been read in Congress on May 21, 1779, and the New York act and Virginia remonstrance on March 7 and April 28, 1780. On June 26 they were assigned to a committee of five, of which Jones was a member, that delivered its report this day. The report, which was read July 3, was not taken into consideration and agreed to until early September. See JCC, 14:619- 22, 16:236, 398, 17:559-60, 580, 586, 802, 806-7. See also Samuel Huntington to the States, September 10, 1780. James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry Sir, [June 30? 1780]’ Mr. Adams who arrived here two days ago gives me the pleasure of knowing he met you & left you well at Hartford. I hope you are enjoying much of the Sweets of Reunion with Family & other Friends, from whom you have been long seperated. Could you throw aside the knotty-browed Politician, you are now in a Region, where your own Accomplishments being well known, intrinsic merit only will sup pose that a Face or Shape or Air can have Effect upon you. May the Loveliest of the Lovely soon succeed in her justifiable Arts to entice you within her Empire! The Scale for loaned principals is at length decided. 2 1777 Sepr. 1st — 1 \ Intermediate Dates as the Times in 1778 March 1st — 1.75 J geometrical proportion. Sepr. 1st — 4 ( Interest at 6 per C[en]t upon the 1779 Mar 1st — 10 7 Principals to be pd. in Kind as the Sepr. 1 — 18 \ principals, preserving the Lenders 1780 Mar 18. —40 ' Claim to Bills of Exchange on France. I hope it will give Content. It is impossible that it should critically accord with every Man’s Judgment or Interest. But in God’s Name let us show a Revival of enlarged Sentiments & true Patriotism and cease to be a Confederation of assay-men, griping Farmers and Jew- Pedlars. Mr. A, or Mr. D s if the former cannot attend, is to take Mr. Laurens’s Powers in Holland till his arrival, for the Money purposes. The papers will as speedily as possible be forwarded to Europe. I send you the Continuation of 1778 and will shortly send an Index so that you may have the Vol. bound there according to the former, or else give Directions here to your humble Servant, J L


[Page 431]
July 1, 1780 397 RC (DLC: Gerry Papers, photostat). 1 Although Lovell did not date this letter, he probably wrote it on June 30th, two days after Samuel Adams’ arrival in Philadelphia on June 28, which Lovell states, in his opening sentence, occurred “two days ago.” See Samuel Holten’s Diary, June 28, 1780. 2 For Congress’ adoption of this scale of depreciation to protect the owners of Continental loan office certificates against inflation, see Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, June 27, 1780, note 1. ’ That is, John Adams or Francis Dana. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams, July 11, 1780. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadelphia. July 1st 1780 I am favoured with your two Letters by Mr McHard and be assured your request shall be duely attended to. Mr. Dickenson is not in Town nor Can I get Any information whether his Coach is yet for Sale. Our affairs it is true have of late worn but an unfavourable Aspect, but we are far from being in the last Ditch, as some are dastardly enough to immagine. Our resources are great, And we are now roused I hope to A proper exertion. The Enemy have met with A Considerable repulse in the Jerseys, And our Garrison at West Point I hope is now in a Condition to Sustain the Attack of the Enemy tho’ [their wh]ole force Should go Against it, as is reported. A Consid erable quantity of provisions has been lately thrown in. And men will not be wanting. No Account of the Arrival of the french fleet. Inclosed you have the last papers to which I refer you for news. Mr McHard had three pounds best Tea for Mrs. Lee which I hope will please. I could not trust my own Judgment but got a Lady to Chuse it for her & Shou[ld] ever you have leisure and Opportunity I hope to be favoured with A line and tho’ I have hitherto been a little forgetful of my promise Shall endeavour to make you Amends in future. My Compliments to Mrs. Lee. With great respect I am my Dr Sir, Your most Obedient Sert, John Hanson RC (CSmH: Emmet Collection). Henry Laurens to the Committee for Foreign Affairs Gentlemen. Philadelphia 1st July 1780. When I addressed you under the 24th February last, 1 I had re ceived the strongest assurances from Capt. Hill, Master of the Ad-


[Page 432]
398 July 1, 1780 riana that, Wind permiting, he would Sail the very next day, I had constantly visited his Vessel Morning, Noon & Evening urging dis patch; my Sea Stock &c were already embarked & I had for several proceeding days held myself in readiness to follow them at a moments warning, but that next day & another passed away without effect, when there appeared at Anchor in front of Charles Town Harbor about thirteen Sail of the Enemy’s Ships of War & rendred it im practicable for a Vessel of the Adriana’s draught of Water to go to Sea with safety. In these circumstances I determined to seek a Passage in one of the Northern Ports, & at George Town hired a small Schooner, the Peggy, Gabriel Bryan, Master, to convey me, at my option, to Mar tinique, Wilmington or some Port in Chesepeke Bay & I ordered the Indigo which had been shipped in the Adriana to be put on board the Peggy, upon terms of freight much more advantageous to the Public than those which had been agreed upon with the Owners of the former Vessel—at George Town I ordered the Peggy to Wil mington where I was informed there was an exceeding good Vessel bound to France. Upon my arrival at Wilmington I found that Vessel was in no forwardness, therefore I pressed Capt. Bryan to the further prosecution of his engagement by sailing to York in Virginia, where I learned the fier Roderique an Armed french Ship was lying & nearly ready to Sail for Port L’Orient, as I wished to embark in the Rode rique or some other Vessel bound directly to Europe in order to save Money & time which must unavoidably have been expended had I attempted a circuitos Voyage through the West Indies, as well as to avail myself of the best Market for Sale of the Indigo & to shun a double risque of Capture; the Captain endeavored to excuse himself from a compliance by alledging that his Mariners had refused to go the Voyage & that many of them had absconded upon being informed of the destination; he had also been instructed by his Owner Mr. Nelson to reland the Indigo if I should insist upon the Vessel’s going to Virginia & to protest the impossibility of procuring Seamen. After wasting much time in attempts to persuade Capt. Bryan to proceed to York in pursuance of his contract, I received intelligence of the fall of Fort Moultrie & Charles Town in which I foresaw the whole state of South Carolina would be involved, & it being the general opinion that the Port of Wilmington would soon be invested by the Enemy’s Cruisers, I proposed as an alternative, that the Peggy should proceed directly to Cadiz, the freight of the Indigo to be no more than was to have been paid had she discharged at Martinique or in Chesepeake Bay, which was accepted—the Schooner departed from Wilmington the 25th May & I believe went safely to Sea on the 26th. Inclosed with this, you will receive an Invoice & Bill of Loading for the Indigo, 2 when I get possession of my Papers which are in a Waggon on their way hither I will present you with Copy of my


[Page 433]
July 4, 1780 399 Instructions to the Merchants at Cadiz to whom the Indigo is con signed, will explain the intent & meaning of the reserve “subject to the further order of the said Henry Laurens.” contained in those docu ments & also inform you in what manner the Rice inserted in the first Invoice was disposed of, the Plate mentioned in the said first Invoice is coming forward with my Papers. South Carolina being in possession of the Enemy, & nothing, in my view, at the time of the Peggy’s Sailing, that could have prevented a rapid & destructive progress of the Enemy through No. Carolina wrought so great a change on the face of our public affairs & such a reverse of my own fortune, as led me to think it proper & even incumbent on me to present myself to Congress. I arrived in this City last Night & now wait their further Commands. Before I conclude, permit me Gentlemen to observe & to assure you that a constant & steady attention to my Public Duty has been extremely detrimental to my private Interest—by a personal appli cation to the latter I might have saved as many articles in moveables from my Estates as would have yielded me many Thousand Pounds Sterling, these have been since taken or destroyed by the British Troops or are now in their possession & I am at this moment reduced to such circumstances as would be grievos to a Man who had not sincerely devoted his Life & fortune to the service of his Country. I have the honor to be, Gentlemen, Your most obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (DNA: PCC, item 89). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 89, fols. 185-88. 2 Not found; but for Congress’ approval of Laurens’ request to be allowed to reship this cargo of indigo to Cadiz “on his own account and risque,” see JCC, 17:583, 587. Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 4, 1780] 4. Tuesday. Anniversary of our independence. Congress attended the public commencement 1 & had a cold collation with a no. of Gent. I wrote to the town of Danvers, to Colo. Hutchinson & to Mrs. Holten (no. 137). 2 A very warm day. No news. MS (MDaAr). ' For a description of the “public commencement,” see the Pennsylvania Packet, July 8, 1780. 2 Holten’s letters to Israel Hutchinson and to the Inhabitants of Danvers follow this entry; his letter to Mary Holten has not been found.


[Page 434]
400 July 4, 1780 Samuel Holten to Israel Hutchinson My dear Sir, Philada. July 4th. 1780. Your favor of the 31st of May came to hand the 29th of June, the reasons why I was so long deprived of the pleasure of receiving it I am not able to say. My being appointed to a Seat in the honble house & soon after in Council are very distinguishing marks of confidence & respect, 1 but what adds to it is the obliging manner in which you communicated the same. The reasons you are pleased to assign for not writing more par ticular, I wish you to consider as opparating the same on my side, as 1 hope to have the pleasure of paying you my personal respects in about five weeks. The reasons of our present embarrassed State of affairs is owing in a great measure to these two great causes the depreciation of our currency, & some of the states not immediately coming in to the resolutions of Congress of the 18th of March last respecting finance. I was happy to hear the State [I] have the honor to represent, im mediately complied with them; I perceive the states are coming in one after another (better late than never) they begin to be sensible that they are now suffering for not complying sooner. I thought when they passd. & have seen no reason to alter my opinion that over all under God in a great measure, depended thereon. Please to make my proper respects to Mrs. Hutchinson. I am, with sincere respect your most obidient P.S. Please to be so kind as to take charge of the inclosed. 2 FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. 1 See Holten’s Diary, June 19, 1780; and the following entry. 2 Apparently the following entry. Samuel Holten to the Inhabitants of Danvers, Mass. My worthy friends Philada. July 4th. 1780. A few days since I was favored with a letter from Colo. Hutchinson, in which he mentions that the Town of Danvers had made choice of me with himself to represent them in the Genl. Assembly the ensuing year; I take the earliest oppertunity to acknowledge the honor done me and to assure you that such repeated marks of your confidance & respect will have a deep and lasting impression upon my mind; & whatever station I may be called to act in, it will always give me


[Page 435]
July 4, 1780 401 satisfaction to think that while I am endeavouring to Serve my coun try in general that I still retain the approbation of the Town that gave me birth & first bro’t me into public view, & which in times past I had the pleasure of Serving more immediately; But I must observe, that previous to my receiving the Colonels letter I had been formally notified by the Honble. Council of Massachusetts that the Genl. Court had elected me one of the Council and desired me to take my seat accordingly, I returned for answer that as soon as my engage ments here wou’d permit & I cou’d with propriety leave Congress, I wou’d return & take my seat at the honorable board, 1 which de prives me of accepting a seat in the honble house to which you was pleased to appoint me; However, I consider it not very material which house I am in, for you may be assured that all matters that particularly respect the Town of Danvers shall be noticed by me. Permit me to congratulate you on the anniversary of our independance this day; and ’tho’ our cruel enemies still continue their endeavours to Sub jugate us, yet I have good reason to hope the time is not far distant when they must give up their unjust pretensions and that we shall then enjoy the blessing of Liberty & peace and hand down to posterity the rights of men inviolate which will be a full reward for our labour & care. I am, Gentlemen, with sincere respect, your most obliged humble servant. FC (DLC: Hoken Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten. ' For further information on Holten’s election as a representative from Danvers to the Massachusetts General Court and as a member of the Governor’s Council, see Holten’s Diary, June 19, 1780; and the preceding entry. James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir, July 4th. 1780 I inclose the Resolves you may need. 1 Last Evening Mr. Turnbull informed me that he is told by a Mr. Livingston of Carolina “to sell the Sloop Nancy & Cargo if she arrives here and to pay some Balance to Mr. Lovell for Genl. Lincoln.” If this is any Business in which I can render you Service please to give me a memorandum. Mr. Turnbull, at present, knows nothing of the Vessel. 2 I am affectionately, Yours, James Lovell RC (PHi; Dreer Collection). 1 Probably Congress’ June 23 resolves calling for an “enquiry to be made into the loss of Charlestown” (JCC, 17:551-52), although Lovell may also have enclosed any number of congressional resolves dealing with the defense of South Carolina.


[Page 437]
July 6, 1780 403 is not at hand. I have been here since the 4th of Novr. very much against my inclinations & know not how much longer I may be de tained. Mr. D is gone home, 4 & as he has views upon your old seat he will hurry back to be in time & he assures me that I shall have leave to go immediately upon his return, & as I do not look the same way I think I shall indulge him. You have I dare say heard of poor Morris misfortune in the loss of his leg. He bears it with mag nanimity & is in a fair way of recovery. I feel for him & yet am led to hope that it may turn out to his advantage & tend to fix his desultory genious to a point in which case it can not fail to go far. As I know the interest you take in what may contribute to my happiness, I venture to inform you of a domestick occurrence by which it is greatly increased, the birth of a daughter. I saw your son 5 at headquarters about two months ago. He is a fine healthy boy and the Idol of his grandmother. Now I am speaking of her, I must tell you that she was so imprudent as to remove with her family to Eliz abeth town, where she was vissited by the enemies whole army, who treated her with civility as I learn by a letter to Mrs Morris from Caty. But their troops being very hardly treated by the New Jersey Militia on a second vissit they made to Springfield, which they burnt, they called a second time at the Govrs., & were with great difficulty prevented from burning the house by Mrs. Liv., Mr. Livingston not being at home. You are happy in being far from this scene of trouble. The enemy by the reduction of Charlestown have obliged us to make large detachments from the main army and by returning with the greater part of their force have kept us in continual motion, tho fortunately they are now again by the aid of the militia shut up in New York. And we are waiting in anxious expectation the arrival of the French armament in order to attempt some thing important. In the mean while we shall need great assistance from the court at which you now are to enable us to make some arrangement of our finances, from the disorder of which our greatest evils flow. These however are by no means remediless; they want much attention, & some sup port from our allies to put them upon the best & most stable footing. I forgot to mention that I have reed, within this few days your Letter from Cadiz. 6 I was mortified to such a degree at not hearing from you while at Martinique that I could not bring myself to continue writing as I had done till your Last convinc’d me that I was not forgotten. I have seen Mrs. Jays journal, 7 feel her distress, admire her fortitude & offer her my congratulations upon her present agree able situation. You will offer my compliments to the Coll. & Mr. Carmichael, & receive my best wishes for your happiness. 1 am Dear John with the sincerest esteem, Your friend & hum. servt. Robt R. Livingston RC (James S. Copley Library, La Jolla, Calif., 1986). Endorsed by Jay: “Reed. 5 Octr.”


[Page 438]
404 July 6, 1780 1 Apparently this day’s debate on the quartermaster general’s salary, in which both John Fell and Samuel Holten played an active role. JCC, 17:589. 2 See Livingston to Jay, December 22, 1779, and February 10, 1780. 5 For a discussion of the ciphers used by Jay and Livingston, see Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 660-66. 4 That is, James Duane, whose last recorded vote in Congress was June 28. JCC, 17:569. 5 That is, Peter Augustus Jay, who was being cared for by his maternal grandmother, Susannah French Livingston. 6 See John Jay to Livingston, February 19, 1780, Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 735-37. 7 For Sarah Livingston Jay’s “journal” of her voyage to Spain, see ibid., pp. 680- 86. Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington Head Quarters near Pasaick falls Sir July 6, 1780 The Commander in chief has suggested the propriety of Investing the Committee here with power to Call any of the Continental ships of war which may be In the Adjacent seas to such points as the exigency of the Service may require; That their aid will be necessary In the prosecution of the Intended operation is beyond a doubt and the delay which must of course take place from a previous application to the Admiralty to direct them to a Compliance with the wishes of the General may prove so detrimental that I conceive It ought not to be risqued. As the Subsistance money to the Officers of the line for the re tained rations has not been paid for some time past, they are reduced to great distress, and have become exceedingly uneasy. Remonstr ances have been on foot and would Already have been transmitted to Congress, had not the prudent Intervention of the General pre vented the Increase for the present, I apprehend the Committee will be under the necessity of directing the Commissaries to furnish them In Actual Service with all the rations they are Intitled to, until the pleasure of Congress is known. Permit me Sir to Suggest the necessity of some decision on the Subject by Congress. 1 I have the honor to be, with perfect respect & Esteem, Your Ex- cellencys Most Obedient, Humble Servant, Ph. Schuyler RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). 1 Schuyler’s letter was read in Congress on July 10, when the paragraph “as relates to the frigates” was referred to the Board of Admiralty. The following day the second paragraph “as relates to subsistance of the army” was referred to the Board of Treas ury. The Board of Admiralty failed to report, but the Board of Treasury recommended on July 18 that “the paymaster general be enabled to pay the subsistance money,” but that it was “inexpedient to permit the commissaries of issues to furnish the retained rations, in lieu of the subsistance money allowed to officers of the line.” JCC, 17:595, 603, 639.


[Page 439]
July 7, 1780 405 Philip Schuyler to John Mathews and Nathaniel Peabody Gentlemen Head quarters Totoway. July 6th 1780 A Slight Indisposition retarded my return from Windsor until Yes terday. Since my arrival at this place the General has made me com munications on some matters which will claim the Earliest Attention of the Committee. I have therefore to Intreat you to repair hither as soon as possible. 1 If you can find any Short forrage at Morristown It will be prudent to bring as much with You as You Conveniently Can as none is to be procured here. I am very Sincerely, Your Obedient Hbl Servant, P Schuyler RC (DNA: PCC, item 153). ' For the movements of Washington and the members of the committee in June and July, see Committee at Headquarters to Washington, June 24, 1780, note 2. Samuel Holten to Benjamin Wadsworth My Dear Sir, 1 Phila. July 7th. 1780 You are my only correspondent that I shou’d have wrote a 3d time 2 to without bearing from him; But being loth to give up a corre spondence which was so agreeable on my side & being sensible that I was much wanting in answering your favors so fully as they deserved ‘tho’ I could plead some excuse, induces me to write once more. I have taken great pains for twelve months past to convince my correspondents in Court of the state to which the depreciation of our currency wou’d reduce us, but I saw it was impossible to convince all of them or the good people in general untill they were brought to feel its effects very fully, which I beleive they begin to do; and now I think the greatest danger in that respect is over, ‘tho’ it will still continue very heavy while the taxes called for are collecting. But I perceive the states are coming into the resolutions of Congress of the 18th of March last respecting finance which will greatly releive them; at the time their resolutions passed, & I have seen no reason to alter my opinion, I considered our all in a great measure under God depended thereon, & it gave me much concern to hear that some of the states did not at first see it. However, the old saying is better late than never. I have not time to add, but bear upon my mind that lumenier morning conversation with you which I hope to enjoy in Augt. next. Please to make my proper compliments to your Lady. I am, Sir, with Sincere respect your most obedt.


[Page 440]
406 July 7, 1780 FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten, and endorsed by him: “Copy of a letter to the Revd. Mr. Wadsworth. July 7th 1780.” 1 Rev. Benjamin Wadsworth has been identified in these Letters, 12:329n.3. 2 No previous letter of Holten to Wadsworth has been found, but Holten noted in his diary that he wrote nine letters to Wadsworth while he attended Congress. Ibid., 10:321n.l. Samuel Huntington to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada. July 7. 1780 By the Act of Congress of the 6th Instant herewith enclosed your Excellency will be informed that they have directed the Board of Treasury to supply the President & Supreme Executive Council of this State with Bills of Exchange drawn on the Minister of the United States at the Court of France to the Amount of one thousand Pounds Sterling for which the said State is to be accountable. 1 I have the Honor to be &c &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ' JCC, 17:590. For Reed’s July 6 letter to the Pennsylvania delegates instructing them to request this special issuance of bills of exchange, which he justified on the ground of the large advances of supplies recently provided by the state on Continental account, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 8:392-93. John Armstrong, Sr., to John Davis Dear Sir, Philada. 8th July 1780 For these few days past this place afords but little News. The Enemy remain at Philips’s House on the N. Side of Hudsons River, but have yet made no attempt toward Westpoint. A private letter from Bal timore brings intelligence that a French as well as a Spanish Fleet (of the latter we heard some time ago) is arrived at Martinique, but for what purposes, or exactly of what Size we have not yet learned. The Enemy in South Carolina according to our last advices pos sessed three different Posts whereby they command the principal part of the provisions of that State, One at Camdon, One on the Congaree, and a third pointing toward the disaffected highlanders in North Carolina. Each of those Posts are upward of One hundred miles West of Charlestown. Fourteen hundred of the disaffected in the back parts of South Carolina are Said to have joined the british & their numbers daily growing. On the Other hand Genl. Caswell from North Carolina had Set out with fourteen hundred Militia to be followed by Others in Order to prevent a junction of the Enemy with the highlanders at Cross-Creek. Baron DeCalb, as I understand it, is forming a Circuituous March North West of the Enemy in Order to get betwixt them & Charlote in South Carolina, a place where we


[Page 441]
July 8, 1780 407 have Some military Stores. General Gates appears to have a Sufficient Spot of Work cut out for him, Yet the Enemy cannot exceed four thousand, except what increase they may have through the disaf fected of these States which it’s feared will be many & occasion what more Strictly may be called a Civil War. The Governors of South Carolina & Georgia are both here which is very wrong, but Governor Rutledge will Suddenly return. 1 In a New Plan for the Qr. Masters Department now before Congress It is proposed that only One As sistant Qr. M. Gl., will be allow’d—and he to reside near Congress. One Deputy Qr. Master in each State to procure Carriages &c. he is to be named by the Qr. Master Genl, but must be approved by the Supreme Council of each State & the Board of War—he will have Clerks or assistants, but without Forage or rations. No Forage Master farther to be allowed but with the Army. 2 The pay of this State Qr. Master is not yet fixed. In Pennsylvania he will have much Work. Who will Genl. Greene pitch on for this State? It is not yet known whether he will Serve but as the System is only designed for the Campaign, it’s thought he will. His pay is to be about 15 hundred a year or at the rate thereof in hard money including his pay as Major General. Mrs. Armstrong has wrote me for £150 & I cannot Send her One pound but have refered her to you & said I wou’d write you. I hope you will be able to Oblige her with that Sum or what She may Stand in need of. You have wrote nothing of the Rum whether you got it or not. Does the Old black mare Stumble dangerously when She rides Slow, or does She not? I send you the last News paper in my possession which is better than that of this day. Four thousand hard has been refused for our Works—the Com pany Asked Six. If you See Josey Thornbrogh please to tell him that in my Opinion five thousand is the mark. I lay Sick when Mr. Egye was here, else I believ we Shou’d have dealt. My Compliments to Coll. Magaw &c. I am dear Coll Yours in haste, John Armstrong RC (DLC: Davis Papers). 1 John Rutledge, the governor of South Carolina, had come to Philadelphia with a number of other prominent South Carolinians after the fall of Charleston. Richard Howly, the governor of Georgia, was also a delegate to Congress and had just taken his seat on July 6. JCC, 17:588. 2 For the quartermaster plan “now before Congress,” see Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington, June 17, 1780, note 1. Samuel Holten to Francis Dana My Dr. Sir Philada. July 8th 1780 I shall make no apology for this address farther than assuring you that personal respect is my principal inducement.


[Page 443]
July 8, 1780 409 Instant, in Answer to the Note you were pleased to lay before them, By which you will be informed that they have recommended to the State of Maryland, to grant Permission to such Agent as the Minister of France shall appoint to purchase within that State any Quantity of Flour not exceeding three thousand Barrels, and to ship the same to such Colonies of his Catholic Majesty as the Minister of France may direct. 1 This recommendation I have no Doubt will be readily complied with, and that notwithstanding these United States under their present Circumstances, are not in a Situation to admit of any considerable Export of Provision, yet that Congress will from Time to Time afford such Supplies to the Colonies of his Catholic Majesty as their Circumstances may require and the Situation of these States enable them to grant. I have the honor to be &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The enclosed July 7 resolves were adopted by Congress in response to a June 28 letter from La Luzerne requesting permission to export provisions from the United States to Havana to provide for troops recently sent to Cuba by the Spanish court to make a diversion against British posts in America. La Luzerne’s appeal was referred to a committee consisting of Joseph Jones, Robert R. Livingston, and George Walton on July 1, and the committee reported the recommendations contained in the enclosed resolves this day. See JCC, 17:580, 592-94; PCC, item 95, 1:108-11; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:822. Huntington also sent the same resolves this day to Maryland governor Thomas Sim Lee. Red Books, MdAA. Samuel Huntington to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia July 8. 1780 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of the first Instant by which you will be informed, that in Consideration of the Bravery and distinguished Merit of the late Major General Warren Congress have thought proper in Addition to what hath been already done, to recommend to the Executive of the State of Massachusetts Bay to make Provision for the Education of his three younger Children, and resolved to defray the Expence thereof to the Amount of the half Pay of a Major General, to commence at the Time of his Death, and to continue until the Youngest of the said Children shall be of Age. 1 I have the Honor to be, with great Esteem & respect, Sir, your most obedt servant, Sam Huntington President RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 'JCC, 17:581. For previous efforts to provide for the orphans of Joseph Warren,


[Page 444]
410 July 8, 1780 see these Letters, 6:458-60, 12:111-12; and Massachusetts Delegates to Samuel Adams and John Hancock, November 19, 1779. Henry Laurens to Samuel Huntington Sir. Philadelphia 8th July 1780 I am possessed in right of William Wilkinson Esquire of seven Loan Office Certificates for one Thousand Dollars each, on which there became due the 26th December last, for two Years Interest, Eight hundred & Forty Dollars Payable in Bills of Exchange. These Certificates were Issued by James Green Esqr. Treasurer & Loan Officer in the State of North Carolina; I called on that Gentle man the 5th June last at New Bern & demanded payment of the Interest abovementioned to which he returned the following answer in writing. “Sir New Bern 5 June 1780 “I am not prepared to pay off the Interest due on the within mentioned Certificates by Bills of Exchange on France, having never received any Blank Bills from Congress or the Treasury.” I am &c James Green jr.” I am also possessed in my own right of five Loan Certificates issued in the State of Georgia. Vizt. 1—the 7th March 1778 for 1000 Dols. 4—the 3d April 1778 for 200 each 800 1800. for these I advanced the full Value of principal & Interest to a very distressed Gentleman who left that State when it fell into the hands of the Enemy, I my self am now reduced to his circumstances. In the first of these Instances the Non Payment of Interest is the effect of omission on the part of Congress or their Agents; respecting the latter, it is now impossible to receive payment of either Interest or Principal in Georgia, therefore I beg leave to submit both Cases to the consideration of Congress, assured that they will, without the additional greivance of delay, cause right & justice to be done, for the relief of Individuals & for the conservation of the National faith & Credit of the United States of America. 1 With sentiments of the highest Respect, I have the honor to be, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servant, Henry Laurens. RC (DNA: PCC, item 89). 1 Laurens’ appeal for the payment of interest on these loan office certificates was referred on July 10 to the Board of Treasury, whose July 18 report was ordered


[Page 453]
July 10, 1780 419 Exchange of the Troops of the Convention of Saratoga, at such Time, in such Manner and on such Terms as he may think proper. That in any Negociation upon this Subject it be an Instruction to obtain Payment as far as possible, of the monies due for Provisions and Fuel furnished to the said Troops on Account of the United States; and, if the same cannot be fully obtained, to procure, if pos sible, an Assurance that all Differences upon that Subject will here after be submitted to proper Discussion and Settlement, that an impartial Decision thereof may be had. Provided always, That Nothing respecting the said Accounts be made an Ultimatum in any Treaty of Exchange. MS (DNA: PCC, item 167). In the hand of William Churchill Houston. Endorsed: “Proposed as Principles of a Report on Genl Washington’s Letter of 31st March 1780 and Papers of Commissioners on Settlement of a Cartel. W C Houston. NB. Never agreed to by the Committee.” 1 Washington’s March 31 letter, enclosing the commisioners’ report of the March 9 meeting at Amboy, NJ., is in PCC, item 152, 8:483-86, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 18:188-89. He related that the negotiations had been “as unsuccessful as all the former, and for the same cause.” For “all the former” negotiations, see Samuel Huntington to Washington, January 14, 1780, note 2. Washington’s letter and the commissioners’ report were read in Congress on April 6 and referred to a committee consisting of William Ellery, William Churchill Houston, and John Morin Scott. It is clear from Houston’s endorsement on this proposed report that the committee could not agree on a final version, and was finally discharged, on Houston’s motion, on October 13. See JCC, 16:333, 18:919. That same day the matter was referred to Theodorick Bland, John Mathews, and John Sullivan, the committee considering the spy case of Maj. John Andre. For the extensive report of this second committee, which was read in Congress on November 3 and adopted on the 7th, see ibid., 18:918-19, 1009-10, 1028-31; and Samuel Huntington to Washington, Novem ber 12, 1780. William Churchill Houston to John Jay Sir, Philada. 10 July 1780. The principal military Event which has happened this Spring, in deed since you left us, is the Fall of Charleston, the Capital of South Carolina. No Circumstance very material can be added to the Ac count officially published, and which you have had from the Papers transmitted already and repeated by this Conveyance. It will, I hope be excused in us, that you will probably see this in the European Papers before it reaches you from this City: our Intelligence being over-land, is tedious in it’s Passage; add to this that the Enemy after the Capitulation, interposed every Means by dilatory and frivolous Pretences, by what Candour will probably decide to be a Breach of the Spirit of their Engagements, to delay the Dispatches General Lincoln had stipulated should be forwarded immediately to Con-


[Page 458]
424 July 11, 1780 of dates from March 20th to 29. 3 That of the 24th respecting two Points on which you wish for Instructions is committed specially to 5? J L 5 RC (MHi: Adams Papers). In the hand of James Lovell. 1 See JCC, 17:595, and PCC, item 84, 1:387-94, 405-14. The letter of April 3 and one of those of April 4 are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:588-92, 596. 2 Lovell dispatched several copies of this letter, adding postscripts ad seriatim to the original letter on August 1, October 28, and December 9, 1780. In addition to this “3d” copy, another RC of the original July 11 letter, written by Lovell and signed by Lovell and Houston, is also in the Adams Papers, MHi. The FC of the letter, with postscripts of August 1, October 28 and December 9, is in PCC, item 79, 1:275. ’ For the reading of these letters in Congress on August 1, see Samuel Huntington to John Adams, July 30, 1780. 4 In his letter of March 24, which had been assigned to a committee consisting of Lovell, John Henry, Thomas McKean, James Madison, and John Morin Scott, Adams had asked for additional negotiating instructions on the restitution of confiscated loyalist property and the mutual rights of citizens of Britain and America and of the British dominions. For the work of this committee and its recommendations, which were adopted by Congress on October 18, see JCC, 17:654, 685, 691, 18:911, 913, 948-50; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:572-73. 5 For the continuation of this letter, see Committee for Foreign Affairs to Adams, October 28, 1780, note 2. Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams In Committee of Foreign Affairs Honorable John Adams Esqr. Philada. 11 July 1780 The enclosed Resolutions and Comission will explain themselves; 1 and we have only to add a Request that in the Event of your not being able to undertake the Business to which they point, you will furnish Mr Dana with the Papers, as we have not Time to make out or procure other Copies for him. We are, Sir, your obedt Servants, James Lovell Wm Churchill Houston RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written by Houston, and signed by Houston and Lovell. 1 The “enclosed Resolutions and Commission” appointed Adams as agent to ne gotiate a loan in Holland if Henry Laurens was “prevented from proceeding on the said agency.” Francis Dana was appointed as a substitute should Adams be unavailable. JCC, 17:534-37. For Adams' eventual appointment as Laurens’ successor after the latter’s capture in September, see Samuel Huntington to Adams, January 1, 1781. The American effort to negotiate with the United Provinces has been discussed at length in Jan Willem Schulte Nordholt, The Dutch Republic and American Independence (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1982), chaps. 6-11.


[Page 462]
428 July 11, 1780 empowered to undertake that Business; and in Case of his Disability, Mr. Dana is in like Manner commissioned and empowered. 2 We are, Sir, your very obedt hble Servts. James Lovell Wm. Churchill Houston RC (DNDAR: Americana Collection, 2000 X-19). Written by Houston, and signed by Houston and Lovell. Addressed: “The Honble John Jay.” FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). Addressed: “To the honorable Benja Franklin Esqr, the honorable John Jay Esqr.” 1 The “enclosed Resolution” was probably the November 8, 1779, resolve directing the committee to prepare a letter to the American ministers in France and Spain to solicit French and Spanish support for Henry Laurens’ mission to Holland. See JCC, 15:1250; and James Lovell to John Jay, this date. 2 See the second letter of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams, this date. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sr. Philadelphia July 11th 1780 I had the pleasure to receive your favour of the 4th Instant this day. You have a just right to tax me with neglect in not writing to you. I have nothing to say in my Justification but will endeavour to do better in future, and at best I am conscious I shall be but a lazy dull correspondent. General Schylers informations was true I was one of the Committee that the System for the Q Masters department was refered to. 1 And I beleive that Gentleman will do me the justice to say that I was of the opinion the Saliries were in general two low. But as they have since Many of them been by Congress and the whole System under gone so much Choping and Changeing that I wish it may never make a publick appearence. 2 You may rest asured you have some friends in Congress at the same time there is a great Clammour against the staff departments (can it be possible you are deceived in your real friends'). It is no wonder to find you think you have been insulted by the Treasury board it is a general Complaint from almost every persen that hath had occasion to do business with them. I hope soon to se the wings of their haughtiness cliped. Congress have been obliged by the numerious Complaints against them to take up the matter and have it now under Consid eration. And I flatter my self if they do nothing more will teach them to make [. . J of a little more Complacency. If my Ideas are not eronious, many of the Army matters are con ducted in a way that will sooner or later prove predejucal to both


[Page 463]
July 11, 1780 429 the Army and the publick but I beleive it more proceeds from Ig norance and Contracted principals then from any evil design. Such are the Ideas of Congress that were you to assert that the late mode of Doing business in the QMG department were such as aught to be continued and prove your assertions by Twenty Carrec tors as well established as that Number ever was that are mentioned Holy Writ it avail nothing. I am dear Sr., your most obedt, Hum Servt. E. Cornell RC (RPB: Rhode Island Manuscripts). 1 Cornell and Philip Schuyler were members of the committee to which “the plan for conducting the quartermaster general’s department” was referred on June 19. JCC, 17:522, 528. 2 For evidence of this “Choping and Changeing,” which on July 6 focused on fixing the pay of the quartermaster general “at 166 dollars, per month, in addition to his pay as an officer in the line,” see JCC, 17:589-90. For the plan that was finally adopted on July 15, see Philip Schuyler to Samuel Huntington, June 17, 1780, note 1. William Churchill Houston to John Adams Sir, Philada. 11 July 1780 The principal military Event which has taken Place for some con siderable Time past, is the Fall of Charlestown, the Capital of South Carolina. No very material Circumstances can, as yet, be added to those officially published, and which the several American Prints have given you, and the British still earlier. The Intelligence from the Southward being overland is very tedious in it’s Passage; and besides this, after the Capitulation the Enemy interposed every Means by dilatory and frivolous Pretences, by what Candour will, in my Opin ion, decide to be a Breach of the Spirit of their Engagements, to delay the Dispatches General Lincoln had stipulated should be sent to Congress. 1 This is in their usual Stile, and we have daily Accounts of Cases in which they pay no Sort of regard to their Promises sa credly pledged in Favour of the Citizens. Rapines, Violences and Abuses of every Kind are committed without Reserve, and with very little discrimination. Their Conduct is of a Piece with what they have held in every similar Instances, uninfluenced by any Principles of Honour, Truth, Humanity or even Policy. In the Hour of Debility and Want of Preparation to oppose them, they have overun a con siderable Part of the State of South Carolina; but as General Gates is collecting a Force to oppose them, and as their Cruelties and Oppressions will probably soon work up the Spirits of the People to Fury and Desperation, they will be expelled from the Country. It seems to be the Ordination of Providence, and, though the Sufferings are severe, it seems to be the Interest of the Union, that


[Page 464]
430 July 11, 1780 each State, in it’s Turn should be vexed with their Depredations and Barbarities. It operates an amazing Change in the Temper and Sen timents of the People, and fixed them in a rooted and resolute De termination to risque the Extreme of Destruction in Preference before Submission. It is clear and undisputed Experience, that in those States where they have made Progress, and from which they have been driven with Arms, or obliged to relinquish with Shame and Disappointment, the Flame of Liberty and Patriotism burns with more Strength and Brightness, and the Exertions of the People are most deciding and irresistible. Every Person who has attended to the Course of our Revolution knows the Meaning of what in Words is a Paradox, that our misfor tunes are our Safety. The Capture of Charlestown is much to be regretted when we reflect that our Soldiers will be starved and scourged into the Enemy’s Service; that the Citizens must suffer Pillagings, Conflagrations and Brutality, but it is obvious to every one that it will promote, under the Favour of Heaven, the general Cause. It has awaked a Spirit superiour to any Thing I have seen since the year 1775 and 6, a Spirit that is fast pervading the whole Comunity, A Spirit which enlivens and increases every Day. Cornwallis commands to the Southward with between four and five thousand men; Clinton has brought back to New-York a Number somewhat larger, and at the Date of this they are encamped from Philipse’s on the North-river across the Country above King’s-bridge. When the News of the Fall of Charlestown arrived, and the Troops were returning from thence, they came out with much Confidence and Triumph into New-Jersey, setting Fire to the Country as they passed. The disaffected strengthened their Expectations of Des pondence and Submission among the Militia, and Dissections from the regular Troops. In every Respect they were more disappointed, than perhaps they have ever been since the Commencement of the war. Scarce a man deserted, or Citizen adhered to them, both reg ulars and Militia, particularly the latter, fought them with the most desperate internecine Fury. The Vengeance due to their former Baseness and Barbarities cannot be forgotten. Manet alta mente re- postum. 2 Considering the Disaster we have met with on a general Scale, we are not in the least dejected by it. We are more apprehensive of the Effect it will have on your Side of the Water, where such Things strike much more forcibly than here. Hope you will take the necessary Steps to prevent any unnecessary, unfavourable Impressions. Nothing but a better Supply of Money is wanting to give decisive vigour to the War; and if we cannot get it we are not going to give up a good Cause for want of it, however essential it may be thought. I am, Sir with great respect, your obedt hble Servant, Wm Churchill Houston


[Page 465]
July 11, 1780 431 ENCLOSURE Deputies at this Time attending Congress. 11 July 1780 New Hampshire Nathaniel Folsome. Massachusetts Bay Samuel Adams, James Lovell, Samuel Holten, Artemas Ward. Rhode Island &c Ezekiel Cornell. Connecticut Samuel Huntington, Presidt. Roger Sherman, Benjamin Huntington. New-York Robert R Livingston, John Morin Scott. New-Jersey Abraham Clarke, John Fell, William Ch Houston. Pennsylvania John Armstrong, James Searle, Frederick A Muhlenbergh, Timothy Matlack, Jared Ingersoll, junr. Delaware Thomas MacKean. Maryland John Henry, junr, Thomas [i.e., John} Hanson. Virginia Joseph Jones, James Madison, junr, John Walker. North Carolina Whitmill Hill, Wyllie Jones. South Carolina Francis Kinloch, Thomas Bee. Georgia George Walton, Edward Telfair, William Few, Richard Howley. Committee at Head Quarters. Philip Schuyler, New-York John Mathews, South Carolina Nathaniel Peabody, New-Hampshire RC and enclosure (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 See Houston to John Jay, July 10, 1780, note 1. 2 Virgil Aeneid 1.26.


[Page 466]
432 July 11, 1780 Jared Ingersoll to Charles Pettit Dr. Sir, Tuesday 6 o’Clock P.M. [July 11, 1780] If you have any System in your head about the Staff Department, which may be comprized in a few Words, & which is essentially dif ferent from the one proposed by Genl Cornel,' I’ll thank you to state it to me, on paper, I could also wish to know what Sum would be adequate to Genl. Green’s expectations. You may depend upon it, no other use will be made of your Answer but for my own private Information. I am, Sir, Your very hum. servt. Jared Ingersoll RC (PHi: James T. Mitchell Collection). Endorsed by Pettit: “J. Ingersoll 11 July 1780.” 1. Ezekiel Cornell, a member of the committee to which “the plan for conducting the quartermaster general’s department” had been referred. JCC, 17:528. James Lovell to John Jay Dear Sir July H- 1780 By a Letter from Messrs. Gardoqui & Sons of May 3d reed, yes terday I have the Pleasure of knowing you were then well. In a Postscript to one of his former of Feb. 24, the P S not dated, he says he hears of you every Week. 1 This creates a Chagrin as we have none of your Favors later than March 3d. 2 You are not to suppose, however, that I dare to complain. I have read my Bible to better Purpose. I am not entitled to throw the “first stones”. But I have as good a title as anybody to paliate my own faults, and to shift them upon others. There is said to be a Comtee. of forgn. Affairs, each member is loaded with a variety of business, two have amiable Wives near Pen- sylvania. 3 1 miss the Gentlemen therefore frequently. Mr. Livingston is now absent but you have herewith a Letter he sent to my Care a few days ago. 4 The weather is murderous hot and I cannot go up and down to the Offices in search of those authenticated Papers which ought to be regularly forwarded to you and other dignified Officers abroad. You will be pleased therefore to know from me individually and by Way of a Resolve of Congress of June 21st certified by me that Mr. Dohrman of Lisbon is appointed an Agent in Por tugal. The chief View at this time was that the lives of our poor sailors might not be lost in captivity in that Kingdom. Mr. Dohrman has done an infinitude of kind acts already to such as have been carried into Ports near Lisbon. He is a Gentleman of much Influence through his personal Character his Riches & Relations. I have no doubt you will find Advantage from frequent Correspondence with him. He is not yet furnished with any authentic Account of his ap-


[Page 468]
434 July 11, 1780 respect to the new Scheme of Finance, 2 the Pennsylva. Line &c; these I think are objects of vast Consequence. I wish the business of our back Lands was setled, that the Confederation might be compleated. Do you not think it would be advisable in Virginia to give up her exclusive Claims beyond the Ohio, to be guaranteed in all her Ter- itory on this side? From the present face of affairs here, I am doubtful whether these are not as good Terms as the Confederation could now be compleated on. The United States making us a Compensation for our extraordinary Expence incurr’d in the defence of that Coun try. I wished to have consulted you on this business before I came here, but had not the pleasure of seeing you. There is now a Com mittee of Congress deliberating on this Business & I suppose some steps will shortly be taken in it, but expect they will be merely rec ommendatory. 3 In the mean time should be glad to know your Sen timents on the Subject. With regard to the late vote, by which I was left out of the next year’s Delegation, my Interest could not have been more effectually promoted, tho’ certainly it had not the suaviter in modo. I now consider myself as fully absolved for the remainder of my life, from all Civil Employments, having been rejected both by my County & Country; possess’d however of the Mens conscia recti and the Friend ship of such as you, I envie no Man his Lot. I am glad you kept the map sent me by my Father, it was intended chiefly for the use of your honble. Board. 4 Part of his Letter too related to the Commonwealth of Virginia. If you did not read it pray inform me, that I may send you such Extracts from it as may deserve your Attention. Perhaps you or Mrs. Jefferson may have some little Commissions here, if so I claim them as my right. Almost any thing may be had here for money enough, a little will get nothing. Goods are generally about 50 Per Ct. above what they used to be in hard money & if paid in paper 60 for one on that. I rejoice to tell you, that in the Eastern States, where the New bills begin to circulate, there is no kind of difference between them & Silver. A Strong argument in fav. of the Resolution of the 18th of March. Inclosed you have the last paper to which I beg leave to refer you for News. Offer our respectful Compts. to Mrs Jefferson &c and believe me to be, My Dear Sir, Affectly. yours &c, Jn. Walker [P.S.] Madison sends the News paper. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See Joseph Jones to Jefferson, June 30, 1780, note 2. 3 For Congress’ recent consideration of the western land issue, see ibid., note 3. 4 The map sent to Walker by his father, Dr. Thomas Walker of Albemarle Co., Va., has not been identified.


[Page 469]
July 12, 1780 435 John Walker to George Weedon Dear General: Philad’a, July 11th, 1780. Your favour of the 4th instant inclosing the Virginia Gazette I received with great pleasure, and rejoice to find that you so cheerfully lay aside every consideration of domestic tranquillity &c. when your country so loudly calls for your services. May they be crowned with that success they so justly deserve. The French fleet, we are informed by the Baltimore papers, has arrived at Martozines [Martinique], I think that by forming ajunction with the other French and Spanish forces in that quarter our re lentless foes may be more suddenly and vitally wounded than on the continent. Their united fleets in the West Indies will not be far short of fifty sail of the line with about 30,000 troops. With such a force as this, what is to prevent their immediately possessing themselves of all the British isles in those seas? This being done, the continental business will not be difficult. On the other hand, should they come immediately here, we shall be found so shamefully unprepared to co-operate with them, that I fear it will serve only to reflect disgrace on us and render us unworthy of their notice in future. The enemy remain quiet in and about New York. They have been ravaging and laying waste the country between the North River and the Sound. In short all their movements prove that they expect a siege at New York. By dispatches just received from Europe our affairs in that quarter wear on the general face of them a very favourable aspect; a little more time and perseverance will assuredly confirm our Independ ence, and unless we are greatly deficient in virtue (which by the bye I fear) will render us a happy and respectable people. My ammunition and time are both exhausted I shall therefore bid you adieu. I have not yet got the last paper, but mean to procure and inclose you one. I am, Dear General, Your Affec’t Friend and humble Serv’t, Jn. Walker MS not found; reprinted from Thomas Balch, ed., Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line During the Revolution (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1857), pp. 112-13. Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Jay and John Adams Sir In Committee of Foreign Affairs, 12 July 1780. Enclosed you have Description of the Bills of Exchange concerning


[Page 470]
436 July 12, 1780 which we have written you. 1 The secret Checks accompany it. 2 They are just furnished us by the Treasury-board, and we are sorry that the Paper is so indifferent, but hope it will answer the Purpose of Information. We are assured the Copy is exact; it is however necessary to observe that unless the Impression of the Bills is very fine and clean, it will be very difficult to discover the whole of the secret Checks perfectly. We are, Sir, your very hble Servants, James Lovell Wm Churchill Houston RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written by Houston and signed by Houston and Lovell. FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). Addressed: “To the Honorable John Jay & To the Honorable John Adams.” 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Jay, June 16, 1780. 2 In the November 29, 1779, resolution “relative to the drawing bills of exchange on Mr. Jay and Mr. Laurens,” Congress specified “That the bills be prepared under the direction of the Board of Treasury, and with such checks as they may devise to prevent counterfeits.” JCC, 15:1326. For additional information on the use of such bills, see William G. Anderson, The Price of Liberty. The Public Debt of the American Revolution (Charlottesville: University Press of Virginia, 1983), pp. 10, 87-90. Nathaniel Folsom to Meshech Weare Sr. Philadelphia July the 12th. 1780 I this day Reed, your letter of the 19th of June. 1 The money you Request me to apply for to the board of treasury I Sent on by one Captn. John Brown of Boston who left this Place the 29th of June in order to Proseed to Newhampshier which no doubt you will Recive long before you Recive this—and allso a letter of advice by the Post which I Should be glad to Know if it Came Safe to hand. 2 The money you mention Sent by Coll. Dearbon is not yet arrived but it is likely it may in a few days. I Presented the bill Drawn by Thomas Thompson in feavor of Captn. Ladd for Exceptence, which they made Some difficulty abought on account of the Scarcity of money, but Excepted it, Pay able in a month which I agreed to—if Paid I Shall wait the further order of the Court with Regard to it as I Dont Expect to want it all. We have no account as yet in this quarter of the arrival of the french fleet tho dayly Expected. We have a Committee at head quarters ever Since abought the 20th of April my Colleague 3 being one of them hope you will have the necessary information abought the army. I am with Esteem & Respect Sr. your most obt. Humle. Servant. Nathl. Folsom


[Page 482]
448 July 14, 1780 quarters to these problems, see the letters to Furman from Samuel Huntington, July 25, and from the Committee at Headquarters, July 30, 1780. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia July 14. 1780 In Pursuance of the Act of Congress of the 13th Instant herewith enclosed, your Excellence will please to obtain the Exchange of Brig adier General du Portail as soon as practicable. 1 I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Respect and Esteem, your Excelly’s most obedt servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 For this resolve, which was adopted unanimously after the yeas and nays were called for by Jared Ingersoll, see JCC, 17:609-10. Although Washington was pessimistic that the proposal would be acceded to by the British, Duportail’s exchange was effected in November 1780. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:234, 249-50, 20:69, 243, 268-69, 315, 323. Duportail, chief of Continental engineers, had been ordered to assist Gen. Benjamin Lincoln in the defense of Charleston in March, but arrived too late to plan an effective defense and was taken by the British when the city capitulated. His May 17, 1780, report to Congress on his conduct at Charleston is in PCC, item 164, fols. 350-53. Samuel Huntington to Oliver Wolcott Sir Philadelphia July 14th. 1780 I have been favourd, with your Several letters of the 22d of April & Irst instant, I thought the former had been answerd until the latter convinced me that in the multiplicity of business it escaped my memory, I have no excuse to plead for the omission but want of leisure & beg you to be assured it was not want of inclination. I have been long of Opinion that the Subject of our finances is of the greatest Importance, that a fixed & Stable medium must be es tablished & am perswaded had all the States adopted the resolves of the 18th of March with the Same dispatch & decision as Connecticutt did, we Should by this time have been in a great measure Insensibly releived from our most pressing difficulties. I have now receivd official Information from all the States, as far South as Maryland inclusive (except Rhode Island & Delaware) that they have adopted those Re solves; hope soon to receive the like information from Virginia & North Carolina; from South Carolina & Georgia in their present unhappy circumstances nothing of that nature can be expected. I am happy to be informed that Connecticutt are in so fair a way to furnish their Quota of Troops & cannot but hope a Spirit of


[Page 486]
452 July 15, 1780 RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 The Maryland Assembly had requested four brass field pieces, two 4-pounders and two 12-pounders, in a June 12 resolve that was received by Congress on June 19. See JCC, 17:526-27; and PCC, item 70, fols. 373-77. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia July 15. 1780 At seven P.M. this Day I am honord with your Excellency’s Favour of yesterday announcing the Arrival of the French Fleet at New Port, believe that Congress will press every Measure in their Power to put the Army in a Condition to begin the intended Co-operations with Vigour and Efficacy. 1 Your Letter proposing a Plan to obtain Supplies of Tents &c from the Merchants to the eastward &c hath been duly received and laid before Congress. 2 I have the honour to be, with the highest regard, your Excelly’s most obedt & hbble servt, Sam Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Washington’s July 14 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 152, 9:5-8, and Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:171-72. July 15 was a Saturday; Huntington presented the letter to Congress the following Monday morning. JCC, 17:636. This news was also reported by Nathaniel Peabody, which was noted in the diary of Samuel Holten, this date: “I reed, a letter from Mr. Peabody mentiong. the arr. of the F. Fleet at R. I.” MDaAr. 2 This letter, dated July 10, had been referred jointly to the New England delegates and to “the committee appointed to confer with the inspectors and directors of the proposed bank [of Philadelphia].” See JCC, 17:609; PCC, item 152, 8:641-44; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:150-51. For the disposition of Washington’s proposal for procuring tents, see Huntington to Certain States, July 21, 1780. Committee at Headquarters to Nathanael Greene Sir, In Committee of Congress, Precaness July 16. 1780. Your letter of the 14th Instant with the several papers inclosed was delivered us this morning. 1 We observe in your letter of the 19th ultimo to Congress that you have stated the degree of responsibility which you think ought to be required of you on the expenditures of monies in the quarter master general’s department, and that you have requested the sense of Con gress on that subject; As you have not obtained their determination, As the system for conducting your department, reported by this Committee has not, to our knowledge, been decided upon; As the


[Page 487]
July 16, 1780 453 Commander in Chief, impelled by necessity, has directed you to ar range it, in some effectual manner to give dispatch and efficacy to your measures equal to the present exigency; And as you decline making the necessary appointments until this Committee afford you their opinion on the degree of responsibility by which you ought to be held, as quarter master general, in the Expenditure of public money, They conceive it incumbent on them, in order to prevent the evils which may arise to the public from a dissolution of the department, before the sense of Congress can be obtained, to give you their opinion on the subject. We have maturely considered the reasons which you assign in your letter to Congress in support of your proposition, and we assure you they appear so cogent to us, that we do not hesitate to declare our sentiments Generally Coincident with those you have stated in the third paragraph of the letter to which we have alluded. With respect to the resolution of the Treasury board of the 23d March last, requiring Estimates approved of by the board of war to accompany every application for money, to prosecute the business of the department, we must suppose to have originated from a want of the necessary information, or it would have occured that a strict adherence to the order in your department under our Circumstances, must of necessity, in some cases involve the Army in great difficulties, and in others prove absolutely ruinous. It would be easy to state a variety of instances, which, from the nature of things, must occur in every campaign in support of this opinion, but we decline giving them, as it would, we Conceive, be like demonstrating a self evident proposition. In Justice to you, Sir, we embrace this occasion to declare that after having examined your arrangement of the quarter master gen eral’s department we are convinced the measures you have adopted, and the principles on which these measures were founded, were well calculated to promote the service, whilst they fully evinced your at tention to the public interest; How far your arrangements have been complied with, by your subordinate officers; whether these have ap pointed more assistants than what were absolutely necessary properly to conduct the business, whether they have adopted the most prudent measures in the purchases, and expended the public property with a proper degree of (Economy, are questions we are not in a situation to determine, nor does it appear necessary we should on this occasion. We have the Honor to be, with great respect and esteem, Sir, Your most obedient servants, Philip Schuyler, Nathl. Peabody. Tr (DNA: PCC item 11). 1 For Greene’s letter of July 14 enclosing Washington’s letter to him of the same day, see PCC, item 155, 1:327-30; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:170-71.


[Page 488]
454 July 16, 1780 Washington had requested that Greene gather sufficient transportation at New Lon don, Conn., “to receive the arms, Cloaths and ammunition which is expected there by the French fleet” and “to take measures to have them forwarded to the army with all possible expedition.” Greene, however, used this opportunity to air before the committee his differences with Congress and the Treasury Board over the appointment of persons to his staff and the purchase of supplies not provided by the states. Since the Treasury Board had recently decided “to hold me responsible for persons of my appointing in a very different manner from which I ever conceived myself bound,” he had outlined “the degree of responsibility incumbent upon me” in a June 19 letter to Congress requesting clarification, a copy of which he enclosed. He would make such appointments in the meantime only if the committee “agree with me in sentiment upon this subject, and will signify the same.” Greene also complained of his inability to carry out Washington's order “to provide such further supplies as the states are not requested to furnish” given the Treasury Board’s standing order “requiring Es timates to be laid before them.” It was impossible “to conform to their order,” he observed, “without a fore-knowledge of future events.” The committee forwarded Greene’s letter with its enclosures to Congress, for which see Committee at Head quarters to Samuel Huntington, July 18, 1780, note 1. See also the committee’s letter to Greene, July 21. For Congress’ rejection of Greene’s June 19 claims, see Huntington to Greene, July 26, note 2. Philip Schuyler to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dear Sir, Camp Precaniss July 16, 1780 About a fortnight ago I was favored with a Letter from you without date. I was much Indisposed when It came to hand and have Con tinued so until two days ago, this has prevented me not only from answering Your Letter from the additional pleasure I should have had in compl[y]ing with Mr Webbs wish or rather In Striving to get It Complied with. 1 I assign tomorrow for that business and hope the business will be settled to my satisfaction which will Include his & Yours. Divines Observe that In a State of Beatitude we shall reflect with pleasure on the distresses we may have experienced in this life. I believe the position, for I Experience something very like It, with all this Clod of Clay about me, I exult in the reflection that neither Calumny or the variety of Injury I have sustained has ever either In thought or deed Induced me for a single moment to swerve from my duty and as I am too much a man of pleasure to marr It by harbouring resentment, I have long since divested myself of that disagreeable Companion and can with strict truth declare that I en tertain none even against those who from a depravity of heart have attempted to Injure me. If such have not yet learnt to forgive the man they have Injured, which they seldom do, so much the worse for them. I am persuaded you will forgive me this Egotism because you are Influenced by similar principles of which you have given a generous evidence, In the present as In past exigencies to which your Country has been Exposed.


[Page 489]
July 16, 1780 455 I Observe with the most sensible satisfaction that the States in general are roused, that they become Convinced of their danger, and are pursuing measures to avert the Evils which threatned to Involve us In one Common ruin. You remark with great propriety that the times call for Great Exertion and that our affairs demand a bold resolute use of power, and that Congress must have new and Extensive powers. Indeed, Indeed It is necessary they should. It In- vovles an absurdity that the propriety of the recommendations of the directing powers of the Empire should be Complied with or not as It may be thought Expedient by the States. I contemplate with anxious Concern that If ever the Enemy should be reduced a few Years will bring on Civil Contests which will deluge this Country In blood; some thing should be done to avert It. I wish a Convention from the States could be assembled at an early day to form a Con stitution for Congress and agree upon the principles of a Confed eration. If this were done, perhaps It would tend to preserve unanimity for ages and promote the weal of the Empire. If It should be Insisted on that by an early day, the States who claim an Extent to the South seas or whose western limits are Indefinite Should all be restricted by a Certain western Extent not too far from the sea, that the Territory beyond such line of restriction should become the property of the United States, that it should be laid of[f] into States but not organized until Inhabited by a Determined number of peo ple, that In the meantime the Inhabitants should be subject for every purpose of Government to the States within whose north and south bounds Continued they might fall—That an Immediate Settlement of the disputed boundary between any States Should be determined by a given day and the mode prescribed by the Convention—That the governing power should be Invested with the Sole right of making peace & war and all Commercial regulations with foreign powers— that appeals should lay to the Soveriegn power on all decissions in the Courts of any State on Controversys with the Subjects of any foreign powers, that the requisitions of Congress should be complied with by Every State without Debates on the propriety or Impropriety of the demand leaving to the States, the mode of furnishing what might be demanded, except for soldiers which should be engaged upon one General plan, to prevent any one state from bidding against another, That where a State conceives Itself Injured by an over charge, It shall be at Liberty after having Complied, to represent the Grievance, that If proper an abatement may be made on a sub sequent requisition—That the governing power Should appoint off- icals for the Army—And that one General principal should be Established within one Year after the Conclusion of this war for apportioning to the States their quotas of men & money &c. If some thing like this was done, I should hope that our Successors for ages to come would Enjoy as much happiness as It is permitted


[Page 495]
July 18, 1780 461 Massachusetts Bay has engaged Compleatly to Comply with the requisitions of Congress and this Committee in every article. Rhode- Island has done the like, except as to the militia and the article of Rum on which they have not been explicit. Connecticut has engaged to Comply in the whole, altho the Governor expresses a doubt If the state will be able to furnish all the flour & salt. New York has engaged to Comply in the whole, but the Governor observes that the short forage can not be immediately supplied; but that the whole quantity called for, will be delivered directly after harvest. New Jersey has engaged to furnish the provisions required of them, the horses and waggons to be attached to the Army—to empress carriages for trans portation in the Counties of Hunterden—Burlington—Mont- mouth—Essex and Sussex; To compleat their three Battalions, but do not say to what number—“but they have not vested in any persons such powers as to enable them on the requisition of Congress or their Committee to draw forth the military resources of the state. Delaware, has generally engaged to comply with the requisitions of Congress and of this Committee, and the Governor has given assur ances that he will exert himself to the utmost, but no horses, Wag gons, or forage have yet been delivered. Maryland has engaged to compleat her Battailions to the Establishment of 504 Rank & file— by raising 1469 Men to serve during the War and to raise another battallion for the same term; If by this, she can be excused from furnishing her Militia, “unless in cases of extreame emergency.” The General and the Committee conceiving this an offer favourable to the United states have acquiesed in the proposition, but she has given no assurances on any other part of our requisitions. Virginia, by subsequent Acts of Congress to those of the 19th May being directed to dispose of her supplies for the southern Army, except so much short forage as could be spared for the Army, has given assurances that the greatest quantity possible will be sent. From New Hampshire, we have no official accounts; private information advises that it is exerting itself. Pensylvania, has not favour’d us with a single line, in answer to the various applications we have made; Some horses but a number vastly short of what we required have been sent to the Army—a quantity of Beef whether exceeding or not the quantity required, we cannot say. A little a very little flour, not more than fifty Barrels as the Commissary General informs. A little Rum, no Bacon, no forage that the Quarter Master General knows of, no Waggons, Some recruits for the Army—but we are informed that they do not intend to Compleat their Battallions to the establishment recommended by the General and the Committee. We are ignorant of the measures if any, which they have taken to draw forth the 3465 militia required of them. 2 Thus Sir, have we stated the prospects we have and Congress will perceive that the General & the Committee are far from being able


[Page 497]
July 18, 1780 463 absolutely refusing to go, unless they were immediately paid, altho urged by every consideration which could influence their humanity, or their feelings as Citizens; hence the flour, small as the quantity is, remains in Sussex, the troops at West Point, rapidly increasing in number, and a few days is to bring on, another involuntary fast, in that quarter. General Knox, has likewise been ordered to remove a variety of stores, to Hudsons River, and to apply to the Quarter Master Genl, for the means of transportation, which must be considerable. Inclose you Copy of General Greenes Letters on the subject, marked C. 3 To procure carriages by military aid, on very sudden emergency’s is not only right, but may be eligable on the occasion; but to rely on it, in a serious operation which will probably continue for months, would be precarious, inadequate, and ruinous to the Army, and to the in habitants. We do not mean that it Should be infer’d that this state, which has already greatly exerted itself in this Line, is any degree equal to the transportation of the Stores, which must pass through it in the course of the Campaign. It can afford considerable assistance, but it must be aided by others, and it is impossible to mistake by which. 4 The adjutant General and his Deputies—The judge Advocate and his—The Regimental adjutants, Quarter Masters, surgeons & Mates have requested us to obtain a determination of Congress whether they are considered as Entitled to that justice which has been done to the line of the Army by the act of the 9th of April last—and whether at the Conclusion of the War they are to partake of the bounty of the states in point of Land and other emoluments. 5 Con necticut has setled the depreciation with the surgeons and Mates, in their line, on the original establishment of 1776. Representations have been made us on this head, and they claim it on the subsequent establishment which guided the settlement with the other Officers; We mention this matter that it may be considered in the deliberations of Congress on the subject of this paragraph, and we intreat a speedy determination in order to remove the fears and jealousies which prevail in regard to this matter, and we wish, if possible that the decision should be extended to comprehend such Officers in the civil departments of the Army as have served on daily or monthly pay, in order to prevent that multiplicity of applications with which we are daily perplexed, and to Erradicate this source of discontent. Mr. Schuyler in a letter of 6th Instant (the Committee being absent) mentioned the inconveniency which the Officers labourd under, in not receiving the subsistance money for the retaind rations. 6 In an swer to their applications on this distressing Subject, Assurances were given that Congress would be advised of the matter, and that a speedy decision would be requested. Indeed Sir, the disagreable spirit which is already unhappily too prevalent on this occasion is increasing and


[Page 499]
July 18, 1780 465 him assurances we would recommend that he will receive the same allowance which is, or may be given by the board of War, in the State of Pensylvania, and that we would likewise recommend that he should be furnished with the money he requires, which is “Twenty thousand pounds immediately or five thousand pounds weekly, on account, or he will give loan Office Certificates in lieu to that amount.” We believe he will acceed to this, and hope the Congress approves That measures may be pursued to furnish the money. 9 General Greene has transmitted us Copy of a letter from Mr. Wads worth to him, which we have the honor to inclose marked D. 10 The subject is interesting. General Greene informs us that the forage required from the Eastern states cannot be converted to the use of the french Troops, as there will not be a sufficiency for ours, espe cially since the supply required from Virginia depends on the con tingency of that state being able to spare any without, distressing the Southern Army. It seems necessary that this business should claim the earliest consideration of Congress. Colo. Hazen has presented us a memorial accompanied with other papers marked E. As it is far from being within the line of our duty to decide upon the contents; we transmit them to your Excellency for the inspection of Congress. A Monsieur Garranger has also put into our hands a memorial F which for similar reasons we also trans mit. 11 In our remarks on the requisition made of Pensylvania and in stating what we are advised she has furnished, we took no notice of that generous aid of the associated Company of her Citizens, because we conceived an evident distinction, between the exertions of a state and some individuals of it—nor will that Assistance capital as it is militate against our conclusion “that the military operations in con templation cannot be prosecuted,” without great exertions in the Government of that state. 12 By resolutions of Congress the Commander in Chief is restricted in his operations to the limits of the United States. It would be easy to assign a variety of conclusive reasons, that such restraint may be attended with many disagreable consequences, whilst no[t] a single advantage can possibly result from it. But we wave stating them as we conceive the restriction has arisen from mere accident in wording the resolution, and that barely mentioning it, will lead to a recon sideration. If the General has not conveyed you his sentiments on the occasion, we are inclined to impute it to a delicacy which may not permit him to request an extention of power, rather than to any doubt he may entertain on the propriety of the measure we allude to as necessary. Should the Sentiments of Congress be coincident with ours on this subject, the present posture of affairs will indicate that their decision cannot be too early conveyed to this quarter. 13


[Page 500]
466 July 18, 1780 We have the honor to be, With great Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Humble servants, Ph. Schuyler Nathl. Peabody 14 RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). In the hand of Benjamin Brown and signed by Peabody and Schuyler. ' For “our answer B,” see Committee at Headquarters to Nathanael Greene, July 16, 1780. See also the committee’s letter to Greene, July 21. 2 For additional information received by the committee on preparations in the states, see the committee’s letter to Huntington, July 23, 1780. For its relations with Penn sylvania, see the committee’s letters to Joseph Reed, June 12 and July 13; and Philip Schuyler to Washington, June 18, 1780. 5 For Nathanael Greene’s July 16 and 17 letters to the committee enclosing letters from Udny Hay and Charles Pettit, see PCC, item 155, 1:331-42. 4 That is, Pennsylvania. 5 For petitions from aggrieved officers received by the committee at this time, see PCC, item 39, 3:243-47, 263-64. 6 See Schuyler to Huntington, July 6, 1780. 7 The “two Officers” have not been identified. 8 The board’s July 11 letter and Washington’s July 18 reply are in the Washington Papers, DLC. 9 See the preceding entry. 10 Greene’s covering letter of July 19 is in PCC, item 155, 1:345-46. It was endorsed by Schuyler, “sent the Inclosed to Congress—July 19. 1780.” The copy of Wadsworth’s letter, which is not in PCC, was referred to the Board of War on August 2. JCC, 17:687. 11 Neither the memorial from Moses Hazen nor Lewis Garanger, which were re ferred to the Board of War on August 2, has been found. An earlier memorial of February 12 that Hazen had submitted to Washington concerning his rank and losses he had sustained is in the Washington Papers, DLC. For the Board of War’s report and Congress’ September 29 resolution on the Garanger case, see JCC, 18:863, 872- 73. The committee was severely criticized for having received these memorials, for which see note 14 below. 12 See the committee’s July 10 letter to the Philadelphia Merchants’ Association and its July 13 letter to Joseph Reed. IS For a discussion of Congress’ resolutions of January 31 and May 20 intended to ensure cooperation between French and American forces but interpreted as implying a limitation on Washington’s powers, see Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston, May 30, 1780, note 4. Washington’s continued concern that these restrictions be removed before any operations take place prompted this request that Congress resolve what must have been “a mere accident in wording the resolution.” For Congress’ favorable action, see Huntington’s August 3 letters to the committee and to Washington.,4 This letter and the committee’s two letters of July 21 were read in Congress on July 24 and referred to a committee of five, chaired by Samuel Adams. Before it reported, the committee also received Washington’s July 22 letter of support for the committee at headquarters’ appeal in which he found it “indispensable that Congress should enlarge the Powers of their Committee.” See JCC, 17:654, 681; and Washing ton, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:236. Adams’ committee reported August 1 and the following day Congress adopted a series of resolves dealing with the substance of the report but also rebuking the committee for arrogation of authority. Congress had already determined Nathanael Greene’s “responsibility” within the quartermasters department, and since “the said committee knew that the quarter master general had requested the sense of Congress on so important a subject, they ought not to have


[Page 503]
July 18, 1780 469 lies upon the Table, at my request. The Board have stated his former Services—his being first Colonel of our Line, and the deficiency of that State at present in her Quota of Troops. If a promotion of General officers is to take place and to be made through the line of the Army Morgan has many before him but if the promotions are to be through the line of the State that officer it appears stands first. Genl. Gates has mentioned his intention of giving Morgan the Com mand of a Body of light Infantry, but as the State has given the command of the Militia lately sent to the Southward to Col. Stevens who was Morgans junior officer in the Continental line with the Commission of Brigadier General he will command Col. Morgan and this Gates thinks will disgust him and therefore with great earnestness and warmth presses his promotion. I shall thank you for your con fidential communications upon this matter as the Report I think will not be pressed or taken up untill the Virga. Delegates are fully in formed as it was upon my motion to obtain time for information it lies upon the Table. Besides as he left the Army in disgust under your immediate command I did not like the present mode of his obtaining the promotion, without (that I know of) any alteration of circumstances, at the pressing instance of General Gates. 1 Pray my dear Sr. do you recollect the purport of a Letter lately written to Col. Harrison Speaker of the Delegates, representing the deranged state of the French Finances theirs as well as Spains declining Navy and the increasing growing Strength of the British Navy. I have heard of such a Letter that Gentleman received from you and had shewn it to many of the Members of our assembly and that it was like to prejudice rather than promote the Service. I mention this is confi dence as the purport of the Letter may have been misrepresented and I have it not directly from one who saw it or heard it read. Between ourselves I fear that worthy Man is no zealous Friend of the Alliance—I may be mistaken but it is my present opinion. 2 An account transmitted the Admiralty Board by Genl. Foreman makes the British on the N. York Station nine line of Battle Ships, two or three fiftys and 17 Frigates and other armed Vessells—should this intelligence be true the French Fleet as we have been told (though we have not yet the particulars of their strength) will be unequal to the undertaking. My Letters from Virga, speak of our people as being roused—a Bill had passed the Delegates by a Majority of 3 only adopting the scheme of Finance recommended by Congress—thir teen of the Senate only were present the opinion of ten of these publicly known five for & five agt. the Bill. It was conjectured the others were in favour of the measure. Every 15th Militia man is to be drafted to fill up the deficiency of our line, this Bill was also before the Senate. I hope you find the Recruits coming in fast—the news of the arrival of the Fleet will accelerate them. With great respect I am, Dr. Sr., yr. aff hum. Servt. Jos. Jones.


[Page 504]
470 July 18, 1780 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Daniel Morgan had resigned his commission in July 1779, but was recalled into service in the southern department in June 1780, for which see these Letters, 13:347n.4; and Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates, June 16, 1780. Gates’ July 4 appeal in support of Morgan’s promotion was read in Congress on the 10th and referred to the Board of War which made a favorable recommendation on July 14. See JCC, 17:595, 612-13; and PCC, item 154, 2:210-13. Congress, however, delayed further consideration of the report until October 13, when, in response to other appeals, it promoted Morgan to “remove several embarrassments which impede the public ser vice in the southern department,’’ for which see Huntington to Horatio Gates, October 14, 1780, note 2. For Washington’s July 22 response to this letter and assessment of Morgan’s res ignation, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:224-27. 2 For an explanation of Washington’s letter to Benjamin Harrison, which has ap parently not survived, see ibid., p. 226n.97. Medical Committee to Horatio Gates Sir. Philadelphia July 18th. 1780. The medical committee of Congress have seen an Extract of a letter from you to the board of War dated the 21 st ultimo, 1 respecting the medical department; they have sent forward such medicines as they tho’t most proper & directed Dr. Brown, Dr. Johnston, 8c Dr. Read, to join the army under your command; And they have also directed me to inclose under cover to you directions to Dr. Oliphant Director Genl, of the hospitals in the southern department; 2 and it is desired by the committee that you send them into Charles-Town to Dr. Oliphant in such way as you think most proper; you will please to take notice that the letter to Dr. Oliphant is not sealed, but if it can go insealed, please to be so kind as to put one on. In behalf of the committee, S. Holten Chairman RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Written and signed by Samuel Holten. 1 General Gates’ June 21 letter to the Board of War is not in PCC, or the microfilm edition (1979) of the Gates Papers. 2 The Medical Committee’s letter to Dr. David Oliphant has not been found. Committee at Headquarters to Azariah Dunham Sir, In Committee of Congress Preakness July 19. 1780 The Commissary General of Forage, having laid before this Com mittee a copy of your letter to him of the 14th Inst., And represented that great embarrassments daily occur in transporting supplies, ob tained in other states, through this state, for the use of the Conti nental Army, for want of pasturing &ca. which the Laws of the state do not oblige their contractors to furnish. Therefore to remove a


[Page 507]
July 20, 1780 473 I have advanced for you to Stilly agreably to the Receipt inclosed. We are as to News from Rh. Isld. as we were from Charleston. “Ships were seen which answered private Signals on the 10th and are doubt less now in Port 1 o’Clock morng. of 11th Providence” reed, three days ago. We shall know in a Fortnight whether the french fleet is arrived or not. Yr. humb. Servt. James Lovell Tr (DLC: Burnett Collection). Copied for Edmund C. Burnett from the original then in the possession of Stan V. Henkels. Addressed: “Honble. Major General Lincoln, Boston.” 1 For General Washington’s reasons for delaying both Lincoln’s court of inquiry and exchange as a prisoner, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:147-50. Lincoln was exchanged for Gen. William Phillips on October 25, 1780. Ibid., 20:243, 315. Committee at Headquarters to George Washington Sir In Committee of Congress, Preakness July. 20. 1780 Since the Conversation we had with your Excellency on the subject of Cloathing the troops, We have maturely considered the matter, and from every point of view, in which we bave revolved it, are fully of Opinion, That to put the army into an entire Uniform, will have a happy influence on the soldiery; and tend to inspire the foreign troops, with a more respectable opinion of ours, than would be en tertained, were they to continue in their present motly dress. These considerations in addition to those which arise from reflecting that it will redound to the honor and Credit of the states, Induce us to advise (if your Excellency thinks it will afford satisfaction to the army) that the Cloathing arrived from france, should be distributed amongst such of the men, as are engaged during the War. That the uniforms now possessed by these, should be given to the recruits, who are to serve to the end of the Campaign. But as this will deprive those who are engaged for the war, of the use of the Cloaths, which must in this case be considered as their own property: We think, If they insist upon it, that appraisment should be made, and assurances given them, that the value will be paid. The recruits who may receive the same to account for the value in such manner as Congress may direct. We have the honor to be, with great respect & Esteem, Your Ex cellency’s Most Obt. Humble servants, Ph. Schuyler Nathl. Peabody RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Benjamin Brown and signed by Peabody and Schuyler.


[Page 508]
474 July 21, 1780 John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates [July 21, 1780] 21st. The Court Martial has clearly acquitted Dr. Shipen of all the charges exhibited agst. him except One for Speculation, in Some Ar ticles needed by the publick in his Own line—for which Says the Court he is Reprehensible. The General having thrown the decision of that matter on Congress, we are now tormented with reading the rubish of large bundles of testimony, but not yet come to the Doctors defence which will probably end, indeed must end, in approving the Sentence of the Court Martial. 1 Great Exertions are proposed & expected from the middle & East ern States relative to the Object—New-York. If this shou’d reach you before you leave Richmond please to present my best respects to Mr. R. Henry Lee, and tell him that his old friends here depend on his utmost influence in favour of the Southern Army, not only in regard of the present critical Struggle, but also to resque the reputation of the State in military idea & other matters to which he cannot be a Stranger. Before you are thousands of disaffected men, from whom perhaps for this Campaign you have more to apprehend than from the Common Enemy and how are these to be either re claimed or Subdued but by a Respectable force, at the outSetting— trifling this Crisis can only Serve to make their bonds Strong, and Spread the Contagion farther than at present may be immagined. The promotion of our worthy friend Coll Morgan appears to labour, it will rest chiefly with the Govt. & delegates of Virginia. I wish him as I do my own Son for the present to travel on in the line of duty, which when wisely and Succesfully performed will Secure it’s honors distinct from those arising from Rank. The Board of War have yet reported nothing in the Other instance, nor is their determination yet known to me, but Shall Soon be able to find it, and then write. What wou’d you think of a Brevet, if at present nothing else cou’d go down? I can not by this Post write Major Armstrong, but have procured the Articles for which he wrote me. They will in a few days go on with Mr. Clajong & the Medicins by Water to Richmond. Doctors Brown & Johnston go to you. I have forwarded Coll. Cusin- scoes letter but have not yet heard from him. I am dear General with perfect respect your Affectionate friend & humbl. Servt. John Armstrong [T.SJ The heat here has left me but able to breath, it is now abated. I shall write the Major fully as soon as I can. Governor Rutledge tells me his more Speedy or leisure return depends on a letter from you. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). A continuation of Armstrong to Gates, July 15, 1780. 1 The proceedings of the court martial of Dr. William Shippen, Jr., director general


[Page 510]
476 July 21, 1780 those states will interpose to procure it. The Committee in a late letter to Congress have been very Explicit on the subject of the var ious supplies requisite to put the Army into a state of activity, and impressed as that body undoubtedly is, with the importance of having matters of such high moment to the weal of their Constituents as certained with every possible degree of precision, they will probably come to an ecclaircisment with the states; and it seemes impossible that the latter should not be impelled to adequate exertion when they shall be convinced that the General cannot avail himself of any advantage which may offer or commence an operation whatever his force may be, unless supplied with the requisite stores and that an inactive Campaign will involve the states in a series of distress, which no friend to his Country can contemplate without the deepest anx iety; nor will the Committee fail to reiterate their observations on the subject. But should those states in whom a reliance must be more immediately placed for this aid, and which you assure us they are competent to be capable of a measure so injurious as to withold it; We shall certainly not hesitate to advise and request that the Military be employed to assist you, in obtaining the necessary Carriages, per suaded that men who have entered into that profession to preserve their dearest rights as Citizens will execute the disagreable duty with every possible decree of tenderness, and relying that we shall stand Justifyed with the virtuous part of the Community, who whilst they with us lament the necessity of the measure, will decide that of the two evils we had avoided the greater. The Committee Sir, are sensible that providing the Teams & forage under the present plan of procuring supplies and aid, thro the me dium of state agents not immediately dependant on your Department as Quarter Master General, does not render you accountable for their mal-conduct. We consider it, however, your duty to make the requisitions to the states and to prosecute every means in your power to obtain both. The Committee see with anxious concern the em- barrasments which incessantly arise from such extensive dependence on the states for every supply—That it is productive of partial bur thens on particular states from their local situation—That it will ever create a reluctance in the individuals of such states to the public service—That whilst a want of money compels Government to com- mitt their affairs to persons not accountable to those whose repu tation in a great measure depends on the Conduct of such persons; It is impossible business should be prosecuted with either propriety or oeconomy and persuaded that nothing can remedy this evil, and confine business to its proper Channel, unless the confidence of the Inhabitants is regained by adequate assurances that the debts due or such as may become due will be discharged without loss to the Cred itors, and unless the Quarter Master Generals Department be sup plied with money to pay for the necessary contingency’s thereof.


[Page 516]
482 July 21, 1780 adopted the report’s recommendations, pledging Continental reimbursement for ex penses incurred by any subscribers who responded to this appeal and ordering that “the supreme executive powers” of the four New England states be requested to implement the plan. See JCC, 17:609, 640; and PCC, item 19, 6:345-46. See also Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene, July 13, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Charles Pettit Sir, Philadajuly 21. 1780 Congress have suspended Henry Hollingsworth Deputy Quarter Master General, as you will see by the Act of yesterday herewith enclosed. 1 It is said the Department wherein he has acted is impor tant, and that it is necessary some Person should be appointed to transact the Business in that Department. I am Sir, with Esteem & respect, your most obedt hbble servt, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Hollingsworth had been the target of criticism since early 1779, and in March 1780 he had responded in detail to the principal accusations he had heard. Never theless, the commissioners of accounts had charged him with “forgery and other frauds and abuses in the execution of his office,” and these provided the foundation of the report of the Board of Treasury that led Congress on July 20 to order his suspension. See JCC, 16:286, 320, 17:647; and Greene, Papers (Showman), 3:229-33, 446-48. Hollingsworth immediately protested Congress’ action and requested an opportu nity to be examined by the Board of Treasury, but the case dragged on in Philadelphia until August 15 when Congress referred the matter to officials in Maryland for in vestigation, and there it was subsequently drawn out two additional years. The Mary land Council referred Hollingsworth’s “supposed forgery” to the Maryland attorney general on November 8, 1780, who placed it in the hands of Alexander Contee Hanson, a judge of the General Court, who on December 19 found the charges against Hollingsworth insufficient to sustain prosecution. But not until November 6, 1782, did Gov. Thomas Sim Lee return Hanson’s opinion to Congress, which thereupon accepted Hanson’s findings and finally dismissed the complaint against Hollingsworth. For references to this tangled case, see JCC, 17:685, 711, 728-30, 734, 742—43, 23:723n, 746-47; PCC, item 43, fols. 99-115, item 70, fols. 521-26, item 78, 12:55- 75; and Md. Archives, 43:353. Joseph Jones to James Hunter Dear Sr. Phila. 21st July 1780 I beg leave once more to trouble you with two parcels the one for Mrs. Woodford the other for Mrs. Jones with a Letter for each of the Ladies. You will by Col Taliaferro or one of my people soon have an opportunity of sending them to Spring Hill. We have no further accounts yet from the French Fleet arrived at Newport. Graves we are informed is arrived at the Hook with six Ships of the line three


[Page 518]
484 July 22, 1780 Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia July 22d 1780 The Journals of Congress for June last are Printed and will be forwarded to your Excellency in the usual Channel together with such Copies as are ordered Immediately. It is with Concern we observe the Exigences of the Public have been such as obliged our State to Issue large Emissions of Paper Bills which with what will Issue in Pursuance of the Resolutions of the 18th of March last may Endanger the Public Credit. The only Way to avoid this Evil is speedily to Draw in those Bills by Taxes and not Suffer them on any Account to Re-Issue. Paper Money does it’s Office when it goes out in Payment and ought to be among the People as a Medium of Trade no longer than to find it’s Way into their Pockets, and like private Security should be destroyed when Returned into the Office it Issued from, This is doing Business in Sight of the People and Every Man who Pays his Tax knows he does it Discharge of much of his Public Debt. But to Re-Issue Bills taken in by Loans & faxes Accumulates the Public Debt in a Way not open to the Inspection of the People. They see the Bills are not Redeemed and are told they never will be. The Credit of the State is Scrupled and Depreciation Ensues. The People loose their Confidence in Government, The Laws are Enervated, Military Opperations Prevented, Justice Impeeded, Trade Embar- rased, the Morals of the People Corrupted, Men of Integrity in Office Abused and Resigning whilst Peculators Ride in Coaches. These Evils and the Sources from whence they arise, so lately Experienced all serve to Point out the Way to avoid them in future. The Design of Congress in Limiting the Amount of Circulating Bills within the United States will be Wholly Defeated by Emissions from Particular States unless their Amount is Limited within the Bounds and Issued in Lieu of the Quotas Assigned by Congress, and be in Fact drawn in before the General Currency Issues. Congress have Established a new Regulation of the Quarter Mas ter’s Department, 1 it’s now in the Press and will be Transmitted to your Excellency as Early as Possible, it is Expected this new arrange ment of that Department will save great Expence to the Public. We are with the greatest Respect, your Excellency’s Most Humi Sevt, Roger Sherman Benj Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Sherman and signed by Sherman and Benjamin Huntington. 1 See John Armstrong to Horatio Gates, July 15, 1780, note 2.


[Page 521]
July 22, 1780 487 and by them referred to a Committee, of which Judge Sherman tells me he was one, and the necessary Orders taken thereon. I have received official Intelligence, that all the States north of Virginia, except Delaware and Rhode Island, have adopted the Res olutions of the 18th of March, and by my last from Govr. Greene, he expected that State would adopt them in a few Days and the same is expected from Virginia. I hope Connecticut will with the greatest Expedition in their Power call in the Quota of Continental Bills required of them, the sooner they are got out of Circulation and sunk the better. Had all the States adopted the resolution of the 18th of March, and acted thereon with the Wisdom and Decision Connecticut has done, we should have been extricated out of our Embarrassments in a great Degree and almost insensibly. We have no later Intelligence of Consequence from the southern Department than what you will receive in the Paper inclosed. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of respect and Es teem, your Excellency’s most obedt humble servant, Sam. Huntington RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. Endorsed: “reed. 30th inst. Per Brown.” 1 For Trumbull’s three July 10 letters to Huntington, which were read in Congress on July 18, see PCC, item 66, 2:63-74; Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 3:57-64; and JCC, 17:638. 2 See Huntington to Certain States, June 29, 1780. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Sunday 22d July. 80 I called again the 30th time upon yr. Syringe-maker and he told me that he had “quite forgot all about it;” without even renewing his old Lye that he would set to work upon the next day. I blessed his Impudence, and thus have dropped the affair. The Bearer you doubtless know—Doctr. Cochran. A Thought struck me from seing his Behavior to the Family of Bethlehem, partic ularly to the Virgin, that he is quite capable of gross anecdotes that may be depended on. There are easy Moments in which you may put Questions founded in a Pride of your own Judgement and without any Expectations of ever having again any thing to do with them. I wish to know all I can before I quit-. An agreable Plan is formed, an House only is wanting, when that is obtained we shall move. In the mean Time—Tace is the Parole of our Party. My newly arrived Col leagues are out of all Patience at the Situation in which they found


[Page 523]
July 22, 1780 489 RC and enclosure (PHi: Potts Papers). Written and signed by Samuel Holten. 1 Jonathan Potts, purveyor of the hospitals in the middle department, has been identified in these Letters, l:316n.l. 2 Potts’ letter is not in PCC; and the “several resolutions’’ of the committee enclosed by Holten have not been identified. 3 For Congress’July 21 order appropriating $200,000 “for the use of the hospitals in the middle district, to be applied as the Medical Committee shall direct,” see JCC, 17:648. Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia July 22. 178[0] Your Excellency’s Several Letters to the President of Congress of the 10th Instant were received and publickly read. 1 No measures have Yet been taken by the Board of Treasury, for Sending Com missioners to Settle accounts in the Several States, which they are fully authorized to do by a late resolution of Congress. As I am at present a Member of that Board I Shall do every thing in my power to forward that Business, which has been too long delayed. Your Excellency’s Letter of the 8th of June last was referred to a Com mittee who reported thereon the 6th of July. “That all the Crediters of these united States who have not been paid their just demands, Shall be intitled to recieve in the present money, to the full value of the Sums due to them respectively, at the time they ought to have been paid.” When the report was taken up in Congress there was no objection to making just Allowance for the depreciation, but that it was Necessary to point out Some mode for the adjustment of the Sums due, and therefore it was recommitted—and will I suppose be again reported on very Soon. 2 Congress Seem disposed to do justice in every Case as far as is practicable. Our affairs have been considerably retarded and Embarrassed for want of money, and for want of proper Arrangements of the Staff departments. A New Arrangement of the Quarter Masters Department has lately been Established, which provides for the receiving, Safe keep ing and transportation of the provisions and other Supplies to be purchased by the Several States, pursuant to the resolution of the 25th of February last, and for procuring other Supplies. All the officers Employed will be on Salary & not Commissions, issuing posts in the Country are to be discontinued, I believe it will be a means of Saving considerable expence if duly executed, tho’ not So much as could be wished. New arrangements are also ordered for the com missary’s and Medical departments, to be made by the Committee at Head Quarters, & reported to Congress.


[Page 524]
490 July 22, 1780 We are Informed that Admiral Graves has lately arrived at New York with Six Ships of the Line from 60 to 80 Guns. General Wash ington writes that his arrival will make no alteration in his Plan of operations. We have had Accounts of the Arrival of the French Fleet at New port, on the 10th Instant, but no particulars, in what force or in what condition. We hear from New York, that one 74 Gun Ship of Graves’s fleet was Sunk by the French fleet, and that the French fleet is much Shattered. The people in the Several States Seem to be animated to Vigorous exertions; 3 A few months or weeks may be productive of very important events to this Country. May the Om nipotent disposer of all events overrule them for tbe best good of these States. I understand that of late the Army have been well Supplied with provisions. I am Sorry that the State of Connecticut have had occasion to emit So large a Sum in Bills of Credit previous to their being furnished with the Bills prepared by order of Congress, 4 but am Glad to hear that they have laid So large a Tax to be paid in the New Bills, I esteem that to be a very wise measure, to introduce the Bills into circulation with full credit, and ought to be imitated by all the other States. I am fully perswaded that no way can be devised, in our circumstances to Support the value of a paper currency but by taxing to the full amount of our expenditures, after having emitted a Sufficient Sum for a Medium of trade which is limited by the resolution of Congress to ten millions of dollars for the thirteen States, and if the particular States extend their emissions beyond their quotas of that Sum, it will in my opinion give a fatal blow to the Credit of the whole paper currency, and involve us in worse evils than we have heretofore experienced. Therefore I think that No Supposed necessity, or other consideration Whatsoever Should in duce any State in the least degree to exceed the limit fixed by the united States by the resolution of the 18th of March last. I am sensible that it was Necessary to make Some State emissions before those Bills were prepared, but then I think they Should be considered as part of their quotas of the ten Million dollars. The resources of this Country are great and may be drawn out in So equable a Manner by the Wisdom of the Legislatures of the Several States as fully to answer the exigencies of our affairs, without being very burthensome to the people. It may be necessary to run in debt for Some foreign articles, but I think not for any that are to be procured in this Country. I Shall return home by the middle of August So as to attend the circuit if relieved by the arrival of another Delegate. Mr. Root writes me that he dont expect to come ’till the beginning of October. I have wrote to General Wolcot 5 but have not yet received an Answer. The bank Set up here for the Supply of the Army I hope will be attended with Some good effect—they purchase flour delivered in


[Page 525]
July 23, 1780 491 this City at £80 Pennsylvania currency, in continental Bills, per Ct, which at 60 for 1 is equal to 21/4 lawful money of Connecticut. Of the New Bills have been Sent to Connecticut about half their quota, to New Hamshire their whole quota, to Massachusetts including what is now Sent by Brown 540,000 dollars. The quota for N. York is done, but not Sent forward, the quota for New Jersy will be printed next. Eight States have Adopted the Measure, and we hear that Vir ginia has, which will make nine. Delaware has not yet, and we have No Account from N. Carolina. South Carolina is Not in a condition to do it at present. Gates will be able to Collect such a force as to re-establish Civil Government there. I am with great respect and Esteem, Your Excellency’s Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers); Tr (DLC: Force Papers). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See Samuel Huntington to Trumbull, this date. 2 Governor Trumbull’s June 8 letter, which is the object of Sherman’s concern, was read in Congress on June 15 and referred to a committee of Oliver Ellsworth, James Henry, and Thomas McKean. That committee rendered its report on July 6, which was considered on July 13 and referred to a new committee chaned by Sherman. Despite Sherman’s clear interest in securing settlement of the accounts of Conti nental creditors in Connecticut, the committee did not report until August 24. Two days later Congress approved resolves affirming that Continental suppliers were en titled to receive “the just value of the sums due to them. . .compared with specie at the time the money became due’’ and providing a local means of settling accounts. See JCC, 17:515, 591, 774, 784-86; PCC, item 66, 2:59-62; and Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:50-53. ’ This same view was expressed by Jared Ingersoll the following day in a brief letter to William Temple Franklin at Paris, whose assistance was being solicited for the care of books Ingersoll had left behind him in England in 1776. “The French Fleet arrived at Newport the 10th Inst,” Ingersoll noted in conclusion. “Admiral Greaves is also at New York, without the Hook. We are making all possible preparations for an Attempt against that place—1 expect we shall have a very vigorous Campaign. Benjamin Franklin Papers, PPAmP. 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Trumbull, this date. 5 Not found. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington Sir, In committee of Congress, Preakniss, July 23d, 1780 We have the honor to inclose your Excellency copy of a letter from the General officers to us, No. 1, and copy of their memorial to Congress, No. 2, which we received on the 20th instant. 1 It is certain that the fortitude and perseverance with which the officers and sol-


[Page 535]
July 25, 1780 501 hint to yourself, as you love your Country; verbum sat sapienti. 2 The Tories will propagate, and, I will suppose, do believe the contrary; I hope they will gain credit for a time. Notwithstanding the res ardue domi, 3 and appearances abroad you see I have some consolation in being a member of Congress; and if I had not now and then these grateful animating cordials yet I [will] not quit the Helm in the midst of a storm. I cannot conclude without informing you, that Delaware at present stands high in the Opinion of Congress, and that if they had revised and altered the tender law, and adopted the plan of discharging the national debt of the 18th of March last (for which omissions they are alone censured) they would have stood higher than any State in the Union. Please to present my compliments to Chief Justice Killen, & your Brother. I am, dear Sir, Your most obedient humble servant, Tho M:Kean P.S. When you see Mr. Dickinson, be so kind as to remember me affectionately to him. RC (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 McKean probably enclosed a copy of the just published, Laws Enacted, in the Third Sitting of the Fourth General Assembly, of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania . . . (Philadel phia: John Dunlap, 1780). 2 A word to the wise is sufficient. 3 Difficulties at home. John Armstrong, Sr., to John Davis Sir, Philada. 25th July 1780 I have reed, your favour, and think it not improper you shou’d be in town at the time you mention—but inform you that Congress have yet received no answer from General Green whether he accepts the Office under the New Regulation or not. We Suppose he will, & if so he must immediately nominate deputys for the approbation of the Supreme Council in every State. Your friend Mitchel I presume is soliciting, 1 having told me he wou’d Serve without any regard to pay. This day Mr. Charles Pettit was Chosen D. Qr. G. of these, there is to be but One. The French Fleet & transports Arived at R. Island on the 12th Inst, consisting of Seven Ships of the line, a Bumbketch & three Frigates with five thousand infantry Near the Same day Arived. Adml. Graves at N. York with Six Ships of the Line, which together with the former Naval force, gives him at present a Superiority. On last Thursday he Sailed with 21 Ships of force from the Hooke, but whether to attack our Allies, or to the West Indies we cannot tell.


[Page 536]
502 July 25, 1780 We are not without reason to expect a farther reinformcement and Soon, but this you must take as private Opinion. 2 Inclosed is a letter to Coll. Watt &c. 3 of which if you think there may be any necessity on our Side the Hills you will please to take off a Copy for Coll Gibson & Coll. Buchanan. Seal the letter, and Send it off with what dispatch you can. I can neither write Mrs. Armstrong nor Coll MaGaw as I had intended by the present conveyance. Genl. Wayne at a Block House of the Enemy near Fort Lee, has been repulsed with the loss of about 70 of our line Killed & wounded. The Enemy were underground So that our Troops cou’d not get at them. This 1 fear was a wanton exertion of bravery/ He got a parcel of Cattle & Some Tories—it’s said the Cattle was the Object of his going out, but attacked the other on his return. I am Sir, your resepctful, humbl. Servt. John Armstrong [P.S.] Coll. Blain is at Camp. RC (DLC: Davis Papers). 1 That is, Col. John Mitchell, deputy quartermaster general. 2 Armstrong also wrote a brief letter this day to Horatio Gates relating this same intelligence regarding the French forces at Newport and Admiral Graves’ arrival at New York. Gates Papers, NHi. 3 Not found. 4 For Anthony Wayne’s unsuccessful attack on the blockhouse “near Fort Lee,” see Freeman, Washington, 5:184. John Hanson to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear sir, Philadelphia July 25th. 1780 I am favoured with yours of the 19th and am much obliged to you for the information it Contains. I have received of Mr McCarty the money you drew for, which Shall be Sent by a Safe hand in a Short time. Should it be in my power to render that Gentleman Any Service in the affair you mention be assured I Shall do it with pleasure. We have official Accounts of the Arival of the french fleet at Rhode Island, on the 10th Instant Eight Ships of the line and Several frigates with 5000 land forces. I wish we were ready for Co operation. Re inforcements Come in very Slowly, every State greatly deficient in their Quotas of men, much therefore must depend upon the Militia of the New England, New York, Jersey, and Pensylvania States. We are told by the Delegates from those States, that men will not be wanting. I wish it may turn out so. Our Magnanimous Ally is making most noble Exertions in our favour, and it will be degrading indeed Should we fail in doing our part. The want of money is very Em barrassing, and unless the Treasury is Speedily Supplyed, it will be very difficult to put our army in motion, and keep up the necessary


[Page 537]
July 25, 1780 503 Supplies of provisions. Of the one million two hundred and odd thousand Dollrs. required of Maryland, 200,000 only has been Sent in, And the other States are equally Deficient. So that you will readily guess at the State of the Continental Treasury. There has been lately an embarkation of Troops at New York, and a fleet of Several Ships of War, and other Vessels, to the Amount of Sixty one or two, Sailed from the Hook Wednesday last, Steering as far as they Could be Seen, about a South East Course. Various are the Conjectures re specting their destination, some are of opinion they are gone to the West Indias, to reinforce Admiral Rodney, who it is reported has lately met with a Severe drubing from the Combined fleets, haveing lost four Ships in the engagement, a 74 Sunk and three taken, and the rest drove into St Lucia, Some in a Shatered Condition. Others are of opinion (and 1 think with greater probability) that their object is Rhode Island. Their Superiority at Sea, and the number of Troops they may Spare from New York for so Short an Expedition, may induce them to attempt Something before the french fleet and Army Can be reinforced. A few days will Clear up our Doubts, when you Shall hear further from, Dr sir (with Compliments to Mr Carroll and the Ladies) your most Obedient Servant, John Hanson RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir Philadelphia July 25th 1780 I am favoured with yours by the last post. Be pleased to present my Compliments to Mrs Lee, and tell her her Commands Shall be Executed—tho the best Kind of Chariots was made a month or Six weeks ago, for £150 hard money, the price is now from 200 to 220. If you are willing to give this price be pleased to let me Know and 1 will engage one of the best Kind immediately, and you may probably get it by the middle or last of September. There is a Second hand Coach to be Sold for £200 hard. I understand it has run near Six years. I have examined it, the wheels are allmost new and the Harnass altogether so, the Body is very good, And every part of the Carriage appears to be Strong and in good order. The lining is a green Silk Damask. The Cushings are a good deal worn, but the man will engage to furnish new ones of the same, with the lining, it Apepars to be rather heavy, And the Shape of the Body not altogether in the mod ern tast, tho’ it looks well, being genteely painted. But I would rather advise your having a new one made or a new Chariot, rather than Purchase this. You will then be Sure of a good one and Agreeable


[Page 540]
506 July 25, 1780 from stocks already collected in New Jersey and directed quartermaster general Na thanael Greene immediately to appoint a deputy quartermaster, with the approval of Gov. William Livingston, to implement effective forage collection measures in keeping with new regulations adopted onjuly 15 for reforming the quartermaster department. See JCC, 17:615-35, 643, 653, 655-56; PCC, item 19, 2:361-66; and Huntington to Nathanael Greene, July 26, 1780. See also Committee at Headquarters to Greene, July 21, and to Furman, July 30, 1780. Huntington also sent a copy of the “enclosed Act” to New Jersey governor William Livingston on July 26, requesting him “to give Orders to the State Commissaries to deliver to Mr. Furman such Quantities of the public Forage as may be necessary for the Purposes therein mentioned.” William Livingston Papers, NN. The same resolve was sent to Nathanael Greene under cover of a brief letter from the Committee at Headquarters of August 1. PCC, item 11, fol. 253. Samuel Huntington to Charles Pettit Sir, Philadelphia July 25. 1780 I have the Pleasure to inform you that Congress have been pleased unanimously to elect you, Assistant Quarter Master General under the new Arrangement. 1 A Copy of your Appointment is herewith enclosed. While I lament the Necessity of making any new Regulations in the Quarter Masters Department at this critical Conjuncture, 2 1 have the fullest Confidence that the Principals in that Department will not be wanting in their greatest Exertions, that the same may be con ducted in the best Manner, and with the greatest possible (Economy, which is so essentially necessary in our present Circumstances. 3 I am Sir, with Esteem & respect, your most obedt servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (CSmH: HM 39002). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 “Under the new Arrangement," Pettit’s first duty as assistant quartermaster gen eral was "to reside near Congress.” See JCC, 17:618, 663, 665. 2 The “New Regulations” were those adopted by Congress onjuly 15. JCC, 17:615- 35. 5 Pettit’s August 9 letter to Huntington accepting this appointment is in PCC, item 192, fols. 333-36, but the document fails to reflect the difficulty he had in reaching this decision. Indeed, Pettit initially decided to decline the post, which he explained in a lengthy letter dated August 8 whose first page is nearly identical to the August 9 letter. But he apparently decided that he could not risk alienating Congress by refusing their appointment, and consequently endorsed the former letter “not sent,” while concluding the latter with a request for clarification concerning what he would be furnished at public expense in regard to “Clerk-hire, Office-rent, Stationary, and other expences incident to the Station assigned me." The August 8, 1780, letter is in the Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. Pettit’s query concerning his expenses was referred to a committee on August 10, whose recommendations to allow him “one or more clerks, as the nature of the service may require, and the Board of War shall approve,” was adopted on August 15. This decision was reported to him in a letter from Huntington of August 16. See JCC, 17:715, 735; and PCC, item 15, fol. 79.


[Page 541]
July 25, 1780 507 Massachusetts Delegates to Thomas Cushing and Timothy Danielson Gentlemen, Philada. July 25th. 1780. We have been disagreably betrayed into a Neglect till now of an swering your Letter of May 16th.' This is doubly mortifying to us, because the Reasons which we must give for our Delay will tend to condemn others. We expected that a Business so reasonable as the one relative to drawing Monies out of the Hands of the Deputy Paymaster general in the eastern Department by Warrants signed by some other than a General Officer would not have required any Debate; and we thought day after day that we should be able to inclose to you the Determination of Congress on that Head. A Prop osition delivered in by us was once and again withdrawn for the Sake of conciliatory Amendments, and on the 23d of June was referred to the Treasury who reported not till Yesterday what is herein for warded. 2 Due Attention shall be paid to the other Parts of Business on which you wrote and the most favorable Times watched for the Accom plishment of them. A more speedy Acknowledgement shall also be made of your future Favors as a corresponding Committee. We are, Gentlemen, Your very humble Servants, James Lovell S Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell, and signed by Lovell and Holten. 1 The May 16 letter of Thomas Cushing and Timothy Danielson, the committee appointed by the Massachusetts General Court to correspond with the state’s delegates in Congress, is not in PCC. For Lovell’s explanation of their delayed response to the committee, see Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, July 24, 1780. 2 On July 24 Congress authorized the “supreme executive” of Massachusetts, in the absence of a general officer, to draw warrants on the deputy paymaster general for paying Continental troops serving in Massachusetts and Rhode Island. JCC, 17:555, 655. A copy of this resolve was officially transmitted to the Massachusetts Council under cover of a brief letter from Pres. Samuel Huntington on August 5. Revolutionary War Letters, 203:15, M-Ar. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Sir, Camp Preakness July 25. 1780. The 22d instant I was bond by the Rect. of your favour of the 2d instant acknowledging the receipt of my letter of the 24th ulto. You


[Page 547]
July 26, 1780 513 Samuel Huntington to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philada July 26. 1780 You will receive herewith an Act of Congress of the 24 Instant and Copy of a Letter from Moore Furman. By this Act you are directed to appoint a Deputy Quarter Master to act in the State of New Jersey, in Order that the Difficulties ap prehended by Mr Furman may be prevented. 1 You will also observe in this Act the Sense of Congress is expressed in Answer to your Letter of the 19 of June. 2 By the Act of the 25 Instant herewith enclosed you will be in formed, that Charles Pettit Esquire is appointed Assistant Quarter Master General under the late regulation. I exceedingly lament the Necessity of any Change in the Arrange ment at this critical Conjuncture but have Confidence you will do every thing in your Power to prevent any ill Consequences arising therefrom. 1 am Sir &c &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ' SeeJCC, 17:655-56; and Huntington to Furman, July 25, 1780. See also Committee at Headquarters to Greene, July 21, 1780. 2 This “Act” is actually a separate resolve adopted by Congress immediately after it approved the resolve concerning Moore Furman cited in note 1. The “Sense of Congress” expressed in it conveyed the delegates’ rejection of Greene’s claim that he could not be held accountable as quartermaster general “for the Expenditures of his Agents,” which he had contended in a lengthy letter ofjune 19 that had been referred to committee on June 29. For this letter and the committee’s report on it, see JCC, 17:572, 580, 654, 656-58; PCC, item 19, 2:449-52, item 155, 1:303-14; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:44-46. Congress’ rejection of the position Greene had taken concerning accountability might well have been decisive to his continuation in office, but in fact he had already decided to resign as quartermaster general before receiving this communication, a decision triggered by his receipt of Congress’July 15 resolves reorganizing his de partment. These fundamental resolves, oddly enough, were not transmitted to him via an official letter from Huntington, but under cover of a July 26 letter to him from General Washington. See PCC, item 155, 1:399-402; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 19:258-59. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia July 26. 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of this Day, by which the Frigates and Sloops of War therein men tioned are put under your Direction to be employed in cooperating with the Fleet of his most Christian Majesty commanded by Chevalier de Ternay. 1


[Page 555]
July 29, 1780 521 suppose there is not a set of men on earth more fond of charging their blunders to other people’s fault than we are. As I conceive the great clamor against the staff departments to be first raised in order to charge the depreciation of the currency to their account by the Board of Treasury and by them spread like other infections. MS not found; reprinted from George Washington Greene, The Life of Xathanael Greene, Major-General in the Army of the Revolution. 3 vols. (New York: G.P. Putnam and Son, 1867-71), 2:320-21. 1 For Nathanael Greene’s July 26 letter of resignation, see JCC, 17:680; and PCG, item 155, 1:399-402. See also Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, July 27, 1780. 2 This committee did report on Monday, July 31, but action was deferred until the next day, when two members were added to the committee. This enlarged committee submitted a report on August 3, accepting Greene’s resignation and demanding an apology. However, Congress decided to recommit the report, which was resubmitted and debated on August 4, before Congress resolved on August 5 “that the absolute refusal of Major Gen. Greene, at this important crisis, to act under the new arrange ment of the quarter-master general’s department, has made it necessary that the office of quarter master general be immediately filled.” Timothy Pickering was chosen as his replacement the same day. See JCC, 17:682, 684, 690-92, 694, 697-98. For Cor nell’s reports on the delegates' angry reactions to Greene's resignation, see Cornell to Greene, August 1 and 13, 1780. ’ See Cornell to Greene, July 21, 1780. Nathaniel Peabody to John Mathews and Philip Schuyler Gent Morristown 29 July 80 I find myself not tbe worse for riding tho the pain in my breast & side not less than before. 1 have forwarded Such of the articles wrote for,' as I have been able to obtain—have wrote Colo. Brasher particularly 2 —have Sent more material for Sadie Cloathes than was wrote for Supposing Mrs. Mathews might take one. The News here today is that the 16 Sail which appeared off point Judith was the 2d division of the French fleet. The Rev. Q. M. Cald well told me last evening he thought it might be relyed on for truth that The British fleet & 10 JP troops were destined for N. Port— Should be happy for receiving information upon the Subject. Two Lads were brot. to Town last evening in Irons who had been passg Counterfeit money & borrowing horses without leave. They have, as I am inform’d, made Great discoveries, persons unthought of, before, have been Concerned. I am Gent with Great Esteem, your most obedt. and very Huml Sevt, Nathl Peabody


[Page 556]
522 July 29, 1780 P.S. A pair of boots Shall be Sent for Roberson as soon they Can be procured. I can find none in the Stores in or near this place. RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Addressed: “Honble. Ph. Schuyler & J. Mathews Esqr., Comtee. of Congress, Head Quarters.” 1 A July 28 letter to Peabody from committee secretary Abraham Brasher, Jr., requesting his assistance in processing some supplies, is in N.H. State Papers, 17:397. 2 Not found. 3 That is, 10 thousand. Committee at Headquarters to Moore Furman In Committee of Congress Sir, West Point 1 July 30th. 1780 General Greene has represented to us that you cannot procure carriages to transport the provisions and other Stores which are in- dispensibly necessary for the Army, nor forage to subsist the Cattle. 2 At this important Juncture when the Army cannot be put into a state of activity without those supplies, we are decidedly of opinion that you ought not to hesitate to procure carriages or forage by impress or in such other mode as will be best calculated to promote the public service. 3 We are Sir with respect, Your most Obedt. Servts. Ph. Schuyler Jno. Mathews RC (Nj: Stryker Collection). In a clerical hand and signed by Mathews and Schuyler. FC (DNA: PCC, item 39). Written by Schuyler and addressed: “In Com Congress, Robinsons house, July. 30. 1780.” 1 The committee had risen early this day, sent a letter to Samuel Huntington from Paramus, NJ., at “3 O Clock in the morning” (see the following entry), and moved with Washington’s army to the vicinity of West Point where the commander in chief established his headquarters in the house of loyalist Beverly Robinson. 2 In his letter of this day to the committee, Greene recounted his repeated warnings about the mounting problems that Furman faced in transporting supplies in New Jersey because of lack of forage, the inability of state contractors to fund purchases, and the New Jersey prohibitions against direct purchase. Unless the committee found “some speedy and effectual mode to remedy this evil,” Greene warned, “I am pir- suaded the Army must starve or disband.” PCC, item 155, 1:419-20. See also William Churchill Houston to Furman, July 14; and Samuel Huntington to Furman, July 25, 1780. 3 Although the committee strongly suggested that Furman resort to impressment to supply the army, the actual order to do so came from the commander-in-chief in his letters to Greene and to Furman of July 30 and 31, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:280, 286.


[Page 557]
July 30, 1780 523 Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In Committee of Congress, Paramus Sir J u 'y 30th. 1780, 3 OClock in the morning Previous to our letter of the 28th Inst, to General Greene, Copy whereof we have the honor to inclose No. I, 1 The Commander in Chief, came to our quarters and informed us the Enemys movements had rendered it necessary that he should Change his position and approach Hudsons River—That he had ordered the army to march at three on Saturday morning—That as the Quarter Master General, had Intimated his intentions to Congress, and the Committee, that he would not continue the direction of the department under the New system, every species of embarrassment would arise and a scene of confusion and distress be produced, which in all probability would be Irremediable, and therefor entreated the Committee to apply a remedy, If in their power; A circumstance so painful, and which might produce such serious and distressing consequences, called for our immediate attention; nor was it easy to determine in such a line of conduct as would not involve the honor of Congress, (to which we are Incapable of being indifferent) on one hand, and avoid on the other evils beyond what the Generals delicacy would permit him to state to us, and to which the public were so evidently exposed. We concluded after having maturely considered the matter, under the extensive view of all the probable consequences which would flow from a deprivation of a directing head in a Department on which the very operation of the Army depended, that a personal conference with General Greene, might be productive of happy effects; We ac cordingly had a conversation with him, the result of which was; that he would continue to direct the business untill congress could be advised with, by us, provided we should signify what is substantially contained in the Letter No. 1. We accordingly addressed the letter to which We received an answer of which No. 2 is a Copy. 2 Alarmed at the short period stated by General Greene, as that beyond which, he would not continue to Act; considering what was proper to be done on this occasion, we concluded to desire General Greene to take back his letter, and to request a declaration on his part, that he would continue to serve until the pleasure of Congress should be known. We determined on this with the express view, that if he consented to make the alterations agreable to our wish, we would submit to Congress, whether combining every consideration, It might not be adviseable for Congress to withhold an answer on the subject as stated in our letter No 1, Inclosed, and to let the business Slide on under the orders of the General, countenanced by the Committee, in order to superceed the necessity of repeating an act so recently


[Page 560]
526 July 30, 1780 eral Despatches of the 11 & 16 of December last, the 16 of January, the 15, 17, 19, 20, 25, 27, and 29 of February, the 8, 18, 19, & 23 of March. 1 It is probable the Committee of foreign Affairs may have acknowl- edg’ed the receipt of these Despatches, and several Duplicates which have been also received. 1 presume they have given you particular Intelligence of all ma terial Occurancies in America since your Departure, it being properly in their Department, and a Business which my present Engagements will by no Means permit me to undertake in so ample a Manner as is necessary, or would be agreeable to your Wishes. Before this comes to hand you will have received the disagreeable Intelligence of the Capitulation and Surrender of Charles Town, in which the Brave General Lincoln with about two thousand Conti nental Troops (Officers included) were made Prisoners. On the Evening of the 10th Instant the French Squadron under the Command of the Chevalier de Ternay arrived off New Port. The Compte de Rochambault has since landed his Troops on Connanicut. Three Days after their Arrival Admiral Graves with a British Squadron arrived at New-York, and being joined by the Ships there soon put to Sea; and we have just received Advice that Graves with his whole Squadron since their Junction is cruizing of) I] New Port. The exact Number & Strength of his Squadron I cannot learn, but it is thought equal if not superior to Ternays. Without a decisive Superiority of naval Strength in these Seas we cannot expect to expell the Enemy from New York this Campaign where we have been plagued with them long enough. We have been waiting some Time in anxious Expectation of In telligence from the West Indies, but by the latest Intelligence from thence nothing Capital had been done as late as the 15th Instant. I have the Pleasure to inform you that the State of Massachusetts have established their Constitution, a desirable and important Event. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of respect, Sir, your most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington RC (MHi: John Adams-Embassy Manuscripts). In a clerical hand and signed by Hun tington. ' See JCC, 16:288, 335, 17:428, 653. These letters are in PCC, item 84, 1:227-49, 263-69, 281-82, 291-97, 311-12, 329-35, 345-48; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspond ence, 3:422-23, 427-28, 457-62, 494-95, 499, 504-9, 519, 524-27, 539, 557-58, 560- 61, 568-70. The following day Huntington also received letters from Adams of March 20, 24, 26, 27, 28, and 29, 1780, which had been forwarded by Ralph Izard from Rhode Island where he had recently arrived, and which were read in Congress on August 1. See JCC, 17:685; PCC, item 84, 1:337-40, 349-72; and (except forthose of March 27 and 28) Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:561, 570-76, 578-80. See also the first letter of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to Adams of July 11, 1780, note 4.


[Page 562]
528 August 1, 1780 must be supported by the force of Milatary Law, or disband, untill the new Bills is put into circulation, when that will be I know not. I have the honour to be your Excellencys most obedient Humble Servant, Ezek. Cornell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 Proposals to give General Washington dictatorial powers, particularly in matters of supplies for the army, resurfaced and gained strength with the imminent recall of the Committee at Headquarters and the repeated failure of states to meet their supply quotas. The subject probably arose, at this point, during discussions over lifting re strictions on Washington’s operational authority—a decision reached the next day, August 2. See Philip Schuyler to Robert R. Livingston, May 30, note 4; Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington, July 18, note 13; and Huntington to the Committee at Headquarters, August 3, 1780. See also James Lovell to Elbridge Gerry, September 5 and November 20; and John Mathews to Washington, September 15, 1780. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear sir, Philadelphia August 1st 1780 The two Letters directed to the Delegates were yesterday laid before Congress. 1 That relating to our Troops to the Southward was referred to the Board of War and am in hopes the wants of our Troops will Speedily be relieved especially as General Gates is in vested with ample powers to appoint Officiers and to do every thing that may be necessary for the Support of the Southern Army. The other Letter respecting the protection of the Maryland and Virginia Trade is referred to the Board of Admiralty and tho Congress are disposed to do every thing to Comply with the requisition yet I fear it is not in their power to yeild Any protection at all at present. 2 I think we have only four frigates and those are to Join the french fleet at present much inferior to that of the British which is now off Rhode Island. Troops are Sending off from New York by way of the Sound and in Consequence General Washingtons Army is in motion towards the north River. Have inclosed you the packet and am with usual Esteem & regard, Dear sir, Your most hble Servt, John Hanson [PS.] I hope We Shall be able to forward our new money in about a fortnight. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). ' JCC, 17:682. For these two letters, and a third from Lee addressed to President Huntington, see PCC, item 70, fols. 403-18; and Md. Archives, 43:235-36, 238. * For Congress’ response to this appeal from Maryland for the deployment of a Continental frigate to the Chesapeake for the protection of the state’s trade, see Samuel Huntington to Lee, August 10, 1780.


[Page 564]
530 August 1, 1780 ister of France. When the letters were read yesterday, Congress man ifested the Strongest desire to comply with the request of the State and I believe would have unanimously done it had it been in their power. If the conjuncture of affairs should put it in our power to urge the Matter with propriety our endeavour shall not be wanting. You are not uninformed that the number of our Fleet is reduced to four or five Frigates and one of them in Europe and another (the Confederacy) in this harbour, and where from the reduced State of our finances she has been obliged to lay. She will however soon be at Sea. The British Fleet is off the harbour of Rhode Island and they manifest an Intention of sending land forces up the sound from New- York; should this be the case G. Washington has taken the necessary Measures to give them all the aid in his power. Walsingham has joined Admiral Rodney in the West Indies, and both Fleets are at Sea; the combined Fleets it is supposed are destined for Jamaica. You have not been kind enough to answer my two former private letters. 3 I should be always very happy to hear from you, and to receive such information as you may think proper to communicate; Your letter read yesterday in Congress respecting the Flour gave great pleasure. Give my Compliments to Mrs. Lee and such of the Ladies as hold me in remembrance and believe me to be with the most perfect Attachment, your Excellency[s] friend and hble. Servt. J. Henry. Junr. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). 1 See the preceding entry, note 1. 2 See the preceding entry, note 2. 3 Not found. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee Dear sir. Philadelphia 1st Augt 1780. Had I at any time since my arrival here been possessed of a scrap of good News I should have attempted to allay your hungring & thirsting. In the 31 days which I have been sauntering away about the City & Congress Chamber, I have heard nothing pleasing to the mind, seen nothing but melancholy accomplishments of the last Year’s predictions, such circumstances as I could wish to communi cate in a shady retreat, but cannot venture to display upon Paper. The Body Politic is sick, Sick indeed! The Servants of the House are more & more riotous & unless relief be immediately administred by wise exertions of the better branches of the family a dissolution or violent convulsion will infallibly be the consequence. What a picture


[Page 568]
534 August 2, 1780 William Few


[Page 570]
536 August 3, 1780 from John Adams to Congress, for which see Samuel Huntington to Adams, July 30, 1780, note. ’ In a letter to Congress of March 24, 1780, John Adams had reported that the British government was considering a bill to end pensions and salaries for American refugees. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:572-73. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Augt 3d 1780. I receivd your favor of the 13 th of July by Yesterdays Post. On my Journey I met Mr Gerry at Hartford, where we were unexpectedly engagd in publick Business with Governor Trumbull. 1 I utterly forgot that 1 had your Letter to him, but since you have empowerd me to open it, I find, it wd have been of no Advantage to you to have deliverd it to him there. I waited upon the only Gentleman of the Committee of Commerce now in Town, 2 who told me your Account was not settled. 3 I urgd it, and will continue to do so as a Matter which ought not to be delayd. When this is done, 1 will pursue the Step which you request. I do not like the Situations of the two Fleets. The English appears to be the superior, and while they lie before R Island, they may serve two great Purposes, the intercepting the 2d Division from France, and the giving their Cork Fleet an Opportunity of arriving at N. York. If our Privateers were cruizing off the Hook at this Juncture it might be advantageous to them as well as to the Publick. I am sorry to find that the Trumbull & the Dean are to run a double & I think a needless Risque of falling into the Enemies Hands; but if this be an illjudgd Measure, you are not accountable for it. The Doctor is this Moment going, 4 which prevents my adding to this Letter. I refer you to him for Intelligence. Adieu my dear Sir, and be assured that I am, your affectionate, S A. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 For the “publick business” transacted by Adams and Elbridge Gerry at Hartford, see Samuel Holten to John Avery, June 20, 1780, note 3. 2 According to the journals three members of the Committee of Commerce—John Fell, Timothy Matlack, and Edward Telfair—had voted in Congress on August 2 and therefore were available to be consulted at this time. JCC, 17:638. 3 The Committee of Commerce did not report on the settlement of Warren’s ac counts until November 28, at which time the Board of Treasury was ordered to pay the money “certified” by the committee to be due him. JCC, 18:1100. 4 That is, Samuel Holten. John Armstrong, Sr., to William Irvine Dear General Philada. 3d August 1780. I cannot pass so favourable an opportunity of answering your kind


[Page 575]
August 4, 1780 541 from him (if need be) in which his Excellency mentions having advised you to make Sale of those Sugars, which you may have already done in Consequence of his Advice. I am Sir, with great Respect, your most obedient Servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 In a letter of May 1, 1780, Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull had appealed to Congress to authorize Wadsworth to sell a quantity of sugar remaining in his hands, the proceeds to be applied to Connecticut’s account. This action was necessary, Trum bull advised, because the Continent was greatly in arrears in its payments to the state, and money was needed immediately to pay Connecticut suppliers who were threatening to withhold provisions from market because payment promises had not been honored. The letter had been referred to a committee consisting of James Duane, Nathaniel Folsom, and James Madison on May 11, whose recommendations were reported and adopted on July 29. See JCC, 17:423, 680; PCC, item 66, 2:41-44; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:51-52. Huntington also sent a copy of the enclosed “Act” of the 29th under cover of a brief letter to Governor Trumbull this date. Trumbull Papers, Ct. John Hanson to Philip Thomas Dear sir, Philadelphia August 4th 1780 I intended to have wrote you fully by Lieutenant Davis, but his Setting out this morning a day sooner than I expected, obliges me to Curtail a little. I may perhaps make you Amends by the next post. I have received yours of the 16 ult. I am greatly distressed on account of yours and Janeys Ill State of health, but hope your next Account will be more favourable. You ought and I hope will especially during this intemperate Season, be very Careful of your self. Doct. Shipping thinks Janeys Case is not dangerous and that Dyet and Exercise will relieve her. The Account you have given me of my plantation affairs, and the plentiful Crops in general, is very pleasing, the harvest throughout the Country as far as I have heard is very great. No danger of our Armys wanting Bread in future, if Cash Can be found to pay for it, but there lyes the great difficulty, the States must principally be depended on, And they are Extreamly backward in their payments. The want of money will I am afraid embarrass our affairs Exceed ingly. Our Army is in motion. A vigorous offensive Campaign in Conjunction with our generous Ally is intended, and little or no money in the Treasury to Carry on its operations, this may retard, but Still I trust we Shall be Enabled to get Along. A million of Dollars is Coming on from Massachusetts, and I hope the other States will be forwarding theirs. In my last I mentioned the Sailing of the British fleet from New York, and that I thought their destination was Rhode


[Page 576]
542 August 4, 1780 Island, the event has proved, I was not mistaken. They are now lying off Block island, in Sight of Rhode Island, waiting it is Supposed, from the Troops Sent from New York through the Sound, to Co operate with them. Whether they will be able to Effect their Purpose, which must be the destruction of the french fleet and Army at Rhode Island, time will Shew. General Washington moved with his Army on Fryday last towards the north River, it is probable he has Crost it before this time. The Militia to the Eastward are in motion, the Pensylvania Militia, Commanded by President Reed are under Marching orders, those of this Town are to March the 10th Instant, and I trust the Troops from Maryland are on their way—in all prob- abillity the Campaign will be Bloody. God Send it Successful. Sammy Expresses a desire of going into practice and Settling at Leesburgh where he thinks there is a very good opening occasioned by the Death of . Let me have your Opinion and if you think it will be to his advantage, you will be Kind Enough to assist in making out a list of Such Medecines as May be immediately necessary with their probable prices and I will purchase them if possible and Send them to Baltimore from whence they may be transported to Fred erick. My love to Janney hope the little ones are well and be pleased to present my Compliments to all friends. With great esteem, yrs. John Hanson RC (MdHi: Hanson Letters). Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia August 4. 1780 I have just Time to acknowledge the Receipt of your Letter of the 20 Ulto. with the Despatches therein referred to, this Moment re ceived by Express. Congress some Time since appointed a Committee to take into Consideration the State of the Southern Department to whom your Despatches are referred. 1 You may be assured Congress will take every measure in their Power to aid that Department, and place the Army under your Com mand in better Circumstances, as fast as the deranged State of our Finances and the Circumstances will admit. I have the Honor to be, with very great regard, sir, your most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 17:677, 691. The committee had been appointed on July 28. Gates’July 20 letter, discussing his efforts with the governors of Virginia and North Carolina to reconstitute a Continental force in the southern department and requesting "the


[Page 577]
August 4, 1780 543 immediate re-establishment of a Military Chest in this Department,” is in PCC, item 154, 2:214-17. For Congress’ response, see Huntington to Gates, August 10, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philada August 4. 1780 By return of the Express who has just handed me your Despatches of the 27 Ulto 1 I have the Honor to inform your Excellency that the several States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania & Maryland have adopted the Act of Congress of the 18 of March and transmitted their Laws on that Subject to Congress some time since. These are all absolute except Pennsylvania, which contains a Proviso similar to that of Virginia now received. The new Bills have been already forwarded to several of the States at their request, and a Letter from the Governor of Rhode Island informs me the Act of that State on the same Subject will probably pass & soon be forwarded to Congress. I have the Honor &c, &c, &c, S. H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:508-13. For Virginia’s response to Congress’ March 18 resolves on the Continental currency, see also ibid., pp. 531-32, 565-66. John Mathews to Benjamin Lincoln Dear sir, Head Quarters Peak’s kill, August 4. 1780 I was extreamly mortifyed in being disappointed of the pleasure I had promissed my self in seeing you before your return to the Eastward. However, when I consider my loss in this instance, is pro duced by your earlier return to those, who had so much better claim to the enjoyment of your agreeable society, I feel a disposition to submit the more cheerfully to my disappointment. As to news of various kinds, I conclude that is regularly hanted to you, by the number of correspondents you must have this way, there fore any thing from me on this head, must be mere repetition. I took the liberty of inclosing several letters for Miss Wragg under cover to you, whilst to the southward, I should be much obliged to you to know, whether you received them, & whether you ever had any opportunity of conveying them to her, As they were of some importance to my private affairs there. I most sincerely congratulate you on your return to your family & friends, after so long an absence.


[Page 578]
544 August 5, 1780 I am Dr. sir, with much Esteem & respect, Yr. most Obedt. servt. Jno. Mathews RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.15). Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia August 5. 1780 By the Act of Congress of this Day herewith enclosed you will be informed of their Designs to concert a Plan for expelling the Enemy from their several Posts in South Carolina and Georgia as soon as Circumstances will admit, which will depend much upon the Event of the intended Operations against the Enemy at New York this Summers Campaign. 1 You will also observe that the Recruits raising in Virginia for their Quota of Continental Troops are ordered to join the Southern Army. 2 I have the Honor to be, with very great Respect, sir, your most obedient, humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 JCC, 17:699. Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to South Carolina governor John Rutledge. PCC, item 15, fols. 67-68. 2 Huntington also sent a copy of this resolve this day to Virginia governor Thomas Jefferson. PCC, item 15, fol. 68. Samuel Huntington to Timothy Pickering Sir, Philada August 5. 1780 Enclosed you will receive an Act of Congress of this Day by which you will be informed that General Greene has refused to act as Quarter Master Genl under the new Arrangement of that Depart ment and that you are elected Quarter Master General.' I am perswaded that in this critical Conjuncture the Cause of our Country will overrule every other Consideration and incline you to accept this Appointment, and undertake the important Service with out Delay. Congress being under the Necessity of making a new Appointment their Minds have unanimously fixed upon you, and they have judged it proper & expedient on this extraordinary Emergency, that not withstanding your Appointment you should be continued a Member of the Board of War, with only a Suspension of your Powers & Pay during such Time as you shall continue Quarter Master General; and you have the Rank of Colonel with the Pay & Rations of a Brig-


[Page 579]
August 5, 1780 545 adier, over & above the Pay and Allowances of the Quarter Master General under the new Arrangement. I have the Honor to be &c &c. S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 For Nathanael Greene’s refusal to continue as quartermaster general “under the new Arrangement” and Pickering’s appointment to the post, see JCC, 17:680-84, 686, 690-92, 697-98, 700, 702. Pickering’s August 7 letter accepting the appointment is in PCC, item 192, fols. 17-19. Huntington also sent notice of Pickering’s appointment in a brief letter to the Committee at Headquarters this day. PCC, item 39, 2:124. For Pickering’s appointment and conduct of his duties as quartermaster general, see Gerard H. Clarfield, Timothy Pickering and the American Revolution (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1980), pp. 65-84. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 5, 1780 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed two Acts of Con gress of this Day. By the one you will be informed that Colonel Pickering is appointed Quarter Master General. The other respects the Southern Department.' You will please to observe it is the Sense of Congress that the Land and naval Forces, as well of his most Christian Majesty, as of these United States, or such Part thereof as the Commander in Chief shall think necessary, be employed in the Manner, and at the Time that shall appear to him most convenient, for the Expulsion of the Enemy from their several Posts in the States of South Carolina & Georgia, and that your Excellency concert with the Officers commanding the Fleet and Army of his most Christian Majesty, the proper Measures for this Purpose, and carry such Measures into Execution, so as not to interfere with any Plan of Operations formed against the Enemy, as the more immediate Objects of the present Campaign. You are also fully authorized, if you shall judge it necessary, to concert with the proper Officers and Ministers, such Plans of Op eration to be under taken by any other of his most Christian Majestys Forces, or by the Forces of his Catholic Majesty, in the West Indies, or Louisiana, or elsewhere, as may either immediately, or in their Effect, facilitate, or assist the proposed Enterprize. 2 Congress will, so soon as they receive proper Information, make the necessary Requisitions from the States, for Supplies, and afford every other Aid and Assistance in their Power, for promoting, and effectually prosecuting the Undertaking. I am sensible that this proposed Enterprize, from our present Cir cumstances will in your Opinion very much depend on the Event of the intended Operations of the present Campaign.


[Page 580]
546 August 5, 1780 By this Act you will also observe, that the Recruits now raising in Virginia for filling up their Quota of Continental Troops are ordered to join the Southern Army. I have the Honor to be, with every Sentiment of Respect & Esteem, your Excellency’s most obedient servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 See Huntington’s letters to Timothy Pickering and to Horatio Gates, this date. 2 JCC, 17:699. See also Huntington’s first letter to La Luzerne of August 12, 1780. John Mathews to Samuel Huntington Sir, Head Quarters Peekskill Augt 6. 1780 By a private letter I this day received from a Member of Congress, 1 I am informed that a report of a Committee then lay before Congress, in which it is recommended to accept the Quarter Master Generals resignation. 2 Convinced from long experience that the decisions of Congress are not very rapid, tho on matters of the last importance, I am induced to address myself to you on this subject, hoping it may reach you before the final decision of this business. Although alone (necessarily so by Mr. Peabody’s indisposition and absence at Morris Town, and General Schuylers call to Albany on his private business) yet I conceive it my duty to give every infor mation to Congress where, in my opinion, the interest of the United States, is intimately concerned. That it is so in the present case, must be evident to every unprejudiced man, who will take the trouble to think a little. The late movement of the Enemy towards Rhode Island, rendered it necessary for our army to move. How could this have been effected, without the immediate, and particular superintend ence of the Officers of the Quarter Master Generals department? Circumstances have rendered it necessary for this Army again to take post in the Jerseys. The same question again arises—But allowing that on the resignation of the head of this Department, another Officer was ready to step into his place, is it reasonable, is it consistant with Common-sense, to suppose that in a Department so complex, so diffuse as this is, a man can be found capable of acquiring a com petent knowledge of the business in a days time (for there is not a day, in the present situation of affairs, but it is indispensibly necessary) so as to be enabled to discharge this great trust, either with honor to himself, or to the interest of these states. I believe human genius is incapable of such an exertion. It may be said, it is not the whole Department that is meant to be displaced, but only the head of it, and there are other Offices now in it, well acquainted with the busi ness, some one of whom, may be induced to take it up, and go on


[Page 581]
August 6, 1780 547 with it. But I think I can with some degree of confidence assert, that for the same reasons the present Quarter Master General offers to quit it, no other officer now in it, capable of the trust, will accept it; on the contrary, no other reason induces such to continue in it; but a continuance of the head of the Department; Add to this, the ap parent suspension of the system of the 15 th Ult. [let it be remembered that in this department, is included the forage, the Waggon, and the artificers] annihilate it, and I would be glad to know, how your Army is to march one mile? Without a head a body is an useless trunk. That this whole department must be thrown into the most irreclaim able confusion (1 mean for this Campaign) and rendered totally use less for the remainder of it, should Congress either accept the resignation of the present head of it, or persist in its being conducted under the system of the 15th Ult, I will undertake to pronounce with the most decisive confidence. It may be asked, whether Congress are to be dictated to, by their Officers? I answer without hesitation, that on the present occasion they must; necessity compel them to it, and it is a duty they owe their constituents, not to suffer punctilio, to militate against their essential interests. If there are men in the great council of this nation, capable of such a conduct—I will not say what I think are their deserts. I have mentioned that displacing the Officers in the Quarter Masters Department at this time; must militate against the welfare and interests of these states—as thus—The Eyes not only of our Country, but of all Europe are turned on America, and im patiently wait the Issue of the present Campaign. The consequence resulting from its being a successful! one, on the contrary, every member fit to hold a seat in Congress, may easily enough determine, from the flattering expectations held up to this country, of rendering the present—With the divine support—a decisive Campaign. The states have been called on to make very extraordinary exertions. Almost all of them have gone great lengths, and are still pursuing the most vigorous measures, to attain this very desirable end. Some of them under considerable disadvantages, so much so, as will greatly debilitate them, and render their future exertions extreemly difficult. Under these circumstances, suppose our army was to be arrested, at the place of their next encampment, and not be in a capacity to move from thence, during the remainder of the Campaign, for the want of proper Officers to put it in motion? (That this will be the case appears to me beyond a doubt, if it is to depend on a new sett of Officers). How then, are the people of this country, to be recomp- enced for the extraordinary burthens they have subjected themselves to? Who will undertake to satisfy their discontent, the natural result of so grevious a disappointment, and caused by so impolitic a meas ure? Thus it evidently appears to me, Sir, that an adoption of the Report I have alluded to, will produce a total derangement of this Department, consequently put an end to the Campaign—render us


[Page 585]
August 6, 1780 551 Sir, in particular. However it is now time to begin my letter. I have been in Camp from the latter end of April last, till since Mr. Emery retur’d home, 5 during which time the Army underwent Several Changes; They know what it is to want, but Not to abound. I have seen them inviron’d in almost every Species of distress. Though things begin to look a little more favourable. The Army increases fast, and a tolerable prospect, all Circumstances Consid ered, of Supplies. But I am not without Great Anxiety for the Event of this Campaign. There are many contingencies on which the fate depends. Beside which there are, generally found, men in the Councils of every Nation, And People, who find means under some plausible pretext or other, to render the best Concerted plans Abortive. Can we suppose the councils of America more virtuous, or, her plans less vulnerable than those of other Nations? Whenever anything decisive, And important is set on foot; de signing men will always find out a Diana, or some other favourite Goddess, in danger, And under her banners, with Great Zeal, Alarm even the honest and well meaning among the Citizens, and excite them violently to appose the Measure. Such envious Zeal, and Ma levolent practices, ensure to the authors great Confidence and ap plause, not only from the devotees to the invaded Goddess, but many well meaning Citizens who Suffer themselves to be led blindfold— by their Machinations! This my friend is a Lamentation, And Shall be had for a Lamentation! Johnsons Golden shrines, may have made proselites to his Master.’ Who knows the power of Gold? You, and I, my friend, have not had the Chance of knowing by Diabolical experience—if we had, I will Venture to assert, it would not have influenced us in the manner, I have but too much reason to believe it has some others— in whose power it is to do us much harm. America has it in her power speedily to put an End to this Cruel, & bloody War. If it is not done, ought there not to be an enquiry who has been the means of procrastinating, the happy hour of peace & Independence? I once read of a people, who were at times led by a Cloud; And I have known of a people whose Grand Multiform’d Sanhedrin, were often times in the midst of a Fog. You will Judge how dissimilar their Situations. I see a Fog, or Cloud, rising with a fire in the midst, which, if not soon dispeld, and extinguished, Will in all probability greatly distress the Army, if not totally mar the proposed operations of this Campaign! The only object we can now have in view, must be to raise and Establish an Army, for the Wm. Which must be done upon a permanent basis. The terms must be both honourable, and profitable.


[Page 588]
554 August 7, 1780 1 Not found. See Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 281-82n.4. 2 Peabody’s “two very long letters” have not been found. 3 See Peabody to Meshech Weare, July 25, 1780, note 4. 4 An allusion to the attempts of George Johnstone, a member of the Carlisle Peace Commission in 1778, to bribe influential American leaders. Committee of Congress to the Board of Treasury Gentlemen Monday [August 7, 1780] The Committee to enquire into the causes of the uneasiness &c. in the department of the Treasury, purpose to meet on that Business on Thursday morning next at nine o’Clock in the State House, where they request your attendance. 1 Tr (DNA: PCC, item 62). 1 This committee had been appointed on July 10 to consider charges made by the treasurer of loans, Francis Hopkinson, against the commissioners of the treasury, William Denning, Ezekiel Forman, and John Gibson. The committee had just sub mitted recommendations to Congress to resolve an older dispute between Hopkinson and the commissioners of several months duration, and Hopkinson’s July 6 letter to the committee containing these new “Complaints” represented a considerable esca lation of the dispute, which now took on a more formal character, and dragged on for months. Furthermore, the response of the commissioners to this routine letter was far from ordinary, for they refused to appear at the inquiry and hinted that the committee was not authorized to undertake such an investigation. This surprising refusal seems to have hinged on two points: “that they [the commissioners] have never been served with any resolution of Congress setting forth any uneasiness &ca to be enquired into,” and that any such investigation would have to be conducted at the board’s quarters rather than at the committee room in the State House. Not surprisingly the committee pressed on with their work, and on Thursday morn ing the tenth sent the following second notice to the commissioners: “The Committee of Congress, to whom is referred the Letter from the Treasurer of Loans respecting the Board of Treasury and the uneasiness & ca in that department, inform the Com missioners of the Treasury, that they are now met in the Committee Room of Congress at the State House on that business, of which timely notice has been given to all the parties concerned. In case the Commissioners do not attend, the Committee must proceed ex parte.” In view of the commissioners’ obstruction of the committee’s work, it is little wonder that the committee subsequently recommended that Forman and Gibson be replaced, as well as the treasury board’s secretary, Charles Lee. However, when its report was taken up on September 9, a motion was adopted to have it recommitted, and eventually the committee proceeded to hold eight hearings in October and four in November before finally concluding that nothing less than placing the direction of the treasury under the direction of a single executive officer would be required to eliminate the “Demon of Discord” that pervaded the department. The committee had originally consisted of Samuel Holten, William Churchill Houston, and Thomas McKean, but on July 31 Timothy Matlack and John Walker were added “in the room of Mr. Houston and Mr. Holten, who are absent.” See JCC, 17:585, 597-98, 683-84, 779-80, 18:814, 1091-92; and PCC, item 62, fols. 375-80, 395, 450-51, item 78, 12:39-44. For the


[Page 593]
August 8, 1780 559 have considered the matter and I Doubt not wod. have made the necessary alteration. But the manner of these demands made in such peremptory terms—at the moment of action when the Campaign was opened, the Enemy in the Field and our ally waiting for Coop eration has lessened Genl. Greene not only in the Opinion of Con gress but I think of the Public—and I question whether it will terminate with the acceptance of his refusal only. On Saturday Col. Pickering was appointed to the Office of Quarter Master General with the Rank of Colonel & the pay and Rations of a Brigadier Gen eral and to hold his place at the Board of War without pay or right to act while in the office of Quarter Master General. This Gentlemens Integrity, Ability and attention to Business will I hope not only pre vent the evils to be apprehended from a change in so important a Department at this time but will I hope be able to reform some of the abuses crept into that Business and lessen the amazing expend itures of the Department. He must if he accepts have a disagreeable office in the present State of our Finance but we must support him all we can. The promotion I lately mentioned has not taken place though if we take up the Business I suppose it will be done as M. 3 is the oldest Colonel and Gates is the only Major General belonging to Virga, and the State has a right to two but I see no occasion of stiring in it at present as if taken up it must be upon the general principle of promotion and then not only Virga, but Maryland and other States will expect to partake of the same privilege of bringing forward their officers—when I believe there are few States whose lines are so full as to justify the promotions. I am, Dr. Sr., Yr. aff hum. Servt, Jos. Jones RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 This undated letter was probably written on Monday, August 7. Although Congress received Timothy Pickering’s acceptance of his appointment as quartermaster general this day, which Jones was unaware of when he wrote this letter, Jones refers to Pick ering’s August 5 appointment as having taken place “on Saturday,” rather than “yes terday”; and the intelligence from Martinique mentioned by Jones was apparently received by President Huntington this day, for which see the preceding entry; and JCC, 17:702. 2 For Washington’s letter to Benjamin Harrison, speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, see Jones to Washington, July 18, 1780, note 2. 5 That is, Daniel Morgan, whose promotion to brigadier general is discussed at ibid., note 1. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Sir Philadelphia August 8th. 1780. I had the honour to receive your Excellencys letter, of the 22nd Ulto., by yesterdays post. I immediately, communicated the contents,


[Page 594]
560 August 8, 1780 to Congress. It was refered to the Board of Treasury, for them to consider, and report what, could be done, As they are supposed, to be masters, of our Finances. I shall do every thing in my power, to obtain a spedy determination. 1 And as soon as obtaind I shall loose no time, in transmiting the same to you. It is with concern I inform you, I have it not in my power, to give you any encouragement, that you will receive any releif from Congress. 1 can only add they have it not in their power, to grant releif on any one application for money, let the sum be ever so small. I mentioned to you some time since, that general Greene, had declined serving as Q M General, which was accepted after near a weeks altercation. And Colo. Pickering, was appointed to that place, with the rank of Colo., and pay of Brigd. General. I have been alarmed for Several days past, by a prevailing report, that Sr. Harry Clinton was gone to Rhode Island, with a formidable land force, to attack that place. The alarm hath now ceased. General Washington informed us yesterday, that Sr. Harry with the Troops under his Command, had returned to N. York; after waiting several days, in Huntington Bay. 2 I have nothing further to acquaint you with worthy of your notice. Congress has not passed any Resolutions, of any considerable con sequence except that respecting the QM Genl, since I wrote you last. To enter into a detail, of all the difficulties and embaresments, that attend all our publick measures for want of Money, would only Serve to hurt your feelings. A line from your Excellency at every convenient opportunity would be gratefully acknowledged by him who hath the Honour to be your Excellencys most obedient and most Humbl Servant, Ezekiel Cornell P.S. Since writing the above, an Express hath arived from General Gates, in North Carolina. The accounts from that quarter, are not so favourable as I could wish. The want of money, is equally the same there as here. The want of Provisions is extreamly great in the southern Army, even to that degree that they are with out either Flesh or Bread, living on Vigetables. We are endeavouring to fix, on ways and means, to make more Ample provision, for their suport. I fear you will think I delight, in informing you of only the gloomy, side of our publick affairs. I assure you I should be exceeding happy if truth would justify a different language. The Enemy by the best accounts are in full possession of South-Carolina, and Georgia, with a small part of N. Carolina, beyond Pedee River. Congress is en deavouring to put the Army under General Gates in a situation to be able to confine them to the limits the Genl shall fix. E. Cornell RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors).


[Page 595]
August 8, 1780 561 Nathanael Greene


[Page 596]
562 August 8, 1780 1 For Congress’ response to Rhode Island’s appeal for relief from the great demands for supplies being made upon it, see JCC, 17:708, 731-32, 735-36; and Samuel Hun tington to William Greene, August 16, 1780. Greene’s July 22 letter is in PCC, item 64, fols. 478-81; and Staples, Rhode Island, pp. 296-97. 2 Washington’s August 3 letter containing this intelligence, which was read in Con gress on August 7, is in PCC, item 152, 9:69-71; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 19:318-19. John Henry to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadela. Aug. 8th. 1780 The reputation of Maryland is high and I am happy to hear that it will still rise in consequence of the completion of our extra Reg iment; when will they be ready to come forward? We shall give all the assistance in our power to Mr. Green, tho I am afraid we shall be under some difficulties in procuring the plates. 1 wish the devices had not been referred to the delegates. It is out of our way and I wish the Denominations of the Bills may meet with the approbation of yourself and the Council. 1 From information that has been received in this quarter, I have no doubt but the combined Fleets with twenty four Thousand land Troops are gone against Jamaica. The General and the Army have returned to this side of the N. River and it is a very happy and fortunate Event that his movements called back the Attention of the Enemy to N York. If they had pro ceeded to attack Rhode Island the General informs us he should have attempted N. York. He is now busily engaged in some preparatory steps towards the accomplishment of the great object of the Cam paign. God grant him success. My Expectations are slender. I am Sir with the highest respect and Esteem, Yrs, J. Henry RC (MdHi: I.ee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). ' See John Hanson to Lee, August 7, 1781, note. James Lovell to Nathaniel Peabody Dear Sir Aug. 8th. 1780 I am sorry you are so unwell. 1 The Post Rider has yr. Boots, or rather has a pair made for Somebody Else but such as Roney thinks must suit you exactly—except the whim of the Gutter Seame, which He thinks could not be trusted to one Journeyman in twenty and nine tenths of the old ones are gone privateering. He will take the


[Page 606]
572 August 13, 1780 (Economy. I must confess I more fear his want of abilitys, than the want of (Economy. At the same time I wish him success. Before this will reach it is more than probable you will hear that Congress have recalled their Commee. from Head Quarters. 2 The Measure was become necessary, for Several reasons, Some states were dissatisfied, many members of Congress were displeased with the letters they wrote. The situation of our finances, is such as to make, every thinking man shudder. The New money, ordered into Circulation, by the Resolution of the 18 of March meets with so many obstructions, I almost dispare of the Credit, it will have in the states that shall Comply with the resolution. If that should fail, good God what will be our fate, without money or Credit at home or abroad? We have not one farthing of Money in the Treasury, And I know of no Quarter, from which we have a right to expect any. Yet we go on Contented, pleasing ourselves with the sanguine hopes of reducing New York. I have seen many new sceens, before I came to this place, But what I have ex perienced since exceeds any thing I have ever seen before. 1 never before se a set of men that could quietly submit to every kind of difficulty that tended to the ruin of their Country without endeavour ing to make one effort to remove the obstruction. I beleive they wish their Country well but suffer their time almost wholy to be taken up in business of no Consequence. I am dear Sr., your Humbl. Servt. RC (DLC: Greene Papers). In the hand of Cornell, though not signed. Endorsed: “From Genl Cornell, Philada. 13th August 1780.” 1 See Cornell to Nathanael Greene, August 1, 1780. 2 See Samuel Huntington to Committee at Headquarters, August 12, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall Sir, Philada. August 13. 1780 I have the Honor to lay before you the enclosed Act of Congress of the 12 Instant, by which you will be informed of their Proceedings on the Memorial from the General Officers. Some further Matters were under Consideration for the Benefit of the General Officers their Widows and Children, which are re committed and I trust will be speedily determined. 1 I am Sir, with Sentiments of Esteem & respect, your most obedient Servant, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 Although Congress had previously responded to a number of army grievances


[Page 608]
574 August 14, 1780 aught not to be fixt at all, Puts it out of my Power to give you Satisfaction on this Subject. 1 Suppose you will expect I Should Say Something abought our Public affairs in general as they appear to us who are on the Spot where information of every Kind is most likely to be had. Much, Very much my good frind is Depending in my opinion on this Camp- paine—as the exertions of the Several States are very grate, unless Some important Blow is Struck or Something Decisive is done. I am affraid of the effect it may have on the People at large if Cald upon for the like exertions another year—and the disadvantages we may be laid under if a negotiaton for a Peace Shood take Place is obvious. I Can informe you our genneral Spirits and expectations are Riseing, and allso that we expect every day to hear of the arrival of the 2d Division of Ships of War from France—on which Depends in my opinion all our offensive opperations. Yesterday I heard Coll. Peabody was unwell at Morristown. 1 Shall Set out for home the 20th of September at farthest if I Shood live so long and am able—and Shall expect Somebody to Relieve me by that time or the State will be unrepresented. The intence hot wather we have had here for a long time Past and Constant Confinement hase brought me Some what low a Ride to the northward I hope will be of Service to me. Be So good as to informe President Weare that there hase bin no Publication of the Prises Drawn in the last lottery as yet, as Soon as there is any I will forward it to him. Sr. I am with Respect your most Obt. Humbl. Servent, Nathl. Folsom RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 'Josiah Bartlett’s May 13 letter to Folsom is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 280- 81. 2 Explaining the impact of the March 18 congressional Fiscal resolve in New Hamp shire, Bartlett had reported that “paper bills will not buy more than half or at most two thirds as much as before that Resolve Came to hand and many people will not take them on any account whatever.” Ibid., p. 280. Samuel Huntington to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia August 14. 1780 You will receive herewith enclosed an Act of Congress of the 12 Instant, ordering General Moultrie to make Return of the Com missary of Prisoners that he shall appoint in Charles Town to you for your Approbation. 1 You have also enclosed a Letter to General Moultrie with several


[Page 612]
578 August 15, 1780 Congress instructions on the Mississippi and the West they had received from the Virginia Assembly. The September 2 report of this committee was adopted on October 4, and two days later still another committee was appointed to draft instructions for Jay that were approved on October 17. See JCC, ll’.TZT, 754-55, 802, 18:900-902, 908, 935-47; and Madison, Papers (Hutchinson), 2:127-36. See also James Lovell to Henry Laurens, August 15; and Whitmell Hill to Thomas Burke, August 20, 1780. ’ Congress had appointed committees on “ways and means’’ (Ezekiel Cornell, Wil liam Churchill Houston, Timothy Matlack, John Morin Scott, and Sherman), and on salaries for officers of congressional boards and the court of appeals (John Hanson, Houston, and Sherman), on August ll. JCC, 17:721, 723. 4 For these August 12 resolves, see JCC, 17:726-27. Ezekiel Cornell to Nathanael Greene Dear Sr. Philadelphia August 15th. 1780. I had the pleasure to receive your favour, of the 9th Instant yes-, terday. I am sensible of the difficultys, the Army labour under, for want of proper supplys, in the QM. Genl department. But 1 fear a greater difficulty, if possible is near at hand, I mean a general fast through the Army, and that for want of a Supply of provision. That matter now under consideration of a Committee of which I am one, 1 we meet this morning at eight o’Clock, I fear the difficultys are of so stubbern a nature, as to baffle all our efforts. They arise from a complication of Blunders, as well as unforeseen accidents. I think you have now nearly adopted the opinion, I was of, when at Moristown, concerning publick life. And the more I see, of publick life the more I despise it. The Zeal I shew against adopting the New plan, for regulating the Q.M.G. department, caused the Majority of Congress to treat me with great Coolness, for a considerable time. It hath now intirely subsided, 1 am now treated with the greatest politeness, and enjoy as great a share of their Confidence, as I can expect, Which leads me to beleive they are sorry they have carryed the matter so far, but their pride will not permit them to retract. I can say no more than that it hath appeared to me from the first, that some thought it necessary to sacrifice, one for the Salvation of the whole, But upon the whole it is my opinion some particular piques, and predujucies excepted, Congress that is every Member, wish well to their Country. But their being so many members and so many different sentiments and to that may be added want of ablity or general knowledge & in attention to business, that it cannot be won dered at, if difficultys arise in carrying on our publick affairs. By the inclosed letter, 2 you will be informed the Committee are recalled. It is there mentioned as a necessary measure. I believe it to be so, to keep harmony among our selves. Some members were against their appointment, they have never failed to blow the Coal on all Occa sions. The Committee have at some times wrote plainly to us, and


[Page 613]
August 15, 1780 579 pressed our difficultys Close upon us, which is another matter many of us cannot Bear, altho founded on the greatest truths, For my own part I se nothing to charge the Committee with in point of Conduct, some of their letters, were in a stile rather warm but that I imputed to Schylers Zeal and the Warm Climate of Matthews Nativity. Con gress were not so angry at the Memorial of the General officers as you imagined. We are not apt to be angry at any thing we can evade. The memorial wase Committed to five members of Congress to con sider & report upon, which hath been done, but in such a manner, If I may be allowed to judge from the little knowledge I have of the sentiments of the Army, As to give little or no Satisfaction. 3 These letters are wrote intirely in confidence. My Complimints if you please to Harry Knox and tell him there is a report that his Honour & your self posses[s] the Most uneasy disposition of any two general officers in the Army. Much hath been lately said about some letters that certain Gentlemen wrote to Congress when they Sett at york Town. 4 I am dear Genl with every Sentiment of Esteem your most obedient and most Hum Servant. RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). In Cornell’s hand, though not signed. Endorsed: “From Genl. Cornel, Philada. 15th August 1780.’’ 1 Cornell is probably referring to the committee of five appointed on August 11 “to make an estimate of the expence . . . and to provide ways and means for such further supplies as may be necessary,” for which see the preceding entry, note 3. 2 Not identified. 5 See Samuel Huntington to Alexander McDougall, August 13, 1780. 4 Perhaps an allusion to some of the criticism directed at General Washington during the autumn and winter of 1777-78 associated with the intrigues of Gens. Thomas Conway and Thomas Mifflin, for which see these Letters, 8:314n.5, 330-31. Ezekiel Cornell to William Greene Sir Philadelphia August 15th. 1780. 1 had the honour to receive your Excellencys letter of the 25th Ulto. by yesterdays post. 1 It gave me great pleasure as it in a great measure, enabled me to give Congress, the information they have often called on me for, and that from good Authority, and in such a manner, as was perfectly agreable to them, And you may rest asured the State, (tho small) stand high in the opinion of Congress, which tends to make this delegate, as happy as our distressed Situation, will admit. He hath the vanity, to think he hath both the Confidence and respect of congress as much as tho he represented a state much larger. At the same time I have a particular pleasure, to find the state have passed, a law, for funding the money ordered to be emited, by a Resolution of the 18th March. 2 As it was the only means, that ap peared to be left to Supply the want of money (and of the most


[Page 616]
582 August 15, 1780 1 That is, Jacques Necker, French director general of finances. 2 The enclosed August 3 letter from the comte de Rochambeau at Newport is in the Carroll Papers, MdHi. For Congress’ response to the French general’s commu nication, see Committee of Congress Report on Rochambeau’s Letter, August 17, 1780. John Hanson to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia August 15th 1780 I received your favour by the post. Our Army Continues at Dobbs’s ferry. It is very great and daily increasing. Men I am persuaded will not be wanting to Carry into execution any enterprise our worthy General may have in Contemplation, but the feeding them is the difficulty. The daily Consumption of the Army is now 100 Barrells flour and Sixty Bullocks &c. This great as it is might be procured had we money, but our Treasury is empty, and no Supplies expected from the States in any Sort equal to the demand. Our embarrass ments are great, and exceedingly distressing, and the State of our finances is Such as would require the abillities of a Necker to put it into proper order, yet I hope by the assisstance of the new Bills, Certificates, and Sale of Bills, we Shall be able to Keep the Army together. The British fleet is Still off Rhode Island. No accounts yet of the Arrival of the Second Division of the french. Mr Jay is arrived at Madrid and yesterday Mr Laurance Sailed from hence for Holland. I have agreed with the Coachmaker for a Charot for you of the best Kind at £210 Gold or Continental at the exchange, to be finished by the first week in November—if you have a Coachmans Seat to it you Can have for the money 2 Setts of Harness only. If it is made without, four Setts will be furnished. Be pleased to let me have your Instructions in this matter by the next post. My most respectful Com pliments to Mrs. Lee, her Commission Shall be attended to. Am Sorry I cant Send her the Slippers by this post, the man has disappointed me. I am with very respectfully, your Excellencys most humble Servt, John Hanson [P.S.] My finances begin to run low and I believe my Colleagues are not much better—pray Save in Some Cash, it must be in Continental old money, yrs, J.H. RC (MdHi: Lee, Horsey, and Carroll Papers deposit, 1985). John Henry to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadela. Aug. 15th. 1780. A letter was yesterday received from Mr. Jay dated the 23d of May


[Page 618]
584 August 15, 1780 Department of the Comissary General of Issues. 2 1 have marked some Places with an Index. As the Issuing of rations every where through the Country is, I know, disagreeable to you, and produces the utmost Distress to the Army by consuming the Provisions purchased for them, I hope you will give strict Orders in Conformity to the Res olutions referred to. They are, I observe, published in the New-Jersey Gazette; but I do not think they are generally known; and perhaps the Deputies at the different Posts may wait your Orders. It is a great Object and calls your immediate Attention. I should not suppose your Orders had not been given, but that I called at Trenton, and Mr. Paxton informed me he was at a total Loss what to do. This led me to think you had not seen the Resolutions. I am, dear Sir, your very obedt hble Servant, William Ch Houston RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1243). 1 That is, the new regulations for the quartermaster general’s department, which had been adopted by Congress on July 15. JCC, 17:615-35. 2 Colonel Stewart was the commissary general of issues. Joseph Jones to James Hunter Dear Sr. 15th Augt. 1780 Col. Chs. Carter sometime ago wrote to me to procure him a Bolting Cloth. I then enquired and found several in the possession of one person only for sale, the price for the finest £4 hard money Per yard the second size £3. I inform’d the Colonel of this and have not since heard from him. Want of Cash prevented my buying for him and will do the same for Mr Voss if any of the Cloths are left wch. is very doubtfull as they were I understood in great demand. We have nothing new worth mentioning. The Court of Spain are disposed to enter into the alliance and nothing but our pretensions on the Missisippi can I believe prevent it. Our Operations are for the present Suspended in expectation of a reinforcemt. to the French Fleet at this time inferior to the British. We shall when they arrive be in condition to Cooperate with them as our Army is much streng then’d and is daily encreasing. Our only fear is provision to feed them. I thank you very kindly for your offer respecting Mrs. Jones but shall visit Virga, the first of next month. Some privateers have taken the Mercury Packet for New York with nine or ten Officers, some Ladies & Servts. who are now here. Adieu, yr. aff Sev. Jos. Jones RC (ViU: Hunter-Garnett Papers).


[Page 619]
August 15, 1780 585 James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Honorable Sir. Philadelphia 15 Aug 1780 Though I cannot procure the Signatures of the Committee of Foreign affairs at this moment, nor the resolve of Congress respecting Bills to be drawn on you for One hundred Thousand Dollars, passed two or three days ago,' the Bills payable at 90 days sight, yet I should be blamable if I did not thus far notify you. The breach upon our Taxes at the Southward, by the possession which the Enemy have there, made this disagreable step necessary for the express purpose of supporting General Gates in that Department. Notwithstanding the mention made in our Journals long ago, of giving you a Secretary, no vote has lately been taken for the purpose. The Honorable Mr Laurens will be able on any questions from you, in corresponding, to give you whatever the Gazettes do not convey. I am Sir your most humble Servant, Signed James Lovell P.S. 22 Aug 1780. I now add the resolves. FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 This resolve, which authorized the preparation of bills of exchange to be drawn on Franklin for $100,000 in specie for the military chest in the southern department, was actually adopted on August 9, although additional resolutions concerning the emission and distribution of these bills were adopted this day. See JCC, 17:712-14, 733-34. Lovell had doubtless obtained copies of those of the 15th as well as of the 9th when he added the postscript to this letter on the 22d. James Lovell to Henry Laurens Dr Sir. Augst. 15th [1780] Majr. Young could not tell me particularly any thing that you requested, but only that “you mentioned my Name” and he hoped I would know for what Purpose. I imagine “to know whether there was any News or any Letters for you.” Mr. Bee reed, a single one for you from the Eastward and probably when the Post came after wards from the southwd.—as to News—We yesterday had a Nar rative of 40 Sheets from Mr. Jay dated Madrid 26th of May. 1 There is a great deal of interesting matter in it. I will give you a Sketch. On Apr 27 he reed, a Letter from the comtee. of for. Affairs dated Dec. i 1 inclosg. the Resolves of Nov 23 & 29 for drawing on you and him for cash. Apr 29th He wrote to the C[om]te Florida Blanca very well on the Subject, but stuck too closely to the System of the address of Sepr. last which was his own Child. The Count in


[Page 620]
586 August 15, 1780 Reply said He could have easily answered the Demand last year, but Spain is like Tantalus—her Revenues in America [mock her?]—it is still his Majesty’s Intentions to give the Congress all the assistance in his Power—at the end of the present year or the beginning of the next it would be in his Powers to advance £25, 30 or 40,000 Stg. in the mean Time should the Bills be presented “He would take such Measures as would satisfy the owners of them.” He would also en deavour to send Cloth. As to a Treaty a long string of previous Questions were asked by the Spaniard and answered very wisely by the American. Mr. F. 2 is the Stick. The King is bent upon having it to himself Jay is stiff but thinks that a media Via such as a contraband Treaty may be stipulated specially in regard to that Navigation to prepare the Way for the great Negociation of Amity. Mirailles had informed the Count that our Congress had relinquished the River and afterwards made an essential Point of it. The King had not got the Intelligence he wanted from Havannah in regard to local Circumstance which must be ob tained previous to a Treaty. N.B. I think that you may get such Information of Capt. Pickles and otherways as to be able to write a very useful Letter to J. con cerning present local Circumstances in the Miss. Quarter. His con clusion is that Congress will adhere to their free navign. but that Regulations respectg. contraband articles and not inconsistant with that Idea and may be a means of closing the Business Amicably. He told the Count that many of the States were bounded by that River & were highly interested in its navigation but were willing to enter into amicable Regulations to prevent Inconveniencies in Regard to Contraband & other objects which might excite the Uneasiness of Spain. Sir John Dalrymple appeared in Spain the 9th of April in his Way to England thro France, his wife not being able to bear the Sea from Portugal. He is endeavoring to revive a Plan of Ld. Rochforts fab ricated before France was allied to America. It is for a General Con federacy between England, France, Spain & Portugal to guarantee each others Possessions: “it is not yet too late Says Sr. John to save a million of Christians from becoming Widows & orphans”. The most material Proviso of the Confederacy is that a War in Europe shall not be a War in America. Major Young calls. The Spanish Minister treated Sr. John “properly” and gave the strongest assurances of the King’s “Firmness” to Mr. Jay. (Ministers of Holland and the northern Powers) “I have reed, nothing more than common Civility from any of them except the Ministers of Holland & Sweeden, and indeed not much more from them. Perhaps they have been rendered more than usually cautious by an Extract of a Letter from Madrid published in the Leyden Gazette respecting Mr. Carmichael’s Reception and the At tention he reed, from forgn. Ministers.”


[Page 622]
588 August 15, 1780 was occasioned by Genl. Washington’s Movements, or by contrary Winds, which delayed him so long that he had no prospect of sur prising the French Commander, we know not: however it is greatly lamented that he did not persevere, for he must have failed inevitably at Rhode Island, the French being nobly supported by the New Eng land Men, and Genl. Washington very probably would have carried N. York in his Absence. In Consequence of Clintons Return, Genl. Washington repassed the North River. Admiral Graves’s Fleet lies at Anchor between Block Island and point Judith, so as to block up the French Fleet completely. The preparations for attacking New York are still going on with the greatest Vigour. Genl. Washington I conjecture has now with him near 20,000 Men, exclusive of a strong Garrison at West Pt.; the Militia of this State 3,500, march this day under the Command of their Governor; the Jersey Militia are or dered to be ready at an hours Warning, and other Reinforcements are yet to join the Army from the Eastward, all which will probably make an Army of at least 30,000 Men. Should the French Fleet be reinforced so as to give us a Superiority on the Water in time, I think N. York will certainly fall; otherwise I fear it will be impracticable to reduce it; nor do I know that Genl. Washington, without this Contingent, will make the attempt. Congress have been under the greatest Difficulties ever since my arrival arising chiefly from want of Money. There is not one Shilling in the Continental Treasury. The New Money for some of the States will soon be thrown into Circulation; we hope that will relieve us. Congress appears willing to do every thing for the Support of the Southern army and the Recovery of Georgia & So. Carolina. Genl. Washington is empowered and directed to form a plan for the latter purpose, but not to interfere with the immediate Operations agt. N. York: 3 The Govr. of Virginia, is ordered to transmit a considerable [. . .] 4 and of the Military Chest. Nothing remains to be done to complete this Resolution but to fix the price of the Bills, which is to be done this Morning. Governor Rutledge I believe will take with him all the Resolutions on this Subject, and a part or the whole of the Bills of Exchange. 5 I reed, your Letter yesterday, and immediately enquired of the Clothier Genl, respecting our Cloathing, who tells me has nothing belonging to us. I will apply to the Board of War, and do every thing necessary, if there [. . .] 6 Carolina; the Vessel was chased in the Bay and obliged to run into some Creek, where the arms were put on Shore, and left we fear in very bad Condition: however a Member of the Board informed WJ. some days ago that they had taken proper Steps for recovery of the arms and transporting them to No. Carolina agreeable to Order of Congress. 7 We had Dispatches yesterday from Mr. Jay, our Minister at the Court of Spain. Nothing decisive had been done when he wrote; but the Spanish Court appeared friendly, and seemed disposed to second


[Page 623]
August 15, 1780 589 our Operations against Great Britain. We fear the Navigation of the Missisippi will prove a stumbling Block; but we hope the Difficulty will be surmounted. The Inteligence you communicate in your Letter gives us the high est Satisfaction, as well on Account of the vigorous Exertions made by our State against the Enemy, as of the Humanity displayed in relieving our Gallant Officers and Soldiers at Charlestown. We know your present Situation, and are sincerely sorry that you have so many Difficulties to encounter; but we trust that perseverance will in the End surmount them all, great and numerous as they are, and we rejoice that the Genl. Assembly of No. Carolina had Wisdom to elect a Man who was equal to the important Occasion. You will oblige us exceedingly by giving us from time to time the Situation of Affairs in No. Carolina. The Accounts we get are so contradictory, that it is impossible to develop the Truth. The Conduct of the Virginians is execrated here. 8 We are with the most sincere Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedt. Servts. Willie Jones Whitll Hill FC (Nc-Ar: Legislative Papers). In the hand of Willie Jones. RC (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Papers). Written by Jones and signed by Jones and Whitmell Hill. Both texts damaged. ' That is, Willie Jones. 2 Not found. 5 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, August 5, 1780. 1 Approximately one-half page missing at this point. 5 Jones is undoubtedly referring to Congress’ August 7 resolve to provide a “Military Chest” for the southern department, for which see Huntington to Horatio Gates, August 10, note 3, and the sale of bills of exchange drawn on Benjamin Franklin under its August 9 resolve to obtain the needed funds, for which see James Lovell to Franklin, this date. 6 Undetermined amount of manuscript missing at this point. Remainder of text taken from RC. 7 For the arms ordered for North Carolina in June, see JCC, 17:486, 492. 8 In the absence of Nash’s “Letter,” Jones’ reference here is unclear, but he is probably referring to Virginia’s failure to mobilize troops for the ensuing campaign, for which see the following entry. John Walker to George Weedon Dear General: Philadelphia, August 15, 1780. The French fleet and army are still blocked up at Newport by Greaves, but in perfect security. Rochambeau heard Clinton was mov ing that way and applied to Heath for a few militia. They began to flock in so that in a few days they amounted to 20,000. Clinton immediately returned, but the brave Yankees could scarcely be pre vailed on to go home before the land was purged of those pests to


[Page 624]
590 August 15, 1780 society. How contrary is the conduct of Virginia? I am ashamed of my native country and almost determined to renounce it. Would to God the second division were here and a junction with the first formed, in that case I think New York would quake. Our army is already getting very numerous and I think any number might be raised for the siege. The derangement of our finances—the resignation of the Quarter Master General—Shippen’s trial &c. &c. perplex us beyond measure, yet I hope all will be well with us. Pickering is appointed Quarter Master General and much is expected from his diligence and fidelity. Prizes innumerable are brought in here. Yesterday was sent up the June packet, nine weeks from Falmouth with a cargo of officers and ladies. Your old friend M’Clanahan is principal owner of all the prizes, he fits out the Enemy’s vessels as he takes them and in a short time will have a formidable squadron. The Packet mounted 20 guns, and he daily expects a copper bottom mounting 26 guns from the West Indies. Well done Blair.' When do you set out for the Southern Army? I hope things will soon begin to wear a better face there. Our scheme is to take New York with the fleet and army there before winter sets in, and then to send you sufficient succor to the south. As soon as matters begin to draw towards a point at New York, I intend to visit my friends in camp and expect to see a glorious sight. I am greatly hurried and my paper out, therefore bid you adieu. Jn. Walker. MS not found; reprinted from Thomas Balch, ed., Papers Relating Chiefly to the Maryland Line During the Revolution (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1857), pp. 115-16. 1 That is, Blair McClenachan, a Philadelphia merchant. Committee at Headquarters to Samuel Huntington In committee of Congress, Sir, Camp, Tapan, August 16th, 1780. I inclose copy of a circular letter to the States, also copy of a letter from the commissary general to the committee, for the information of Congress. 1 With all deference, I beg leave to approach that august body over which you preside, and if the subject should not be thought “too important” and one of those that in the opinion of Congress “ought not to employ the time and attention” of this committee, and our interference in which, will not have a tendency to retrench too much


[Page 625]
August 16, 1780 591 from the high prerogatives of that body, 2 I would humbly submit to their consideration, a letter from Coll. Stewart, copy of which is inclosed. In consequence of a resolve of Congress, Coll. Stewart is intitled to the value of the horse, on an appraisement, but being a favorite horse of his, he would prefer having him returned, rather than the money. 3 I must beg the favour of your Excellency, to have the dispatches Southward of Pensylvania, forwarded to the respective States. I have the honor to be, with the highest respect, Your Excellency’s Most obedient servant, in behalf of the committee, Jno Mathews RC (DNA: PCC, item 39). In the hand of Abraham Brasher and signed by Mathews. 1 See the following entry. 2 Mathews is here paraphrasing Congress’ August 2 resolves rebuking the committee for its interference in behalf of Nathanael Greene and its attention to memorials that were the primary concern of Congress, for which see the Committee to Huntington, July 18, 1780, especially notes 11 and 14. Since Congress had already dismissed the committee, this retort was merely read in Congress on the 21st with no action taken upon it. See JCC, 17:749; and Huntington to the Committee, August 12. Mathews’ sarcasm here reveals feelings he had long been expressing, for he had been denouncing congressional incompetence in personal letters to friends since his early days in Con gress in 1778, for which see these Letters, 10:236, 682-83, 11:70-71. 5 On July 17 Col. Walter Stewart of the 2nd Pennsylvania Regiment appealed to both Philip Schuyler and the committee to honor his claim for return of his “Grey Horse” captured at Monmouth. The horse had since been sold by the British and acquired by Major Henry Lee’s Corps, leading Stewart to conclude that because the horse was “now in Possession of the Publick, I have again a right to him.” Although the letter was read in Congress, no action was ever taken. See JCC, 17:749; and PCC, item 78, 20:519-22. Committee at Headquarters to the States Circular. Sir. In Committee of Congress, Tapan, August 16, 1780 Inclosed you will receive copy of a letter of the 15th Instant from the Commissary General. 1 Circumstanced as our Army at present is, the information con tained in this letter becomes truly alarming. It requires the utmost attention of the Officers, together with all the necessaries, and even comforts of life, to render the service acceptable to recruits, and as the greatest part of the Army, at present consist of that class of men, if the time should unhappily arrive when we will be reduced to the necessity of putting them on half allowance of provisions, or probably have none to give them, the consequence must be, that those men unaccustomed to endure this species of distress, and not brought to that state of discipline, which can give their Officers that controul


[Page 645]
August 21, 1780 611 Genl. Washington’s army including the Garrison at West point & Militia already with him, or in Motion so as to join at short Notice must at this time amount to about 30,000 Men. The french Force now at Rhode Island is 5,000 Land Forces, under Count De Ro- chambaud and 8 Ships of the Line under Admiral Ternay and three or four Frigates. G.W. commands the whole & the Officers are di rected by his M. C. Majesty to pay him all the honours due to a Marshal of France. Admiral Graves with 10 Ships of the Line & seven or eight Frigates lies between Block Island & point Judith & com pletely blocks up the French Fleet. An additional French armament of Line of Battle Ships and Land forces is expected; should they arrive in time and give us a Superiority on the Water, N.York in all human probability must fall; without this Superiority I fear it will be impracticable to reduce it, nor do I know that Genl. Washington will make the attempt. Congress have empowered and directed Genl. Washington to form a plan for recovering So. Carolina and Georgia; but so as not to interfere with the immediate Operations agt. N.York. The Regular troops raising in Virginia are ordered to join Genl. Gates, and Congress have voted 100,000 Dollars in Specie, in Bills on France, to supply the Military Chest in the Southern Department. Governor Rutledge, I believe, will take the Bills on with him in a few days. We have been and still are exceedingly embarrassed for Money, most or all of the States having failed to comply fully with the Money Requisitions made by Congress.The New Money is ready for some of the States and will soon be thrown into Circulation, I hope this will give us some Relief; but I tremble for the Event. We have Intelligence from Mr. Jay our Minister at the Court of Spain. Nothing decisive was done there; but it appears that the Span ish Monarch is friendly to us & inclined to second our Operaitons agt. G. Britain. I inclose you a paper which will give you some Idea of the Dis traction prevailing in England. A London paper of June 12 came in the Falmouth packet; this paper is smuggled by some of the Tories; we are told it contains this Intelligence, that Matters had grown worse & worse, an Attempt had been made by the Mob on the Bank of England, a good deal of Blood spilt on the Occasion, Lord George [Gordon] sent to the Tower, Martial Law declared [. . .] a Million of Money granted to the King for his Tryal & for bringing other Of fenders to Ju[stice] and to defray the Damage done by the Mob. 2 I must request the favour of you to relieve me if you can without great Inconvenience, about the last of October. I am heartily tired of this place & wish to be at home as soon as possible; add to this that it will be very disagreeable to travel if the cold Weather should set in before I take my Departure, and will make it difficult for me


[Page 650]
616 August 22, 1780 By letters this day read in Congress from Head Quarters, 2 there is neither Bread or Flesh on hand, sufficient to serve the Army two Days, to which let me add the state of the Treasury. I must then beg liberty to refer my feelings on the Ocasion to your own Judgment. I can not help mentioning these Occurencies to you, perhaps it may be two much Occasioned by an Overheated Zeal for the Cause we are ingaged in. I can assure you it arises from no ill design; and must beg you & the Honl. Genl Assembly, to pardon me in what ever is over prompt, read in private what they shall think necessary, and expunge what ever shall appear superfluous in this & my former Lett. I take the liberty to mention one other malencolly circumstance among others that at this time present themselves to my vew on relateing this. The Torys in the lower County of Deleware grew mad at paying Taxes; about 300 of them flew to Arms and bid defiance to all authority. The Militia of the state was called out & have Quelled the rioters, but not without the loss of a Number Killed and wounded on both sides. I have not yet been able to obtain all the particulars but this is certain. Since my last, Congress have receivd. a letter from Mr. Jay, dated Madrid the 30th of May, 3 by which it appears a difficulty is likly to arise in Settling a Treaty with the Spanish Court. The King of Spain by his minister demands as one Article in the Treaty, The free, Intire and absolute Navigation of the River Missisippi, Which measure Con gress will not willingly agree to. 4 I have the Honour to be your Excellencys Most obedt and Most Hume Servant, Ezek Cornell NB. Sine writing the above Mr. Housten one of the Delegates of the State of N. Jersey Delivered me a Schedule of the Acts of their General Assembly and wishes one of ours in return May be Sent. I have inclosed the one I Rd. and should one be Sent I shall take Care to se it delivered. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). ' That is, July 29. JCC, 17:678. 2 Cornell is almost certainly referring to letters of August 17 and 19 from General Washington and from the Committee at Headquarters, which were read in Congress on August 23. JCC, 17:759-60. Because no letters “from Head Quarters” were read on August 22, Cornell may actually have completed this letter on August 23. ’Jay’s May 30 letter was read in Congress on August 21. See JCC, 17:749; PCC, item 110, 1:182; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:742. 4 It is undoubtedly no coincidence that on August 22 the delegates of Virginia chose to lay before Congress “instructions from their constituents” concerning the navi gation of the Mississippi, which were read and “referred to the committee on the extract of Mr. Jay's letter, of 26 May.” JCC, 17:755. They are, however, not in PCC, but in the Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. They are endorsed by Charles Thomson: “Instructions to delegates of Virginia Nov. 5. 1779. Read Aug 22, 1780. Referred to Mr Jones, Mr Walton, Mr McKean.”


[Page 655]
August 26, 1780 621 tory Evidence that they have never taken Part against us, and are sincerely desirous to riske their Lives & Fortunes with the Inde pendance of these United States. This Practice was adopted upon mature Deliberation, as founded, not only upon Principles of Justice & Humanity, but dictated by good Policy. Upon these Principles, Persons with their Effects coming from Ireland under the Character above described are exempted from Capture; and among the Number that have been permitted to come with their Effects and unite with us I have not heard of any Impostor though it is possible there may be an Instance. The Case of George Howell you mention may be an Imposition, 1 but he gave satisfactory Evidence to Congress of the Sincerity & Uprightness of his Intentions & Proffession to riske his Life & For tune with the Independance of these States, and that he had never taken any part against us. Persons of undoubted Character testified, that having been on the Island by Permission, Howell had repeatedly told them in confidence, he was determined to leave the island and take Part with his Country, that he knew he must sacrifice whatever he might leave behind and was desirous to bring off his Effects with him, that he had been impelled by Necessity and Family Connections since he came of Age to remain hitherto upon the Island, that he was now fully determined to come off if he could obtain Permission &c. In short he gave satisfactory Evidence of the Sincerity of his In tentions & Profession to Congress, who have ever appeared very jealous and carefull to guard against Imposition in such Cases and much more in giving Favors or Preference to the Enemies of their Country. Mr Howell was a perfect Stranger to me and before unheard of, but upon the Representation of his Case, Congress were so far sat isfied as to order the President to give him a Permission & Passport for himself and his Effects, which I was bound to obey and indeed as his Case then appear’d, I see no Reason why it should not be granted. If he be an Impostor and has been guilty of deceiving Congress with Respect to his true Character, they would be very desirous to know it, and have him detected and properly punished. I should be much obliged to you for any Evidence that may be obtained to prove he has from the Beginning of this War appeared an open avowed Enemy to the Independance of America, and that he is a known Enemy to these States, or that his Professions & In tentions to Congress were not sincere. I am perswaded that from your known Attachment to the common Cause and Zeal to promote it, you will readily transmit any such Evidence as may be obtained on this Subject, and I can assure you Congress will not be wanting on their Part to adopt proper Pro-


[Page 658]
624 August 26, 1780 collected under the command of Genl Gates and were extreamly successful in a variety of skirmishes with them surprizing & cuting off most of their posts when Gates advanced with his main body consisting of about 900 continental troops & 2000 militia to within 7 miles of Cambden where he was attacked by Cornwallis with his whole force. The militia being surprized fled at the first fire & Genl. Gates in order to raly them quited the ground while our regulars remained fighting nor did he stop till he reached Hilsborough which is near 200 miles from which place on the fourth day after the battle he writes to us but as he knew nothing of what passed after he left the place and we had reason to conclude from his account that all the continentals were cut of[fj—But by better advises we learn that they maintained the battle with great spirit after the flight of the militia had enabled the enemy to turn their flanks that they retired in such order as totally to destroy the enimies horse which attacked them on their retreat and it is even said they have brought of^f] their cannon. Genl D’Calb is dangerously (some say mortally) wounded. No other Officer of distinction as we have yet heard is mising. As we are in hourly expectation of some further information I hope to receive it before I am under a necessity of closing this. We have long been flattering ourselves with a prospect of recovering New York & giving by the assistance of france a descisive blow to the enemy, for this purpose we took measures to augment our army under the com mand of Genl Washington to 30000 men but our prospects grow more & more faint every day. The first division of the french fleet has been & still continues to be blocked up by a superior fleet at Rhode Island. The second have not yet sailed that we can hear. The militia tired out are returning home. Our Magazines are exhausted & our finances before sufficiently deranged have been still more disordered thereby. Your Old friend the Confederacy is still here owing to our inability to procure the necessary means of fitting her for sea. However I believe that obstacle will be removed in a few days. Our privateers have been uncommonly successful. Every day sees new prizes enter our ports, among others no less than 29 of the Quebeck fleet richly laden have been brought in by the Boston & Salem privateers & twelve more are said to have been taken by a french ship of the line & the remaining 8 fearful to proceed because of the privateers that were cru[is]ing in the gulph of St. Lawrence have put into Halifax. The combined fleets in the West Indies have separated & thereby lost a noble opportunity of taking Jamaica which is in a manner defenceless as Govr Balling with the greater part of the troops from that Island is said to be upon an expediton to the Spanish settlements in the main. I write you occurences without order just as they arise in my mind because I know that in your situation facts are of more importance to you than deductions from them. But as in proportion to a mans distance from home is his avidity to hear


[Page 670]
636 August 30, 1780 take a Puke for the better Operation of the Bark—Wrestling a little for the General Officers & the Army brought on a Slight fever fol lowed by a Sick Stomack & want of appetite, which the fruit of the Vine failed to recover. There is a Capital Question respecting our Western extent & free Navigation on the Missisippi Suddenly to come on, in answer to a late letter from [Mr.] Jay s if this were dis cussed, I hope to be at full liberty to retire, especially as Mr. McClane now attends—three good members at once in the House is sufficient. We hear that rather than return any of your Militia, the Genl, wishes you to Supply them from the County of Bucks. He mentions the middle of Sepr as the latest period for commencing the investiture of New York. If Competant numbers should appear to fail, what do you think of private intimations thro’ some channel or other, for a certain distribution of plunder, under Some limitations? I am Dear Sir with every cordial wish to you & the Young Gentle men of your Family—Your most respectfull, humbl. Servt. John Armstrong [P.S.] I have yet heard nothing of Genl. Potter, nor of the back Militia. 31st. Before this reach you, some person in better health will inform you of the total defeat & dispersion of Genl. Gates’s Army by Corn wallis, 4 Mr. Burke writes that Gates was Obliged to fight or disband for want of provisions—my fever is now risen So high that I cannot add—only that Genl. Potter is come & I have advised his Stay a few days to get Some necessaries. RC (NHi: Reed Papers). 1 Reed’s letter from “Trentown” is not in PCC, and “the Subject of which [he] wrote” can only be conjectured, but Armstrong may be referring to Congress’ August 25 resolution concerning the rank of state executives when acting in the field, which was the product of a motion by John Henry. See JCC, 17:777-78; and Samuel Hun tington to the States, September 3, 1780. 2 A reference to Washington’s letter to Congress of August 20, for which see Samuel Huntington to Washington, August 28, 1780, note 2. ’ See Roger Sherman to Oliver Wolcott, August 14, 1780, note 2. 4 See Samuel Huntington to Washington, August 31, 1780. Samuel Huntington to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philada August 30. 1780 Enclosed your Excellency will receive a resolve of Congress of this Day recommending to the President & Privy Council of Delaware to permit Wm Murray Master of the Schooner Betsey & Nancy of Ber mudas to export in the said Vessel to the Value of the present Cargo of Salt by him imported into that State; in Flour, Indian Corn or other Produce for the Use of the distressed Inhabitants of the said


[Page 671]
August 31, 1780 637 Island, taking Security from him that the same shall not be applied to any other Use. 1 I have the Honor to be, &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). ' See JCC, 17:780, 792, 795. Capt. Murray’s August 25 petition requesting per mission to exchange a cargo of salt for flour and corn in Delaware is in PCC, item 41, 6:191—94, along with the report of the committee to which it was referred on the 26th. Nathaniel Peabody to Richard Bache Sir Morristown 30th Augt. 1780 I have Just reed a letter from the president of the State of New Hampr Complaining exceedingly, that Nothing is yet done with re spect to establishing a post office in Exeter and directing the Post rider that way. 1 He observes that he had Lately Seen Mr Hazzard but obtaind nothing further than only that Mr. Flagg condesended to promise that the presidents Letters Should be so put up, as to be left at Hampton falls!! I leave You Sr. to Judge whether this was all the State had reason to expect from what had passed between you & me upon that Subject. And now Sir I have only to ask a particular favour that You must be so very obliging as to inclose to me your explicit determination upon the promises that the State may know what to rely upon And take other measures accordingly, for unless something is done that State will immedeately remonstrate against paying one farthing for the Support of the office. You will pardon my being thus, unjust upon this occasion, as it is a duty I owe to the State, I am censured for not haveing the matter Sooner Settled. The presidents Letter is very long & upon a variety of important Subjects or I would have Sent it to you, The Honble. Mr. Mathews who will deliver this Letter will Take Charge of any answers you shall be pleased to give. I have the honr to be Sir FC (Nh-Ar: Miscellaneous Revolutionary Documents). In the hand of Nathaniel Pea body. ' The FC of Meshech Weare’s August 8 letter containing this complaint is in the Weare Papers, MHi. See also Peabody to Weare, July 25, 1780. John Armstrong, Sr., to George Washington Dear General Philada. 31st August 1780 Since my return to Congress in the latter end of May, few Weeks


[Page 672]
638 August 31, 1780 have passed in which I did not intend the pleasure of writing you— Yet can the fault of Omission I now acknowledge be imputed to no other cause that the progressive langure and infirmity produced by an attention to business often perplexing in it Self, and a tedious debate with the dissolving heat of this City. At present I know of nothing new, but an account Yesterday brought by a Vessel from the West Indias, that some British Ships of force has lately gone into the road or Port of St. Martins & there captured & carried off Several American Vessels—by Steps of this Sort the Dutch may at length be led to more than mere neutrallity. Little did I expect a few minutes ago that the nex[t] paragraph Shou’d convey you the melancholy intelligence which it contains, nothing less than an entire defeat & total loss & dispersion of the Southern Army—being confined to my Room I have not Seen Genl. Gates’s letter, a Copy of wch. no doubt the President will Send you. 1 Mr. Burks Letter puts the misfortune wholely on the want of a Mag azine of provisions, by saying in effect that Genl. Gates must either risque that battle or disband his troops, to which he adds there were favourable prognosticks by a Series of success in the Scirmishing way. Genl. Cornwallis was at the head of three thousand or more with a great Superiority of Horse. The advance guards began in the Night both Armies on the March & both it’s said wishing to gain the Same ground—at day break the line was formed—the Virginia Militia sup ported by Armong [Armand’s] Corps on the Left, N Carolina Militia in the Center—part of the Maryld. troops on the right & the residue as reserve near the Center. The left wing Militia & Center Suddenly fled & cou’d not be rallied & left the few Continentals Surrounded by Horse & foot. Genl. Smalwood is Said to be killed, Baron DeCalb wounded & a prisoner—Genl. Gates said to be pursued fifteen miles—Coll Armong pursued twenty five miles & killed thro’ the failure of his Horses. Dismal as the best Story may be yet a little time will furnish a more accurate & perhaps better account, as when the express came off there was not a Shadow of an Army any where, nor any Magazines to repair to. I intended adding a few thoughts on the Objects of the Campaign and on the recall of the Committee from Camp but find my fever increasing & must desist—with respect to the last, take not the recall as matter of discouragement, but ask what your own consideration may dictate as necessary either of Con gress or of a particular State, and if it can be had I think you will receive it. I have with perfect respect the honor to be, Your Excellencys Af fectionate, humbl. Servt, John Armstrong RC (DLC: Washington Papers). ' See Samuel Huntington to Washington, this date.


[Page 673]
August 31, 1780 639 Samuel Huntington to the Chevalier de La Luzerne Sir, Philada August 31. 1780 I have the Honor to acquaint you that in Order to furnish a suf ficient Army to take the Field this Campaign Congress have been under the disagreeable Necessity to draw Bills of Exchange upon Doctor Franklin to the Amount of Dollars, 1 and in order that you may become fully acquainted with their Proceedings on that Subject I am directed to lay before you the Copies of the resolves of Congress herewith enclosed. A Committee of Congress will also have the Honor to wait upon you with a more particular & full Explanation on the same Subject. 2 I have the Honor to be &c, &c, &c, S.H. LB (DNA: PCC, item 15). 1 The “Amount" left blank here was $304,105, the total authorized in the four resolutions enclosed with this letter. Huntington’s letter to the French minister has not survived, but a translation of it, enclosed with La Luzerne’s letter to Vergennes of September 3, 1780, is in Archives du ministere des affaires etrangeres: Corre- spondance politique, Etats-Unis, 13:157. The resolutions enclosed by Huntington were those of May 19 (authorizing the Board of Treasury to draw $25,000 on Franklin), August 9 ($100,000), August 23 ($150,000), and August 30 ($29,105). JCC, \TA3T- 38, 713, 763, 794-95. 2 See JCC, 17:723, 796. According to La Luzerne’s dispatches to Vergennes, Con gress had kept secret their decisions to draw additional sums on Franklin at Paris, and decided to send the committee on ways and means to explain the enclosed resolutions only after La Luzerne learned of the resolves from an informant and embarrassed Congress to come to him with an explanation before Franklin could appeal in person to the French court for funds to cover such drafts on him. The French minister hoped to use his conference with the committee to convince them of the necessity of seeking such aid from the Spanish court, which would undoubtedly require unpalatable Amer ican concessions to Spain on the southwestern boundary of the United States and the navigation of the Mississippi River. His meeting with the committee became quite acrimonious, however, and at one point John Morin Scott threatened that the United States would “renoncer a I’Independance” if France failed to provide adequate aid. Scott later retracted the threat, La Luzerne explained, but the sentiments expressed during the meeting left him apprehensive over American attitudes toward the Franco- American alliance. See Correspondance politique, Etat-Unis, 13:154, 169; and William E. O’Donnell, The Chevalier De La Luzerne. French Minister to the United States, 1779- 1784 (Bruges: Desclee de Brouwer, 1938), pp. 106-7, 160-61. La Luzerne’s September 1 reply to this letter, indicating that there was little prospect that Franklin would meet a favorable reception, is in PCC, item 95, 1:150-53; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 4:44. Samuel Huntington to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 31. 1780 I have this Day received from General Gates Despatches, contain-


[Page 674]
640 August 31, 1780 ing the disagreeable Intelligence of the total Defeat of the Army under his Command; Copies of which are enclosed. 1 A most unhappy Event, and unexpected immediately after the Intelligence we had just received of the several Advantages gained by our Troops in that quarter. We have no particular Account of the Numbers killed or taken. Report saith that Generals Smallwood & Gist and Colonel Armand are among the slain, and that Baron de Kalb is wounded & a Prisoner. We wish for more particular Intelligence than General Gates’s Letter before it is published by Authority. I have the Honor to be, with the highest respect, your Excellency’s most obedient & humble servant, Sam. Huntington President RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In a clerical hand and signed by Huntington. 1 Huntington’s enclosures consisted of copies of Gates’ August 20 letter to Congress and an August 15 letter from Thomas Sumter to Gates, which are in the Washington Papers, DLC. Gates’ letter to Congress, which was referred to committee this day, is in PCC, item 154, 2:234-37. For Congress’ response to Gates’ letter, see JCC, 17:797, 802, 18:809-10, 812-13.


[Page 678]
644 Index Boston Gazette, 177 Boston Independent Ledger, 177 Boudinot, Elias, 70 Bougainville, chevalier de, 557 Bouille, Fran?ois-Claude-Amour, marquis de: letters to, 199, 378; ☆ commends Wil liam Bingham, 200; mentioned, 96 Bowdoin, Elizabeth Erving (Mrs. James), 614 Bowdoin, James: letters to, 331, 613; mentioned, 413, 612 Boyd, Mr., 304 Boyd, James, 571 Boyer, Peter: letter to, 392; appointed to endorse Continental bills, 392 Bradford, John: letters to, 209, 575; instructed to sell prize goods, 209 Bradford, Thomas: assistant commissary, 179; mentioned, 33 Bradford, William, 630 Brant, Joseph, 213 Brasher, Abraham: identified, 167; letter to, 166; * appointed secretary to committee at headquarters, 224; letter quoted, 248; mentioned, 82, 191, 298, 382, 417, 478, 493, 515, 516, 521, 563, 591, 618 Briar Creek, battle of, 566 Brisbane, Adam: identified, 277; letter to, 277 British army: southern expedition, 8, 32, 57; deployment conjectured, 29, 47, 203- 8, 219; besieges Charleston, 65, 71, 73, 84, 97, 103, 130, 180-83, 211, 214, 217; augments New York defenses, 142, 145; defenses of Halifax assessed, 164; casualties, 183, 625; strength, 219, 307, 355, 373, 393, 430, 558; surrenders Mobile, 252; raids New Jersey, 275, 278, 282, 287, 290, 303-5, 307, 310, 368, 372-73, 408, 420, 430; reinforcement anticipated, 298-99; invades South Carolina, 406; forage raids, 447; mentioned, 336; see also Clinton, Henry; Cornwallis, Charles, 2d earl of; Pris oners of war British navy: captures Dutch fleet, 8; West Indies fleet, 96; West Indies operations, 165, 192-93, 199-200, 236, 276, 395; deployment conjectured, 204-8; strength, 469; and Newport attack, 497-98, 530-31; destination conjectured, 501,503-4, 511, 521; blockades Rhode Island, 617; mentioned, 33, 528, 533; see also Arbuthnot, Marriot; Graves, Thomas; Rodney, George Broadhunt, Mr., 217 Brodhead, Daniel: letter to, 64; ☆ Indian policy challenged in Virginia court, 64-65; instructed on relations with Delaware Indians, 64 Brown, Benjamin: appointed assistant secretary to committee at headquarters, 224; mentioned, 82, 387, 389, 443, 444, 466, 473, 477, 494, 525, 548, 618 Brown, James: assigned to southern department, 470; mentioned, 474, 480 Brown, Jesse, 99, 108, 126, 161, 342, 351, 468, 487, 496 Brown, John (colonel): letter to, 88; condemns Benedict Arnold, 88 Brown, John (Massachusetts captain), 377, 384, 436 Brown, William: medical department returns, 391; resignation, 480; mentioned, 159, 313, 349 Bryan, Gabriel, 398 Bryan, George, 304 Bryson, James, post office surveyor, 350 Buchanan, William, 502 Buford, Abraham: suffers defeat, 345, 355; mentioned 330 Bull, John, 19 Bullock, Joseph: letter to, 343; appointed commissioner of accounts, 343 Bull’s Ferry, N.J., 502, 510 Burch, Thomas, 571 Burgoyne, John, 418 Burke, John, exchange sought, 533-35 Burke, Thomas: letters from, 37, 126, 261, 320; letter to, 607; ☆ attends Congress,


[Page 680]
646 Index Charter, Mr., 126 Chase, Samuel, 279, 281 Chesapeake bay, 528, 568 Chevalier, Peter, committee of commerce account, 109 Chezaulx, Monsr.; see Dechezaulx, Monsr. Child, Jonathan, 61 Childs, Jonathan F., 112 Chittenden, Thomas, letter to, 285 Chocolate, 106, 352, 488 Christiana, Del., 54 Cipher letters, 79-80, 275, 327, 402, 623 Claims; see Accounts Clajon, William, 320, 474 Clampson, John, 549 Clark, Abraham: letters from, 211, 283, 422, 599; * attends Congress, xix, 431; elected to Congress, xix; drafts appeal to the states, 15; recommends banishing loyalists, 283; on fiscal policy, 422; medical committee, 423; recommends deputy quartermaster, 599; studies medical department needs, 620; mentioned; 199, 233, 333, 603 Clark, George Rogers, purchases provisions with depreciating dollars, 109 Clarke, Mrs., 126 Clarke, Elijah, 518 Clarke, Jeremiah, 7 Classical allusions and quotations, 86, 430, 501, 586, 634 Clay, Joseph, 334, 606 Clingan, William, 304 Clinton, George: letters to, 12, 17, 52, 55, 60, 90, 115, 128, 151, 154, 156, 164, 170, 186, 191, 198, 202, 210, 225, 239, 242, 244, 252, 255, 267, 299, 305, 321, 336, 346, 354, 358, 362, 364, 385, 386, 441, 494, 519, 591,600, 619, 629; mentioned, 27, 218, 270, 296, 319, 338 Clinton, Henry: southern expedition, 8; forged letters publicized, 24; besieges Charles ton, 76, 98, 193; and 1780 campaign, 203-8; captures Charleston, 307; returns to New York, 355-56, 359, 366, 408; approves prisoner exchange, 535; prepares Rhode Island attack, 555-56, 587; mentioned, 34, 123, 130, 142, 145, 219, 239, 254, 259, 282, 301, 305, 310, 340, 367, 368, 373, 375, 393, 430, 531, 560, 580, 588, 589, 595, 617, 625, 628, 631 Clinton, James, assigned to northern department, 202, 213 Cloth: bolting, 584; price, 584 Clothier general’s department, fraud investigation authorized, 619 Clothing: for hospital department, 60; from France, 110; mentioned, 142, 473, 588, 634 Coaches, price, 503, 582 Cobblers, 562 Cochran, John: requests reassignment of surgeons, 568; mentioned, 480, 487 Coffee, 106, 305, 352, 488 Cogswell, James, letter to, 485 Colden, Cadwallader, 233 Colden, Elizabeth Fell, 233 Coleman, John, 53 Collins, John: letters from, 71, 73; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; returns home, 71, 135; mentioned, 275, 446 Commerce; see Trade Commissary general’s department: receives protection against prosecution, 18; seeks settlement of accounts, 39; retrenchment ordered, 53; issues rations for frontier militia, 60; warrants rejected by New Hampshire, 61; settlement of accounts delayed, 91; reform proposals, 118-20; accounts, 162; certificate debt, 210, 377; and in-kind


[Page 682]
648 Index Congress (continued) master reform proposals, 13; instructs committee at headquarters, 15-17, 31, 50; authorizes troops for New York frontier, 17-18, 243-44; protects commissary general against prosecution, 18; refers proposal to capture Penobscot to Washington, 24; compensates Massachusetts for Penobscot expedition, 25-26, 36, 47; authorizes de preciation pay for Continental troops, 29, 31, 49-50; seeks allegiance of Abnaki Indians, 33; appropriations, 39, 276, 285-86, 357, 411, 480, 488-89; devalues Con tinental dollar, 39, 63, 69, 88, 89, 116, 137, 408; appoints commissary of prisoners, 40; extends deadline for exchanging currency, 40; thanks commissioners on de partmental reform, 45; adjusts loan office certificates for inflation, 50, 86; studies depreciation allowance for staff officers, 51; postpones Vermont hearing, 55, 267, 285, 296, 309, 317, 337; adjournment from Philadelphia discussed, 56; debates restructuring U.S. mission to France, 58; terminates rations for frontier militia, 60; intervenes in Virginia suit against Daniel Brodhead, 64-65; permits British com missary of prisoners within American lines, 64, 211; seeks allegiance of Delaware Indians, 64; sets fast day, 68; suspends drawing bills on ministers abroad, 88; fiscal authority eroded, 92, 360; attends rite for Juan de Miralles, 94-96; refers Illinois complaint to Virginia, 108; confers with Pennsylvania Council, 118, 174, 564; ap pointment of emergency committee proposed, 123-25; proposes freeze on appoint ment of Continental officers, 141; plans cooperation with French, 144, 153-55, 164, 169, 177, 185, 190, 198, 209-11, 218-19, 221, 252-53, 362, 570; authorizes troops for New Hampshire frontier defense, 147, 225, 244-45; exhorts states to meet quotas, 155, 186, 321-22, 358-59, 362, 374, 385; attendance thin, 156; augments powers of committee at headquarters, 159, 163; establishes hospital at New London, 162, 182, 186; compensates Albany batteaumen, 174; recommends receiving cer tificates for taxes, 175, 210; recommends embargo extension, 176, 185, 316; secrecy recommended, 176; postpones settlement of war-related claims, 179; reactivates George Weedon, 183; thanks Louis XVI, 185; orders sale of prize goods, 209; restricts depreciation pay to active duty officers, 210; responds to provisions crisis, 213-14, 221, 243; limits Washington’s operational authority, 221, 465-66; abandons plan to reduce Continental Army, 222-23; censures Vermont officials, 240; sets in- kind quotas, 244; punishes abettors of desertion from French navy, 249, 266; inertia lamented, 263, 479; debates reinforcing southern department, 268; appoints Hor atio Gates to southern command, 269, 312; reluctance to promote Continental officers, 284; appoints additional commissioners of accounts, 309, 343, 486, 489; curtails staff department expenses, 323; resolves to draw bills on ministers abroad, 327, 390, 406, 426, 439, 585, 606, 639; rejects New Hampshire appeal to retain Continental taxes, 348, 371; reassigns authority for issuing privateer commissions, 354, 519-20; pledges vigorous 1780 campaign, 362; intervenes in state admiralty suit, 370, 378; reaffirms support for southern states, 370-71; orders Charleston inquiry, 374, 378; sets loan office depreciation scale, 375-76, 383-84, 395-96; sets fiscal quotas, 389,626-28; approves Henry Laurens’ request to ship indigo on private account, 399; approves flour export to Cuba, 409; orders payments for orphans of Joseph Warren, 409; appoints agent in Portugal, 425-26; commends French consul at Bergen, 427; and counterfeiting prevention measures, 436; investigates Penn- sylvania-committee at headquarters controversy, 445; confers with bank directors, 447; orders General Duportail exchanged, 448; rebukes committee at headquarters, 466; rejects Du Simitiere plan to collect historical documents, 471; studies grievances of Continental officers, 472; debates William Shippen court-martial, 474; reorga nizes quartermaster department, 479, 484-85, 506; urges merchants to supply army, 481; investigates quartermaster fraud, 482; harmony extolled, 486, 630; releases forage to ease transport crisis, 505, 513; authorizes states to draw warrants on Continental paymaster, 507; insists upon quartermaster accountability, 512-13; au thorizes Washington to deploy Continental ships, 513-15; and Nathanael Greene resignation, 521, 527, 537, 571, 578-79; lifts restrictions on Washington’s authority, 539-40; orders payment of Connecticut contractors, 540-41; provisions French re-


[Page 686]
652 Index Duane, James: letters from, 59, 76, 82, 97, 110, 167, 168, 170, 177, 193, 213, 217, 221, 239, 255, 263, 329, 336; letters to, 26, 33, 75, 93, 122, 129, 257, 306; * attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; urged to attend Congress, 26, 34, 55; visits Washington’s headquarters, 59, 111; urges southern reinforcement, 77; recommends John L. Livingston, 82; appointment to emergency committee pro posed, 123; provisioning committee, 214; confers with Pennsylvania on provisions crisis, 221; delegate expenses, 240; laments congressional inertia, 263; returns home, 403; and quartermaster reform, 479; mentioned, 53, 291, 386, 541, 571 Duane, Mary Livingston (Mrs. James), letter to, 59 Duarti, Juan Garcia, seeks compensation for illegally seized ship, 414 Dubois, Lewis, reduction of regiment proposed, 132-33, 164 Du Chaffault de Besne, Louis-Charles, comte, arrives in West Indies, 47-48 Duck, 247, 323, 338, 575 Dueling, Thomas Burke-Henry Lee challenge, 262, 321 Duer, William, partnership with John Livingston, 30 Duff & Welch, 109 Duffield, George, 68, 283 Duffield, Samuel, reassignment requested, 568 Dulman, Mathias, 53 Dumas, Charles William Frederic, letter to, 421 Dunham, Azariah: letter to, 470; collects forage, 471; mentioned, 90 Dunlap, John, 95, 532 Duportail, Louis Le Begue de Presle, exchanged, 448 Durnford, Elias, surrenders Mobile, 256 Du Simitiere, Pierre Eugene: letter to, 471; proposes to collect historical documents, 471 Duties; see Impost Dyer, Eliphalet: elected to Congress, xvi; mentioned, 99, 303 East Florida, 550 Eastern military department, disbursing authority in, 507 Eastern navy board, 247, 367, 370, 416 Easton, Pa., 563 Egye, Mr., 407 Elizabeth, N.J., 282, 305, 310, 351, 355, 368 Ellery, Christopher, recommended for staff departments, 38 Ellery, William: letters from, 6, 38, 48, 73, 83, 135, 178; * attends Congress, xxi, 136; elected to Congress, xxi; on Rhode Island troop quota, 6; board of admiralty, 7, 74, 84; drafts appeal to the states, 15; solicits appointment for his brother, 38; criticizes New Hampshire, 61; appointed admiralty commissioner, 136, 371, 376; delegate expenses, 136; requests money, 178; provisioning committee, 214; prisoner- of-war committee, 419; mentioned, 113, 274, 446 Ellsworth, Abigail Wolcott (Mrs. Oliver), letters to, 35, 99, 108, 215 Ellsworth, Oliver: letters from, 8, 35, 38, 99, 101, 108, 174, 214, 215, 221, 241,264, 275, 308, 365; * attends Congress, xvi; elected to Congress, xvi; sketch of, xxv; drafts appeal to the states, 14, 322; drafts instructions for committee at headquar ters, 17, 23; returns home, 99, 366; portrait, 100; appointment to emergency com mittee proposed, 123; finance committee, 153; plans cooperation with French, 164, 170, 185, 328; confers with Pennsylvania Council, 174, 221; provisioning commit tee, 214; elected to Connecticut Council, 215; and quartermaster reform, 479; mentioned, 26, 107, 126, 141, 298, 302, 342, 348, 356, 386, 491 Elting, Mr., 270, 294 Embargo: extension recommended, 176, 185, 316, 360, 375; violations of, 186; ex emptions authorized, 409, 636 Emery, Noah: elected assistant commissary, 508; mentioned, 551 Engineers, Continental, 448


[Page 688]
654 Index Folsom, Nathaniel (continued) expenses, 147; delays Vermont hearing, 317; returns home, 509; on fiscal policy, 573; mentioned, 113, 180, 198, 371, 541 Forage: defective oats protested, 191; impressment ordered, 522; mentioned, 10, 105, 119, 227, 229, 248, 271, 345, 405, 415, 447, 460, 465, 471, 476, 494, 505, 612 Forbes, James: death, 34, 55, 170, 255; mentioned, 79 Foreign affairs: Anglo-Russian relations, 135, 137, 142; Danish seizure of American prizes protested, 136, 427; Anglo-Dutch relations, 137, 161, 638; League of Armed Neutrality, 485-86; Anglo-Portuguese relations, 586; Anglo-Spanish relations, 586, 631; Spanish-Portuguese relations, 586; see also Committee for foreign affairs; Franco-American alliance; Loans, foreign; and individual countries Foreign officers; see Continental Army, foreign officers Forman, David, 469 Forman, Ezekiel, dispute with Francis Hopkinson, 412, 554 Forrest, Uriah, 510 Forsyth, Col., 183 Fort Charlotte, W. Fla., 256 Fort Hunter, N.Y., 111 Fort Moultrie, S.C., 214, 216 Fort Pitt, Pa., 64, 65 Fort Schuyler, N.Y., 165, 238 Foster, Isaac: letter to, 390; recommends Thomas Carnes, 72 France: restructuring of U.S. mission to proposed, 31, 58; extolled as loyal ally, 107; U.S. trade with, 107; supplies clothing, 110; provides new loan, 112, 126; provides additional American aid, 185; places troops at Washington’s command, 509, 587; mentioned, 135; see also Barbe-Marbois, Francois, marcjuisde; French navy; Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre; Holker, Jean; La Luzerne, Anne-Cesar, chevalier de; Louis XVI; Vergennes, Charles Gravier, comte de Franco-American alliance: treaty provisions, 108, 341; mentioned, 639 Franklin, Benjamin: letters to, 80, 426, 427, 438, 585; * title of address discussed, 42; cipher letters, 80; news from, 128; protests Danish seizure of American prizes, 136, 427; instructed to supply diplomats abroad, 314; proposals to draw Continental bills on, 390, 406, 426, 581, 585, 606, 639; mentioned, 135, 341, 425, 450, 623 Franklin, William Temple, 491 Frederick, Md., 355 Fredericksburg, Va., 235 French army, recruits Hessian deserters, 540 French navy: provisioning, 28, 219, 252-53, 266, 285-86; arrives in West Indies, 47- 48, 60, 73; West Indies fleet, 96; proposed new American squadron, 112; American cooperation with planned, 127, 144, 153-55, 163, 177, 184, 185, 190, 198, 203-8, 210-11, 218-19, 221, 258-59, 362, 442, 462, 513-15, 545, 570; expected to break siege of Charleston, 130; West Indies operations, 165, 192-93, 199-200, 236, 276, 395; desertion, 249, 266; strength, 435, 505; Rhode Island station, 452, 456, 459, 480, 500-502, 509, 531, 587-89, 595-96, 606, 617, 624; arrival of second fleet awaited, 555-56, 613, 634; seizes Bermuda ships, 571; lends flour to Continental commissary, 633; mentioned, 140, 379, 412, 416, 438, 451, 482, 490, 533, 609; see also Corny, Dominique-Louis Ethis de; Guichen, Luc Urbain, comte de; Holker, Jean; Ternay, Charles-Henri, chevalier de Furman, Moore: identified, 357; letters to, 357, 422, 447, 505, 522; ☆ superseded, 485; authorized to draw forage, 505, 513; recommended for quartermaster post, 599 Furman, Sarah: letter to, 423; organizes women to promote war effort, 423 Gadsden, Christopher, 98 Galatea (H.M.S.), 96 Galvez, Bernardo de, captures Mobile, 251-52, 256, 265, 266, 269


[Page 689]
Index 655 Galvez, Jose de, correspondence with John Jay, 159 Garanger, Lewis: petitions Congress, 465; mentioned, 467 Gardoqui, Joseph & Sons, 402, 437 Gates, Horatio: letters to, 19, 51, 258, 312, 319, 334, 357, 380, 450, 470, 474, 502, 517, 542, 544, 566, 567, 574, 605; ☆ appointed to southern command, 260, 269, 308-9, 312, 315, 319, 323-24, 334-35, 345, 361, 528-29; dispute with Philip Schuy ler, 320; rivalry with Washington, 320; recommends Daniel Morgan’s promotion, 468-70; seeks reinforcements, 542; authorized to recruit volunteer horsemen, 564; and commissary of prisoners appointment, 574; southern campaign, 598; Camden defeat, 624, 638-40; mentioned, 86, 183, 331, 333, 342, 407, 420, 429, 449, 491, 532, 538, 558, 559, 560, 576, 585, 611, 629, 636 Georgia: unrepresented, 34; Continental commitment to reaffirmed, 370-71, 545; Continental loan office closed, 410; commissary of prisoners for authorized, 564, 567; urged to recruit cavalry, 564; see also Heard, Stephen; Howly, Richard; South ern military department Georgia delegates: letters from, 348, 533; ☆ attendance, 98, 108, 138, 278, 445; recommend Mordecai Sheftall, 348 Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre, 42, 59, 96, 98, 104, 112 Germain, Lord George, 24 Gerry, Elbridge: letters from, 3, 36, 42, 44, 46, 51, 54, 84, 112, 137, 147, 163, 292; letters to, 39, 139, 143, 291, 396, 498, 535; * elected to Congress, xviii; privilege dispute with Congress, 3-5, 39, 44; recommends Joseph Ward, 36; attendance, 44; on fiscal policy, 85; on devaluation, 137; explains Benedict Arnold’s accounts, 147- 50; returns home, 236, 241-42; board of treasury, 241; confers with state governors, 241, 291-92, 296-97; proposes merchant association to support Continental cur rency, 292-94; mentioned, 28, 62, 310, 353, 536 Gervais, John Lewis, 97 Gibraltar, 19, 34, 47, 52, 57, 136, 438 Gibson, John: dispute with Francis Hopkinson, 412, 554; mentioned, 502 Gill, Joseph Louis, granted Continental commission, 33 Gill, Moses, 353 Gilman, John Taylor, appointed to endorse Continental bills, 343, 348 Gilman, Joseph, postmaster appointment sought, 508 Gilman, Nicholas, appointed to endorse Continental bills, 343, 348 Gist, Mordecai, 640 Glentworth, George, reassignment requested, 568 Gobbie, Capt., 509 Gordon, Lord George, leads anti-Catholic demonstrations, 611 Gordon, William: letters to, 28, 152, 378; mentioned, 128 Graves, Thomas, 451, 468, 482, 490, 497, 500, 501, 510, 526, 531, 533, 587, 588, 589, 606, 609, 611 Gray, James, seeks settlement of commissary accounts, 91 Grayson, William, 182, 335 Great Britain: American reluctance to separate from admitted, 107; rebuffed by Rus sia, 135, 137, 142; seizes Dutch ships, 137; charged with violating Saratoga Con vention, 418; promotes Vermont separatism, 441; and League of Armed Neutrality, 486; and loyalists’ pensions, 536; seeks to isolate U.S. from Spain, 586, 631; see also British army; British navy Green, Frederick, 255, 556, 562 Green, James, 410 Greene, Christopher, recruitment, 6 Greene, Nathanael: letters to, 70, 71, 81, 338, 369, 428, 475, 478, 506, 513, 516, 520, 527, 571, 578; ☆ portrait, xxviii, 561; conduct as quartermaster debated, 13; visits Congress to confer on quartermaster affairs, 14; protests criticism of quar termaster department, 82; threatens resignation, 165; plans cooperation with French, 219; and quartermaster reform, 326; commands New Jersey defense, 373,


[Page 691]
Index 657 Heath, William, 336, 589, 606 Henderson, Joseph, appointed to endorse Continental bills, 392 Henderson, Thomas, elected to Congress, xix Henderson, William, 183 Henry, Mr., 635 Henry, James: letter from, 330; * attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; confers with Pennsylvania on certificate debt, 174; medical committee, 391; men tioned, 173, 491 Henry, John: letters from, 504, 529, 562, 582; * attends Congress, xviii, 156, 255, 431; elected to Congress, xviii; and confiscated loyalist property, 424; health, 447; quartermaster committee, 520; mentioned, 386 Henry, Patrick: elected to Congress, xxiii; mentioned, 426 Hermione (French frigate), 178 Hessians, deserters recruited by France, 540 Hide department, fraud investigation authorized, 619 Hides, 224 Hill, Josiah, 397 Hill, Whitmell: letters from, 587, 607; ☆ attends Congress, xx, 431; elected to Con gress, xx; criticizes committee at headquarters, 608 Hillegas, Michael, 28, 143 Hispaniola, 220 Hoffman, Philip, 53 Holker, Jean: letter to, 27; accounts, 28 Holker (brig), 583 Holland; see Netherlands, United Provinces of the Hollingsworth, Henry, investigated for fraud, 482 Hollingsworth, Levi: letter to, 483; mentioned, 315 Holten, Mary Warner (Mrs. Samuel): letter to, 517; mentioned, 50, 62, 68, 86, 113, 180, 242, 274, 302, 399, 480 Holten, Samuel: diary, 12, 27, 33, 50, 62, 68, 74, 86, 95, 113, 128, 144, 180, 242, 274, 283, 302, 316, 338, 349, 384, 399, 452, 480, 512, 517; letters from, 8, 21, 28, 29, 44, 46, 51, 54, 62, 68, 69, 72, 87, 107, 138, 139, 151, 152, 153, 159, 163, 180, 181, 216, 242, 265, 279, 310, 330, 352, 353, 355, 366, 378, 390, 391, 400, 405, 407, 467, 470, 480, 488, 507, 517; letters to, 74, 318; * attends Congress, xviii, 431; elected to Congress, xviii; requests money, 9, 151; urges payment of state quotas, 21; seeks reimbursement for delegate expenses, 29; on fiscal policy, 63, 69, 87, 152, 405; health, 68; returns home, 69, 517, 535-36; medical committee, 72, 144, 318, 390-91, 470, 480, 488; extolls Louis XVI, 107; post office committee, 180; delegate expenses, 242; elected to Massachusetts Council, 316, 349, 353; elected to Massachusetts General Court, 400-401; treasury inquiry committee, 554; mentioned, 31, 402 Hope (brig), 370, 378 Hopkins, Stephen, elected to Congress, xxii Hopkinson, Francis, dispute with treasury commissioners, 411-12, 554 Hopper, John, seeks compensation for property burned by enemy, 94, 179 Horace, quoted, 634 Horry, Daniel, 598 Horses, 119, 227, 229, 230, 248, 271, 447, 460, 471, 492, 620 Hosmer, Titus, elected to Congress, xvi Hospital department: clothing needs, 60; and disability benefits, 72; supernumerary officers, 121; establishment of New London hospital proposed, 162, 182, 186; men tioned, 390 Housen, George, 53 Houston, William C.: letters from, 9, 27, 89, 113, 117, 118, 140, 160, 175, 181, 194, 199, 233, 245, 249, 250, 251, 266, 284, 311, 327, 349, 357, 423, 425, 426, 429, 437, 447, 456, 485, 583; letter to, 331; proposed report, 417; ☆ attends Congress, xx, 431; elected to Congress, xx; on in-kind quotas, 10; drafts appeal to the states,


[Page 693]
Index 659 Inflation; see Paper currency Ingersoll, Jared: letter from, 432; * attends Congress, xxi, 431; elected to Congress, xxi; drafts appeal to the states, 386; and quartermaster reform, 432, 479; men tioned, 302, 448, 491, 571 Inman, Capt., 518 Inspector general’s department: reorganization plan, 539; mentioned, 134 Intercepted letters, 22, 52, 60 Interstate relations; general exchange of state laws proposed, 9, 216, 500; see also Confederation, Articles of; Lands, western; Vermont Ireland, 63, 135, 137, 142 Iris (H.M. frigate), 238 Iroquois Indians, land cessions, 58 Irvine, William; letters to, 536, 593; seniority claim, 537 Izard, Ralph: letter to, 604; ☆ commended by Congress, 604; mentioned, 423, 499, 526, 532, 533, 535 Jackson, David, reassignment requested, 568 Jackson, Henry, regiment annexed to Massachusetts Line, 493 Jamaica, 395, 557, 558, 562, 624 Jameson, David, 558 Jay, James, 440, 512, 517 Jay, John: letters to, 275, 327, 402, 419, 427, 432, 435, 439, 622; ☆ title of address discussed, 42; proposals to draw Continental bills on, 88, 327, 390, 426, 436, 577, 583; extolls Sarah Smith for aiding prisoners, 91; arrives in Spain, 94, 96, 98; correspondence with Spanish court, 159; sent Mobile articles of capitulation, 252; cipher letters, 402, 623; instructed on detecting counterfeit bills of exchange, 436; news from, 440, 576-77, 580, 608, 631; confers with Floridablanca, 577, 583, 585- 86; requests instructions on Mississippi River navigation, 577-78; mentioned, 19, 57, 104, 112, 125, 255, 356, 437, 499, 582, 588, 611, 614, 616, 636 Jay, Peter Augustus, 404, 623 Jay, Sarah Livingston (Mrs. John): journal of voyage to Spain, 404; mentioned, 623 Jefferson, Thomas: letters to, 11, 60, 65, 92, 108, 154, 186, 191, 210, 225, 236, 244, 269, 278, 299, 309, 312, 315, 335, 339, 346, 354, 358, 367, 393, 414, 433, 494, 519, 543, 564, 591, 600, 629; mentioned, 245, 359, 361, 442 Jeffreys, Thomas, xxv Jenifer, Daniel of St. Thomas: letter from, 254; letter to, 381; ☆ attends Congress, xviii, 255; elected to Congress, xviii, 109; returns home, 287; mentioned, 264, 274,. 483 Johnson, John: raids New York frontier settlements, 235-36; mentioned, 93, 213, 259, 270, 319 Johnson, Robert: assigned to southern department, 470; mentioned, 474, 480 Johnston, Francis, 537, 593 Johnston, Samuel: letter to, 609; elected to Congress, xx Johnstone, George, bribery attempts denounced, 551 Jones, Allen: letter from, 313; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; crit icizes New Hampshire, 61; returns home, 313; mentioned, xxviii, 37 Jones, John Paul: prizes seized, 136, 427; mentioned, 96, 101 Jones, Joseph: letters from, 182, 234, 287, 360, 393, 468, 482, 557, 584; A attends Congress, xxiii, 431; elected to Congress, xxiii; proposes quartermaster reforms, 13; appointment to emergency committee proposed, 123; plans cooperation with French, 164, 170, 185, 328; recommends William Weedon, 183; on fiscal policy, 360; on western land claims, 394; mentioned, 169, 193, 248, 409, 616 Jones, Thomas, petitions for discharge, 472 Jones, Willie: letters from, 587, 609; * attends Congress, xxi, 313, 355, 431, 587; elected to Congress, xxi; portrait, xxviii, 610 Journals of Congress: printed, 396, 484; mentioned, 269, 313, 364, 390, 493


[Page 694]
660 Index Judge advocate’s department, 463 Juvenal, quoted, 86 Kalb, Johann, baron de: reinforces southern department, 84, 109, 130, 145; death, 624, 638; mentioned, 259, 312, 345, 406, 538, 558, 640 Keith, Robert, extolls Sarah Smith for aiding prisoners, 91 Kendall, Luke, 549 Kettell, John, 86, 242, 274, 302 King’s Ferry, N.Y., 297, 344, 345 Kingston, N.Y., 202 Kinloch, Francis: letter from, 145; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 146, 431; elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 178 Kirkebride, Joseph, appointed to endorse Continental bills, 575 Knapsacks, 416 Knox, Henry: contracts for ammunition, 458, 464; seeks cannon transport, 475; men tioned, 363, 463, 477, 579 Knyphausen, Wilhelm, baron von: raids New Jersey, 307, 340, 368, 372-73, 375-76, 625; mentioned, 395 La Balme, Augustin Mottin de: letter to, 46; resigns Continental commission, 46 Labor, shortage lamented, 562 Ladd, Capt., 436 Lafayette, Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de: letter to, 141; * returns to America, 93, 96, 98, 141; visits Washington’s headquarters, 111, 122; confers with Washington, 163, 185, mentioned, 112, 113, 126, 127, 128, 135, 137, 138, 146, 153, 154, 165, 167, 177, 197, 198, 219, 221, 253, 259, 278, 412, 449, 483 Laiske, Terrier de, 440 La Luzerne, Anne-Cesar, chevalier de: letters to, 185, 210, 253, 286, 361, 408, 515, 540, 570, 639; ☆ holds rite for Juan de Miralles, 94-96; death rumored, 97, 200; reports grant of French aid, 113, 185; seeks intelligence on Nova Scotian defenses, 163; on provisioning French forces, 211, 285-86; lends provisions for American troops, 328; urges vigorous U.S. war effort, 362; requests permission to export U.S. flour to Cuba, 409; proposes subordination of American ships to French com mander, 515; seeks permission to recruit Hessian deserters, 540; admonishes Con gress on drawing bills of exchange on France, 639; mentioned, 27, 41, 75, 86, 101, 128, 139, 141, 144, 145, 169, 177, 198, 219, 221, 252, 257, 260, 268, 270, 274, 276, 280, 364, 483, 498, 514, 529, 531, 580, 587, 613 Lamb, John, 368, 373 Lamentations, quoted, 68 Lancaster, Pa., 12, 556 Landais, Pierre, 634 Lands, western: Virginia claims opposed, 115, 394; Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary dispute, 147 Langdon, Woodbury, elected to Congress, xix Lansing, Abraham, appointed to endorse Continental bills, 619 Lansing, John, Jr.: identified, 184; letter to, 183, 440; directed to investigate Ethan Allen, 440-41 La Rouerie, marquis de; see Armand-Tuffin, Charles, marquis de la Rouerie La Touche-Treville, Louis-Rene-Madeleine, Le Vassor, comte de, commended, 178 Laurance, John, 463 Laurens, Henry: letters from, 397, 410, 530; letters to, 145, 260, 585; ☆ attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; proposals to draw Continental bills on, 88, 436; Dutch mission delayed, 146, 160, 356, 366, 398, 411, 532; reports siege of Charleston, 212; requests to ship indigo on private account, 397-99; seeks payment of loan office certificate interest, 410; appointed to negotiate Dutch loan, 427; on


[Page 695]
Index 661 Laurens, Henry (continued) Nathanael Greene’s resignation, 531; on public virtue, 532; captured, 533; men tioned, 97, 214, 252, 259, 324, 396, 413, 422, 424, 433, 450, 504, 537, 550, 577, 581, 582, 615 Law, Richard, elected to Congress, xvii Lawrence, John: letters to, 286, 350; * instructed on endorsing new emission bills, 286; sent money, 366 Lawrence, Roderick: letter to, 286; instructed on endorsing new emission bills, 286 Laws Enacted in the . . . Fourth General Assembly ... of Pennsylvania, 501 League of Armed Neutrality: formed by European nations, 486; mentioned, 614 Leather, price, 12 Lee, Arthur: delays return to America, 499; mentioned, 483, 532, 628, 632 Lee, Charles (treasury secretary), dispute with Francis Hopkinson, 554 Lee, Francis Lightfoot, 532 Lee, Henry: assignment to southern department opposed, 169; assignment to southern department countermanded, 197, 268, 278, 358; dispute with Thomas Burke, 261- 62, 321; mentioned, 359 Lee, Richard Henry, 32, 158, 474 Lee, Thomas Sim: letters to, 32, 60, 109, 154, 156, 186, 191, 210, 225, 244, 254, 299, 321, 346, 354, 358, 362, 364, 374, 385, 397, 409, 414, 437, 441, 446, 451, 494, 503, 504, 519, 528, 529, 556, 562, 568, 582, 591, 600, 627, 629; ☆ seeks coach for purchase, 503, 582; requests protection for Chesapeake navigation, 568; mentioned, 478, 482 Le Fier Roderique (French ship), 398 Legal tender: tender laws repeal urged, 117, 295; tender laws proposed, 264; men tioned, 272 Legras, J. M. P., seeks redress from depreciated Continental dollars, 108 Lewis, Francis: mail intercepted, 22; mentioned, 52, 302 Lewis, Joseph, letter to, 365 L’Hommedieu, Charity Floyd (Mrs. Ezra), 166 L’Hommedieu, Ezra: letter from, 12; letters to, 22, 47, 165, 270, 287, 294; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; returns home, 22, 26, 34, 48, 55; letter quoted, 296 Lincoln, Benjamin: letters to, 144, 401, 472, 543, 597; ☆ reports British arrival at Charleston, 32; and siege of Charleston, 64, 71, 73, 76, 84, 91, 130, 137, 154, 197, 217, 260; surrenders, 145, 303, 307, 311, 316, 323; requests inquiry, 366; and Charleston inquiry, 374, 378, 392, 472; prisoner exchange, 473; mentioned, 49, 57, 101, 159, 181, 324, 325, 331, 332, 349, 419, 429, 448, 526, 576 Lisbon, Port.: American agent in appointed, 425; mentioned, 432, 631 Litchfield, Conn., 449 Livermore, Edward, 12 Livermore, Samuel: elected to Congress, xix; returns home, 41; and New Hampshire grants claims, 197; mentioned, 29, 61, 126 Livingston, Abraham, 401, 576 Livingston, Henry Brockhoist, 403, 625 Livingston, James, reduction of regiment proposed, 132-33 Livingston, John L., identified, 83 Livingston, John R.: letters to, 30, 336; proposed Dutch commercial venture, 30 Livingston, Mary Stevens (Mrs. Robert R.), health, 65, 75 Livingston, Robert R.: letters from, 12, 22, 30, 74, 151, 156, 169, 170, 197, 279, 280, 294, 313, 327, 335, 336, 363, 386, 402, 622; letters to, 65, 66, 218, 307; proposed resolves, 596; ☆ attends Congress, xx, 76, 129, 151, 431; elected to Con gress, xx; drafts appeal to the states, 15, 322, 364; drafts instructions for committee at headquarters, 17, 23; reports theft, 22; nominated secretary to mission to France, 30-31, 58; proposes Continental Army reduction, 32; returns home, 34, 53, 55, 59; urged to visit Washington’s headquarters, 66; confers with committee at head-


[Page 696]
662 Index Livingston, Robert R. (continued) quarters, 67; letter quoted, 75; appointment to emergency committee proposed, 125; finance committee, 153; seeks tax relief, 156-57, 386; plans cooperation with French, 164, 169, 185, 328; opposes reinforcing southern department, 169, 197; on Vermont controversy, 197; on Washington’s authority, 280; on fiscal policy, 295; recommends Thomas Tillotson, 313; committee for foreign affairs, 328; seeks change in West Point command, 363-64; recommends Benedict Arnold, 364; cipher letters, 402, 623; bank committee, 447; and quartermaster reform, 479; opposes use of quartermaster certificates, 596-97; committee on militia exemptions, 603; mentioned, 26, 168, 222, 273, 298, 356, 409, 432, 627 Livingston, Susannah French (Mrs. William), 284, 403 Livingston, William: letters to, 9, 60,82,94, 111, 113, 117, 140, 154, 160, 175, 179, 186, 191, 194, 199, 210, 211, 225, 233, 244, 245, 249, 250, 251, 252, 266, 283, 284, 311, 331, 346, 349, 354, 358, 437, 441, 485, 495, 506, 519, 575, 591, 600, 629; ☆ seeks compensation for John Hopper, 179; confers with Elbridge Gerry, 241; reports enemy raid into New Jersey, 303; escapes enemy raid, 403; recommends Silas Condict, 485; collects forage, 506; mentioned, 359, 420, 492 Lloyd, Edward, elected to Congress, xviii Loan office; see Continental loan office Loans, foreign: from France, 112, 126; from Dutch, 325, 356, 424, 427-28; from Spain, 356, 577; mentioned, 615, 626, 639 London: rioting in reported, 611; mentioned, 550 Long Island, refugee property rights challenged, 622 Lot, Mr., 59 Lottery, 574 Louis XVI: reaffirms support for U.S., 129; thanked by Congress, 185; mentioned, 107, 122, 147 Lovell, James: letters from, 11, 19, 25, 31, 46, 51, 54, 63, 72, 78, 80, 125, 158, 163, 216, 217, 235, 236, 314, 324, 325, 327, 396, 401, 421, 423, 425, 426, 432, 449, 472, 483, 487, 498, 507, 535, 562, 585; ☆ attends Congress, xviii, 431; elected to Congress, xviii; on fiscal policy, 11; on Canadian invasion proposal, 19; nominates Alexander Hamilton to mission to France, 24; committee on foreign applications, 46; laments demise of committee for foreign affairs, 78, 432; recommends Robert Mease, 78; cipher letters, 79-80; committee for foreign affairs, 80, 328, 423-28; delegate expenses, 159; recommends James Searle, 421; lodgings, 488, 499; laments labor shortage, 562; drafts response to Rochambeau, 596; mentioned, 84, 86, 139, 318, 481, 532, 571, 604 Lovell, James S„ 274, 324, 326, 338 Lowrie, Thomas, 111 Loyalists: New York sale of confiscated property, 152; raid New York frontier, 235; in South Carolina, 254, 406, 598; in New Jersey, 283; in Pennsylvania, 283; in North Carolina, 406, 509; confiscated property of as a negotiating issue, 424; Del aware uprising quelled, 607, 616; refugee property rights challenged, 622; in New York, 625; property confiscation proposed, 634; mentioned, 393, 474, 522, 536 Lyman, Samuel, 35, 215, 309 McCarty, Mr., 502 McClenachan, Blair, privateering ventures, 590 McComb, Eleazar, resigns from chamber of accounts, 343 McCrea, Stephen, reassignment requested, 569 McCusker, John J., Money and Exchange in Europe and America, 144 McDougall, Alexander: letter to, 572; ☆ presents general officers’ petition, 532; lob bies for general officers’ depreciation allowance, 572-73; mentioned, 364, 493 McHard, Isaac, 397, 437 McKean, Thomas: letters from, 304, 500, 633; draft report, 603; * attends Congress, xvii, 305, 431, 635; elected to Congress, xvii; and confiscated loyalist property, 424;


[Page 698]
664 Index Mathews, John (continued) 538, 543, 546, 563, 568, 590, 591, 600, 618; letters to, 405, 521; ☆ attends Con gress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; sketch of, xxvii; drafts appeal to the states, 15; committee at headquarters, 17, 34, 52, 54, 67, 81, 106, 124, 128, 146, 169, 191, 201, 232, 248, 292, 298, 299, 301, 338, 346, 352, 365, 369, 382, 387, 458, 493, 494, 515, 539, 591, 603; drafts instructions for committee at headquarters; 23; urges strengthening U.S. mission to France, 31; urges Robert R. Livingston to confer at headquarters, 66; proposes appointment of emergency committee, 123- 25; returns to Congress, 131, 146, 158, 417; returns to headquarters, 168, 209, 478; delegate expenses, 281; observes skirmish, 282; opposes Nathanael Greene resignation, 546-48; criticizes Congress, 548, 570, 579, 590-91; requests reassign ment of surgeons, 568; hostility of delegates to, 570, 618; submits committee at headquarters report, 618; mentioned, 20, 37, 75, 79, 83, 135, 139, 143, 159, 165, 178, 197, 336, 388, 419, 431, 637 Matlack, Timothy: attends Congress, xxi, 431; elected to Congress, xxi, 275; con demns Benedict Arnold, 88; drafts appeal to the states, 322; confers with Penn sylvania Council, 333; and quartermaster reform, 479; committee of commerce, 536; treasury inquiry committee, 554; ways and means committee, 578; mentioned, 274, 298 Maxwell, Solomon: letter to, 54; appointed superintendent of provisions, 54 Maxwell, William; repulses enemy raid, 290; resignation, 514; pay and allowances, 566; mentioned, 287 Measam, George: letter to, 343; appointed commissioner of accounts, 343 Mease, James, 78 Mease, Robert, 78, 80 Medical commitee: letters from, 423, 470, 488; letter to, 568; * recommends estab lishment of hospital at New London, 162; supervisory authority augmented, 391; seeks medical supplies, 422-23, 480; instructs purveyor of hospitals, 488; mentioned, 144 Medical department: supply needs, 106, 480; seniority claims, 313-14; sends medicines to southern hospitals, 470; disbursements, 488-89; reassignment of surgeons re quested, 568; fraud investigation authorized, 619; cost-cutting measures protested, 620; transportation needs, 620; mentioned, 318 Mercenaries, Hessian deserters recruited by France, 540 Merchants’ associations: proposed to support Continental currency, 292-94; provision Continental troops, 329, 335, 340, 345, 355, 360, 367, 376, 415-17, 445; New England association proposed, 481; mentioned, 452 Mercury (British packet), captured, 584 Mercury (ship), 533 Meredith, Samuel: identified, 280; letter to, 279; mentioned, 335, 345, 447 Mesnard, Thomas, 94 Metcalf, Dr., 39 Middleton, Arthur: elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 413 Mifflin, Thomas: letter to, 45; * proposes quartermaster reforms, 13; appointed com missioner on departmental reform; 45; relations with Washington, 579 Militia: New York, 18, 232, 270, 306; Massachusetts, 24, 232, 353, 413, 606, 613; drafts, 134, 469; Pennsylvania, 180, 232, 303, 332, 542, 555, 583, 606, 634, 636; North Carolina, 183, 342, 355, 361, 406, 638; Virginia, 183, 232, 247, 334-35, 342, 361, 393, 638; Connecticut, 232; Delaware, 232; Maryland, 232, 382; New Hampshire, 232, 492; New Jersey, 232, 290, 332, 372-73, 395, 420, 430, 492, 588, 625; quotas set, 232; Rhode Island, 232, 606; South Carolina, 336; mentioned, 278, 282, 312, 340, 344, 345, 558, 566, 580, 581, 589, 624 Millet, Joseph, 107 Milner & Haynes: letter to, 143; committee of commerce account, 143 Miralles, Juan de: death, 75, 86; last rite, 94-96, 101; mentioned, 59, 112, 586 Misner, Mr. (messenger), 496


[Page 699]
Index 665 Mississippi River, navigation of, 252, 577-78, 583, 586, 589, 608, 616, 636, 639 Mitchell, John, 501 Mobile, W. Fla., capitulation, 251-52, 254-56, 261, 264, 266-67, 269 Molasses, 108 Money; see Paper currency Montreal, 235, 236 Morgan, Daniel: letter to, 334; ☆ assigned to southern department, 334, 355, 361; promotion recommended, 468-70, 559; mentioned, 474 Morgan, John, prosecutes William Shippen, Jr., 619 Morris, Gouverneur, loses leg, 121, 139, 146, 152, 165, 198, 403 Morris, Richard B., The Peacemakers, 486 Morris, Robert: letter to, 292; ☆ partnership with John Livingston, 30, 336; organizes merchant associations, 294, 345; mentioned, 28, 109, 264 Morris, Robert (1745-1815): letters to, 89, 232; advises William C. Houston on ad mission to the bar, 90 Morris, Thomas, exchange sought, 533-35 Morris, Valentine, 349 Morristown, N.J.: Continental magazine threatened, 365; mentioned, 104, 127, 131, 143, 165, 167, 173, 183, 186, 192, 198, 200, 202, 212, 218, 223, 225, 241, 247, 257, 281, 287, 291, 292, 296, 297, 299, 301, 305, 317, 326, 346, 352, 364, 368, 372, 381, 387, 550 Motte, Isaac: letter from, 548; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 146; elected to Congress, xxii; protects English assets, 549; mentioned, 558 Motte, Jacob, Jr., 549 Motte, Mary Broughton (Mrs. Isaac), 548 Moultrie, William: letter to, 575; * appoints commissary of prisoners, 574-76; suspends deputy commissary, 576 Mouse, John, 53 Mowry, Daniel, elected to Congress, xxii Muhlenberg, Frederick A.: letter from, 620; ☆ attends Congress, xxi, 431; elected to Congress, xxi; drafts appeal to the states, 14; studies medical department needs, 620; mentioned, 107, 126, 141, 180 Mumford, Nathaniel, resigns from chamber of accounts, 343 Mumford, Thomas: letter to, 620; seeks George Howell’s arrest, 622; mentioned, 144 Munitions; see Arms and ammunition Murray, William, granted embargo exemption, 636 Mustard, 352 Muster department, abolition recommended, 539 Nancy (sloop), 401 Nash, Abner: letters to, 60, 103, 210, 244, 299, 312, 354, 358, 519, 564, 587, 629; mentioned, 245, 250, 254, 256, 265 Navarro, Don Victorino de, 438 Navy board; see Eastern navy board Navy; see British navy; Continental Navy; French navy; Spanish navy Necker, Jacques, 581 Negroes; see Blacks Neilson, John, appointed deputy quartermaster, 600 Neisett, Max, 53 Nelson, Mr., 398 Nesbitt, John Maxwell, dismissed as prize agent, 605 Neth, Lewis, letter to, 109 Netherlands, United Provinces of the: naval losses, 8; protests British seizure of Dutch ships, 137; loan from sought, 160-61, 325, 356, 424, 427-28; 450; and League of Armed Neutrality, 485; mentioned, 135, 142, 532, 586, 638 New Bern, N.C., 410


[Page 700]
666 Index New England convention, proceedings transmitted to Congress, 630 New Hampshire: seeks compensation for Penobscot expedition, 41, 347-48, 371, 377; and Vermont claims, 58, 197, 267; criticized for rejecting commissary warrants, 61; requests troops for frontier defense, 147, 225, 244-45; new emission money act, 212, 233; in-kind quotas, 227, 492; militia, 232, 492; requests money, 265; delays Vermont hearing, 274, 296, 317, 337; sent money, 384, 436; failure to respond to congressional requisitions, 442, 457; troop quotas, 492; seeks additional post office, 508, 637; see also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire delegates, attendance, 574 New Hampshire Grants; see Vermont Newjersey: seeks general exchange of legislative acts, 9, 216, 616; in-kind quotas, 10, 229, 422, 461; and payment of taxes in certificates, 115; provides provisions, 120; fiscal quota, 196; militia, 232, 290, 332, 372-73, 395, 420, 430, 492, 588, 625; enemy raid, 275, 278, 282, 287, 290, 303-5, 307, 310, 332-33, 340, 368, 372-73, 375-76, 395, 403, 408, 420, 430, 625; loyalists, 283; new emission money act, 308; arms needs, 333; supplies flour for West Point, 339; taxation, 422; supplies forage, 471; deputy quartermaster for appointed, 600; see also Livingston, William Newjersey Assembly, confers with Philip Schuyler, 339 Newjersey delegates: congressional expenses, 94; attendance, 212, 233-34 New London, Conn.: establishment of Continental hospital at proposed, 162, 182, 186; magazine at, 454; mentioned, 622, 630 New Windsor, N.Y., 297, 344, 345 New York: requests troops for frontier defense, 12, 147, 171; receives troops for frontier defense, 17-18, 243-44, 249; militia, 18, 232, 270, 306; Vermont dispute, 55, 58, 151, 156, 170-71, 216, 240, 254-56, 267, 274, 337; western land claims, 58; receives certificates for taxes, 90, 114, 194; limits western land claims, 115, 394; reduction of Continental regiments proposed, 132-33, 217-18, 222-23; sale of loy alist property, 152; taxation, 156, 386; requested to relieve Fort Schuyler garrison, 165; troop quota, 198; urged to provision northern reinforcements, 202; in-kind quotas, 228, 288-89, 461; frontier raids, 235-36; frontier defense, 239; new emission money act, 264, 306, 337; Highlands defense, 306, 336; investigates British meet ings with Vermont leaders, 441; commissary of prisoners for authorized, 564; ref ugee property rights challenged, 622; loyalists, 625; see also Clinton, George New York, N.Y.: American attack on proposed, 205-8; reinforced, 355, 359, 366; reduction planned, 606; mentioned, 253 New York Assembly, urged to remain in session, 129 New York delegates: letters from, 12, 170, 217, 239, 255, 336; * attendance, 26, 34, 53, 55; congressional expenses, 172, 239, 273; on reduction of New York regiments, 217-18 New York Royal Gazette, 22, 200 Newport, R.L: French fleet’s arrival at, 452; blockaded, 589, 617; mentioned, 468, 482, 490, 526, 580, 595 Newspapers, subscription rate, 95 Nixon, John, dismissed as prize agent, 605 North, Frederick (Lord), 63 North Carolina: Continental troops, 74, 313; militia, 183, 342, 355, 361, 406, 638; urged to reinforce southern department, 358; loyalists, 406, 509; Continental loan office, 410; urged to recruit cavalry, 564; see also Nash, Abner North Carolina delegates: letter from, 587; attendance, 313 Northern military department: reinforced, 202, 213; reassignment of surgeons re quested, 569 Norton, John, 53 Nourse, Francis, 275 Nova Scotia, 317 Nutt, John, 549 Oats, 191


[Page 701]
Index 667 O’Donnell, William E., The Chevalier de La Luzerne, 639 Officers; see Continental officers Oil, 352 Oliphant, David, 470, 480 Oneida Indians: seek U.S. protection, 110; mentioned, 93 Ordnance; see Cannon Our Lady of Mount Carmel and St. Anthony (Portuguese snow), illegal seizure, 414 Oxen, 228, 231 Paca, William, elected to Congress, xviii Page, John, letter to, 95 Paine, Thomas, 422 Palfrey, William, 68 Palmer, Joseph: letter to, 87; mentioned, 74 Paper, for currency, 557 Paper currency: Pennsylvania new emission money, 10; depreciation allowance, 24, 29, 31, 49-51; Continental dollar devalued, 39, 63, 85, 88, 89, 116, 152, 408; emissions withdrawn, 40; depreciation, 41, 172; exchange rate, 43, 73, 85, 114, 116, 162, 172, 274, 276, 303, 356, 434, 491, 563, 573, 608; devaluation assessed, 69, 107, 137, 139; Connecticut new emission money, 77, 103, 113, 116, 162; relief from depreciation of sought, 109; Massachusetts new emission money, 113, 175, 216; New Hampshire new emission money, 212, 233; new emissions authorized, 264, 266, 270, 276, 285-86, 289, 295, 337, 343, 348, 356, 377, 384-85, 389, 392, 437, 446, 448, 484, 487, 491, 541, 543, 575-76, 579, 593, 617, 628; acceptance of new emissions, 280; Connecticut emissions, 490; Maryland emissions, 628; men tioned, 405; see also Finance Paramus, N.J., 179, 522, 523 Parker, Richard, 183 Parsippany, NJ., 83 Parsons, Samuel, 95 Parsons, Samuel H., recruits Connecticut troops, 352 Parsons, Alston & Co., 438 Partridge, George: letters to, 29, 139, 355, 378; * attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; on Elbridge Gerry’s privilege dispute, 6; returns home, 9, 11, 31, 46, 126; letter quoted, 139; mentioned, 26, 115, 242, 349 Passaic Falls, N.J., 404 Paxton, James, 584 Peabody, Nathaniel: letters from, 61, 74, 81, 104, 131, 143, 191, 200, 223, 225, 247, 291, 296, 297, 298, 299, 301, 317, 318, 338, 346, 352, 364, 367, 369, 372, 381, 387, 415, 417, 442, 444, 452, 457, 458, 459, 470, 473, 475, 477, 491, 494, 507, 514, 521, 522, 550, 637; letters to, 112, 125, 158, 159, 217, 236, 248, 324, 391, 405, 480, 487, 562; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress; xix; committee at headquarters, 17, 34, 52, 54, 67, 81, 106, 124, 128, 133, 191, 201, 224, 232, 248, 292, 298, 299, 301, 338, 346, 352, 365, 369, 382, 387, 415, 416, 442, 444, 453, 458, 466, 471, 473, 477, 493, 494, 515, 522; defends New Hampshire’s re jection of commissary warrants, 62; departs for headquarters, 68; proposes ap pointment of emergency committee, 123-25; requests money, 143; and New Hampshire grants claims, 197; recommends Elbridge Gerry, 296; seeks removal of restriction on Washington’s authority, 317-18; medical committee, 318, 481; seeks additional New Hampshire post office, 508; health, 546, 574; criticizes Congress, 551-53; hostility of delegates to, 618; submits committee at headquarters report, 618; mentioned, 31, 37, 84, 139, 165, 170, 281, 295, 336, 371, 374, 431, 436, 452 Peale, Charles Willson, xxvi, xxviii Peekskill, N.Y., 533, 538, 543, 546 Peggy (schooner), 398 Pendleton, Henry, breach of parole charged, 576 Penn, John, elected to Congress, xxi


[Page 702]
668 Index Pennsylvania: new emission money act, 10, 264, 266, 271, 276, 280, 543, 617; bound ary dispute with Virginia, 147; requests troops for frontier defense, 147, 266; ex changes statutes with Connecticut, 162; urges reception of certificates for taxes, 175-76; taxation, 213; and provisions crisis, 214, 221, 243-44, 298-99, 563; in-kind quotas, 229, 344-45; militia, 232, 303, 332, 542, 555, 583, 606, 634, 636; banishes loyalists, 283; promotes recruitment, 284; Continental troops, 315; troop quotas, 359; sent money, 406; forage requisitions, 415; sends James Searle to France, 421, 438-39; criticized for failure to respond to requisitions, 443-45, 461-62; prize agents in dismissed, 605; land sales proposed, 634; see also Philadelphia Pennsylvania Assembly: authorizes impressment of military supplies, 238; grants pres ident emergency powers, 246; mentioned, 138 Pennsylvania Council: letters to, 174, 221; ☆ condemns Benedict Arnold, 88; confers with Congress on quotas, 118; confers with congressional delegates, 333, 564; pro tests criticism of congressional committee, 444-45; studies grievances of Continental officers, 472; mentioned, 571; see also Reed, Joseph Pennsylvania delegates, attendance, 636 Pennsylvania Evening Post, 8 Pennsylvania Gazette, 103, 450 Pennsylvania Journal, 33, 103 Pennsylvania Packet: subscription rate, 95; mentioned, 8, 24, 265, 377 Penobscot Bay: fortifications at, 164; mentioned, 158 Penobscot expedition: Massachusetts seeks compensation for, 9, 25-26, 41; proposed by Massachusetts, 24, 63; Massachusetts compensated for, 36, 46; New Hampshire seeks compensation for, 348, 371; mentioned, 20, 378 Pensacola, capture rumored, 182 Pepper, 352 Peters, Richard, seeks militia exemption, 603 Pettit, Charles: letters to, 126, 432, 482, 506; ☆ controversy with board of treasury, 127; use of quartermaster certificates, 127; elected assistant quartermaster general, 501, 506, 513-14; appeals for forage, 505; mentioned, 447, 466, 524, 558, 615 Philadelphia: view of, xxv; cost of living, 12, 172, 239, 273, 281, 615; congressional adjournment from discussed, 56; militia, 180; merchants’ association proposed, 293, 329, 335, 345, 360, 376, 415, 481; receives southern refugees, 371, 548; bank of proposed, 447; Continental hospital at, 620 Philadelphia merchants’ association, letter to, 417 Phillips, William, prisoner exchange, 473 Phoenix (schooner), prize case, 414 Pickering, Timothy: letters to, 45, 544, 604, 619, 632; ☆ proposes quartermaster reforms, 13; appointed commissioner on departmental reform, 45; elected quar termaster general, 521, 544-45, 559-60, 571, 590; requests authority to issue cer tificates, 620; ordered to procure tents, 632; mentioned, 384, 499, 563, 577, 593, 599, 608, 614 Pickles,William: accounts, 252; mentioned, 586 Pigot (Continental schooner), 7, 74 Pilgrim (Massachusetts privateer), 370 Pinckney, Thomas: nominated secretary to mission to France, 58; mentioned, 558, 598 Pintard, Lewis, 70 Pittsburgh, Pa.; see Fort Pitt, Pa. Plater, George: letters from, 32, 109; attends Congress, xviii, 255; elected to Congress, xviii; attendance, 109; delegate expenses, 109; mentioned, 34, 47 Plombard, Monsr. J., 598 Pollock, Oliver, accounts, 252 Pork, 458 Portugal: American agent in appointed, 425, 432-33; mentioned, 586 Post Office: northern post route change requested, 151, 180; retrenchment proposals, 350; Exeter, N.H., office requested, 508, 637


[Page 710]
676 Index Warren, James: letter to, 536; ☆ accounts, 536; mentioned, 32, 43, 62, 412 Warren, John: recommends Thomas Carnes, 72; mentioned, 128 Warren, Joseph, fund for orphans of, 409 Washington, George: letters to, 13, 18, 24, 33, 40, 50, 60, 64, 76, 97, 104, 162, 168, 182, 193, 203, 211, 213, 222, 244, 253, 268, 303, 312, 323, 330, 334, 344, 359, 360, 363, 369, 374, 387, 452, 468, 473, 513, 533, 540, 545, 557, 565, 619, 629, 637, 639; * reports British reinforcements, 8; reinforces southern department, 12; preference for General Greene alleged, 13; consulted on army reform, 15-17; op poses expedition against Penobscot, 24, 63; opposes reinforcing Rhode Island, 48; authorized to exchange agents to provision prisoners, 64, 211; confers with com mittee at headquarters, 105; grant of dictatorial powers to proposed, 123-25, 527- 28; proposes emergency planning committee, 125, 178; plans cooperation with French, 127, 165, 185, 225-26, 253, 442; opposes diversion of troops to southern department, 130; opposes army reduction, 132; powers augmented to cooperate with French, 163; opposes promotion of Allen McLane, 169; opposes General Wee don’s reassignment, 183; recommends draft, 192; countermands cavalry assignment to southern department, 197, 358; reinforces northern department, 202; seeks advice on 1780 campaign, 203; alarmed by mutiny, 212, 223; operational authority limited, 220, 280, 317-18, 391, 465-66; reports raids on northern frontier, 235; on Benedict Arnold, 240; countermands assignment of Lee’s Legion to southern de partment, 268, 278; contemplates withdrawing to defensive strongholds, 298-300; rivalry with Horatio Gates, 320; and quartermaster reform, 326, 339; recruiting instructions, 352; on augmenting congressional powers, 361; appeals for provisions, 363; on West Point command, 364; relocates headquarters, 369; deploys army, 373; reinforces West Point, 384; urges augmentation of committee at headquarters’ pow ers, 404, 466; appeals for forage, 414-16; prisoner exchange authority, 418-19, 564- 65, 567; reports exchange negotiations, 419; requests tents, 452, 481; submits Wil liam Shippen court-martial proceedings, 474; seeks medical supplies, 480; French troops subordinated to, 509, 587; laments states’ response to quota calls, 514; orders impressment of forage, 522; approves prisoner exchange, 535; restrictions on op erational authority of removed, 539-40; urged to recover southern states, 545; counters British moves against Rhode Island, 555-56; urges prisoner exchange of officers only, 565; appeals for troops, 602-3; summarizes Continental Army defi ciencies, 629, 635; mentioned, 7, 23, 29, 59, 86, 87, 91, 101, 111, 129, 135, 141, 155, 159, 177, 187, 238, 245, 257, 278, 282, 287, 291, 294, 305, 331, 343, 346, 351, 367, 372, 381, 388, 405, 408, 416, 441, 444, 445, 448, 453, 460, 464, 476, 492, 511, 525, 529, 531, 542, 548, 568, 570, 579, 588, 594, 606, 611, 613, 624, 628, 631 Washington, Martha Dandridge Custis (Mrs. George), 355 Washington, William, 214, 217 Washman, Casper, 53 Watson, Capt., 519 Watterson, John S., Thomas Burke, 262 Watts, Frederick, 502 Waxhaws, S.C., battle of, 346 Wayne, Anthony: letters to, 261, 320; ☆ intermediary in Thomas Burke-Henry Lee dispute, 261-62, 321; Bull’s Ferry attack repulsed, 502, 510 Weare, Meshech: letters to, 60, 61, 146, 154, 186, 191, 210, 225, 244, 245, 265, 292, 296, 299, 309, 321, 343, 346, 347, 354, 358, 362, 364, 371, 372, 377, 384, 385, 436, 441, 457, 481, 494, 507, 519, 591, 600, 629; * explains New Hampshire’s rejection of commissary warrants, 62; mentioned, 248, 478, 492, 574 Webb, Joseph, quartermaster agent, 454 Webb, Samuel B.: regiment reorganized, 257-58; regiment annexed to Connecticut Line, 493 Weber, Ralph E., United States Diplomatic Codes and Ciphers, 81 Weedon, George: letters to, 334, 379, 435, 509, 589; * reactivated, 183; assigned to southern department, 334, 355, 361


[Page 711]
Index 677 Wendell, John, letter to, 137 West, Stephen: letter to, 109; elected to Congress, xviii West Florida: Mobile captured, 251-52; mentioned, 256 West Florida (schooner), 251 West Indies: U.S. trade with, 107; see also Barbados; Bermuda; Cuba; Hispaniola; Jamaica; Martinique; St. Domingue; St. Eustatius; St. Kitts; St. Lucia; St. Vincent West Point, N.Y.: provisions needs, 223, 495; Benedict Arnold seeks command of, 240; provisioned, 306, 339, 357; reinforced, 353, 384, 386-87; command change, 363-64; mentioned, 299, 319, 347, 379, 397, 415, 477, 522 Western claims; see Lands, western Wheat, embargo violations, 186 Whippany, N.J., 369 Whipple, William: elected to Congress, xix; mentioned, 41 Whiskey, 83 White, Mr., 68 White, Anthony, 214, 217 Wickman, Rev., 254 Wilkinson, William, 410 Willcox, William B., Portrail of a General, 498 Willett, Marinus: letter to, 217; reduction of regiment proposed, 217-18 Williams, Mr., 281 Williamsburg Gazette, 303 Willing, James, 70 Willing, Richard, 94 Wilmington, Del., 186 Wilmington, N.C., 277, 398 Windham, Conn., 486 Wine, 84, 106, 352, 488 Wolcott, Oliver: letters to, 448, 576; ☆ elected to Congress, xvii; mentioned, 490 Women, associate to promote war effort, 284, 287, 315, 329, 355, 423 Wood, Aaron: identified, 21; letters to, 21, 153; mentioned, 128 Woodford, Thomas, appointed admiralty commissioner, 371 Woodford, William: reinforces South Carolina, 73; mentioned, 183, 193 Woodruft, Isaac, 332 Yates, Abraham: letter to, 619; appointed to endorse Continental bills, 619 Yates, Robert, 296 Yellow fever, 598 York, Pa., 579 Yorke, Joseph, 137 Young, Joseph, reassignment requested, 569 Young, Moses, 585, 586


[Page 712]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd* Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield* Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Jack P. Greene Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen* Editor q/The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government Emeritus, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor Emeritus, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History Emeritus, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia University George C. Rogers, Jr. Caroline McKissick Dial Professor of American History, University of South Carolina * Deceased 678
