Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 12, February 1, 1779 to May 31, 1779
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_12/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 8]
iv Editorial Method and Apparatus TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [roman] [italic] (italic) One or two words missing and not conjecturable. More than two words missing; subjoined footnote es timates amount of material missing. Number or part of a number missing or illegible. Blank space in manuscript; explanation in subjoined footnote. Conjectural reading for missing or illegible matter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. Editorial insertion in the text. Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the de scriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later hand written copies of manuscripts, but also printed documents) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manuscripts printed in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 11th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1976). Each volume of this edition will contain a revised list. Ct CtHWa CtHi CtY DLC DLC(ESR) DNA DNDAR ICHi laDaM M-Ar Connecticut State Library, Hartford Wadsworth Atheneum, Hartford Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford Yale University, New Haven Library of Congress Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection National Archives and Records Service Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.C. Chicago Historical Society Davenport Public Museum, Davenport, la. Massachusetts Archives, Boston


[Page 19]
Chronology of Congress xv May 21 Receives Maryland delegate instructions on Articles of Confederation; receives Connecticut delegate instruc tions on ratifying confederation without the state of Maryland. May 24 Debates Deane-Lee controversy; authorizes retaliation for cruelties committed by British forces against French subjects in Virgina. May 25-26 Confers (by committee) with Delaware Indian delega tion. May 26 Allows Pennsylvania President Reed to address Congress on American fiscal crisis; adopts address to the inhabi tants of America on meeting finance and manpower quotas. May 27 Debates peace terms (fisheries). May 29 Debates New York proposals for settlement of Vermont issue.


[Page 20]
List of Delegates to Congress This section lists both the dates on which delegates were elected to terms falling within the period covered by this volume and the inclusive dates of their attendance. The former are generally ascertainable from contemporary state records, but the latter are often elusive bits of informa tion derived from the journals of Congress or extrapolated from references contained in the delegates’ correspondence, and in such cases the “facts” are inevitably conjectural. It is not possible to determine interruptions in the attendance of many delegates, and no attempt has been made to record interruptions in service caused by illness or brief trips home, espe cially of delegates from New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, and Pennsylva nia living within easy access of Congress. For occasional references to such periods of intermittent service as survive in the correspondence and notes of various delegates, see the index under individual delegates. Until fuller information is provided in a consolidated summary of delegate attendance in the final volume of this series, the reader is advised to consult Burnett, Letters, 4:xlix-lxvi, for additional information on conjectural dates of at tendance. Brief biographical sketches of all the delegates are available in the Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1971, and fuller sketches of more than half of the delegates can be found in the Dictionary of American Biography. CONNECTICUT Eliphalet Dyer Elected: October 21, 1778 Attended: February 1 to April 6? 1779 Oliver Ellsworth Elected: October 21, 1778 Attended: February 1-19, 1779 Titus Hosmer Elected: October 21, 1778 Did not attend in 1779 Samuel Huntington Elected: October 21, 1778 Attended: May 21-31, 1779 Jesse Root Elected: October 21, 1778 Attended: February 1 to April 6? 1779 Roger Sherman Elected: October 21, 1778 Attended: April 27 to May 31, 1779 xvi


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress John Henry Elected: November 13, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Elected: November 13, 1778 Attended: April 27 to May 31, 1779 William Paca Elected: November 13, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 15, 1779 George Plater Elected: November 13, 1778 Attended: February 10 to May 31, 1779 MASSACHUSETTS Samuel Adams Elected: October 8, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 Francis Dana Elected: October 8, 1778 Did not attend in 1779 Timothy Edwards Elected: October 8, 1778 Did not attend Congress Elbridge Gerry Elected: October 8, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 John Hancock Elected: October 8, 1778 Did not attend in 1779 Samuel Holten Elected: October 8, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 James Lovell Elected: October 8, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 NEW HAMPSHIRE Samuel Ashley Elected: March 24, 1779 Did not attend Congress Josiah Bartlett Elected: August 14, 1778 Did not attend in 1779 Nathaniel Folsom Elected: August 20, 1778; March 24, 1779 Did not attend February to May 1779


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress Henry Marchant Elected: May 6, 1778; May 5, 1779 Did not attend February to May 1779 SOUTH CAROLINA Thomas Bee Elected: February 5, 1779 Did not attend in 1779 William Henry Drayton Elected: January 21, 1778; February 17, 1779 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 Thomas Heyward Elected: January 22, 1778 Did not attend in 1779 Richard Hutson Elected: January 22, 1778 Attended: February 1-26? 1779 Henry Laurens Elected: January 21, 1778; February 5, 1779 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 Rawlins Lowndes Elected: February 17, 1779 Did not attend Congress John Mathews Elected: January 22, 1778; February 5, 1779 Did not attend February to May 1779 Arthur Middleton Elected: February 5, 1779 Did not attend in 1779 Edward Rutledge Elected: February 5, 1779 Did not attend in 1779 VIRGINIA Thomas Adams Elected: May 29, 1778 Attended: February 1 to April 28, 1779 William Fleming Elected: December 14, 1778 Attended: April 28 to May 31, 1779 Cyrus Griffin Elected: May 29, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779


[Page 27]
List of Delegates to Congress Francis Lightfoot Lee Elected: May 29, 1778 Attended: February 1 to April 16, 1779 Richard Henry Lee Elected: May 29, 1778 Attended: February 20 to May 24, 1779 Thomas Nelson Elected: December 10, 1778 Attended: February 18 to April 22, 1779 Meriwether Smith Elected: May 29, 1778 Attended: February 1 to May 31, 1779 xxiii


[Page 30]
xxvi Illustrations after his admission to the New Jersey bar in 1774 before becoming drawn into the current of public affairs at the onset of the American Revolution. He quickly found military life congenial, however, and soon became colo nel of the First Somerset Regiment of New Jersey militia, with which he saw action during an unsuccessful attack on Staten Island and in the campaign to defend Philadelphia during August and September 1777. The following June he was a participant in the running fight with Sir Henry Clinton’s fleeing troops from Camden to Monmouth Court House, but in November 1778 he resigned his command when he was elected by the New Jersey assembly to represent the state in Congress, in which he served from January to March 1779. Only 25, Frelinghuysen soon con fided to a friend that “in the Character of a Delegate” he felt “totally inadequate,” and in April he submitted his resignation. He was again elected to Congress in 1782, but apparently still felt uncomfortable with the appointment and did not attend, although he did subsequently as sume the legislator’s role in both the New Jersey Assembly during 1784-85 and 1800-1803 and in the United States Senate, 1793-96. He died in 1804. American school, 18th century. Courtesy Joseph S. Frelinghuysen, Jr., and the Frick Art Reference Library. Thomas Adams 88 Adams (1730-88), of Henrico County, Va., had spent the pre revolutionary decade pursuing a commercial career in London, but he returned to America in 1774 and quickly became active in the movement against Britain. He stepped onto the Continental stage when he was elected a delegate to Congress, which he attended from April to August 1778 and from January to April 1779. There his mercantile experience landed him appointments to the Marine Committee and the Committee of Commerce, for which he participated in some of the negotiations with Beaumarchais’ agent Francy over the importation of arms and supplies from France. He was also appointed to the Medical and the Indian Affairs Committees, and he was a signer of the Articles of Confederation. During a number of votes involving the Deane-Lee controversy, Adams voted against the allies of the Lee family, but he resigned from Congress before the crucial votes on the recall of William and Arthur Lee were taken Adams moved west to Augusta County after he returned to Virginia, where he died in 1788 after three years additional public service during 1783-86 in the Virginia Senate. LC-USZ62-54660. Observations on the American Revolution 123 The arrival of the Carlisle Peace Commission in America in June 1778 opened a new round in the contest for American minds that did not come to a close until well after the commissioners returned to England in De-


[Page 32]
xxviii Illustrations the autumn of 1775 until March 1780. He is chiefly remembered as a signer of the Declaration of Independence and of the Articles of Confeder ation. Considering his length of service in Congress, he held comparatively few committee assignments, although he served for a time on both the Marine and Medical Committees. He clearly did not get along with Henry Laurens, and their differences over the Deane-Lee controversy and Penn’s defense of Robert Morris eventually brought them to a duel in January 1779. In April 1779, Penn attempted to embarrass Laurens with his constituents for supporting New England claims to the northern fisher ies, but he otherwise generally steered clear of controversy. He returned to North Carolina in 1780 to serve on the state’s board of war during the southern campaign of 1780-81 and acted briefly as a receiver of Conti nental revenues in the state during Robert Morris’ superintendency of the finance department. In ill health, he subsequently returned to the practice of law, and he died in 1788. Miniature on ivory by an unidentified artist, ca. 1780. Courtesy of The Historic New Orleans Collection and the Collection of Mrs. Duncan Par ham. Meriwether Smith’s Appeal to the Public, May 25, 1779 488 Meriwether Smith (1730-90), a planter-merchant of Essex County, Va., emerged as a leader of the opposition to British authority during the Stamp Act crisis and subsequently held a number of important public posts during the 1770s and 1780s. He served several terms in the Virginia assembly from 1775 to 1788, and he was a delegate to Congress in 1778-79 and 1781. There his experience in commercial affairs landed him appointments to the Committee of Commerce and the Marine Commit tee, and in 1779 he was named the Virginia representative on the 13- member Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee that recommended the recall of the American commissioners abroad. His opposition to Arthur and William Lee increasingly brought him into conflict with the Lees’ sup porters in Congress, particularly Henry Laurens, who crossed swords with Smith a number of times during the recall debates. Their quarrel became public knowledge in May when Smith attempted to discredit Laurens over statements “derogatory to the honor of Congress” contained in an intercepted letter from Laurens to Georgia governor John Houstoun that was published in the New York Royal Gazette. And when Laurens’ defense of his conduct was entered on the journals of Congress but Smith’s motion to place his rebuttal on the record was denied, Smith printed Congress’ three-day proceedings on this episode in the May 29 issue of the Pennsylva nia Packet. The following round in this prolonged bout was fought in the Virginia House of Delegates, where the Lees’ allies secured passage of legislation barring merchants from representing the state in Congress. Al though Smith relinquished his seat in 1780 as a consequence, he returned to Congress for another term in 1781. From the Pennsylvania Packet, May 29, 1779.


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix Philadelphia Committee Broadside, May 25-26, 1779 541 By 1779 runaway inflation had brought considerable hardship to many areas of America, and in May the inhabitants of Philadelphia marshaled a popular protest movement to bring prices under their control. At a town meeting of May 25, a committee was formed to regulate the activities of “monopolizers and forestallers,” who were seen as the principal cause of the high prices and scarcity of goods and provisions in the city. And the following day a list of prices was published “By order of the Committee,” which also began investigating “complaints against such dealers as may refuse to comply with, or shall obstruct the execution of this necessary regulation.” A few local merchants were quickly brought under popular control, but the committee encountered a greater obstacle to its authority in the French consul and agent of marine, Jean Holker, who had em ployed a number of purchasers to stockpile flour for the French fleet. Seeking Continental protection for his activities, Holker inevitably em broiled Congress in his confrontation with the Philadelphia committee, and in August he secured through the intervention of the French minister to the United States, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, a declaration that the measures he had taken to procure flour were “fully approved by Congress.” Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress.


[Page 38]
4 February 1, 1779 Nants March 17th 1777 from Jona Williams to Committee inclosing a letter from A. Lee. Vitoria in Spain March 18 from A. Lee. Mentions assurances of friend ship in the Spanish Court. Nants March 23 1777 from J. Williams to Committee—accompaning Dispatches. Api. 20th 1777 from J Williams accompanying invoice of goods on Board the Teresa bound to Hispaniola. June 1st from the same [....] Paris May 18th 1777 from A. Lee—going to Berlin, refers to inclosures. Paris May 25 1777 from B.F. & S.D.—mentions Mr Lee’s departure for Berlin by their aprobation, receiv’d large sum of money from Spain. Mar quis La Fyate. 3 MS (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). In the hand of William Whipple. 1 For the creation of this committee, see Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, January 21, 1779. 2 The letters by Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee read by the committee this day are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:283-90, 292-96. Those of Jonathan Williams are in PCC, item 90, fols. 549, 553, 557, 561-63. 3 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, February 3, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 1st Feby. 1779 Congress have this day passed an Act, of which the enclosed is a copy, on the Subject of your Excellency’s Letter of the 30th Ult., whereby they have resolved that You give such directions, as you may think proper, for arranging the Commissary’s and Quarter Master’s Departments to the Westward &c.' I have the honor to be Sir, with the greatest Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. & very humble Servant, John Jay, Presidt RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 'JCC, 13:130-31. Washington’s January 30 letter to Jay, reporting Gen. Lachlan McIn tosh’s estimates of his provisions needs at Fort Pitt, is in PCC, item 152, 7:97-99, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:54-56. Thomas McKean to the Public For the Pennsylvania Packet. Water street, Philad. Feb. 1, 1779. In a piece published in the Packet of the 31st December 1 last I called upon Brigadier Thompson to mention the affair of a private nature he alluded to, as an excuse for his unprovoked and malicious conduct to wards me, for that I knew it not, and never had an angry word with him


[Page 39]
February 1, 1779 5 in my life previous to his rude behaviour in the Coffee-house. Upwards of four weeks have elapsed, and he has not thought proper to communicate this private affair, either to the public or to myself. If he had conceived that I had affronted him on any occasion, I apprehend he should have men tioned it to me, either verbally or in writing before he did any thing farther; that gentlemen always acted this part; and that the public had nothing to do with affairs of a private nature. Agreeable to an opinion I then entertained, that he had rendered it necessary for the material parts of the transaction in Congress respecting him to be published, that the public, to whom he has appealed might have an opportunity of forming a judgment of his behaviour, and particularly of his veracity, I shall state the information given to Congress, the testimony of a few of the witnesses, his apology, and the determination of Congress thereupon. As many of the witnesses, who have been examined, were either at a distance, or came into the Coffee-house towards the conclusion of the altercation, they knew little of the matter, and therefore it will be unnecessary to take up a news paper by inserting their evidence; but the whole of the proceedings are lodged with the printer, for the perusal of any person who may chuse to take the trouble. It may be proper to remark, that I never spoke to any of the witnesses who were examined, nor to any other gentleman, that was in the Coffee-house, to learn what he knew of this matter, nor interfered in producing any evidence whatsoever; and that it is not improbable many persons, that were not called upon, heard more than most of those who were. Before I conclude, justice to myself and a desire of a continuation of the esteem of the virtuous sons of liberty, compel me to remark, that Brigadier Thompson has asserted, “That I refused going into a room in a tavern in this city where he and a number of other officers were, alledging that I would not sit down with a parcel of upstart Continental officers, or words to that effect.” The malicious design of this invented tale is obvious, and it has been circulated by his partizans, I am told, with great industry among the gentlemen of the army. As I have not been able to find out when, where or how this pretended speech should have happened, and I cannot recollect a single circumstance that could give the least foundation for it, all I can do is to deny it, declaring that I have not been in a tavern in this city, where the Brigadier was to my knowledge, for upwards of two years past. I rest assured, that those gentlemen, with whom I am ac quainted, would not credit this idle story, even if I had suffered it to pass unnoticed, and those, who do not know me, after this ought not to believe it. 2 Thomas M’Kean MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, February 2, 1779. ‘See Thomas McKean to the Public, December 30, 1778, which was printed in the Pennsylvania Packet, December 31, 1778. 2 Although this was McKean’s final public letter on this dispute, a related letter written by “A.B.” on behalf of General Thompson appeared in the February 9 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet, and one written by John McKinly was printed in the Packet on February 25.


[Page 40]
6 February 1, 1779 Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen Marine Committee, Philada. Feby. 1st. 1779 General Greene the Quarter Master General having made application to this Committee for four hundred Pieces of light Sail Duck Suitable for making Tents for the army—we referred him to the Committee of Com merce who have wrote to Mr Bradford the Agent at Boston desiring him to consult with your Board, 1 and if he had your approbation to deliver that quantity or as much as could be Spared. Provided this Duck can be spared without prejudice to the Navy, we request you will give orders for the delivery of it. We are Gentn., Your hble servants, Signed, S. Adams. Chairman (Copy.) Tr (PPAmP: Nathanael Greene Papers). In the hand of John Brown. 1 The Committee of Commerce’s letter to the Eastern Navy Board has not been found, but the board’s February 22 reply to this letter of the Marine Committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday Feby 2d. 1779. Commercial Committee 1 9 oC Congress. Motion for Powder, Shot & Armes to be sent to So Carolina Per Col Cambra, that the General send an Engenier to So Carolina, Letter from G1 Gates. Letter from do to Genl Washington. Letter from G1 Green reccomending a plan for setling the Account of People who have sufferd damage by the Army. Referrd to the Committee to consult with the Quarter Master General. Board of Warr to contract with Monsr Penet & Co for Fire Arms &c. 2 Report Read from the Committee of Appeals. 3 At 6 PM attended the Committee on foreign affairs but not members enough, did no Business. 4 MS (DLC). 1 The Committee of Commerce wrote a brief letter this day to Jean Holker requesting bills of exchange in return for Continental money. An extract of the letter, written by Francis Lewis and signed by Lewis, Fell, and James Searle, was printed as item 33 in John Heise Autograph Catalog, no. 850 (February 1926): “Agreeable to your promise communicated by Mr. Samuel Curson we are to request you would furnish him with a sett of Exchange for Twenty Two Thousand Eight Hundred & fifty seven Livres Toumois & one seventh of a livre equal (at the exchange of nine hundred percent) to TWENTY FOUR THOUSAND CONTINENTAL DOLLARS for which sum we will furnish you with a Warrant on the Treasurer. The bills should be made payable to Messrs Curson & Gouveneur or order.” 2 Congress’ resolution authorizing the Board of War “to contract with Mr. Peter Penet, for himself, Windel & Co. for a suitable number of muskets,. . . and other arms, to be manufac tured in these states” amended a similar resolution of January 2 involving “Messrs. Penet & Couloux.”yCC, 13:16-17, 134. Although Penet’s original proposal did not specify a site for his “Continental manufactory,” a January 24 letter from him to Daniel Carroll indicates that he was interested in locating in Maryland. See JCC, 12:1059, 1167, 1185n; PCC, item


[Page 41]
February 2, 1779 7 41, 8:60-63; and Calendar of Maryland State Papers: The Red Books, 3 vols. (Annapolis: Hall of Records Commission, 1950-55), 3:51. For Penet’s negotiations with Virginia later in 1779, for locating his “Manufactory” on the James River, see also Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) 3:49-50, 70, 125-47. 3 For the report of the committee appointed on January 21, 1779, to review the January 19 report of the Committee on Appeals in the case of the sloop Active, see JCC, 13:86-92, 97, 134-37. 4 The committee’s minutes for this day simply list the members attending: “Present Whip ple, Ellery, Elsworth, Fell, Searle, McKean.” Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, Capt. J. G. M. Stone Collection, Annapolis, Md. William Floyd to George Clinton S’r, Philadelphia Feb. 2d 1779. Inclosed I Send you a News papers which Contains the Chief of the News that is here, Except by a vessel Just arrived from Martinique in 13 days, and another at Baltimore in 10 days we are Informed, that the Count D’Estaing, Cruising in the West Indies in Expectation of meeting with the English, which went from New York last fall, unluckily mist of them; they went directly to St. Lucia and took that place, the Count Soon getting notice thereof went there; when he arrived, he found their Ships Covered with Such Strong Batteries that he did not think it proper to Risk his own to attack them, But Concluded to attack them by Land, for which purpose Landed his Troops, what number is uncertain, Some Say 5, 6, or more thousand men. The Count being apprehensive that Admiral Byron might arrive there with his fleet and be too Strong for him, which precipi tated him to attack them by Storming their Stronghold, he was Repulsed with very Considerable Loss, Some Say near 1500 men; 1 he Returned with the Remainder of his men and Ships to Martinique and is now Joyned by 6 Capitol Ships from France, and it is Said with Several Thou sand men; this augmentation of his navy will make him Superior to By ron, and Enable him to Strike the Enemy where he pleases, without being under a necessity of makeing any Rash attempts. The application you made to General Washington Sometime Since, with Respect to the Demands on the Commissary and Quarter master, and which they did not think them Selves authorised to pay, he laid before Congress, and they thereupon Resolved that the Commissary and Quartermaster be directed to pay all Such of those accounts as your Excellency Should Judge proper. 2 I am Sorry as well as Grieved, that I am not able to Inform you that Something is done in that Important affair of Vermont. There has nothing Important to our State, that has lately passed in Congress, the Grand Business which has for a Considerable time taken up their attention and is not yet finished, is the arranging and Recruiting our army.


[Page 44]
10 February 3, 1779 William Henry Drayton to Charles Lee Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 3d, 1779. MY colleague, Mr. Hutson, hath this day mentioned to me, a conversa tion you had with him, in which you expressed yourself as injured by a misrepresentation of your conduct immediately preceding your captivity by the enemy, in a charge I had the honour to deliver, as Chief Justice, to the Grand Jury of Charlestown, South Carolina. 1 I must inform you, Sir, that, on the one hand, I have been repeatedly assured the representation I then made was a true one; and that, on the other hand, I have also been assured, that it was not founded on fact; and that, immediately upon this latter assurance in South Carolina, I took that step which was most likely to lead me to a certainty on the subject, with the avowed design, that if I had injured your reputation, I might be enabled to make the most ample reparation; but I did not receive the necessary materials. Those sentiments of propriety which dictated the first advance on my part then, to acquire them now dictate a like conduct when another opportunity seems to open itself for my arriving at truth, and to do that justice which the case may require. And I do assure you, that if I can be enabled to declare, that you did not violate the orders of the commander in chief, respecting your junction with him, when he had retreated to the Delaware in 1776, I shall not only do so in the most pointed terms, but beg your pardon for having, through error and misrep resentation, published the contrary. To this purpose, I wrote to Major Eustace on the 6th of January 1778, when I was in Charlestown, and had no prospect of coming to this part of the Continent; and a copy of the correspondence between him and myself on the occasion I will lay before you, if you desire to see it. Those principles of honour which must make you feel an injury, make me feel even an idea of having done an injury, and impels me to make a reparation where it is due. 2 I am, Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Wm. Henry Drayton. MS not found; reprinted from Charles Lee, Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, Esq., ed. Edward Langworthy (London: J.S. Jordan, 1797), pp. 49-50. First printed under the title Memoirs of the Life of the Late Charles Lee, Esq. (London: J. S. Jordan, 1792). 1 The hostility between General Lee and Drayton can be traced to June 1776 when the former assumed command of the defense of Charleston and tactlessly scoffed at suggestions offered by Drayton for the fortification of the city. Lee’s conduct in December 1776 subse quently provided Drayton the opportunity to criticize Lee’s generalship, which he exploited during his delivery of a charge to the grand jury of Charleston soon thereafter. Although Lee seized upon that incident to reopen his feud with Drayton, it seems probable that he had been moved to denounce Drayton to Richard Hutson because of the enmity Willian Henry had shown against him during Congress’ debate on the court-martial sen tence arising from Lee’s behavior at the battle of Monmouth. According to Edward Lang worthy, himself a participant in that debate and later the editor of Lee’s papers, Drayton’s conduct “was vituperated by Lee in the severest language, because he opposed in Congress a division of the several charges brought against him, but argued and insisted upon lumping them all together, to be decided by one question.” Ibid., p. 48. See also John R. Alden,


[Page 45]
February 3, 1779 11 General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot? (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1951), pp. 266-70; and William M. Dabney and Marion Dargan, William Henry Drayton & the American Revolution (Albuquerque: University of New Mexico Press, 1962), pp. 154-56. 2 Lee’s scathing February 5 reply to Drayton is in Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, pp. 50-52. James Duane’s Minutes of a Conference with Gerard [February 3-4, 1779] Minutes of conference. 3d Feb. 1779.' J D & Mr. Hudson for Congress and the Minister of France. Conference opend in behalf of Congress by the Committee. 1st Subject. The State of the Country as to Bread. I. In general plentiful—now shortened—by the following Circum stances 1. Many Farmers employd in the War. 2. Husbandry discouragd for want of Markets. II. Large demands. a. Losses of Magazines. b. Encrease of Consumption to the Eastward. c. By Burgoyne’s Army. d. French fleet. e. Our own Army. f. Ravages of the Indians. Burning Grain—& driving off the Frontier Inhabitants. h. Arts of our Enemies. i. Fly & Floods. j. Frauds of Forestallers. k. Southern war. That on Minister’s Applic[atio]n Congress appointed a Committee—to examine into the State of the provisions. A. Their report to Congress— On Official Information of Corny. General. B. Their Sentiments doubtful. C. Further Information sought for. This the occasion of delay. In conclusion—We offerd 1. Immediate Supply of 1000 Bbls, of Flour in Virginia 2. Further aid according to Circumstances; & to exert ourselves to draw forth the Remains of Flour into the publick stores. 3. Submitted it whether it will not be wise for the Minister to look for supplem[enta]l Aid from Europe. Second Subject of Conference On Bills of Exchange


[Page 48]
14 February 3, 1779 stroke in your Letter that gives me some concern, & that is that you are in low spirits. I hope this is not accasioned by my absence, or the want of any provision for your comfort [and] Happiness that it would be in my power to make was I present. I am fully sensible I have out stayed the time I talked of when I came from home; but I trust I have good reasons to justify my so doing & that you will approve of them—be assured that I have not forgot my little family, or found any other pleasures that I prefer to the enjoyment of them. Nothing but a wish to discharge the duties I owe the publick & to contribute my mite to the safety & Interest of this country could have prevailed with me to have staid so long in this City, or would be sufficient to keep me here one day longer. With great pleasure I consider my present tour of duty as drawing towards a close, & that there is a prospect of my being able in about 20 days to quit my post & return home. 1 You will do as you please about setting up housekeeping before I come. I hardly think however I shall find you at Hartford—if I should, there will be this satisfaction attending it, that I shall find you one Hour sooner than if you stay at Windsor. The Sattin you mention I shall with great pleasure endeavour to obtain for you. And I wish you would freely purchase any thing you have occa sion for & can find at Hartford, be the price what it may—If you want money call on my brother who will be glad to furnish you with it & to render you every other service in his power. So Mrs. Mather you tell me has a fine son. I wish her satisfaction in it, but that she may re[me]mber it is mortal—a lesson which you & I my dear have learned by sad experience. This world has now fewer charms in my eyes than it once had & I have no doubt but you can say the same. Happy for us if it keeps a better world more constantly in view; & is a means of bringing us to those joys & rest into which I fully believe our dear departed little son is already entered. I thank your good Sisters for their comp[li]ments to me & all their kindness to you and am my dear, with great truth & sincerity, your friend & humbl Servt. Olivr. Ellsworth RC (CtHi: Ellsworth Papers). 1 Ellsworth obtained leave of absence from Congress on February 19.JCC, 13:212. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Feby. 3d. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. After, agreeing to Count Polaskey & Coll Armand Cores of Infantry to [^] recruted, 1 Went in to Committee of the whole House. Resolved that 500,160 Dollars 2 in Certificates be Prepaird for Exchanging the Emissions to be call’d in, debates lasted till 5 P M. 6 P M Committee on foreign affairs.


[Page 52]
18 February 3, 1779 Desire to become a Citizen of New York he gives our State the Preference and now visits your Excellency to make the Necessary Enquiries, it being out of our Power to give him any Information. The Necessity of strength- ning our Frontiers is as obvious, as the Policy of drawing the Attention of the People to that Quarter in Season. Virginia we learn has taken the Lead and already passed Laws for laying out a District of Country for Settlement, & assigning Farms for their own Soldiers, as well as those of Maryland, Delaware, and New Jersey. A Strong Predilection, however, prevails in favour of our State, on Account of its’ Situation for Trade, the acknowledgd Excellency of its’ Constitution, and the steady and vigorous Exertions of its’ Government; Nothing, we are persuaded, will be wanting for its rapid Settlement and Cultivation but a wise and liberal System for the Distribution of the publick Land. To you, Sir, or to our State, General Arnold can require no Recommen dation. A Series of distinguished Services entitle him to Respect and Fa vour. 1 To him, We beg leave to refer your Excellency for the Intelligence from the Southward and from the West Indies; from Europe we have none. We have the Honour to be with the highest Respect, Sir, your Excellen cy’s most obedient humble Servants, Wm. Floyd John Jay Fra. Lewis Jas Duane RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). Written by Duane, and signed by Duane, Floyd, Jay, and Lewis. 1 Although Benedict Arnold left Philadelphia early in February for New York, he turned back at Middlebrook, NJ., in order to return to Philadelphia to defend himself against charges brought by the Pennsylvania Council. He apparently never renewed this quest for land in New York. See Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton, January 26, 1779, note 2. Daniel Roberdeau to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada, Feb’y 3d, 1779. The Delegates of this State in Congress have just received your Excel- lencys favour of this date, 1 and I am desired by them to inform the Hon orable the Council, through you, that they have not the least reason to think the Military command in this City was changed before General Arnold left it, as no other measures have been taken of their complaint than mentioned in yr Excellency’s Letter, as the Committee on the Busi ness have not yet reported.. In behalf of my Colleagues, I am, most re spectfully, yr Excellencys most obt & very humb. Servt, Daniel Roberdeau. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:181. 1 No letter from President Reed to the Pennsylvania delegates of this date has been found, but for what appears to be a similar request for information, directed to the chairman of the committee appointed to study Pennsylvania’s charges against Gen. Benedict Arnold, see William Paca to Joseph Reed, February 18, 1779, note 2.


[Page 53]
February 4, 1779 19 William Henry Drayton to Benjamin Lincoln Sir . Phil. Feb. 4, 1779. Lieut Colonel de Cambray will have the honor to deliver this to you. And as he enables me to pay my compliments to you, it is with pleasure I make use of the opportunity to recommend him to your Notice. He is a Gentleman, & bears the reputation of a good officer. 1 While I am sensible of the difficulties you have encountered in making head against the Enemy & am concerned at the trouble this has occa sioned to you, I am happy in having the most perfect confidence in your abilities to exert the force you have collected to the best advantage. Arms, ammunition, money & Pulaski with his Legion are sent on to give you farther strength, & the States of N. Carolina & Virginia are called upon in the most pressing terms to aid you. By the Blessing of God, I trust you will relieve the Public & add to your high reputation. I am with respect Sir, Your most obedt Sert Wm. Hy. Drayton RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). 1 See also Henry Laurens to Lincoln, February 5, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Thursday. Feby 4th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Watkins Commissary of Purchases with his Resignation Referrd to the Board of Warr. Resolved that the Commander in Chief arrange the Relative Rank of Officers, under the degree of Brigad Generals.(committed to the Board of Warr). Letter from Mr Bingham at Martinico, giving an Account of the British taking the Island of St Lucia and of Count DeEstangs repulse, in endeavoring to retake it. 1 6 P.M. Committee on foreign affairs. MS (DLC). 1 Congress actually received letters of December 5, 20, 25, and 31, 1778, and January 6, 1779, from William Bingham, which were read on February 4 and 6 and referred to a committee on the sixth. The news of the French defeat at St. Lucia reported by Bingham led Congress to forego asking d’Estaing for naval aid in the southern war theater for fear France would seek recompense under the terms of article four of the Franco-American treaty of alliance. SeeJCC, 13:147, 150, 153; and John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard February 5 1779, note. ’ Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 4th February [1779] Since I closed my Letter of the 31st Ulto. which will accompany this, I have been honored with Your Excellency’s despatch under the 15 Ulto


[Page 54]
20 February 4, 1779 which I delivered with one from Governor Houstoun of the 2d to Con gress. 1 Inclosed Your Excellency will find an Act of Congress of the 2d Instant for affording succour to South Carolina and Georgia. I shall exert myself for carrying into execution every Article without delay. I am now told the 125 Chests of Arms at Baltimore are dwindled into 125 Arms, “the man ner in which business is transacted here.” 2 Colonel de Cambray has discovered a laudable activity, had he not been detained for his Despatches, he would have begun his journey Yes terday, they are not yet ready, he hopes to get away early tomorrow. Under the Article for sending one or more Engineers, I expect to obtain Colonel Lemoy, 3 who I am told is very skilful and well acquainted with Carolina. I mean to proceed homeward some day in the present month and hope to have the honor of assuring Your Excellency in Person about the middle of the next, 4 that I am with the highest regard and esteem. Sir, Your Most Obedient & Most Humble Servant, H.L. Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 1 The letters to Congress from Rawlins Lowndes of January 15 and from John Houstoun of January 2, which were read in Congress on February 5, are in PCC, item 72, fols. 477-80, and item 73, fols. 236-39, respectively. JCC, 13:149. 2 This quotation is from the last line of Laurens’ Speech to Congress, December 9, 1778. 3 For information on the chevalier de Laumoy, see Laurens to Lowndes, February 12, 1779. 4 Laurens did not actually return to South Carolina until November, although he did obtain leave of absence from Congress this day and made a brief trip into New Jersey later in February. See JCC, 13:144; and Laurens to Washington, March 2, 1779, note 1. John Fell’s Diary Fryday. Feby 5th. [1779] Commercial Committee 9 O Clock. Congress Letter from Count Po- laska, referrd to the Board of Warr, Do from Coll Armand, that as he cannot be Promoted, he desires to go to France. Granted. 1 Letter from the Marquis Fayatt he Saild from Boston the 14 Jany in the Alliance and his dispatches did not get there till the 15th. Committee appointed to write to the Marquis to acquaint him the Expidition to Canada was set aside. 2 Letter from Governor Hueston at Georgia, and President Lounds at So Carolina, Jany 15. Long debate about the manner of wording the request to the French Minister for the Aid of Count DeEstang for the Relief of Georgia. 3 6 PM. Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). 1 See John Jay to the marquis de La Rouerie, this day. 2 For Lafayette’s January 9 letter read this day in Congress, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 2:220-21; andyCC, 13:148-49. No letter from this committee, which consisted of John Collins, James Lovell, and William Whipple, has been found, but see Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin, February 8, 1779. 3 For Congress’ decision on the request for French aid, see Fell’s Diary, February 4, 1779, note.


[Page 55]
February 5, 1779 21 Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes Feby 5th 1779. Present Whipple, Ellery, Elsworth, Fell, Searle, Burke, Laurens, McKeen. Paris 15th Feby. 1778 from A Lee with a certificate from Mr. Lauragais viz. 1 I was Present in the Chamber of Mr. Lee in the Temple London sometime in the spring 1776 when Mr Beaumarchais made offers to Mr. Lee to send supplies of money & stores through the French Islands to the Americans to the amount of two Hundred thousand Louis D’ors which he was authorized to make those proposals by the French Court. Ministers often gave assurance we are not to pay for those stores &c—yet Mr. Bomarchais persists in his demands, he aleges some promise or agreement made with Mr Deane—Dr. F. & myself kept in the Dark. Passy Feby 16 1778 from B.F. &c to the Committee with the Treaty, received part of 3,000,000 Livre, very pressing for Tobacco particularly the 5,000 hhds for the Farmers Genl. We hear Mr. Beaumarchais has sent over a person to demand a great sum of you on accot of Armes, amunicion &c—we think it will be best to leave that demand to be settled by us here as there is a mixture of public & private concern which you cannot so well develope. Passy Feby 28th 1778 from B.F., S.D. & A.L. 2 have been obliged to keep the aid a secret & must continue secret till a publication of the Treaties. Paris Feby. 28th 1778 from A.L. informd that the 3,000,000 before mentioned will be paid here in quarterly payments the Spanish not par ticularly instructed on the subject. 1/2 mill[ion] sent to America to pave the way for a reception of the proposals the Minister of Fr assured by the British Court that a Majority of Congress are secur’d. Paris 28th Feby 1778 from W.L. 3 to the President of Congress; card from Mr. Deane. Paris 23d March 1778 from W.L. to President Laurens set off to mor row for Germany. 4 MS (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). In the hand of William Whipple. 1 This and the following letters examined by the committee this day are printed in Whar ton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:494-97, 507-12, 517-18. 2 Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee. 3 William Lee. 4 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, February 8, 1779. John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Friday Feby. 5 [1779] The President of Congress presents his Compliments to the Minister of France, & begs to be informed, when it will be most convenient for him to


[Page 58]
24 February 5, 1779 3 The next day the Board of War sent Lincoln the following additional instruction, con cerning Casimir Pulaski, which was signed by Timothy Pickering “By order of the board.” “By a late resolution of Congress General Pulaski is ordered to the Southern department with his Legion. “We would request that the General and his Corps may be so employed, that he will not be subject to the direction of any officer inferior in rank to the Commander in Chief of the department. This will be extremely satisfactory to the Count, and we conceive it to be the spirit and meaning of the resolution of Congress \JCC, 13:132].” Burnett, Letters, 4:58-59; and Gunther Collection, ICHi. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen February 5th 1779 In our Letter to you of the 26th Ultimo, we enclosed you two warrants of Congress vizt. One on the Loan Office of Connecticut for 100,000 Drs. the other on James Warren Esqr. 576. 100,576 We now send you by the bearer hereof Joseph Millett an Express as per his re ceipt enclosed 50,000 Which makes in All 150,576 Dollars granted by Congress for the use of your Board in Warrants dated the 16th ultimo. 1 We request you will Acknowledge the receipt of the warrants and the Money mentioned above also of 150,000 Dollars sent you in Novem ber last. We are Gentlemen, Your Hble Servants P.S. We wrote you some time ago for a List of the Commissioned Officers in your Department with the dates of their Commissions, Pray send the same forward by the first Opportunity. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). • See JCC, 13:72-73. Samuel Adams to John Winthrop My Dear Sir Philade Feb 6 1779 I have receivd your favor of the 21st of January. 1 Every Body sees that the Depreciation of the Paper Currency is owing to the Floods of it which have been necessarily issued. In Addition to which a great Quantity, more especially of the Emissions of 20 May 1777 & 11 April 1778 has been counterfeited. This last Consideration was a sufficient Inducement to the calling out of Circulation all the Bills of those Emissions as speedily as possible. The lessening the Quantity in Circulation is the only Means of


[Page 59]
February 6, 1779 25 restoring the Value & Credit of the Remainder. It would therefore be a happy Event if every possessor of them would receive Loan office Certifi cates for them instead of new Bill in June next but this cannot be ex pected. In proportion as this may be done the only effectual Means, be sides that of taxing which I hope will be chearfully submitted to by the People, of remedying the great Evil will have its effect. Congress have not cried down those Emissions, as the Expression is, or resolvd that the Bill should sink in the Hands of those who would not exchange them for Loan Office Certificates, as has been done in the Eastern States. This might have been to[o] harsh a Remedy. They have left it in the Option of the Possessors to receive either such Certificates or new Bills. This is the obvi ous Intention of their Resolutions on the Subject. The Wish of every discerning honest Man must be as obvious, viz that as many of the Bills may sink in the Loan offices as the People can possibly spare, and as soon as possible. I think therefore you have judgd right of their Views. It would be an Act of Charity and a great Service to the publick if those who can afford to put their Money to Interest would ease their poorer fellow Citi zens who are possessed of those Bills, by exchanging them for other Bills without a Discount. I am &c FC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Winthrop’s January 21 letter to Adams is not in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. John Fell’s Diary Saturday Feby 6. [1779] Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Long debates about the manner of sending for Count DeEstang. Congress agreed to Dine at the City Tavern being the Aniversary of the French Alliance. 1 MS (DLC). 1 The dinner to celebrate the French alliance was also the subject of Samuel Holten’s diary entry for this day: “Saturday. Being the anniversary of the alliance with france, Congress dined at the city tavern & the minister of france, & several other Gent, of distinction dined with us.” MDaAr. On February 9 John Dunlap printed the following account of this celebration dinner in the Pennsylvania Packet. “Last Saturday being the anniversary of forming the Alliance between France and the United States, the Honorable the Congress gave a public entertainment to his Excellency the Minister Plenipotentiary of his Most Christian Majesty, at which the following Toasts were drank, under a discharge of cannon: 1. May the Alliance between France and the United States be perpetual. 2. The United States. 3. His Most Christian Majesty. 4. The Queen of France. 5. His Most Catholic Majesty. 6. The Princes of the House of Bourbon.


[Page 60]
26 February 6, 1779 7. Success to the allied arms. 8. General Washington and the Army. 9. The friends of liberty in every part of the world. 10. May the new Constellation rise to the Zenith. 11. May the American Stripes bring Great-Britain to reason. 12. The memory of the Patriots who have nobly fallen in defence of the liberty and independence of America. 13. A safe and honorable peace. “The chearfulness which existed in the company upon the happy occasion of their being assembled, was not to be exceeded; and a thousand brilliances alluding to the Alliance were uttered. There can be no doubt but that every true American and every true Frenchman will contribute his efforts to preserve that connection which is formed by the Alliance, and which is so necessary to the happiness and aggrandizement of both nations. Their mutual interests dictate such a conduct in the strongest and most affectionate terms. The principles of the Alliance are founded in true policy and equal justice; and it is highly probable that mankind will have cause to rejoice in this union which has taken place between two nations; the one, the most puissant in the old, and the other the most powerful in the new world.” Daniel Roberdeaji to Timothy Matlack Dr Sir, Saturday, 6th February, 1779. Have you remembered to present the President of Congress with the hand Bill? 1 the one directed to the Delegates of N. York was delivered to another Member of that State, from the hint you gave of yr Intention to furnish the President. This to remind you we pray excuse. Yrs, D. Roberdeau MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:184. 1 This “hand Bill” contained eight charges the Pennsylvania Council had marshaled against Gen. Benedict Arnold, for which see illustration, a reproduction of item no. 16,439, Evans, Am. Bibliography. These officials had opened their assault on Arnold with the single charge that he had used public wagons for transporting privately owned goods from which he profited, but they quickly expanded their attack, adding seven charges to the original complaint lodged with Congress on January 25 and ordering them printed and circulated to the states. To give even wider publicity to Arnold’s offenses, they also ordered, on February 8, “That the Resolves of this Council of the 3d instant, respecting Gen’l Arnold, be published in the several Newspapers of this City.” See Pennsylvania Packet, February 9, 1779; Pa. Council Minutes, 11:690, 692; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:183-84; John Jay to Joseph Reed, January 27; and William Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. Virginia Delegates to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 6th, 1779. The underwritten, Delegates in Congress for the State of Virginia, pur suant to their Instructions, inclose you herein the Resolves of the Gen’l


[Page 61]
February 6, 1779 27 In COUNCIL. rbifaJe/pbu, February ^d, 1779. Present, His Excellency Joseph Reed, Efq. Prefident, Hon. George Bryan, Efq. Vice Prefident, Col. Jofeph Hart, John Macky, James M l Lene, James Read, John Hambright, and 'Rhomas Scott, Efquires. T H 1 S Board having maturely eonfidered the general tenor and courfe of the military command exrtrifed by Major Gc- neral Arnold. tn this City and State t and divers tranfadiont which have appeared to this Board, during hit com mand, do R'ftkv, unanimoufiy, FirJ!, That the fame hath been in many rcfpefU opprefliie to the faithful fubjcils of this State, unworthy of his rank and Ration, highly dikouragmg to thole who have manifefted their attachment to the liberties and interefts of America, arid ditre- fpcf I Id I to the Supreme Executive Authority of the State. Wherefore Rejtfaed unanimoufiy. Second, That nothing hut the moR urgent and preffing neceffity can juftify or induce thia Board to call forth any waggons or nulitia, or otherwiie fubject the good people of this Scale, to the power of the (aid General ArntU within the Sate, Cbould he rrliime it upon bis return. Third, Ordered, That the Attorney General do psofccute the £uid Genera) Armid, for fuch illegal end oppreffive conduA as ia cognizable in the Courts of Law. And that this Board may not be fuppofed cajiable of palling the above refolves upon mere general grounds, and more efpeci- at|y m the cafe of one who has formerly diftinguifhed himfeif in public fcrvice, they think proper to declare that the conbdera- tion laft mentioned, has hitherto reftiained them from taking proper notice of General Armed, hoping that every unworthy tranfaflion would be the laft, or that a becoming fenfe of fuch improprieties, would -effed an alteration of conduct but finding that tenderneft has only led to infult and farther oppreffion, duty to the State, regard tn the interefts and happmefs of the good people thereof, who mull be affefted by all abuies of power, tSblige us thus to take notice thereof, and farther declare, that the laid Refolves are founded upon the following articles, in which they have fuSicient grounds to efteem General Arnold culpable. I. That while in the camp of General H'aJhingUn at l'allej-Fwfe, lift fpring, he gave permiffion to a velle! belonging to per- fons then voluntarily residing in this city with the enemy, and of dilaffedted characler, to come to a port of the United States, without the knowledge of the authority of the State, or of the Commander in Chief, though then prefent. 1. In having fhut up the (lores and Chops on his vrival in the city, fo as even to prevent officcgs ot the army from purchaf ing, white he privately made conftderablc purchafcs for his own benefit, as is allcdged and believed. 3. In impofing menial offices upon the fans of freemen of this Sate, when called*forth by the defire of CongreG to perform militia duty, and when remonflrated to hereupon, juilifying himfeif in writing upon the ground of having power fo to do, for that, “ whenacitnxn afiumed the charafler of a foldter, the former was >mirely|>ft in the latter^ Zd't^pt it waa the duty of.. the militia to obey n-ero order of his Aids (not a breach of the laws and conftitutfon) as his (tha (petal's) without judging of “ the propriety of them.” \ 4. For that when a prize wax brought into this port by the Convention brig of tHia. State, wh^on a depute arofe refpect- ing«he capture, which would otherwiie, in great probability, have beenamkaMy adjufted between the cWmants, Genera) Arnold interpofed by an illegal and unworthy purchafe of the foir. at a low and inadequate price, as be baa been publicly charged by a reputable citizen, to which may in fame degree be afettbed the delay of juft ice tn the Courts of Appeals, and the dilute in which the State may probably be involved with Congicfs hereupon. 5. The appropriating the wsggons of this State when called forth upon a fpecia) emergency faft Autumn, to the tranlporta- tion of pthate property, and that of perfarts who voluntarily remained with the enemy bit wimcr^ were Reined diteffeOed to the interefts and independence of "» 6. )n that Congrefs by a irMve of the atft ol Auguft lafl, having given to the executive powers of every ftate, anexdufiw power to recommend perfoni deGroua of going witbin the enemy's lines, to the officer there commanding; Genera) Armed in order, as may rcafonsbiy be interred, to elude the Gid refolve, wrote a letter, as appears by comparifon of bands, and the de claration of the intended hearet, recommendatory fot the above purpofe, and caufed h’is Aid du Camp, Major Chrtyn, to fign the fame; but the faid device not taking effed. through the vigilance of the officers at Eio.oluilt-ttwn, Genera) Arnold, without dilclofing any of rhe above circumftances, applwd to Council for their permiflion, which was Inftantly refuted > the conneaions, chaiader, and frtuation of the party being well known, and deemed utterly improper >0 be indulged with fuch permiffionj thereby vinhting the refolve of Congrefs, and uforping the authority of this Board. 7. This Board having, upob the complaint of fcveral inhabitant. ofCheflcr county, through the late Waggon .Mailer Ge- neral re^Jled of (be (aid General Arnold tn Hate the laid iranfaa.on relpeamg the waggons, in order that they might fetisfy the complainants, nr explain the fame w.tbout farther trouble, received, in return, sn indecent and d.frefpeafui refuM of any fatisfadtion whatfoevei. 8. The difcouragcnicnt and negted manifelLd by Genera) Arnold during h W command, to civil, snihury, and other charac-.h„ ... a a, a...»«k .. .i»r. rf .n.*., w.™., ,0 n.a prerf <« in»«mio» . .»> If <h.. k» Wen. « l, a four „ .toullud puurul. ,»< » A. IM..S Su..,. «. d-Ur. », ib.ll PO -I pinccs thus incurred. , . . On confideration, Ordered, That as the waggon, font by Gene.al Arndd to £ it ^^ the State, and the waggoners not being able to procure payment, either from the Qp.rter-Mafter’.d.p.nment, or from Generd Am,id, who 1. departed from thia city whde the complaint agamft him wm depending, and they being in great nwdSty, this Board ought ro relieve them fo far a, to advance four hundred and fifty pounds until they can procure farther redreii. And that Jerdan the Waggon-Maftcr, give » fpecial receipt to be accountable therefor. Entrap frtm lb* Mnntn, T. M A TEA C K, Stcrtiars. k, r k « n c i s n l in. a Pennsylvania’s Charges against Gen. Benedict Arnold February 3, 1779


[Page 62]
28 February 6, 1779 Assembly of that State, which they request you to lay before the Legisla ture of this State. 1 We are very respectfully, Sir, Your most obedt Servt, Tho’s Adams Meriwether Smith Cyrus Griffin MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:184-85. 1 As requested, Reed transmitted the Virginia delegates’ enclosure to the Pennsylvania Assembly in a letter of February 9. Ibid., p. 189. The enclosure was undoubtedly a resolve of the Virginia House of Delegates of December 12, which declared that “as the confusion, from the doubtful jurisdiction in the county adjacent to the disputed territory, may produce the most dangerous consequences to the common cause of America; . .. the Virginia delegates in Congress, be empowered and instructed to propose to the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, to appoint commissioners on their part, to meet commissioners to be appointed by the Assembly of this Commonwealth, ... to fix on the true and proper boundaries between the said States.” Journal of the House of Delegates of the Commonwealth of Virginia, 1777-81 (Rich mond, 1827), October-December 1778, p. 112. For additional information on this issue, see Meriwether Smith to Patrick Henry, November 4, 1778, note 1; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:669. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 7th Feby 1779 I thank you for the information contained in Your favor of 24th Deer, last which is the last letter I have received from you. 1 Col. Beadle’s Regi ment is dismiss’d. 2 I need not inform you of the difficulty of procuring a just enquiry into the conduct of an Officer at a distance from the Army, this I suppose occasion’d the act of Congress impowering the executive authority of the several States for that purpose. 3 I wish it was done by N.H. in this instance, I have no doubt there has been great abuses com- mited in that country, &. I know of no power so competent to investigate the true state of matters there as the executive authority of the State. The plan of finance has reached you I suppose some time ago, You’ll observe the Quota of N.H. is not so high in proportion as last Year. I procured this abatement not because I thought the sum more than the state would be able to raise but because You might be more at liberty to act Your discretion, however I hope you will raise a much larger sum, as you will be allowed interest for all you raise above Your just proportion, & there can be no better time to collect money than when it is plenty. I hope some other method will be divised to help our Currency, what is already done can be nothing more than mere palliatives. The transactions relative to the British Commission &c are not yet finished. I shall do myself the pleasure of sending them to you as soon as they come from the press. 4 I have inquired of the Jersey Gentn respecting the man you mention, and they know of no such person. 5 I think it very probable he is an imposture and ought at least to be well watched. The


[Page 65]
February 8, 1779 31 RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). Tr (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 See John Fell’s Diary, February 5, 1779, note 2. 2 These packets for Benjamin Franklin were forwarded by Lovell through the Baltimore mercantile firm of Curson & Gouverneur, which was represented in St. Eustatius by Samuel Curson. See these Letters, 6:291-93. Lovell enclosed them in the following brief note to Curson & Gouverneur of February 10, 1779: “I intreat your care to forward these packets for Doctor Franklin by the first conveyance that offers, if to be trusted. They are important. You will use your own discretion about Sending them to Mr. Bingham. I wish them Soon in France.” PCC, item 79, fol. 249. 3 In the Tr the letter closes: “Signed James Lovell, for the Come, for F. Affairs.” William Henry Drayton to Charles Lee Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 8th, 1779. At nine o’clock last night, I received yours of the fifth instant, in answer to mine of the third. But, as I have neither time or inclination to enter into a competition, whether Mr. Charles Lee, or Mr. William Henry Drayton, can raise the most ingenious supposition, say the keenest thing, and pen the most finished period with parenthesis; nor ambition to correspond with you in your simple character of Mr. Charles Lee, whom I cannot consider but as legally disgraced for being guilty of abominable military treason against a community of the most liberal, just, and generous, and, I must add, merciful people on the face of the globe: I say, perfectly satisfied with my simple character of Mr. William Henry Drayton, “a mere common member of Congress,” and “a mere Chief Justice of South Carolina,” I shall do myself the honour, out of breath as I am with paren theses, to make only one observation in reply, absolutely terminating the correspondence on my part, That I verily believe we equally remain en tirely indifferent with respect to what either is “pleased to think or dream.” And now, finally taking my leave of Mr. Charles Lee, 1 with common decency from respect to my simple character, I subscribe myself, Sir, Your most obedient Servant, Wm. Henry Drayton. MS not found; reprinted from Charles Lee, Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, Esq., ed. Edward Langworthy (London: J. S. Jordan, 1797), p. 53. 1 Lee’s March 15 reply to this letter is in Anecdotes of the Late Charles Lee, pp. 54-55. John Fell’s Diary Monday. Feby 8th. [1779] Commercial Comittee 9 oClock. Congress. A number of Letters Read; A Memorial from Lt Coll Varick in behalf of himself and the Officers in the Muster Masters department—Referrd to the Board of Warr. A Me morial from Dr Shippen in behalf of himself and the other Doctors, Re-


[Page 66]
32 February 8, 1779 ferrd to the Medical Committee. Long debates again about sending to Count DeEstang. &c. 6 PM. Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes Feby 8th [1779] Present Whipple, Ellery, Elsworth, Fell, Searle, Laurens, Langworthy. Paris 10th Sept 1777 from Mr Hortalez & Compy. 1 Paris Jany 16th 1778 from B.F. & S.D. 2 recommending Mr. Carmichal. Paris Jany 6th 1778 A. Lee to the Committee opposed to the letr re specting Carmichal. Passy Jany 31st 1778 A. Lee to Committee, Mr. Carmichal received in London of me the year before last a little book for the secret Commtee. Paris Jany. 15th 1778 A. Lee to the Committee—3,000,000 livers from Spain desires to be instructed respecting the appropriation of it. Api 1st 1778 from A. Lee—the Dunkirk business prevented Prushia doing as she promisd. Paris Api. 4th 1778 A. Lee. Dr. F & I 3 are endeavoring to settle the accots as well as we can from the papers Mr. D. left in his hands. Paris Api. 8th 1778 A. Lee, mentions sundry inclosures. Nants 25 Api. 1778 Schweighauser. 2d May from same. Paris June 1st 1778 A. Lee. Mr. Montieu’s paper says Mr. D. left matters in a confused state—37 livres given for cloaths that might have been had for 32. 100,000 livres advanced to Mr. Hodge there appears no accot—been told Cunnynghams vessel cost £3,000. Could not persuade his Colleagues to settle accots. A letter from Dr. F. to his Nephew lament the differences with his Coleagues. Our friend in Spain promise to invest with 180,000 Livers more. Paris July 16th 1778 A. Lee to Committee advice from the port used to ship Blankets &c that 6,000 Blankets, 10,000 shoes, a large pasele Hose, with Rigging, sail Cloth & ready to ship. As I have refused to the passing Mr. Williams accots. or paying him the Ballance, reason for doing so not mentioned. Paris July 29th 1777 A.L. to Chairman of Committee. King of Prussia objects to receive a public Minister—papers rob[b]ed at Berlin were re turned in a few hours Appearantly unopened. Baron Shewlinbourg says his Majesty wishes nothing more than our success; the credit of our Enemies low in Germany & is informed sinks in Holland. Paris Deer. 6th 1776 S.D. to Committee Read before. 1778. Paris 16th Jany. R. Izard to the Abbe Nichola


[Page 68]
34 February 8, 1779 This is a Subject which in my Opinion is to be treated with great delicacy. New York has credit for her Exertions to supply the army & the exhausted State of her resources is known. It is nevertheless hoped that she may be able to give some Releif to her starving Sister, & every motive of humanity & policy will advise it if practicable. Care however ought to be taken of our own Inhabitants, and the Releif, if afforded, should be so regulated as to prevent that amazing Exportation, & intolerable Rise in the price of Provision, which would follow an incautious tho’ partial Re fusal of the Embargo. Nor would it, I think, be wise to go into any mea sures in consequence of this recommendation without having previously consulted with the Commissary General, as well as with Connecticut; with the former, on the State of his Magazines, with the latter on the Subject of a joint plan. Unless there be an overplus to be spared from the Necessities of the army, & the Consumption of the Inhabitants all ought to be re tained. If there be an Overplus in both States, would it be amiss for the Commissary to purchase & collect it at the Expence of Rhode-Island, & let the Government of that State cause it to be transported, and provide for its due distribution. The Poor of that State will otherwise be at the mercy of Engrossers, and, like the wretched Egyptians, under the viceger- ency of Joseph, be obliged to give their hand for corn. I am, Dear Sir, Your Friend & Servant, John Jay. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:552-53. 1 For Governor Clinton’s letter of February 18 to the New York legislature enclosing the “Act of Congress” referred to here by Jay, see ibid., p. 580. John Jay to George Clinton and Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia 8th Feby. 1779. In consequence of the Representation made of the distress of the State of Rhode-Island for want of Provision, Congress have this day passed an Act of which the enclosed is a Copy, 1 requesting the States of Connecticut & New-York, to afford them such Supplies as their Necessities call for, so far as their circumstances will admit, & under such Regulations as may best answer the End proposed. I have the Honor to be Sir, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obed & H. Servt. J- J- LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To His Excellency Governor Clinton.” Endorsed: “N.B. The like verbatim to Govr. Trumbull.” ■ JCC, 13:151-52.


[Page 76]
42 February 9, 1779 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 9th Feb 1779 My last viz No 10 I think was very short, 1 since which I have not been favored with any of yours. I some time ago desired to know if any small vessels could be procured to come this way for flour and iron, but not hearing from you on that subject, have been endeavoring to procure or ders from the M. C. 2 for vessels to be sent to this place and Baltimore and have at last succeeded. This Post carries orders to the Navy Board at Boston to send five vessels this way for the above purpose, 3 two of which they will apply to you for, in consequence of my representation that two such cargoes at least would be wanted at Portsmouth—for reasons need less for me to mention I hope the vessels from Portsmouth will be procured on at least as good terms as the others. Vessels have been freighted to Boston from hence for one quarter of what they can carry, each party risking his own property—in this case the vessels have loaded wholly with fl our —whether there ought to be any difference with iron you will judge. I have lately heard vessels cannot be had at Boston on those terms; how ever of that you will also judge at any rate I think it will be better to take them on a share than pay a certain freight and insure the vessel. For news I must refer you to the papers—the European powers are busy with nego tiations—it is very probable proposals from Britain will reach us in the Spring—she will not have vanity enough to make them but on the princi ples of Independence, but will she give up the Sovereignty of Canada and Nova Scotia, that will stick in her stomach, but she must swallow it. Are you willing to share the Floridas with Spain on condition of her furnishing us with funds to sink our paper money? Perhaps France and Russia may settle the dispute between the Emperor and the King of Prussia—all these events are in the womb of fate but the general struggles may bring them forth shortly. Adieu yours, W.W. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). Although Peter Force’s transcriber captioned this letter “Wm. Whipple to Josiah Bartlett,” it is clear from its content and the reference to Whipple’s letter no. 10 cited in note one below that the recipient was John Langdon. 1 William Whipple’s letter “No. 10,” dated February 2, 1779, simply stated: “As I have none of your favours to reply to nor news to give you, being also in a hurry I shall only ask your permission to call this No 10—Beg the favor of you to deliver the inclosed letters & inclose a few Barren News Papers.” John Langdon Papers, PHi. 2 That is, the Marine Committee. 3 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, February 10, 1779. Samuel Adams to Samuel A. Otis Dear Sir Philade Feby 10 1779 The Late Mr Andrews 1 before his sudden & unexpected Death had written to a young Kinsman of mine in this place, Mr Richard Checkley,


[Page 83]
February 11, 1779 49 have in veiw, and it is under this state of the case that I am by the direction of this Committee to inform your Excellency that Captain Har ding will receive orders to Obey you, and take your directions for the government of his conduct in the proposed expedition, but not to exceed ten [days] after the Sailing of his Ship from New London in the said expedition tho should the service be performed in a shorter time the Cap tain is then to proceed with the Utmost dispatch agreeable to your Instructions. I have the honor to be, Your Excellencys most Obedt, Hble servant, S. Adams Chairman LB (DNA: PCG Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 In his January 22 letter to the Eastern Navy Board, which the board had forwarded in a January 27 letter to the Marine Committee, Trumbull had proposed an attack on British shipping at Huntington Harbor, Long Island. Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Samuel Adams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philad Feb 6 [11] 79 1 The Marine Come have done themselves the Honor of writing to you by this Post. The great Dammage which has been done to the Trade at the Southward & particularly Chessapeak Bay by the Enemies Privateers has causd such pressing Demands for the Aid of our Ships of War as laid us under the Necessity of ordering the Queen of france immediately on a Cruize that Way. This I mention as a Reason why she could not be employed with the Confederacy & the other Ships but her Destination will remain a Secret. I hope the Expedition proposd by your Excy & agreed to by the Come will be performed in 2 or 3 Days, for I fear if it Should be known to the Enemy, not only the desired Event wd be pre vented but there would be danger of our losing our Ships. I have only time to beg the favor of your Excy to forward the inclosd by the first Oppty by the post or otherwise. FC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Although Adams clearly dated the draft of this letter “Feb 6 79,” and it is printed with that date in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 4:120-21, he apparently redated the recipient copy of it February 11, 1779. Paul C. Richards Catalog, 151 (September 1981), item 85. Moreover, the Marine Committee letter referred to here as being written “to you by this Post” is clearly the preceding entry. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade Feb 11, 1779 Will you be so kind as to present my due Regards to Mrs Warren and let her know that immediately upon my receiving her Letter for Miss


[Page 85]
February 11, 1779 51 [TY] Pay my due Regards to your Circle in Plymouth. Are you ac quainted with Mr D? 2 I mentiond him to you in a former Letter as an excellent Republican & recommended him warmly to your Friendship. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 That is, Samuel Cooper. 2 Probably Francis Dana, who was discussed in Warren’s February 28 response to this letter. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:92. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Philadelphia May it please your Excellency. Feby. 11th, 1779. Your first enquiry, we presume will be, how goes on Confederation? We have the pleasure to inform you that Jersey and Deleware have acceded— and Maryland alone stands out—her reasons for it we enclose to you, and whether we shall send to all the States for their consent to a Confederation of twelve, or wait for Maryland to consider better of it, and acceed, will be the most expeditious, and prudent method of bringing this important business to a close, is the question. Recruiting, providing for, arranging and paying the Army, have long engaged the attention of Congress. These are all important objects, & notwithstanding the present deranged state of our foreign affairs, and internal resources, and the reduced condition of our finances, we hope and trust that such wise measures will be adopted and supported by the united exertions of the several States as, will through the smiles of Heaven, put them upon a firm and respectable footing. The Committee appointed to confer with Gen. Washington on this business have prepared a number of resolutions to lay before Congress, which when passed, we shall embrace the earliest opportunity to transmit to your Excellency. The Resolution passed upon the Representation from the State of Rhode Island, of their inhabitants being likely to famish, through the operation of the land embargo in Connecticut, has been transmitted by the President. 1 Although Mr Dean has long since been heard on his agency abroad, yet his affairs remain undecided upon—a Committee is appointed to look through them, in order to bring them to a proper and speedy issue. The misunderstanding which subsisted amongst our Commissioners when abroad, & the unfavorable insinuations given respecting the merit of each other, have excited (to say no more) the caution of Congress, at least of many of the members in regard to their transactions abroad. Mr Dean’s publication & the reply of Common Sense, particularly that part which asserted that he had in his hands a letter, which shewed that the supplies Mr Dean so pompously plumed himself upon—were all promised and engaged, and that as a present, before his arrival in France &c proved a


[Page 86]
52 February 11, 1779 source of great embarrassment and difficulty—alarmed the French Em bassador for the interest and reputation of his Court, which he considered would be disagreably affected thereby—he remonstrated to Congress on the subject, who passed a Resolve that those supplies were received in the way of trade, and not as a present from the Court of France. We doubt not but it will appear that Mr Dean has done much for, & deserved much of his Country, and that he will be properly considered. The King’s speech with debates in Parliament as far as they have come to hand—the latest'advices from the Southward and West Indies—& the unhappy controversy that has arisen between the President and Council of this State & Genl. Arnold are contained in the enclosed News papers, to which we refer you. The rate of exchange for bills on France, as sold by Mr Holker, their Agent, is £900 Continental money for £100 Sterling. Authentic intelligence has been reed in Congress from Europe, of high importance & in appearance far from being unfavorable to America, which we are not at liberty to communicate at present. With the highest esteem & respect—We have the honor to be Your Excellency’s most obedient & most hble. Servts Elipht Dyer. Oliver Ellsworth. Jesse Root Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 See John Jay to Jonathan Trumbull, February 8; and Rhode Island Delegates to Wil liam Greene, February 9, 1779, note 1. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Feby. 11th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters read and Referrd to Committee. Aron Lopezs Memorial relating to 2 Prizes, Referrd to the Committee of Appeals, Memorial of Capt. Cellorine to the Board of Warr. 1 Do of Sarah Kennedy for the loss of her Estate, Referrd to the Treasury Board. Letter from Genl Gates wth an Acct, of the Enemy at several Posts in Canada 2952 above Montreal 3922. 2 Letter from Jere miah Powell President of Masachusets Bay giving an Acct of Coll David Mason and others great defaulters of the Public Money at the Labratory at Springfield Referrd to the Commander in Chief to bring the defaulters to a Court Martial. 3 Mr Laurens moved the House that he was fully satisfied in the Affair relating to Mr. R Morris, and declared him clear of all Suspicion to which the House unanamously agreed. An order from the Treasury for Coll Flowers’s department causd great debate and his Car- ractor Canvasd which appeard good. MS (DLC). 1 For the Board of War’s report on the memorial of Lewis Celeron, see JCC, 13:215.


[Page 87]
February 11, 1779 53 2 Fell was apparently using figures reported by Col. Jacob Bayley to Gen. Horatio Gates in a January 1 letter that Gates had forwarded to Congress. According to Bayley there were 3,922 troops in Canada, of which 2,952 were at Quebec, Sorel, Chambly, St. John’s, and Isle au Noix. Bayley’s letter is in PCC, item 171, fols. 197-98. 3 See John Jay to Washington, February 15; and Jay to Jeremiah Powell, February 16, 1779. Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes Feby. 11th 1779 Present Whipple, Ellery, Elsworth, Fell, Searle, Paca, Duane, Laurens, Langworthy. Mr. Deans Narrative 1 —in a conference with Mr. Vergienes was assured that they shod be protected by his Majesty wod by no mean violate the Treaties with Britain. page 38 solely engaged in sending the stores. 39 contract made with the farmers Genl, during Mr. Lee’s ab sence in Spain. 45 made no considerable without consulting the Minister. 59 Arms purchased at Nants to amot. 250,000 livres. 77 several persons had reported to the Commissrs. that the Can non & warlike stores shipd by him (Beaumarch.) wod be taken on the Ministry, the[y] reported this as coming from the Minister but on applica tion which I several times made in person I never obtained any such assurances or even encouragement. 2 left off at 116. 3 MS (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). In the hand of William Whipple. 1 See the committee’s minutes, February 10, 1779, note 1. 2 The belief “that the Cannon & warlike stores shipd by [Beaumarchais] wod be taken on the Ministry” lay at the heart of Arthur Lee’s charges against Silas Deane and fueled the Deane-Lee controversy among their partisans in Congress. For discussion of this controver sial subject, see these Letters, ll:286-87n,3, 445-46n.l. 3 For the continuation of these proceedings, see the committee’s minutes, February 12, 1779. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother, Freestone point Virginia Feby. 11. 1779 1 As well as the shortness of my time will permit, I will give you the best detail in my power of things here since I wrote you fully by the Marquis Fayette of the state of our politics and parties. 2 The wicked intrigues which you experienced from a certain set, and of which you have so often and justly complained, have been practiced here to a still greater and more extensive mischievous length. The Tories avail themselves of it, and they are to a Man [on] Deane’s side, hoping thereby to injure and deprive us of influence whose determined will and capacity to injure their cause they well know and fear. Deane’s party in short rests on triple ground.


[Page 92]
58 February 12, 1779 Polaskas Letter to Recruit his Infantry to their full Establishment not agreed to. 2 MS (DLC). 1 For the case of Lieutenant Hele, see John Jay to Christopher Hele, February 16, 1779. 2 In responding to a query from the Board of War on the meaning of a February 4 resolve concerning Casimir Pulaski, Congress declared this day that he was authorized to recruit the infantry of his corps only “to their original establishment.” See JCC, 13:143, 179, 181;John Jay to Gerard de St. Eime, February 16, 1779, note 2; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpat rick), 14:79. Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes Feby. 12th 1779 Present Whipple, Elsworth, Duane, Searle, Paca, McKeen, Laurens. Continuation of Mr. Deans Narrative. Finished the narrative. Read some of the Instructions. 1 MS (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). In the hand of William Whipple. 1 This is the final entry of any substance in Whipple’s minutes of the committee’s proceed ings. His entry for February 15, which concludes the section of the minutes that are known to have survived, reads simply: “Present Whipple, Elsworth, Fell, Duane, McKeen, Laurens, Langworthy.” Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 12th February [1779] Colonel L’Aumoy the Gentleman who will have the honor of presenting my present respects to Your Excellency, is ordered by the Commander in Chief to South Carolina to act under General Lincolns orders in the Southern Department in the Corps of Engineers, from his rank he will take the command of that branch. 1 Colonel L’Aumoy is highly esteemed in the Army for his bravery and skill as an Officer, and his manners as a Gentleman. I flatter myself with an assurance that I have done my Country service by the acquisition of his abilities, more especially from this consideration that as he is well ac quainted with our Sea Coast, he will be able to apply them more immedi ately to good effect than an Engineer of equal skill, but a Stranger to our Country, would be. I beg leave Sir to recommend him to your counte nance and protection. I have the honor to be &c H.L. [RS.] A Schooner loaded with about 18 Tons of Military Stores, which the Commissary of that Department has consigned to the Commanding Offi-


[Page 103]
February 13, 1779 69 explained that he was reprinting it from a copy of the London General Advertiser and Morning Intelligencer of November 27, 1778, which had been sent to Maryland delegate John Henry by Samuel Chase at Annapolis. See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15,836. Drayton, however, probably had access to Henry’s copy of the General Advertiser, or an other circulating in Philadelphia, for he also quoted from speeches by members of the House of Commons attacking the king that Dunlap had not printed. The speech of George III and the debates in both houses of Parliament on the addresses of “Thanks” customarily returned to the crown on such occasions are more conveniently available in The Parliamentary History of England, from the Earliest Period to the Year 1802, 36 vols. (London: T.C. Hansard, 1806-20), 19:1277-1376. 2 For this January 12, 1779, resolve of Congress, seeJCC, 13:55. 3 For Charles James Fox’s denunciation of the king’s speech, see Parliamentary History of England, 19:1322-30 4 For Thomas Townshend’s remarks, see ibid., pp. 1321-22. John Fell’s Diary Saturday Feby 13th 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Coll Hartleys Resignation accepted. Resolv’d that Congress have a high Sence of the Services renderd his Country. Great and long debates about the Mode of Receiving Mr Ger rard to a Conferrence agreed to be on Monday 1 oClock in Committee of the whole House. Dined with Mr R Morris. MS (DLC). John Jay to Noirmont de La Neuville Philadelphia 13th Feby. 1779 The President of Congress presents his Compliments to Monsr. Noir mont De la Neuville, & transmits to him enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 10th Inst, on the Subject of his Letter of the 9th Inst. 1 The Secretary of Congress will, on Application deliver to Mr. De la Neuville the certificate mentioned in his Letter. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For Congress’ resolve granting Major Noirmont leave to return to France, which he requested following his failure to obtain promotion to lieutenant colonel, seeJCC, 13:143-44, 159. His disappointment was apparently soon overcome, however, for he subsequently re quested and was granted permission “to serve in his present rank in the southern army.” See Jay to Noirmont, April 4, 1779; and these Letters, 9:549n.l. Daniel Roberdeau to Joseph Reed Sir, Philada, Feb. 13th, 1779. Congress have now under Consideration the report of the Committee of appeals. On this important Subject the Delegates of this State would be


[Page 109]
February 16, 1779 75 John Jay to Robert Morris Sir, Philadelphia 15th Feby. 1779 When Characters, rendered amiable by Virtues, & important by tal ents, are exposed to suspicions & become Subjects of Investigation, the Sensibility of Individuals, as well as the Interest of the Public are con cerned in the Event of the Enquiry. It gives me particular pleasure therefore to transmit to You an unani mous Act of Congress of the 11th Inst, not only acquitting your Conduct, 1 in the transaction it relates to, of blame, but giving it that express Appro bation which Patriotism in the public, & Integrity in every walk of Life always merit & seldom fail ultimately to receive. I am Sir with great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt Servant, JJ- LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 13:163-76; and Henry Laurens to Congress, January 16, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 15th Feby. 1779 The Committee appointed by Massachusetts-Bay to enquire into the Conduct of the Officers conducting the Public works at Springfield, hav ing reported several facts charging them with Misdemesnors; Congress have by an Act of the 15th Inst, a Copy of which is herewith enclosed, Resolved that the several papers on this Subject be transmitted to your Excellency, & the Persons accused tryed by Court Martial. 1 I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most Obedt Servt. John Jay. Presidt. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 This “Act of the 15th Inst.” that Jay enclosed for Washington was actually a resolve of February 1 \.JCC. 13:163. Washington’s February 22 letter to Gen. Israel Putnam ordering him to convene a court-martial for Lt. Cols. David Mason and William Smith and Maj. Joseph Eayres of Massachusetts on the charges brought against them by the Massachusetts Council is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:137-38. For the results of that court- martial, which Washington transmitted to Congress in a letter of April 12, 1779, see ibid., p. 369 and 15:67-69; and JCC, 13:448-49. Samuel Adams to the Massachusetts Board of War Gent! Philad Feb 16 1779 I reed your Letr of 27 Jan and immediately communicated such of the Contents as relate to your Application to the Govr of N Y, to the Dele-


[Page 110]
76 February 16, 1779 gates of that State. They assured me that the Govrs refusing to grant a Permit to Mr Shepperd for the Transportation of Flour from thence must have been owing to the real & very great Scarcity of that Article there; and they desired me to satisfy you in that point, fearing that it m[igh]t be supposd to arise from other Motives. 1 I will consult with my Colleagues and if any Means can be used by us to ensure Success to your Application from that Quarter you may depend upon our Exertion. I am inclined to think that Govr C, 2 who in my Opinion is a truly good Man, is apprehensive of being imposd upon by Speculators, unless he uses great Caution, and he may perhaps not be fully apprisd of your acting under the express Authority & Commission of Massachusetts State. And yet I shd suppose your Letter to him would have been sufficient without authenticated Documents manifesting your Appointment. South Carolina is at so great a Distance that no Interposition of ours could avail, if it was necessary in the present Instance, but I am of Opin ion there will be no Difficulty there in Case your Vessel arrives, the Em bargo being over. I will write to Mess P in B 3 & endeavor, shd there be any Obstruction there to get them removd. A Come of Con have under Consideration a Letter from the Council of M B on the Subject of provi sions, & I am informd they are ready to make Report. 4 If any thing shd occur which will make it expedient for me to write you further I shall not omit the first Oppty. In the mean time I am &c. FC (NN: Adams Papers). Addressed by Adams: “The Board of War in Boston.” 1 The Massachusetts Board of War had requested permission to import flour “overland” from New York in a December 15, 1778, letter to Governor Clinton. Clinton, Papers (Has tings), 4:390. For additional information on this subject, see ibid., pp. 489-90, 515-16, 569-70; and John Jay to George Clinton, February 8, 1779. 2 That is, George Clinton. 3 Adams’ letter to Samuel and Robert Purviance of Baltimore has not been found. 4 See Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council, February 9, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday Feby. 16th [1779] Commercial Committee 9 oC. Congress. Great debates relating to Genl Arnold, a motion for Suspending him, agreed to Postpone the motion till the Committee brought in their Report. A Representation from the As sembly of Pennsylvania to their Delegates in Congress, Relating to the Distresses of the Frontier Inhabitants. Letter from Govr Clinton of New York, and One from Govr Turnbull, Connecticut all to the same Purport. Referrd to the Committee of Conferrence. Letter from the Govr of Vir ginia concerning the Convention Troops, referrd to their Delegates. Corn £10 to £15 Per Barrell. Dined with Coll Griffin. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Virginia delegate Cyrus Griffin.


[Page 114]
80 February 16, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 13:179. For the capture of Lieutenant Hele and the efforts of Adm. James Gambier to secure his release, see Henry Laurens to John Beatty, November 7, 1778. For Hele’s subsequent efforts to gain his freedom, which resulted in his parole in May 1779, and his frustration when Congress subsequently made his formal release conditional upon the ex change of Capt. Gustavus Conyngham, see JCC, 13:410, 424, 14:614, 838, 941, 15:1086, 1373, 16:72. 2 This day Jay also wrote a brief letter to Col. Thomas Hartley signifying that Congress had accepted his resignation. JCC, 13:180; and PCC, item 14, fols. 51-52. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston Dear Robert Philadelphia, 16 Feb. 1779 Your Favor of the 3d Inst, came to Hand this morning. 1 The Satisfac tion my Letter afforded you flatters as well as pleases me. It argues a Remembrance of former Times; for which & other Reasons I shall give you no more opportunities of joining the assembly of Angels in rejoicing over penitent Mortals. Not that I mean, on the one Hand, to enter the State of Reprobation & become a hardned Sinner, or on the other enlist with those Saints who slip not with their Feet. This Letter, written on the very Day I reed. Yours, will be some Evidence of my having gone thro the whole Process of Amendment. Divines you know describe it as consisting of Conviction, Contrition, and Conversion. Whether I shall persevere or not, is a Subject on which Time will utter the surest Prophecies. The Complections of Resignation, soft Complaint, and joyless Sensibil ity, are so blended in your Letter, that (if anonymous) one would suppose it written by a wayworn Traveller thro’ this Vale of Tears, who journey ing towards his distant Heaven, thro sultry Heats and dreary Paths, at Length lays his languid Limbs under some friendly Shade, and permits the Effusions of his Soul to escape in words. My Friend a mind unbraced and Nerves relaxed are not fit Company for each other. It was not a Man whom the Poet tells us “pined in Thought and sat like Patience on a monument smiling at Grief.” In such rugged Times as these other Sensa tions are to be cherished. Rural Scenes, domestic Bliss, and the charming Group of Pleasures found in the Train of Peace, fly at the approach of War, and are seldom to be found in Fields stained with Blood, or Habita tions polluted by outrage and Desolation. I admire your Sensibility, nor would I wish to see less Milk in your Veins—you would be less amiable. In my Opinion however your Reasoning is not quite just. I think a Mans Happiness requires that he should Condescend to keep himself free from Fleas and Wasps, as well as Thiefs and Robbers. When the present Session of your Legislature is ended, take a Ride and see us. You will find many here happy to see you. Morris has not forgotten you, and I will answer for his Memory on that Subject. He is busy and useful, more busy indeed than most others—for besides the Affairs of Con gress, he is daily employed in making Oblations to Venus and Sacrifices to


[Page 115]
February 16, 1779 81 Aculapius. Remember this is to be translated in the best Sense, and not so construed as to mean Vice or P—x. The Report arising from Hakes Importations has no Currency here. 2 If it should, I shall put your Mark of Counterfiet upon it. I have heard Nothing of that Business since I left you, except Capt. Banckers telling me that some of the goods had been discovered and seized. If Hake deserved half the Censure bestowed upon him by those, who ought to have known him, he had a Right only to that Species of Politeness which Gentlemen practice to keep men of that Character at a Distance. I have something, tho not very interesting, to say to you on the Subject of Politics, but as it is now very late, and I have been writing Letters ever since Dinner, I am really too much fatigued to proceed. Make my Com pliments to Mrs. Livingston, who I presume is with You. Adieu, I am your Frd. and Servt, John Jay. P.S. You say Nothing of Edward. 3 RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s February 3 letter to Jay is in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 549-51. 2 For Samuel Hake’s “Importations,” see ibid., p. 551n.l. 3 That is, Edward Livingston. John Jay to Jeremiah Powell Sir, Philadelphia 16th Feby. 1779. I have the Pleasure of acknowledging the Receipt of your Favor of the 14th Ulto, which was immediately committed, & of the 16th Ulto. which together with the Papers enclosed in it have been transmitted to His Ex cellency Genl. Washington, with directions to cause the Officers charged with Delinquency at Springfield to be tryed by a Court Martial. 1 I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most Obedt & Hble Servt. JJ- LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 13:130, 163; and Jay to Washington, February 15, 1779. The Massachusetts Council’s letter of January 14 is in PCC, item 65, 1:368-70. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Philada. Feby. 16. 1779 Though I have this day for the first time received a Letter from your husband, yet I feel chagrined at not having had one inclosed for you. I had promised myself the pleasure of being instrumental to your happiness in that way, frequently. He dates from Passy Deer. 6th 1 and acknowledges the Receipt of an official Letter from Me of Octr. 12 but says not a


[Page 117]
February 16, 1779 83 “Gent: It has been hinted to me that there will be two important sub jects of {negotiation} 3 with the {Spanish Court} upon which I beg to have the {Orders} of {Congress}. “1st. Providing the {Spanish Navy} with {Masts} at a stipulated and as reasonable a Price as possible. “2d. The {Cession} of {Florida} should it be {conquer’d} to them. “For this they would {stipulate}, whenever {peace} is {concluded} to furnish the {fund} for {sink}ing all or great part of the {paper}. “I cannot presume to proceed at all on these {proposition}s without express {instruction}. In the mean Time what further Lights I can obtain shall be communicated immediately. “I have the honor to be &c.” RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In Lovell’s hand, with deciphered words interlined in the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 This date has been assigned because the original of Arthur Lee’s August 31 letter to the committee for foreign affairs that Lovell transcribed here for Richard Henry is endorsed: “reed. Feb. 16. 79.” PCC, item 83, 1:278-81. It seems probable that Lovell sent it to Lee to be deciphered soon after it was received by the committee. 2 In fact, Lovell provided the entire letter. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:699. 3 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lovell in cipher and deciphered by Lee. Daniel Roberdeau to John Bayard Sir, Philada. Feb’y 16th, 1779. The Instructions to the Delegates of this State in Congress, from a Committee of your Honorable House respecting the defenceless Situation of our Frontiers, is referred “to the Committee lately appointed to confer with the Commander in Chief, and that they be directed to confer with a Committee of the Assembly of Pennsylvania.” 1 Mr. Duane, Chairman of said Committee, requests through me, that he may be notified of the appointment of such Committee, and when and where they will hold the Conference. I am with high esteem, Sir, yr most obt hum. Servt, Daniel Roberdeau [P.5.] Mr. Duane lodges at Mrs. House’s. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:194. Addressed: “The Honorable John Bayard, Esquire, Speaker of the House of Representatives of the State of Pennsylvania.” 1 The Pennsylvania Assembly’s instructions to its delegates concerning the distresses suf fered by the state’s frontier inhabitants are in PCC, item 69, 1:605-8. For Congress’ response to this appeal, as well as the interest of the state of New York and General Washington in offensive operations to relieve the inhabitants of the northwestern frontier, see JCC, 13:189, 251-52; New York Delegates to George Clinton, February 19; and John Jay to Washington, February 26, 1779.


[Page 119]
February 16, 1779 85 [PA.] I expect the Navy Board at Boston will speedily have a supply of money. 3 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Not found. 2 See Whipple to Langdon, February 20, 1779. Stephen Collins was administering the estate of William Barrell, a New Hampshire merchant who had died in Philadelphia in 1776. Barrell’s papers and Collins’ substantial correspondence on the settlement of his estate are in the Stephen Collins Collection, DLC. 3 Congress appropriated $500,000 for the Eastern Navy Board on February 19. See Whip ple to Langdon, February 20, 1779. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 16th Feby 1779 I believe my last to you was the 3d inst since which I have receiv’d none of Your favors, it was on my mind that I wrote to you per last post, but on looking over my minutes I do not find it noted, therefore conclude I did not. 1 The last accots from Europe are in Novr. By which we learn that Britain is intirely disapointed in her expectation of assistance from Russia. The King of Naples has opened his ports to us, & we have every reason to expect the most favorable proposals from many European powers, per haps in the course of a few weeks, I may give you intelligence that will afford the highest satisfaction, but you must not be too sanguine in expec tation of a speedy Peace, ’tho I have no doubt overtures of that sort will e’er long be made by Britain, but I am inclined to think that such terms will [be] anexed to them as cannot be accepted consistant with good faith. Let me know how the Resolutions of Congress respecting Money mat ters operate—inform me what were the prises of Masts by the former Contracts and what they may be procured for now supposing the pay to be made in something permanent. The news papers I send from time to time will afford you some amuse ment—the impression Mr. D s first publication made on the minds of people I suppose is by this time taken off. I am inclined to think, when matters are fully investigated, his character will appear in a much worse light than people at present have an idea of, and the Characters of those who he has endeavourd to blacken, will appear with great lustre. Adieu, Yours &c. W W RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). 1 William’s conclusion was undoubtedly correct; no letter from him to Joseph dated be tween February 3 and 16 has been found.


[Page 120]
86 February 17, 1779 Committee of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth Sir, Philadelphia 17th Feby 1779. In answer to yours of the Instant we have to Observe that we think it by no means adviseable to purchase more Rum at present than immediate Consumption demands. That Article is now falling fast for which two good reasons are to be Assigned—first, That the Money daily growing better from many Reasons besides the resolutions of Congress, Gold which is in some Sort the Standard hath fallen at least 20 per Cent— Secondly, That Considerable Quantitites of this Article have.arrived & more expected in Consequence of which the Engrossers are in haste to dispose of what they have And thence much is at market which before was hoarded. It will be (we concieve) advantageous to inculcate an Idea that the Continent are Supplyd with as much as they will want untill the arrival of the Cargo shiped by their Agents. We are Your humble Servants, Gouv. Morris William Whipple Francis Lightfoot Lee Tr (CtHWa: James Wadsworth Collection). In a clerical hand. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad. 17h. Febry 1779 My enclosed Letter 1 for you has lain by me some days for want of Conveyance: yesterday, my dearest Polly, I was made happy by the Re ceipt of your agreeable Favour of the 31st of last month. The Knowledge of the Health of yourself, our dear Children & Friends is the greatest private Happiness I can expect in our Seperation. To encourage you to write me frequently I shall, unless from unavoidable necessity, omit no opportunity altho’ it may be only to reassure you of my Health. I just saw Mr Swift who tells me that Brother Robert & his amiable Lady are both well. His Constitution seems to be mending which gives me real Satisfaction as it opens the prospect of our spending many happy days together & of perpetuating & enjoying that Social Friendship which has so happily subsisted between Us since our first Acquaintance. The Weather here is uncommonly Warm for the Season. It looks like Spring: the Buds of the Trees begin to swell and the grass to put on Verdure. Probably it will be checked by a Change, as I think the winter can hardly be over already. I enclose you the News papers of this week for your and our hond Father’s J[oi]nt Amusement—With Duty, Blessings & Compliments to


[Page 121]
February 18, 1779 87 Parents, Children & Friends respectively, I am ever, My dearest Polly, Your Affectionate & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 The most recent extant letter from Duane to his wife is dated January 23, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Feby 17th 1779. Comercial Committee. Congress. Memorial Read from all the Officers now Prisoners on Long Island Praying to be Exchanged refferd to a Com mittee of 3, vizt. Duane, Atley & Dyer. Widdow Kennedys Report, and Treasurys Board opinion thereon Postponed. Sundry foreign Letters from Arther Lee & other Commissioners & from John Ross were Read. 1 G. Morris moved with many Reasons well drawn up that the above Letters, and the late Conferrence with the Minister be Referrd to a special Committee, agree’d to 5 vizt. Morris, Burk, Weather spoon, S Adams and Smith. 2 Secret. 6 PM. Committee on foreign Affairs, only 3. MS (DLC). 1 Only letters from Arthur Lee are identified in the journals. Those from the “other Commissioners & from John Ross” are probably the documents Secretary Thomson de scribed as “sundry papers enclosed.” JCC, 13:194. 2 For the consequences of the work of this committee, which on February 23 submitted a report stating “What to insist on as the ultimatum of these states” should negotiations for peace be opened with Great Britain, see Gouverneur Morris’ Proposed Resolves, March 22? 1779, note. Thomas Adams to Giovanni Fabbroni Good Sir 1 Philadelphia Feby 18th 1779 Your obliging Favor by Colo Decrenis 2 (long after its Date) came safe to Hand. The keen pursuit of that Gentleman after Glory, may be ranked among my Misfortunes as it deprived me of the Pleasure of entertaining him in my own Country and afforded me less of his Company here, than I could have wished. He returns with the most honorable Testimonies of his Valor & good Conduct, as well from the commander in Chief, our beloved Washington as other Officers of approved Merit and Distinction, under whom he immediately acted. Congress have conferred on him a Brevet Commission of Lt. Colo., the highest in their Power to give com porting with the present Arrangement of our Army. Our Friends Mr. Mazzei & Belini 3 are very well, the former I hope you may see some Time next Summer in Italy, in honorable Employ, but this is said to yourself as his Friend & not to be mentioned to others. Belini is


[Page 124]
90 February 18, 1779 William Floyd to John McKesson Sir, Philadelphia, Feb. 18th. 1779 I Reed, your Letter by the Governors Express, and am very much Obliged to you for the many usefull Informations it Contains, and par ticular that a tax Bill has passed the Assembly, upon a plan which if the Assessors Does their Duty faithfully And honestly must Bring in a very handsome Sum of Money, I am pleased with your Representation of it, And hope it will pass the Senate and Answer the Valuable purposes In tended. I am Sorry to hear that the troops in and About the highlands are so Short of provisions, and am much Surprised when you Say that not more than ten Days provisions are purchased. What can be the Cause of this? Is the Commissaries deficient in their Duty or is there a Real Scarcity; I should be glad to be Informed to which of these Causes it may be attrib uted or to what other. The Observations which you have made in your letter on money mat ters I think is well worth the notice of our Treasury Bench, and therefore I Shall Lay that part of it before them, as in my opinion there are some hints which will be usefull to them. As to those Cursed, Deputies Comsys, Qrs, & forage Masters, I dont very well know what can be Done with them; I know they are an Infernal Crew, very few Excepted, Saping the very foundation of this Continent— proper Information given to the heads of those Departments Of the Male- Conduct of those Deputies is the only Method that at present strikes me as proper to Regulate those fellows, unless the Governor should Exercise the Authority Given him by Congress to Remove from office or suspend such of them as do not behave well therein. As General Washington has the Direction of the Army and All Expedi tions are Left with him he will Do what he thinks proper therein, But I have no Expectation of Any Northern Expedition, Except to the westward of Albany and I do not of any there. You’l Be kind Enough to Continue your Correspondence; I should be Glad to hear what Laws pass this Session—from Sir, your very humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (NHi: McKesson Papers). William Paca to Joseph Reed Sir 18 Feb. 1779.* In answer to your Requisition I can only say I know of no Resolution of Congress which discontinues General Arnold’s Command in this City. 2 I have the Honor to be, yr. Most obd. hble Sevt. W. Paca


[Page 125]
February 18, 1779 91 FC (PCC, item 19). In the hand of William Paca. 1 Facsimiles of the RC of this letter [“in the possession of J. Mickley Esq. Philad.”], are dated “19th Feb. 1779.” Emmet Collection, NN, and Myers Collection, NN. 2 Paca was responding to the following query contained in Reed’s letter of February 18 to him: “I should be glad to be informed whether Genl. Arnold continues to have the Com mand in this City as that Circumstance may very probably have an Effect upon the Conduct of the Council upon the present Occasion.” PCC, item 19, 1:139. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 18th Feby 1779 Your two favors of the 9th & 20th Jany came to hand Yesterday. 1 I do not wonder at your uneasiness on accot. of the scituation of the Curry; I hope what has been done by Congress will have some tendency to reestab lish the credit of it, however something more must be done, & I trust, very shortly will. I am sorry to find Your mind in so gloomy a scituation. “You fear, nothing but peace will save us from destruction”. These my Friend are sentiments calculated for the meridian of Pensylvania. Peace to be sure is desireable but in my Opinion a secondary Object, war with all its horrors is preferable to an inglorious peace. I hope we shall never consent to such a peace as will involve posterity in greater evils than we have suffered. I have no doubt but there is vertue enough in the Army to undergo the fatigues of one more campaign. They must be sensible that everything that can be is done for their comfort, & I will undertake to say that the strictest justice will be done them when it is in the power of their Country to do them that justice. I have heard nothing of Genl Sullivans calling for the Militia. 2 He has never intimated any such intentions to Congress nor can I have the least conseption what they can be wanted for at this time. The design of the publication you mention I believe was to conceal the Villany of the publishers. 3 I need say nothing to you of the Characters he endeavours to blacken, you know them to be some of the best that this contest has brought on the stage. The Character he chiefly aims at, 4 America is certainly under very great obligations to: to him we are indebted for every peice of good information we have received from Europe since the commencement of the dispute with Britain. I am well satisfied the publisher wod give all his smugled wealth to recall that per formance but it is too late, he has tho’ without intention given the key by which his base designs will be discovered & I hope public justice will be done. There can be no dependence on the intelligence you get from York, that part respecting the 100 Dollar Bills certainly is not true. By the last accots from Europe American affairs have a much better aspect there than here, the perticulars I have not Liberty at present to communicate, but I f [l]atter myself I shall e’er long have it in my power to give you such intelligence as will dispel those gloom that at present seem to pervade Your mind. But I hope every faculty will be exercised to


[Page 127]
February 19, 1779 93 John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia 19 Feb. 1779 Your very friendly Letters of the 10th Ulto. and 2d & 9th Inst, by Mr. Barclay, gave me Pleasure. 1 Accept my Thanks for these Instances of attention, and be so obliging as now & then to tell me how you do, and what political operations distress or promote the public Weal. The Bill respecting the Council of Revision is a most insidious Measure. I always wished to see their Proceedings published, & think this Circum stance will afford full Justification to that Step. The real Farmers Plan of Finance is so abominably wicked as well as unpolitic, that it ought to be exposed, and the Eyes of the Public turned to the Author. 2 We have no late accounts from Georgia. There is little Reason however to doubt of the Enemy’s being in full possession of it. Large Reinforce ments are ordered & probably gone to Gen. Lincoln. What his Force will on their arrival amount to is uncertain; nor can we be certain that they will be equal to the Recovery of that State. Besides you know militia cannot be kept long in the field. We are under no great apprehensions for South Carolina, tho several Circumstances render it vulnerable. The Enemy possess St. Lucia. What further Events have happened in the W. Indies is a Subject on which we have no Information. Mr. Duane promises to prepare a joint Letter for the Delegates to you, & I imagine it will be ready in the Morning. Lest it should not, it may be proper to inform you that all the Departments are placed under the im mediate Direction of Gen. Washington, & therefore that Provision for the Security of the Frontiers falls within the Line of his Duty & Authority. Pennsylvania is under similar Circumstances with you, & will equally demand & be referred to his Care and Protection. His Respect for New York, & the personal Regard he assures me, he entertains for the Gover nor, will I am persuaded unite with other more general Considerations in drawing his Attention to your Exigences and affording the State all the Security in his Power to give. The Scarcity of Bread in the East & South is become a serious Subject, and I hope Care will be taken to prevent so great a Calamity in New York. Give while you have to spare, but Regard to self Preservation ought to set Bounds even to Acts of Benevolence. One of our Frigates has sent a fine armed Vessel of 16 Guns into Boston. The Coast from Delaware to Chesspeake is extremely infested by Priva teers from the City of New York. The Merchants here are preparing to protect their Trade by fitting out armed Vessels for the Purpose. This State is immersed in politics & perplexity, the opposition to the Constitution is respectable & formidable. The Presidents want of Temper & Prudence has injured him. The public Papers will give you more Infor mation on this Subject. Arnold is hard run by them.


[Page 130]
96 February 19, 1779 have occasion for any minutes of Congress that are not directed to be kept secret, on the least hint to me, they will be immediately furnished. I am, Sr., Your obedient humble Servt, Chas Thomson RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 In its campaign against Benedict Arnold, the Pennsylvania Council, believing itself par ticularly aggrieved, was seeking information on how Congress had treated previous cases when states had complained of the conduct of Continental officers. For Reed’s February 19 letter to President Jay requesting copies of Congress’ proceedings against James Nicholson “on complaint of Governor Johnson of Maryland,” against Edward Carrington on com plaint ofVirginia, and against William Maxwell on complaint of New Jersey, see PCC, item 69, 1:613-14; and JCC, 13:207-8. For the cases of Nicholson, Carrington, and Maxwell respectively, see these Letters, 6:683n, 8:84n.4; and^/CC, 12:1255, 13:23-24, 129. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir Philad. 20th Feby 1779 Accept my Thanks for your Excellency’s favour of the 2d Instant. 1 I wish I had time to make my Correspondence either interesting or amus ing; but it has fallen to my Lot to be involved in a greater Share of Business than I can discharge with any Degree of Correctness or punctu ality. It was but within a few days that we learnd that the Maps and papers concerning the Claims of the Revolters from our State were in Mr. G Morris’s hand. I came from Fishkill with Information and a strong Per suasion that they remaind in the Secretary’s office. On all Accounts it is a favorable Juncture to settle the dispute with these male-contents, and I flatter myself that Congress will do what is right & for the general Inter est: They certainly owe it to us as an Act of Justice setting Policy out of the Question: for some of their own Acts and much more the Conduct of two of their Generals have served to enflame the Ambition of the Revolt ers and flatter them that the Seperation was not disagreeable to the high est Power. The Acts of Individuals have gone still further: I trust however that all these Projects will be baffled by Right and Truth. Our Finances are in a delicate & difficult situation. I hope however that we shall be able to restore the publick Credit in spite of the malice of our Enemies and the Avarice of our Citizens. I am pleasd to find a free Spirit of Enquiry in your news papers. We shall be happy in receiving Informa tion: & I woud be far from discouraging those whose literary labours are employd in so interesting a Subject. And yet it seems strange that the real farmer 2 has never stopped to ask himself whether any Man woud touch Continental money after it had been taxed 25 per Cent; or even a fifth of that Sum!, By the Authority of Congress: To say nothing of the arbitrary assumption of power which must be implied in such an Act. Congress have a Right to call on the States for Contribution: but the mode of Taxation rests solely with their seperate Legislatures. I do not despair but


[Page 132]
98 February 20, 1779 ate Care, and Congress have the most unlimited Confidence in his Wis dom & Judgement as well As his Zeal and Integrity. Congress I believe wish to give all his Operations what none have had hitherto, the advan tage of Secrecy: for which Reason they have not been the subject of debate, & I fancy you are one of a very few with whom they are entrusted. I do not say this on account of Caution: to you it is unnecessary. I have Reason to think the General while attending Congress, or rather a Select Committee of five, expressed to many Members his Reluctance at your quitting the Army, I wished it coud be prevented. 2 No motion has how ever been made, & when it is I am apt to think it will depend on your Friends to turn the Scale. You will have a strong advocate in R. H. L. who took his seat this day. 3 You breath the Spirit of our Friend Mrs Schuy ler—you pant for Retirement and private Life. She takes the advantage of me but tell her it will be owing to my own free Act if she is gratified: & that I am so far from having consented to gratify her: that it is more than probable I shall strive to disappoint her. I have no News to communicate. Make my respectful Compliments to the aforsaid Lady and the whole Circle of our Friends—and believe me to be—with very great Esteem, Dear Sir, Your affectionate & most Obedient Servant. Jas. Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 That is, George Washington. 2 For discussion of Schuyler’s resignation, see Duane to Schuyler, January 3; and John Jay to Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 1. 3 Duane’s suggestion that Schuyler would now have “a strong advocate” in Richard Henry Lee, a zealous supporter of Schuyler’s longtime rival Horatio Gates, is doubtless intended facetiously. The inference may be that Lee would simply prefer to keep Schuyler in the army to prevent his return to Congress. John Fell’s Diary Saturday Feby 20th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Letter from John Hart, relating to his Loss by Cloth taken from his fulling Mill, Committee of 3, Vizt. Dyer, Hill & Weatherspoon. Letter from Capt. Hector McNeal to be considered on Tuesday. Memorial of Lucy De Pasey. 1 Board of Warr do from Capt Celleron, to have a Brevet for the Rank of Major. No. Motion to allow him 1000 Ds. agreed Ay. Petition from Timothy Pening 2 to send a Vessell to Jamaica referrd to a Committee vizt. Adams, Dyer, & Collins. Report read about the Convention Troops in Virginia. 2 Auditors appointed for the Army, vizt. Varley and Powell. 3 Motion for Pay Master and Trea surer for the Marine Board, deferrd. Motion for 100,000 Ds for the Com mercial Committee. Motion for the Officers to be furnished by the Quar ter Master, with Portmantuas, and Valances at the Publick Expence.


[Page 133]
February 20, 1779 99 MS (DLC). 1 The February 18 memorial of Louis de Passem, “major of the regiment of Hesse Hanau” on parole from the Convention Army, who was seeking permission to return to Germany to recover from his injuries, is in PCC, item 41, 8:70-72. JCC, 13:214. 2 That is, Timothy Penny. JCC, 13:217. 3 Felix Warley and Alexander Fowler were elected auditors of the army this day. JCC, 13:217. William Floyd to George Clinton S’ r, Philadelphia Feb. 20th 1779. The money which I Rec’d as of our Treasurer for the purpose of Bear ing my Expences here, happened to be mostly of the two Emitions which were put out of Circulation about the time I arrived here. Some of it I have Changed, the Rest I cannot, without a Loss of ten per Cent, and God knows I am not in Circumstances to put it on Interest; therefore, I Enclose it to your Excellency, and Beg you would Desire Mr. Benson to give it to the Treasurer that he may make a memorandum on the back of my Receipt; there is 568 Doll’s. I Shall be under a Necessity (Contrary to my Inclination), to get from the Continental Treasury Some money on the Credit of our State to Bear my Expences. Our necessary Expence here is far beyond any thing I had an Idea of. As I Doubt not, you will be well Informed of Every thing that is passing at this place by my Brother Delegates, I Shall at this time, only Enclose a paper of this day’s date and Conclude with Saying that I am with the Greatest Respect S’r your most obed’t and humble Serv’t Wm. Floyd. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:584. Francis Lewis to George Clinton Dear Sir, Phila. 20th Febry. 1779. I have been honoured with your letter of the 1st Instant. You will undoubtedly ere this reaches you hear the current bruit of the present time, i. e. that Congress are possessed of great news received from Europe but for reasons of State, think it improper at this time to be devulged; this has raised the curiosity of the public to know what the mighty Secret is. As a member of Congress I am enjoined to Secrecy, but think myself at liberty to communicate to your Excellency (in confidence) that Mons’r Gerrard has given Congress such intelligence as will put our affairs upon a more respectable footing than ever, but then it will be necessary that we exert ourselves in our military appearances, but above all in our unanimity, for the only hope Britain has now left, is to divide us.


[Page 138]
104 February 21, 1779 Peace & Independence (and I do not despair of either if we continue firm & prudent) Virginia will be the Market to which all the States to the eastward of Pensylvania will immediately apply. The Governor & Council are vested with Powers to dispose of the Con vention Troops as the Necessity of the Case may require. The 11th & 12th Articles of the Treaty of Paris are given up by France. 1 It is impossible for a Nation to act with more Disinterestedness; and every Day affords us fresh proofs of her Friendship. Whilst I know this, I cannot but feel an Indignation against the Conduct of those little Politicians (not to say worse of them) who know not how to distinguish between the Nation & a few individuals of the Nation; and who are so much under the Influence of Folly & Prejudice, that, when Harmony with that Nation is essentially necessary to our Safety, they are daily sowing the Seeds of universal Disgust. I beg that the People of Virginia will not think that the Disputes of Messrs. Lee & Deane can be attended with any Serious Consequences to these United States. Believe me they would not deserve the serious Atten tion of a Moment if they did not interrupt the Business which is of more Importance. 2 I beg you to present my respectful Compliments to your Lady & be- leive [me], yr. affe. hble Servt. Meriwether Smith RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For the comte de Vergennes’ declaration, dated September 1, 1778, that Louis XVI “consents to the suppression of the eleventh and twelfth articles” of the Franco-American treaty of commerce, in accordance with a request made to him by Congress, see JCC, 11:461-62; and PCC, item 105, fols. 120-26. See also these Letters, 9:659-60. This declara tion was enclosed in a November 7, 1778, letter from the commissioners at Paris that was read in Congress on February 24. See JCC, 13:245; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:699, 830. 2 This judgment is a curious one in light of Smith’s own considerable contributions to efforts to embarrass the Lees when opportunities arose. See Smith to the Public, March 9, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Monday Feby 22d. 1779. Rains. Commercial Committee. Congress. Letters from A Lee at Paris. 1 Letter from Wm Bingham Agent at Martinico Per the Revenge Cutter 2 wth. One Case of Tea & 50 Chests of Arms. Long debate abt the Forign Committee. A Lee, beleives the British Commissioners have orders to ac knowledge Our Independcy. 3 MS (DLC). 1 Fell had apparently confused letters from Arthur and William Lee. In fact, Congress this day read William Lee’s September 12 and 21, 1778, letters with a draft treaty between the United States and the United Provinces and submitted them to the “committee on the letters lately received from A. Lee.” JCC, 13:219-35.


[Page 139]
February 23, 1779 105 2 Probably William Bingham’s January 27, 1779, letter to the Committee of Commerce, which is in the Continental Congress Miscellany, DLC. 3 Since this information was discussed in William Lee’s September 12 letter, Fell appar ently confused Arthur with William in this portion of his entry also. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 22nd Feby. 1779 I am this moment honored with Your Excellency’s Favor of the 19th Inst. It shall, with the Papers enclosed, be communicated to Congress this Morning, & their Orders on the Subject immediately transmitted to You. 1 Your Excellency will find herewith enclosed Copies of two Acts of Con gress, of the 20th Inst: One respecting Brigr. General McIntosh, & the Proceedings of a Court Martial held by his Order 2 —The other relates to supplying the Officers with Portmanteaus &c. 3 By a Vessel, which arrived yesterday in fourteen days from Martinico, the Minister of France received a Letter; he has been so obliging as to favor me with the enclosed Extract from it. 4 I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient & hble servt, John Jay. Presidt RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston, with compli mentary close and signature by Jay. ■Washington’s February 19 letter to Jay is in PCC, item 152, 7:111, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:134. For the “Papers enclosed,” see Jay to Charles Lee, February 23, 1779, note. \JCC, 13:213. For the disposition of the proceedings pertaining to the court-martial of deputy quartermaster Col. Archibald Steel ordered by Gen. Lachlan McIntosh at Fort Pitt, see Jay to Washington, April 12, note 4; and Jay to Washington, April 25, 1779, note 2. McIntosh explained his decision to court-martial Steel in his letter to Congress of January 11, 1779. PCC, item 162, fols. 280-83. 3 JCC, 13:214-15. 4 Gerard’s informant, who dated his letter “Martinico 27th Jany 1779,” reported that the British were still at St. Lucie but were “paying for their Impudence by the burial of from 12 to 15 Soldiers every day.” Washington Papers, DLC. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday Feby 23d [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters Read. Committee of Conferrance with Mr Gerrard brought in a Report, after long debate agreed to consider on the Report on Thursday in a Committee of the whole House. 6 P.M. Committee on forreign affairs. MS (DLC).


[Page 140]
106 February 23, 1779 John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela. Feby. the 23d. 1779 I am much obliged by your favour of the 20th and its inclosures. I shall read it with much pleasure, as I have a great affection for the Virtue, person and principles of the author. No late advises from Georgia. Letters just received by the Minister inform us that the English are still in possession of St. Lucia. I wish they may be mad enough to hold it some time longer. They will then know and experience, what has always been said of St Lucia, that it is the grave of Europeans. They are very sickly and die from ten to fifteen every Day. The British Fleet is superior to the French, but will not I hope remain as long, as ten sail are daily expected from france. The Deane has taken two prizes one of 16 Guns and 60 Men which is safe arrived at Boston, the other being of little value was burnt at sea. The Marine Committee have ordered four other ships for the protection of the Southern trade. Some of them I hope will soon be there. The Revenge Cutter is just arrived from Martinique. This ship is a curiosity. She has taken 66 prizes and never met with her equal in swift sailing. The Intelligence which Congress has received shall be communicated to you, as soon as I am at Liberty. As you have Correspondents in France, who may favour you with new publications, if you have any others, I should be obliged to you for the perusal. I am Sir with Sincerity and affection, Yrs. J. Henry RC (MdAA: Red Books). John Jay to Charles Lee Sir, Philadelphia 23d Feby. 1779 Under the same Cover with this you will find a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22nd Inst. The Letters alluded to in it are also herewith enclosed. The propriety of the transaction which is the Subject of them may be deemed questionable, Congress therefore have no doubt but that You will explain it. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. JJ. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Unsealed letters for General Lee from friends in New York concerning the negotiation of bills of exchange for hard money had been forwarded to Congress by General Washington. Congress immediately resolved to forward the letters to Lee, but also decided to require an explanation. For Lee’s explanation of this affair, and Congress’ response to his explanation, see JCC, 13:218, 253-55, 259-60; PCC, item 158, 1:133-38, 159-62; and Jay, Papers (Mor ris), pp. 564-66. When Lee’s initial request was received, opponents attempted to embarrass


[Page 145]
February 27, 1779 111 John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 26th Feby. 1779. Your Excellency will receive enclosed with this Letter Copies of two Acts of Congress, one of the 18th Inst, establishing Regulations for the Department of Inspector General 1 —The other of the 25th respecting the Defence of the Western Frontiers, with the Applications of Connecticut, New York, and Pennsylvania to Congress on that Subject. 2 I have the Honor to be Sir, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excelly’s most Obedt. & Hble Servt. J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 13:196-200. Jay also enclosed Congress’ “Plan for the Department of Inspector General” in a brief letter of transmittal to Baron Steuben this day. PCC, item 14, fol. 54-55. 2 JCC, 13:251-52. In his March 3 response to Jay acknowledging receipt of these “Appli cations,” Washington reported that “A plan of offensive operations for the effectual relief of the Western frontier has been some time since determined upon and preparations are mak ing in consequence.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:180. For a discussion of the evolution of Washington’s plans for offensive operations on the New York-Pennsylvania frontier, see Freeman, Washington, 5:97-98. See also Daniel Roberdeau to John Bayard, February 16; and New York Delegates to George Clinton, February 19, 1779. Samuel Adams to Mercy Scollay My dear Friend Philada. Feby 27, 1779 I felt my self so much interrested in the Subject of your Letter of the 28th of January, that I should have immediately answerd it, if it had been in my Power. When I receivd it, General Arnold was absent from the City on a Journey; and when he returnd, I was confind to my Chamber by bodily Indisposition, which has been my Lot several Times this Winter. I have since waited on him. He informd me that he had written to you. I thankd him in your Name for the Kindness he had shown to the Children of our deceasd Friend. 1 I assured him they were in good Hands and that he might fully confide in your Care of them. He mentiond them with so much Tenderness, that I am led to think they will reap still further Benefit from his Generosity. For the “benevolent Exertions” of this Gentleman, you are “beholden” to Him, who provides for the fatherless Children. He, by a secret Influence, directs the charitable Hand to particular Objects. It does not, however, lessen the Debt of Gratitude to those, whose Hearts are touched with the Necessities of the meritorious, and whose Purses are open for their Reliefe. May Heaven graciously reward the Benefactors of these orphans! While Providence affords you the Opportunity, you will instill into their young Minds the Principles of Piety and Virtue, and thereby lay a Foundation for their being hereafter useful and happy.


[Page 150]
116 February 27, 1779 education, and among those who know the real value of such perfor mances, the reputation of a virtuous citizen will not suffer more from the scurrility of a news-paper, than from the nervous diction of an oyster wench. The licentiousness exhibited on these occasions, demonstrates the existence of liberty, which is a pleasing consideration to those who have a value for it. And altho’ such productions may offend individuals, yet they are not without use to society, in like manner as the blasts of winter tho’ keen are wholesome. We may further deduce from it the falacy or rather falsity of what was once a favorite position among you, that people did not dare to utter their sentiments, neither is it unworthy of your attention that the various attacks upon Congress have not drawn the least notice from that body. From hence it is to be concluded that they have a well founded confidence in themselves, for did the shaft stick, it would make the body sore. And nothing is truer than this, that little minds are more resentful than great ones, and truth more resented than falsehood. From some acquaintance and good information I will venture to add, that the present Congress considered in the double view of abilities and integrity is at least as respectable as any which hath yet been assembled. Let it not be con cluded from this, that I conceive the individuals of that body to be of a superior nature. They like other men are subject to passions, prejudices, weaknesses and the influence of the elements, and since the Deity chose one Judas among twelve disciples, it cannot be wondered at if among a much greater number some few should be charged with peculiar pravity. But this by no means militates against the general observation. To say there are divisions in Congress is only saying in other words that it is a popular Assembly. Different views of the same subject naturally lead men to differ in sentiments. Personal connections excite personal emotions, and the conflict of such emotions sometimes produces personal altercation. The heats inevitable on such occasions seldom evaporate within the walls of one house, but stimulate to bitter observations easily credited, because they flatter a self-importance which is uneasy at any kind of superiority. Perhaps you will ask how it happens that such things did not exist formerly? They did; but the public dangers and distresses taught men to keep more secret those things which they readily divulge in an hour of greater security. The appearance of such divisions therefore in personal matters are striking marks of national prosperity, and you will find, that however the members of Congress may disagree about who shall be in and who shall be out, they will be firmly united in refusing to accept the independance Great-Britain is about to offer, and insist on a clear, explicit and pointed acknowledgment of it in the most extensive sense previous to any treaty whatsoever. For what regards the dispute between the Executive Council of this State and Congress it is, as far as your views may be served by it, the most trifling of all trifling things. Stimulated by a laudable zeal to discover public abuses, their suspicions were turned on one to whose gallantry America is much indebted. Greatness and weakness are sometimes nearly


[Page 151]
February 27, 1779 117 allied. That spirit which carried him in triumph over the fields of honor, induced a want of respect for Magistrates to whom he did not deem himself accountable. Charity bids us believe that conscious innocence in spired an elevation which he would not have felt under the pressure of guilt. Perhaps also it was regard to the privileges of his brother soldiers which rejected submission to other than a military tribunal, when his conduct as an officer was arraigned. These and many other reasons doubt less suggested themselves to the Council, and had they been at liberty to obey those dispassionate sentiments which embellish their high office, his refusal might perhaps have been disregarded. But on the one hand attach ment to the interests of America, and on the other divisions in their state and doubts about their authority, which naturally rendered them more jealous of it than those to whom dignity and power are familiarized, these motives would not permit a moment delay in pursuing the interests and vindicating the majesty of the people. Perhaps there may have been some little personalities concerned, tho’ the reverence which is due to the Su preme Executive of an independent State, opposes the idea. But be this as it may, Congress seems to have viewed the matter somewhat differently from the State. Conscious of possessing the love and respect of their coun trymen in arms as well as of others, they were not open to angry impres sions, which indeed are of little use either in public or private life. Affec tion also for an army which hath served them so faithfully, so generously, might raise some prejudice in favor of it’s members; as an indulgent par ent smiles at the petulant vivacity of a favorite child. They did not there fore catch the resentments of the Council, and tho’ determined to support the authority of a State, they were not eager to blemish the reputation of a worthy soldier. The Council probably influenced by good reasons which they will undoubtedly declare at a proper time, came to certain resolu tions which they have published and transmitted to the several States. But this little feverish ebullition, and the ridicule which many have attemted to cast upon it, can do no good to you. The Assembly of Pennsylvania which by their constitution is of real importance, acts in perfect harmony with the Congress. And depend upon it, whatever your leaders may flatter you with, the Whigs of Pennsylvania will not engage in any dispute with the representative body of America to the prejudice either of the acknowl edged rights of that body, or of the privileges of those brave citizens who have drawn their swords in the cause of Freedom. And even if any such dispute should exist, can you suppose, that in case of necessity, the President of that State would hesitate a moment to head his militia? That he would not instantly take the field with his wonted alacrity? That he would not fight under the banners of America with his former zeal? Those who know him know better. It would be equally ab surd for you to suppose that the Council are disposed to promote public divisions, in order to favor the negotiations of the enemy. Do not dwell on the mysteriousness in Doctor Berkenhout’s affair. It is nothing new that an


[Page 152]
118 February 27, 1779 artful man should impose upon the unsuspicious. Honesty and knowledge are very different things, and of the two the former is the most amiable. As little ground have you for hope in the depreciation of the Continen tal money. You know that this is in a great degree to be attributed to the arts of interested men whose efforts to acquire it shew their conviction of it’s value. I know it hath been a fashionable doctrine, that after the emis sions should amount to a certain sum, the bubble, as the phrase was, would burst. But the absurdity of this to men acquainted with human nature was evident. The reasons are needless, because we may appeal to experience to shew whether there is the least danger of this event. When two emissions were called in, and every method, consistent with justice and good faith, taken to stop their circulation; those who had principally contributed to depreciate the money were the very persons who continued to receive the vicious emissions. For as soon as it became a question, whether they should lose not the value, but merely the use of so much money, they made every effort to uphold the credit of it. A few days ago, when a report prevailed of the arrivals of some favorable intelligence from Europe, such of you as are in this city cannot but remember the rapid fall of every article, specie not excepted. Hence the deduction is clear that the money issued by Congress is intrinsically worth what they contend, but is depreciated by the quantity in some degree, and more by the arts of engrossers. Take the familiar proposition, that a country will easily bear taxation to the amount of some given part of the circulating medium, suppose a tenth, tho’ in fact one fifth may be raised among a free people, and you will see that, let the paper medium be increased to any degree, it may be sunk in a short period. Not pretending to great knowledge of national secrets, and little desir ous of communicating whatever of this kind it hath fallen to my lot to know, I shall reason with you on these things as I have reasoned for myself, and I trust the event will verify my conclusions. And first I con sider it to be manifestly the interest of every Court in Europe to foster our independence because it is in effect the dividing a great empire, whose power was formidable, and whose insolence was insupportable. Beginning with Russia; iron, potash and such other commodities as that country produces in common with this, will now have equal advantages at the London market, because no bounties will in future be granted by Parliament to the produce of these States. Sailcloth and the other articles produced there and consumed here will come hither directly from thence, and in direct return they will take our rice and tobacco, the commercial advantages of which are evident, not to mention the increase of naval force they may expect from it. Add to these solid reasons of national interest the personal character of the Empress. This is strongly marked by benevolence and the love of that fame which results from contributing to the happiness of mankind, a disposition evidenced by giving to her sub jects all the liberty they are at present capable of. These considerations will naturally lead you to the answer filled with disdain which she gave to a proposal of the British Ambassador requesting her troops to subdue us.


[Page 153]
February 27, 1779 119 “My glory shall never be tarnished by the infamy of oppressing those who only contend for freedom and justice.” They will also account for her refusal to accede to subsequent propositions from our enemies the most disgraceful to them as well as apparently advantageous to her. The spirit of the State reasons abovementioned applies generally all the Northern Courts, and it must be observed that the lesser will be very cautious how they contravene the veiws of the greater. As to Denmark her imbecility is the best possible reason why she should not side with the weaker party, especially when she holds the little of her West-India pos sessions as a tenant at will to the maritime powers. Sweden, the faithful ally of France, if she acts at all, will certainly take part in our favour, and with twenty ships of the line ready at a moment’s warning, is in capacity to afford us no inconsiderable aid. Prussia and Austria, equally desirous of becoming maritime powers, equally desirous to obtain for that purpose a share of the American com merce, and actually at war with each other, will neither of them be willing to send force against America. Nor will the smaller German Powers dare to weaken their dominions, by the loss of a single soldier, whilst the Em peror and King of Prussia are armed in motion, and in capacity to swal low them up. Of the United Netherlands and Italy nothing need be said, unless that at least a strict neutrality may be depended on from them; the reasons of which are too obvious. France is already at war with Great-Britain for American Indepen dence; and those who know the connection between the Courts of Ver sailles and Madrid, their enmity to that of St. James’s, and their national interests, cannot but perceive that Spain will soon be joined in this contest, unless it be terminated agreeably to our wishes. Hence then it is evident, either that we shall immediately conclude a safe and honorable peace, or that Great-Britain must carry on the war alone, and unsupported against France, Spain and America, in which case the two former will give every aid in their power, to our trade and fi nances, so that on the whole no well founded doubt can exist, that the Continental currency will rise greatly in its value, and that the indepen dence and safety of America will be established on the firmest foundation. Convinced as you must be of these things, what ought your conduct to be? You cannot pretend to plead conscience on this occasion, because the success of our measures being apparent, it is on your own principles the will of God, to which you are conscientiously bound to conform. If you oppose your countrymen you may indeed incourage the enemy, and thereby lengthen out the contest, in which case you yourselves shall deter mine, whether you will not in some degree be answerable for the conse quences. You have seen enough of war to wish a termination of it. You have sense enough to perceive that you can live happily under those governments which you wished in vain to prevent. You ought to fear that if the enemy perform their threats of wasting our country, your persons


[Page 154]
120 February 27, 1779 may become obnoxious to the vengeance of your fellow-citizens, and your estates be applied to compensate the ravages committed on theirs. Take then the counsel which I again declare to you is dictated by humanity. I wish sincerely the happiness of all mankind. I wish sincerely the prosperity and glory of the United States. And as sincerely I wish for peace. May Heaven grant it to us, to you and to all. an American MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, February 27, 1779. 1 Almost certainly Gouverneur Morris, who wrote several letters for Pennsylvania newspa pers in 1778 and 1779 over the pseudonym “An American.” He apparently wrote this article to quiet public alarm over divisions within Congress and between Congress and certain states, as well as in response to information contained in William Lee’s recently received September 12, 1778, letter to Congress “that orders have already been sent to [Great Brit ain’s] commissioners in America to acknowledge our independance if nothing else will an swer, in order to commence a treaty and make peace.” In an apparent allusion to the former motive, Morris later explained to Joseph Reed that “My object was to prevent our Friends from being alarmed and our Enemies encouraged by Appearances of Disunion.” See JCC, 13:219; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:715; and Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed, April 9, 1779. Morris evidently feared that reports of impending peace negotiations and recognition of American independence would lessen support for the war and fuel sentiment for a separate peace with Great Britain—a constant concern of the French minister Conrad Alexandre Gerard, who considered himself a close collaborator of Gouverneur Morris. And since Con gress was simultaneously in the midst of reviewing the conduct of its overseas commissioners and establishing its peace ultimata, the subject was both timely and exceedingly delicate. Gerard manifested his interest in the essay by sending a copy of it to Paris, with several passages underlined, because, as he explained in a March 1 letter to the comte de Vergennes, he believed they were important “pour connoitre L’etat des affaires en Amerique.” Meng, Gerard Despatches, p. 548. Having ventured into the propaganda war then raging in the Philadelphia newspapers, exhorting Americans to stand firm against Britain’s assault on their independence, Morris quickly found himself under attack, for two letters denouncing him, published over the signatures “T.G.” and “Common Sense,” were printed on March 2 in the next issue of the Packet. For additional information on the response of “T.G.,” who attacked not only Morris but also his “late colleague, William Duer,” see William Duer’s Statement, March 9, 1779, printed below. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry My Dear Sir: Phila., Feb’y 28, 1779. I arrived here on the 19th, thro the worst roads that I ever travelled over. I find business of faction here pretty much at an end by the thorough exposure of its author, Mr. Silas Deane, who, if I am rightly informed, regrets extremely his publication of December the 5th. But be this as it may, he has certainly gained nothing by it here in the public opinion. I inform you with pleasure Sir, that the King of France has formally agreed to rescind the 11th and 12th articles of the treaty of Commerce, 1 so that now, the only unequal parts being removed, it rests upon the liberal ground of fair equality in every part. We are certainly indebted to Dr.


[Page 155]
February 28, 1779 121 Lee’s attention for this beneficial alteration, for which the honest voice of posterity will indubitably thank him when the poison of wicked faction shall cease to operate. The King of the two Sicilys has opened his ports to the vessels of the United States, 2 which is a good omen of Spanish attach ment to our cause. Indeed we have abundant reason to believe that Great Britain will not get assistance from any power in Europe to carry on the war against us, and already our good Ally has made great havoc among the Privateers and with the trade of our enemies. We hear that 7000 British Seamen are now prisoners in the jails of old France. Notwithstand ing these favorable appearances it certainly behooves us to get a strong army in the field, as the enemy have yet here a strength sufficient to do much mischief if they are not properly opposed. From the best accounts that I can collect, it appears that they have not less than 11,000 men at New York and Rhode Island. Yesterday accounts from Jersey told us the enemy had landed at Elizabeth Town, and had burned Gov. Livingston’s house, and were advancing into the country. Our army was preparing to resist them, and if they do not quickly return I hope we shall give a good account of them. The enemy have published some curious letters of Mr. Braxton’s which they have intercepted. I am informed they will be repub lished here, and when they are I will send you the paper. 3 I am with much esteem, dear Sir, affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee. P. S.—The enemies attempt upon Gen. Maxwell in the Jersies has turned out to our honour and their disgrace. Instead of surprising Gen. Maxwell, they themselves were surprised by his being prepared. The enemy were forced to retire with loss and disgrace, and without burning Livingston’s house. March 2. R. H. Lee. MS not found; reprinted from Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:227-28. 1 See Meriwether Smith to John Page, February 21, 1779, note 1. 2 In his October 19, 1778, letter to the committee for foreign affairs, Arthur Lee had reported that “The King of Naples and Sicily has declared to us in form, by his ambassador here, that his ports are open to all Vessels belonging to the United States.” See PCC, item 83, 1:345-48; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:800-801. 3 For further information about these “curious letters” and the controversy that ensued, see Meriwether Smith to the Public, March 9, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen February 28th. 1779 We send you by the bearer hereof Captain Ephm. Bill Five hundred Thousand Dollars agreeable to his receipt enclosed. This sum we expect will enable you to discharge the present demands on your Department and will answer to give despatch in fitting for Sea all the Vessels that are


[Page 158]
124 February-March ? 1779 dissatisfaction in the Army but on the contrary that they are well sup plied, indeed the Officers complain that their pay will not support them, but there are but very few resignations on that accot.—provisions are very scarce & very dear but the Army have a sufficiency. I hope the genl. Court in their next session will choose Delegates for it will be of great importance that the state shod be represented in Congress the insuing summer, my Colleague is determined to go home early in Api and it will be impossible for me to tarry the summer. I am Your affect. Friend &c, Wm. Whipple [P.S.] Observations on the American Revolution by a Committee of Con gress 2 is just come from the Press it being too bulkey to go through the Post office. I shall send you one by the first oppory. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Bartlett’s January 28 letter to Whipple is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 239-41. 2 See Whipple to Bartlett, February 7, 1779, note 4. Richard Henry Lee’s Draft Report on Silas Deane [February-March? 1779] The Committee appointed to consider &c beg leave to make the follow ing report. It appears to your Committee that Mr. Deane did engage in private Commerce at the time that he was employed in the public business and having the direction of public monies. That altho it does not appear in proof that public funds were applied to private purposes as yet a variety of circumstances support the conjecture. That Mr. Deanes accounts for the expenditure of 37 Livres 2 have not yet been settled. That in the opinion of your Committee it is proper that Mr. Deane should be called upon to make such settlement before the Continental Commissioners of accounts. That as Mr. Deane proposes to embark for a foreign Country, it is proper that he should, previous to his departure, give bond with sufficient security to repay the public whatever ballance may hereafter appear to be due to the United States. That it appears by letters of the Secret Committee to Mr. Hodge dated 3 that he was directed to purchase, fit out, and send to America, two well Armed Cutters loaded with Stores for the public use, and he was to lay his instructions before Silas Deane Esqr. and follow his advice in the execution. That these Cutters were not sent to America with Stores as directed but being purchased & fitted out in public and private partner ship of which Partners Mr. Deane was one, they were sent to cruise for Prizes on the Coasts of England and Spain contrary to the sence of Con gress and the desires of the Court of France. That these Cruises produced disagreable consequences both in France & Spain.


[Page 160]
126 February-March ? 1779 out, if in their power to do it armed Cruisers from France to annoy the British Trade in Europe, and blank Commissions were sent for this purpose.” See the Secret Committee’s letter to Mr. Hodge 2 and observe how totally and expressly different it is from the State here given by Mr. Deane. See also the express condition on which alone Congress agree that armed Vessels shall be fitted out in France, by their resolve on this subject at Baltimore first of 1777, 3 immediately transmitted to the Commissioners. The business of Cuninghame is expressly opposed to the directions of the Committee, to the resolve of Congress and to the repeated injunctions of the Court of France. But Cuninghames affair was a Job of mixed public & private concern for the benefit chiefly of the latter. See Mr. Hodges letter where he says Mr. Deane was a third part concerned in this Cutter of Cun- ninghames—Thus sacrificing public good & public trust to private views. Observe his praises of Williams and compare it with Rob. Morris’s letter saying Mr. Deane was in partnership with Williams. Also the in closed letter from Williams to Deane proposing leave to draw at pleasure on the Banker at Paris with whom was lodged all the money of the United States in France, and his particular expression “My connections with you being known.” See also in the Commercial Committee, the Vessels as sent by Mr. Williams here with Stores bringing no Charter party, or information by which it might be known what was to be done with the Vessels after they had discharged their Cargoes, and the consequent inconveniences. This does not imply such great ability as Mr. Deane describes—But it seems Mr. Williams was Mr. Deanes partner. MS (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 As Silas Deane’s “narrative” had been read in Congress and submitted to the Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee for examination before Lee returned to Congress on February 20, it seems likely that Lee obtained access to the document from and prepared these notes for one of his allies on the committee, such as Henry Laurens or William Whipple. For specula tion on Lee’s relationship with members of that committee and the context in which he probably prepared these notes, see the preceding entry, note 1. 2 See these Letters, 4:103-5. 3 Lee is apparently referring to the resolution adopted on December 23, 1776, shortly after Congress assembled in Baltimore, authorizing the commissioners “to arm and fit for war any number of vessels not exceeding six, at the expence of the United States, to war upon British property, and that commissions and warrants be for this purpose sent to the Commissioners, provided the Commissioners be well satisfied this measure will not be disagreeable to the court of France.” JCC, 6:1036. John Fell’s Diary Monday March 1st. [1779] Commercial Committee. Letter from Genl. Washington, inclosing one from Genl. Maxwell at Elizabethtown, that the Enemy had left that Place, after a fruitless Incursion. Memorial from Mr Holker offering a Million of Dolls on Loan—Referrd. to Mr. R. H. Lee, Laurens & Morris. 1


[Page 161]
March 1, 1779 127 Committee of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, desire a Conferrence with a Committee of Congress, relating to the Emitions call’d out of Circulation, Gerry, Carmichael, Duane. 2 Motion for the Committee to whom was Referrd the Letters & Papers, from President Reed, &c be Requir’d to send and Examine on Oath Mr Mitchell D Q M General respecting the Waggons, said to be employd Per Genl Arnold. 3 Congress went in to a Committee of the whole House, Respecting the fixing the Bounderies of the United States. MS (DLC). 1 See JCC, 13:260-62. Jean Holker’s February 27 letter to President Jay and the memorial he enclosed with it “respecting it’s [Congress’] finances & a proposition of a loan which I have in my power to make,” are in PCC, item 96, fols. 223, 233-44. For numerous letters and accounts detailing his financial speculations, including a later explanation of this pro posed loan—“Observes on Mr. Morris’s State of Facts”—see the Jean Holker Papers, DLC. Meriwether Smith, rather than Gouverneur Morris, was the third member appointed this day. Morris and William Carmichael were added to the committee on March 20. JCC, 13:344-45. 2 JCC, 13:262. The committee of the Pennsylvania Assembly that met with William Car michael, James Duane, and Elbridge Gerry, reported to the assembly on March 3 that Congress had pledged to issue $500,000 to loan office commissioner Thomas Smith to facili tate withdrawing “the emissions of continental money ordered to be taken out of circula tion.” Minutes of the Second Sitting of the Third General Assembly of the Commonwealth of Pennsylva nia, DLC(ESR), pp. 71-72. 3 See William Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 1st March 1779. Altho I have no Important Intelligence to communicate, or Leisure to write long Letters, yet cannot omit this opportunity of sending to you the news Papers, and telling you I am well. A vessel with a valuable Cargo is just arrived at Baltimore. Whether she brings any & what advices from France I am yet uninformed. My next will be more particular. My best Respects to Mrs. Clinton. I am dear Sir Your Friend & Serv’t, John Jay. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:598. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, March 1st. 1779 Your Favor of Feb. 16 was delivered to me the 27th by Doctr. Craigie. The Picture you draw of your Situation is singularly mortifying to me both as your Friend and as a Bostonian. I hope the Affair of Flour is in some sort of Train for the replenishing of the public Magazines and for the


[Page 166]
132 March 2, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Tuesday March 2d. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Some Letters read, and a Memorial from the Board of Warr, about clothing the Army. Report for Raising a Lone in Europe, and the Propriety of Paying Beaumarchies Debt, debated till 4 o Clock. 6 P.M. Attended the Marine Committee (first time). 1 MS (DLC). 1 Fell, Richard Henry Lee, and James Searle had been added to the Marine Committee on February 24.JCC, 13:247. John Jay to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia 2nd March 1779 Agreeable to your Request I have communicated to Congress your proposals on the Subject of your Office, on which they have not as yet taken any Order. 1 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 20th Feby. regulating the Supplies of Portmanteaus & Valaises to the Officers of the Army. 2 I am Sir with great Respect, Your most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In a letter of February 1, Greene had explained that the quartermaster department frequently encountered claims from persons who had suffered damages at the hands of the army, either by “the taking of such Articles on sudden Emergencies as the Army may stand in need of” or by “that kind of Trespass on private property which Armies in all Countries commit.” Thus he recommended that Congress appoint “certain Commissioners of proper Character and Abilities” to determine such claims, and his letter had been referred to the committee for superintending the commissary and quartermaster departments. See JCC, 13:133; and PCC, item 155, 1:83-86. The specific recommendation seems to have been lost in the larger concern over a general overhaul of the quartermaster corps and was never acted upon. 2 JCC, 13:214-15. John Jay to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 2d March 1779 Accept my Thanks for your obliging Favor of the 23 Ulto 1 and be pleased to add to the obligation by a Repetition of them. The arrival of a Reinforcement from Rhode Island at New York seems to indicate either another Embarkation to the Southward, or offensive operations in your Quarter. But of military Matters I have too little Knowledge to hazard Conjectures, especially to Persons familiar with that Science.


[Page 173]
March 2, 1779 139 P.S. I had spoken to the Secretary for a copy of the Resn. on supplies but it hath been forgotten and the post being just about to set out will not admit of our waiting for a copy. However you will receive a copy of it through the President. We have obtained a resolution for taking off fifty thousand dollars from our proportion of the tax and putting it on South Carolina since we wrote the paragraph respecting that subject. 2 The Sec retary is so busy that he cannot give us a copy of it. We will send it by the next post. In the meantime the Assembly may proceed on taxation if they should think proper. We write in Congress. Wm. Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 See John Jay to the Massachusetts Council, February 27, 1779. For “the recommenda tion already given,” seen also Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, February 9, 1779, note 1. 2 See JCC, 13:269. William Whipple to Joshua Brackett Mr Dear Sir, Philadelphia 2d. March 1779 I have the Pleasure of Yours of the 2d Feby. You say you have not read all the controversy between Mr. D & C- S—— 1 therefore cannot give your own opinion. You are perfectly right so far, but I hope you will not form an opinion on other Peoples judgment, when better evidence is to be obtained—if you have formed no opinion of Your own, why do You belelve C S has got into a dispute that will be no credit to him? You wish to Know the opinion of Congress respecting Mr. D . It is out of my power to give you a direct answer to that Question at present as the matter has not come to a decision, but this I assure you, that I have never heard a member of that Body pretend to justify him. I do not know on what grounds C S is suspected of being the hierling of a party, I am very confident that is not the case, but in my opinion a Zealous Champion for truth in this instance, its true his Zeal has lead him imprudently to expose some matters which brot Congress to a disagreeable dilemma—but he is by no means chargeable with falsehood in any one instance in the course of his publications respecting D . Prudence at present forbids my giving you my Opinion of the Character last mentioned but I will venture to say he is altogether unworthy to be mentioned with those who he has endeavord to traduce. It gives me pleasure to hear of the arrival of a Cargo of flour &c. I wish you may have many more of the same sort, that article is very scarce & consequently very dear here, I am told the price is 40 dollars and every kind of provision in proportion ‘tho this is owing in some measure to the vicinity of the Army but Principally to the shortness of the last crop. I must refer you to the papers for newes, we have had nothing very material from Europe but daily expect something of importance, the en-


[Page 175]
March 3, 1779 141 Although little information concerning his subsequent attendance survives, an account cov ering his service in Congress dated November 4, 1780, claims compensation for continuous attendance from March 3, 1779, to October 28, 1780, broken down as follows: “From March 3d. 1779 to April 4th. 33 Days at £5 per Day agreeable to a Resolve of the Assembly April 5th. 1779— £165.0. “From April 5th to Nov. 26th. 236 Days at £9.0.0 per Day according a Resolution of the Assembly Oct. 9th. 1779— 2124.0. “From Nov. 27th to May 29th. 1780. 185 Days at £22.10 per Day agree ¬ able to a Resolution of the Assembly Febr. 11th. 1780— 4162.10. “From May 30th to Octob. 28th a.c. 152 Days at £60 per Day according to a Resolution of the Assembly May 30th a.c.— 9120.0. £15571.10.” Gratz Collection, PHi. 2 For further information on the conflict between Pennsylvania and Congress generated by the prize case of the sloop Active, see Committee on Appeals Decree, December 15, 1778; and Committee of Congress to Joseph Reed, January 26, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3d March 1779' The opinion that greater advantage results from communicating im portant Events to the People, in an authentic Manner, than by unautho rized Reports, is certainly just, tho often neglected. 2 The Intelligence alluded to, is unfortunately of such a Nature, or rather so circumstanced, as to render Secrecy necessary. As Congress with the Consent of the Minister of France, have directed it to be communicated to you, further Remarks will be unnecessary. Doctor Witherspoon, who lately returned to Jersey, promised to do it in a personal Conference. 3 A Committee was appointed this Morning to prepare an address to the People on the present State of our Affairs. 4 If properly executed, Benefit may be expected from it. Two Letters, one of the 3d the other of the 6th Deer, from Mr. J. Adams, were delivered to Congress this Morning. 5 They mention no Facts of Importance, but strongly express his apprehensions, founded princi pally on the Kings Speech and the Debates of both Houses on the Subject of it, that great and vigourous military Exertions will be made to reduce us. But whatever Attention may be due to this Gentlemans Suggestions we certainly should remember that to be formidable in the Field, is necessary to be successful in Negotiation. Preparations should, and doubtless will, be made for both; but when is less certain. Delays being annexed and fastened to Modes of Government like our’s. You will oblige me exceedingly by communicating from Time to Time such Hints and Observations as may lead to Measures of public Utility. I shall always be happy in opportunities of being instrumental in extending to the Councils of America, the Influence of those abilities, to which she is endebted for the Reputation of her arms.


[Page 178]
144 March 3, 1779 26, 1779. Useful narratives of Pennsylvania’s prolonged attempt to bring Arnold to justice are available in John F. Roche, Joseph Reed: A Moderate tn the American Revolution (New York: Columbia University Press, 1957), pp. 167-71; Carl Van Doren, Secret History of the American Revolution (New York: Viking Press, 1941), pp. 188-93; and James T. Flexner, The Traitor and the Spy: Benedict Arnold and John Andre (New York: Harcourt, Brace & Co., 1953), pp. 237-59. The Pennsylvania Council ordered the publication of a compilation of documents on this case in Proceedings of the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania in the Case of Major General Arnold (Philadelphia: Hall & Sellers, 1779), item no. 16448, Evans, Am. Bibliography. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Brother Philadelphia 3d March 1779 Your favor of the 1st Ulto came to hand this day, under cover from Mr. Hazard who it seems is prevented by business from persuing his journey to this City. I wish that Gentn may make some amendments in the Post Office, some alteration is certainly necessary, my letters are often 4 weeks & sometimes longer, on the way from Portsmouth. The Resolves of Con gress respecting the Emissions that are called in, speak a language that need no explanation; 1 as they are receivable in the Treasury till the 1st of June they are certainly safe in the possesser’s hands till that time, but he must be careful not to let that day elapse. Such a plan as you mention has been some time on foot. Our Commises. have their instructions for that purpose & I hope their endeavours will be successful. You certainly must be mistaken in Your calculation, I cannot see by what rules of arithmetic you make our debt amot even to a tenth part of the Debt of Britain. The Resolution of Congress does not hold up an idea that the assessment is justly apportioned, that matter is to be settled hereafter & that state which raises more than shall at the adjustment appear to be her just proportion will be allowed interest for the Surplus, therefore the State that raises more than her proportion will have greatly the advantage of those who do not raise so much; as the latter will have to pay & the former to receive interest; besides, if the money appreciates (which I have no doubt of,) the State who collects it now will have a great advantage of those who will have it to Collect at its apreciated value. I therefore hope N.H. will collect at least the sum set to her and as much more as possible, I wish it may be double the Sum. I wish I could acquaint you with the designs of the British Court, but that is out of my power, some are of Opinion that there is a prospect of pease the insuing Summer, but that is an Opinion I can by no means give into, on the contrary I think every effort will be used to effect the distrac tion of America & it is absolutely necessary that we use our utmost exer tions to frustrate their designes, if we act with vigour this Campaign I have no doubt they will give up the point, Dissipation & avarice will then be the only Enemies we shall have to contend with, indeed they are at this time the most Powerful.


[Page 186]
152 March 4, 1779 the wealth of a country might safely be rested upon them. It is a mistake, that exclusive privileges are advantageous. The character of a monopo lizer is as odious, applied to a nation, as it is to a man, and as unprofitable as it is contemptible. But I beg pardon, Sir, for political disquisitions to so refined a politician, and for mentioning the means of peace to one enam oured of war. To the force of necessity; to the embarrassment of your finances; to that wheel of fortune which you wish not to be thrown out of, and whose revolutions will place your country as low in this as she was high in the last war; to these I leave you. When all other views are precluded, then you will see your true interests, and then you will join in a prayer for peace with Your most obedient and humble servant, AN AMERICAN MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, March 11, 1779, where it appears under the heading “For the Pennsylvania Packet. To Governor Johnstone.” 1 Writing over his often-used pseudonym “An American,” Gouverneur Morris wrote this public reply to George Johnstone in response to Johnstone’s November 27, 1778, speech to Parliament explaining the failure of the Carlisle Peace Commission. Extracts from his speech to Parliament had been printed in the Pennsylvania Packet of February 11, 1779, and more extensive extracts were printed in the March 9 issue of that newspaper. The fortunes of George Johnstone and the Carlisle Commission can be traced in many documents printed in volumes 10 and 11 of these Letters. William Paca to George Bryan Sir, 4th March 1779. We are appointed for the Purpose of enquiring into the Grounds of certain Charges against General Arnold contained in a printed Paper purporting to be Resolves of the Executive Council of Pennsylvania and are directed to report the Result of our Enquiries to Congress. 1 Whether Congress will order a Court Martial or not on those Charges will we presume depend on the Evidence we shall be able to report and their Judgment of its Sufficiency. In your’s of the 25th of February you “explicitly declare that the Coun cil is possessed of Evidence to support the Reasons alledged for their Resolves if the Congress chuse to found Charges upon them”. We cannot see the Propriety of the Congress founding Charges upon Allegations the Evidence of which is known to you but not known to them. As to the Delay which you reprobate as unprecedented permit us to observe that fourteen Days have elapsed since our Application to the Executive Council for Assistance in the Execution of our Enquiries which Assistance we have not yet been able to obtain. We mean to close our Enquiries to Morrow Evening: we have directed General Arnold to attend us and we doubt not your Zeal for public Justice


[Page 187]
March 5, 1779 153 will induce you to furnish us by that Time with all the Evidence you are possessed of relative to the Subject of our Enquiry. I have the Honor to be, yr. most Obed. Hble. Sevt. Wm. Paca, Chairman RC (NHi: Joseph Reed Papers). 1 See Daniel Roberdeau to Timothy Matlack, February 6; and Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Friday March 5th 1779. Commercial Committee. Congres. Report from the Board of Warr, Recomend a Mode of Payment, to the Inhabitants, for what has being taken from them Per Officers in the Army agreed to be Publish’d, A Report from a Committee to empower the Commander in Chief, to setle a Cartel with the British General for the Exchange of Prisoners, for the Convention Troops, or others as he may Judge Best. A number of Letters Received &c. 6 P.M. Marine Committee. £62456’ MS (DLC). 1 The meaning of these figures has not been discovered. John Jay to Anthony Benezet Sir Philadelphia, 5 March 1779 Agreable to the Request contained in your favor of the 2d Ult. I have perused the Pamphlet you was so obliging as to send me. 1 The Benevo lence by which the Author appears to have been influenced, does him Credit, and tho I cannot subscribe to all his opinions, many of his Senti ments are liberal and merit Commendation. Civil and religious Liberty is a Blessing which I sincerely wish to all mankind; and I hope it will ever be the policy of these States so to extend and secure it to all their Citizens, as that none may have Reason to complain of Partiality or Oppression. Your favorable Opinion of me, and kind wishes for my welfare demand my Acknowledgement. I am Sir your Friend and Servant. FC (NNC: Jay Papers). In the hand of John Jay. 1 For Benezet’s February 2 letter, enclosing his pamphlet Serious Considerations on Several Important Subjects; Viz. On War and Its Inconsistency with the Gospel. Observations on Slavery. And Remarks on the Nature and Bad Effects of Spirituous Liquors, see Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 544-45. For the pamphlet, see Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15,737. Anthony Benezet (1713-84), a Philadelphia Quaker of French Huguenot descent, was an educator and reformer who be came Pennsylvania’s leading antislavery crusader, a cause to which Jay himself later became actively devoted. DAB.


[Page 188]
154 March 5, 1779 John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 5th March 1779. By the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 26th Ulto. your Excellency will perceive the distressed Situation of Massachusetts-Bay & Rhode-Island for want of Bread. 1 I flatter myself care will be taken that the Exports be made in such Vessels as may be best calculated to avoid or resist the Enemy’s Cruizers. I have the Honor to be Sir, with great Respect & Esteem, Your Excel lency’s most Obedt. Servt. NB. The Same to Governor’s Henry & Caswell, with the following Post script to Governor Henry. P.S. I have received Information, which I beleive true, that the Enemy at New York are forming a Corps of Deserters from the Convention-Troops, & have intimated to the Officers in Virginia to encourage it; This Corps consisted about ten days ago of Seventy, & several have lately been ap prehended on their way to New York. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To His Excellency Governor Johnson.” 1 See Jay to the Massachusetts Council, February 27, 1779, note. John Jay to the Deputy Paymaster in South Carolina Sir, Philadelphia 5th March 1779. You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 18th Ulto. directing You to pay to Mr. Irwin & Co. or Order the freight of the Schooner Count D’Estaing, laden on Account of the United States and bound for South Carolina. Another Copy of this Act was sent by the Schooner. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. JJ. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, February 12, 1779, note 2. John Jay to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia 5th March 1779 A Copy of an Act of Congress of the 2nd Inst, is herewith enclosed. It transfers Fifty Thousand Dollars from the Quota of Tax assigned to your State, to that of South-Carolina, whose Delegates have agreed to it. 1 I have the Pleasure of acknowledging the Receipt of your Excellency’s


[Page 189]
March 5, 1779 155 Favor of the 10th Ulto. 2 and Have the Honor to be, With great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obedt & Hble Servant. John Jay, Presidt RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 See the postscript to Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, March 2, 1779. 2 Greene’s letter to Jay is in PCC, item 64, fols. 428-31. John Jay to Rawlins Lowndes Sir, Philadelphia 5th March 1779 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Copies of two Acts of Congress—one of the 26th Ulto respecting Supplies of grain & flour to Massachusetts-Bay & Rhode-Island—The other of the 2nd Inst, transfer ring Fifty thousand Dollars from the Quota of Tax assigned to Rhode- Island to that of South-Carolina whose Delegates have consented to the Measure. We are impatient to be informed of the State of military Operations in Georgia, much time having elapsed since the arrival of any Intelligence from that Quarter. I should have done myself the Honor of writing to your Excellency before on the Subject of the Invasion of Georgia, and the Apprehensions of South Carolina, but was prevented by Circumstances which will be here after explained. I have the Honor to be Sir, With great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. and Humble Servant, J. Jay. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). John Jay to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia 5th March 1779. Inclosed in a Letter of the 4th Inst, from the Honble George Bryan Esqr. Vice President of the Executive Council of this State, I received Six Bonds taken on the issuing of Six Commissions for private Ships of War. 1 He informs me that “there were several Applications for like Commis sions then made, & if I should think proper to put a further Number in their Hands, they should be accounted for”. Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed Six Blank Commissions for private Ships of war, and a like Number of Bonds and Instructions. I have the Honor to be with great Respect your Excys. most Obed Servt. 2


[Page 206]
172 March 9, 1779 plaisance, at the Expence too often of the Treasure, and Reputation of the United States. I have thus laid before the Public a plain State of those material Points, which I have Reason to think have been made an Artful Use of to confirm the Suspicion, that I had been Active in the Political Disputes of the State of Pensilvania. There may perhaps be some others, which I have not heard of, that have been perverted to the same End. I solemnly declare, that I never was concern’d directly, or indirectly in any Writing, or Pub lication, whatsoever, relative to the political Differences in the State of Pensilvania, or in any Meeting or Conference, with any Individual, or Body of Men, on the Subject of those Differences. Though I oftentimes exprest my Sentiments with Freedom on the Form of their present Consti tution, it was in the Company of those whose Way of thinking was very Similar to my Own, and therefore not calculated (had I been even in clin’d) to make Proselites. I have been induced to enter into this Explanation, not because I am ambitious of Standing forth as a Writer (which, considering the Spirit of many late Publications is no Eligible Character) but, from an Apprehen sion that my Silence may be construed as an Admission of the Charge. I consider the Interference of any Person in the political Differences of a State, of which he is not a Citizen, during the Time he is a Member of Congress as reprehensible; and I am sensible it would be consider’d in that Light by the People, whom I had the Honor to represent. They have Experienc’d the baneful Effects of the Interference of some Delegates of Congress in the political Differences of their own State; and have Com plain’d of it through their Legislature to Congress. Happy would it be for Pensilvania if others had been as innocent of the Accusation thrown out against me, as I am! That the Case is otherwise is so notorious, as to render it unnecessary to point out the Characters. Some of them will probably be found in the Number of those, who, taking Advantage of the distressed Situation of the State of New York, have not only fomented Divisions in it, which might otherwise have been Amicably heal’d; but have, in an insidious Manner, countenanc’d an Open Revolt from the Jurisdiction of that State; thereby Exposing it to all the Miseries of a Civil Contest, and hazarding the Peace, and Union of the general Confederacy. I feel myself interested in the Happiness, and Safety of Pensilvania, and love its Inhabitants. My ardent Wish is, that she may not, when too late, lament the Effects of the Interference, I have mention’d; but that she may be able to discern her true political Interest, and not Experience the fatal Effects of a dismember’d Jurisdiction, and open Revolt, countenanced perhaps by some of those, who, at present, assume the Mask of Freinds. In order to fetter my Reputation with that Chain of Suspicion, the Links of which have been so artfully forged,'*it has been industriously insinuated, that I was on Account of the Impropriety of my public Con duct omitted in the last Nomination of Delegates for the State of New York. The true State of that Matter is as follows. A Close, and unremitted


[Page 207]
March 9, 1779 173 Attention to public Business, for the Space of three Years, had much Embarrassed my private Affairs, and impair’d my Constitution. I there fore was Constrained to give in my Resignation previous to the last Ap pointment of Delegates for the State of New York; and assign’d my Rea sons for so doing to the Legislature of that State. In a late Letter which I received from the honorable Speaker of the Assembly of New York, he informed me that my Reasons were deem’d Satisfactory by the House, and that he was directed to assure me, that nothing but my having de clin’d would have induc’d them to omit me in their present Nomination. Nothing but the Duty, which I owe to my own Reputation compells me to mention this Matter for which (under any other Circumstances) I might Subject myself to the Imputation of Vanity. Though I have never Courted, I wish to deserve the good Opinion of the People of America; and particularly of the Citizens of my own State, for whose Information principally this Publication is intended. 9 Should I, after all my Exertions, be disappointed in this Object, I shall console myself with the Consciousness of having Endeavor’d to discharge my pub lic Trust with Fidelity to my own State, and to America in General, without dreading the undeserved Censure of Individuals or even of par ticular States. W. Duer. MS (NN: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). In the hand of Duer. Endorsed by John Jay: “Mr. Duers Vindication v. T. G. 1779.” Endorsed by William A. Duer: “Found amongst the Papers of the late John Jay—& given to me by his Son Peter A. Jay. Jany. 15th. 1830. W. A. Duer.” MS (NN: Emmet Collection, no. 669). In the hand of Duer. Endorsed: “Duers Defence.” Both copies appear to have been made by Duer from a now-missing draft which may have been sent to a New York newspaper for publication. The copy endorsed by Jay appears to have been made after the Emmet copy because it includes words that were inserted to replace words crossed out in the latter. Both copies have textual omissions which were supplied in the margin by Duer. The most important of the discrepancies are noted in the footnotes below. 1 William Duer wrote this statement to defend himself against the charges signed “T.G.” [Tiberius Gracchus], a pseudonym used by Pennsylvania Council secretary Timothy Mat lack, which had been printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on March 2. Matlack’s denunication of him had been triggered by the publication of a letter written by Duer’s colleague Gouver neur Morris that had appeared in the Packet on February 27. “By intermeddling with the state politics of Pennsylvania,” Matlack had charged, Duer had “raised jalousies concerning him which subject his conduct to close inspection, and in the end, brought him to the hatred and contempt of many people of this state.” Although Duer states near the end of this essay that he wrote this response for publication, no evidence has been found that it was ever printed. However, no copies of either The New York Journal in Poughkeepsie or The New-York Packet, and the American Advertiser in Fishkill have been found for March 1779. Since he obviously sent one copy of his “Vindication” to his colleague Jay, it seems reasonable to conclude that Duer, who had left Congress in December 1778, sent it for publication in a Philadelphia newspaper but that Jay decided not to, perhaps to avoid exacerbating interstate relations. For Matlack’s acknowledgment of his use of the pseudonym “T.G.,” which he employed in several attacks on Gen. Benedict Arnold, see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:271. For the public letter of Gouverneur Morris that elicited Matlack’s scorn and prompted his simultaneous attack on Duer, see Gouverneur Morris to the Pennsylvania Packet, February 27, 1779. 2 In the Emmet MS, Duer wrote “in the City of Philadelphia” in place of the preceding five words.


[Page 208]
174 March 9, 1779 3 Duer took his seat in Congress on April 7, Vin .JCC, 7:230. 4 The Emmet copy has “Weal” rather than “Wellfare.” 5 For Duer’s discussion of this episode in April 1777, when he expressed concern over the consequence of Pennsylvania’s “Langour” in the face of a new British invasion, see these Letters, 6:601-4, especially p. 603n.2. 6 For this December 4, 1777, resolution, see JCC, 9:1002. 7 The Emmet copy has inserted here: “of the Resolutions.” 8 The Emmet copy has inserted here: “These Ideas prevailing, the Resolution was amended accordingly, and Confined to the State of Pensilvania.” 9 For James Duane’s concern over New York’s initial failure to acknowledge Duer’s service as a delegate, and the legislature’s belated effort to make amends by extolling “his Zeal for the Cause of his Country,” see Duane to George Clinton, January 3, and February 20, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday March 9th. [1779] Commercial Committee. This day chiefly spent on the Report, for Re- cruting the Army of 80 Batallions. 6PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela March the 9th. 1779 My letters intended for the last post did not get in time to the office. Nothing of any importance has turned up since. By a Letter from the General we are informed of some preparations at New-York for the Em- barcation of a small Detachment. It is thought they are for Georgia. The Event of the late invasion of Jersey you will see by the papers. Mr. Hudson has a Letter which is the latest Account from S. Carolina which says, the Enemy in attempting to march to Augusta (which lies high up the Savannah) met with a severe check from Genl. Williams. Enclosed is a letter from Col Richardson to me respecting Mr. James Gilchrist who is now at New-York and very desirous of returning and residing in Maryland. I did not think it proper to move Congress for a passport, being fully convinced that no such power belongs to them or the Delegates. Who shall be subjects of the State must depend alone upon the will of the State. I should be glad to have your advice and opinion upon this Matter. 1 Should you want any further information concerning this gentleman Col. Richardson will readily give it. I have sent you by this post a pamphlet called observations on the American Revolution as drawn up by a Comtee. of Congress. It is little more than connecting and throwing together in one point of view, the proceedings of Congress; also Governor Johnson’s speech and the address of the House of Commons to


[Page 214]
180 March 9, 1779 Examination of his Witnesses by the Grand Inquest before whom he is charged. Having observed in our last, that fourteen Days had elapsed, since our application to you for Evidence, You are pleased to reply “as to the fourteen Days you mentioned this Delay surely cannot be attributed to us, when you recollect how great a Part of that Time has been employed in hearing General Arnold & his Aids with other Evidence without Notice to this State as Parties & Complainants.” We perfectly recollect the Reverse of what you alledge, and in express Terms declare, that no Part of that Time was employed in Hearing General Arnold & his Aids or in taking other Evidence. General Arnold was never heard on the Charges con tained in your printed Proceedings, and referred to us on the 15th of February, till the 5th instant, which was the Day after our Letter, to which you have made your Reply, and of Consequence not within the fourteen Days you mention. The Committee tired out with fruitless Appli cations to you for Evidence and repeatedly prest by General Arnold for a Hearing, with all the Anxiety & Sensibility of a Soldier, injured in his Honor & Reputation, we resolved on the 3d instant to close our Enquiries on the 5th: both you & the General were notified of it, and you were told, that we did not doubt but your Regard for public Justice would induce you to furnish us by that Time with the Evidence you were possessed of. We wish for your own Sakes you had spared your solemn Protestation: it is no Prooff of Dignity of Conduct. Vehement Delcarations and violent Protestations are sometimes the Result of Passions roused in the telling of Truths—or the Apprehension of it. We shall certainly make no Report derogatory to the Rights and Interests of Pensylvania: such a Report would only disgrace ourselves. As to the Honor of Council we shall report the Truth: and therefore, if you yourselves have done Nothing derogatory to the Honor of Council, you have nothing to fear from our Report. 5 I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, Your most Obedient, humble Servant, Wm. Paca, Chairman. RC (NHi: Joseph Reed Papers). 1 The council’s March 5 letter is not in PCC, but a draft of it is in the Joseph Reed Papers, NHi. 2 JCC, 13:184. 3 Not found. 4 See Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779, note. 5 Although Paca’s committee submitted a report on its dealings with Pennsylvania on March 17, congressional action on that report was still pending when a request was received from the state for a conference with a congressional committee to discuss the crisis that had been reached in its relations with Congress. See JCC, 13:324-26, 337, 374-79. For the delegate’s reception of that request and the subsequent resolution of the impasse that had developed, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debate, March 26, 1779.


[Page 215]
March 9, 1779 181 Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia March 9th. 1779. In our last letter we promised your excellency a copy of the act of Congress recommending to the States to the Southward to permit the States of Massa. Bay and Rhode-Island & Providence Plantations to pur chase Proviss. in their posts for the supply of their inhabitants. A copy we are informed hath been sent to you by the President. 1 We at the same time promised you a copy of the act reducing our quota of the tax for the current year to two hundred and fifty thousand dollars, which we now do ourselves the honour to inclose, hoping that it will prove agreeable to the Assembly. 2 It was not intended by Congress that the apportionments of the former or present tax should be considered hereafter as their precise just quotas of those taxes. It was impossible to adjust our equitable propor tion of the present tax. If it should turn out that we have paid more than our just quota, we shall have credit for the surplusage and the interest thereof; if it should be less we must pay the deficiency with the interest, perhaps in an appretiated currency. We know that there will be difficulty in collecting so large a Sum as two hundred and fifty thousand dollars in our state, under its present deplorable circumstances; but, distressed as it is, we presume that the difficulty will principally arise from the impracti cability of apportioning the tax equally among the inhabitants. However we hope that the State will struggle through it. In a private letter to Mr. Ellery from the Lieut. Governor 3 he is in formed that the Authority of our State complain that we do not send them intelligence enough. We could wish to gratify the Assembly in that or any other way; but really we have none to communicate. We mentioned in our last, we believe, that there was no prospect that the British army would receive any reinforcements, this campaign. This is our opinion, and we think it is well-founded. We have not received any Intelligence from Georgia since the first account of the enemy’s taking possession of it. Nothing from the W. Indies; nor any thing from Europe that we are at liberty to communicate. The necessity of a respectable Army in the field this campaign, whether peace or war should be the object, is so apparent as to need no arguments either to evince or illustrate it. A brilliant stroke this might make it the last campaign. Sincerely wishing for an honorable peace, and every blessing to our country and your excellency we are with great respect, Yr. excellencys most obedient, humble Servts, William Ellery RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written and signed by William Ellery. 1 See John Jay to the Massachusetts Council, February 27, 1779, note. 2 See John Jay to William Greene, March 5, 1779. 3 That is, Jabez Bowen.


[Page 217]
March 9, 1779 183 until restrained by laws that rendered their safety precarious; and, al though it frequently happens that such men will change their professions, and go with the tide of popularity it seldom happens that they forsake their opinions. Ye shall know them by their fruits. On the other hand, patriotism is a virtue which few men possess, and a real patriot, of distin guished abilities to serve his country, is a jewel of inestimable value. But the views of patriots, in the common acceptation of the word, are, like those of priests, directed towards themselves; and they generally make the same use of that implicit confidence which is reposed in them by the people. I rejoice that America resisted; not because I disliked her rulers, but that the liberty and happiness of her people might be established on a solid basis. It is not likely, therefore, that I shall change the object of my first pursuit, to accommodate those whose friendship I esteem, or to pro mote their aggrandizement. I own, I reject that system of philosophy which makes all mens actions modifications of self-love, as a pernicious theory subversive of morality; whilst I esteem the man whose self-love is so directed as to be subservient to the public good. But ambition and the love of money are always dangerous, and very often prove ruinous, to those who are under their influence. They frequently oblige men to assume the despicable character of a trimmer; and, whilst they imagine that they walk in the paths of consummate wisdom, and deceive the world, they seldom fail to deceive themselves. He is a bad politician who is yet to learn the true interest of these United States, in their relation to Europe; and he is a weak one, indeed, who cannot determine whether the measures at pre sent pursued, are calculated to promote it. MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, March 18, 1779. 1 These intercepted letters, printed by James Rivington in the Royal Gazette on February 3, 1779, were written by Carter Braxton, a former delegate to Congress from Virginia, to mercantile associates in France and Holland. 2 Braxton’s letters contained a number of passages that Smith believed would discredit him. In a communication of December 26, 1778, to John Ross in Nantes, Braxton wrote disparagingly of “designing” French ministers who had deceived the United States by alter ing provisions of the treaty to France’s advantage. He also castigated Arthur, Richard Henry, and William Lee for their roles in the “trial” of Silas Deane in Congress. Concerning the charges that Deane had made in his December 5 address in the Pennsylvania Packet, Braxton stated that “I am exceeding well acquainted with the character of the Lee’s, and know them to be actuated by such base principles, and full of such artifice, and intrigue, that no new proof was necessary to fix my opinion. ... I had long seen the impropriety of entrusting the secrets of America with men of such characters, but it was not to be prevented. R. H. Lee’s interest in Congress, joined to that of the eastern states, was too great to be withstood.” Further, in a letter of the following day to the firm of George, Clifford & Tysett in Holland, Braxton wrote that “with respect to our future trade in case of peace, there is not a doubt but your nation and Great-Britain would partake of three-fourths of it: For although we are reluctantly, and I fear imprudently tied to France, during the war, yet that being over, the people will break through every restraint or punctilio, to return to England for the goods they formerly purchased, after which they long and pine every day of the year.” In a third letter of January 12, 1779, to Campbell, Beale & Co., Braxton outlined a plan to


[Page 218]
184 March 9, 1779 resume shipment of British goods to America during wartime by way of the British West Indies and then the Dutch islands. By requesting that Braxton’s letters be reprinted in the Pennsylvania Packet, Meriwether Smith apparently hoped to embarrass both Braxton and the Lees. It is apparent that Smith regarded Braxton as a “trimmer,” and he would soon be instrumental in the movement to recall Arthur Lee from Paris. See Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, May 6, 1779. That there was a growing animosity between Smith and the Lees is evident also from a letter of August 1, 1779, from Richard Henry Lee to Henry Laurens in which Lee said “I think with infinite contempt and a good degree of detestation of my Compatriot M. S. If he produces papers that can in any matter affect my character, I affirm they are forgeries, and thus I have done with him.” See Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:99-100. For his part, Braxton attempted to minimize damage to his reputation with an explana tion to the public dated March 15, 1779, which appeared in the Virginia Gazette (Purdie, March 20?, 1779; no copy known to exist) and was reprinted on April 8, 1779, in the Pennsylvania Packet. Braxton included transcripts from his letterbooks of the three captured letters that had appeared in the Royal Gazette, which he claimed he had not yet seen, but chose to omit the paragraph quoted above from his letters to George, Clifford & Tysett concerning the future resumption of trade with Great Britain. He was at great pains, through published testimonials from his clerk, George Seaton, and officials in Williamsburg, to dem onstrate that his letterbooks contained numerous expressions in favor of “the independence of America.” It is clear, however, that Braxton’s opinions about the conditions necessary for independence, which had been poorly received by his constituents, had changed little since he lost his seat in Congress in 1776. See these Letters, 3:520-23; 4:18-21, 228, 8:183, 202-3; and Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:475. For comments on the effect in Virginia of the publica tion of Braxton’s letters, see Edmund Pendleton, The Letters and Papers of Edmund Pendleton, 1734-1803, ed. by David J. Mays, 2 vols. (Charlottesville: University of Virginia Press, 1967), 1:278-80; and the letters of March 12, 16, 21, 30, and April 8 from Richard Parker, Mann Page, and William Aylett to Richard Henry Lee in the Lee Family Papers microfilm, ViU. Finally, although Braxton explained in the Virginia Gazette that in his acrimonious obser vations about the French treaty, “no reflection was intended on the French Ministers, or Mons. Gerard,” he refused to apologize for his attack on the characters of the Lees. This occasioned a public exchange between Arthur Lee and Braxton in the Virginia Gazette (Dixon & Nicolson). See the issues of October 9, 1779 (reprinted in the Pennsylvania Packet, October 28, 1779), and October 23, 1779. For further evidence of the deteriorating relationship between Braxton and the Lees, see Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:64, 68, 71, 102, 122, 150; and William Lee, Letters of William Lee, ed. Worthington C. Ford, 3 vols. (Brooklyn, N.Y.: His torical Printing Club, 1891), 2:536n, 596, 634, 651; and 3:734. Braxton’s conservative politi cal stance and ambitious mercantile pursuits are described in L. Tomlin Stevens, “Carter Braxton: Signer of the Declaration of Independence” (Ph.D. diss., Ohio State University, 1969); and Alonzo T. Dill, Carter Braxton, Virginia Signer: A Conservative in Revolt (Lanham, Md.: University Press of America, 1983). 3 See Gouverneur Morris to George Johnstone, March 4, 1779, note 1. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday the 10th [March 1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. After the Treasury Reports, being Read Went in to a Committee of the whole House, on fixing a Boundary Line to the Missasipy 7 for 5 agst. No. MS (DLC).


[Page 220]
186 March 11, 1779 lar the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective parties in the above Appeal do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of David Stevens entered in the above Cause be dismissed with Costs And that the Judgment or Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid pronounced and published in the said Cause be in all it’s Parts confirmed and established And We do adjudge and order that David Stevens the Appellant pay unto John Henderson and others the Appellees in the above Cause two hundred and eighty Dollars expended in supporting and sustaining the Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid against the said Appeal &c. Wm Hy. Drayton William Ellery J Root MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 35). In a clerical hand and signed by Drayton, Ellery, and Root. 1 The appeal from the New Jersey Admiralty Court in the case of David Stevens et al. v John Henderson et al. had been received by Congress on October 23, 1778, and referred immedi ately to the Committee on Appeals. Because of its similarity in facts and circumstances to the better known case of the sloop Active, this case was delayed while Congress determined the extent of the committee’s authority in prize cases, a delay which prompted Henderson to petition Congress at least three times in 1779 for a speedy review of the case. When Congress reached a decision on the committee’s authority early in March, the committee resumed its review of the case on March 9. In reference to this decision and the controversy surrounding the case of the Active, William Henry Drayton added the following explanatory declaration to the present case file. “The Court declared that Congress having determined that their jurisdiction on appeal extended to a controul as well over the verdicts of Juries as over the Decrees of Judges in Courts established for the decision of captures on the high Seas, & thereupon having no doubt that their authority could be effectually supported, we’re now ready to proceed in the dispatch of causes.” And to Drayton’s declaration, Jesse Root ap pended the following endorsement: “The President having made the within Declaration, proceeded to the hearing of the Appeal from New Jersey.” The New Jersey Court of Admiralty had upheld the claim of Henderson and his associates to the British schooner John and Sally, “lately commanded by Rufus Gardner,” and its cargo of Jamaica spirits and Muscavado sugar, which they claimed by virtue of having overpow ered Gardner while they were serving on board the schooner. But before they could reach New Jersey with their prize, they had themselves been captured by Capt. David Stevens, commander of the privateer sloop Chance. Although the schooner was libeled by Stevens, the New Jersey Court, in a case heard at Trenton on August 27, 1778, awarded the ship and its cargo to Henderson. Stevens thereupon appealed the case to Congress. In denying Stevens’ appeal, the Committee on Appeals was upholding the state court’s finding in behalf of Henderson et al. See JCC, 13:44, 96, 251; PCC, item 42, 3:375-78, item 196, 2:102; and N. J. Archives, 2d ser. 2:356-57, 396. See also Committee on Appeals Decree, December 15, 1778, note. John Fell’s Diary Thursday March 11th [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Went in a Committee of the whole House, That if Our Allies would Support us, we should Insist on Novia


[Page 226]
192 March 12, 1779 from the Navy Board at Boston of their having despatched a Schooner called the General Arnold for Senepuxent to carry off the flour & Iron remaining at that place. 1 We request therefore that you will on receipt of this immediately give Orders (should that Vessel have Arrived) that the flour and Iron be shipped on board of her and that she be despatched back to Boston. But if she has not arrived we may conclude she has been taken and in that case you will order the flour & Iron to be sold to the inhabitants. Some time ago we ordered the Navy Board at Boston to Send round to your address three small Vessels to be laded with flour & Iron for the use of the Navy in the Eastern Department. We now suppose that some of those Vessels will Shortly make their appearence, therefore we have this day ordered the Commissary of Purchases to deliver to you at Baltimore from the Public Magazines any quantity of flour you may require for lading these Vessels not exceeding 1200 Barrels which quantity we deem will be Sufficient. If hereafter it should prove otherwise you will please to advise us and we will give the Commissary fresh Orders. We have also given Orders to the Quarter Master to direct his Deputy at your place to deliver to you ten Tons barr Iron which he had been formerly Ordered by Congress to purchase for a particular purpose, but it has not been applied to that purpose. This Iron you will please to receive and Ship on board the Vessels with the flour and as soon as they are laded you will please to despatch them for Boston addressed to the Navy Board there to whom you will please to forward bills of lading and Invoices of the Cargoes with your Accounts of any disbursments you may make for the Vessels. We shall chearfully allow you an adequate compensation for your trou ble in doing this business & are Sir, Your very hble Servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, this date. Francis Lewis to George Clinton Phila. 13th March 1779. Dear Sir, I was this day favored with your letter of the 6th Instant by Mr. Sands. You do me honor in requesting a continuance of my corre spondence, which I shall with the greatest pleasure Cultivate. By this conveyance I transmit you the latest public newspapers which contains everything of consequence, except one favorable account, which I am not as yet at liberty to devulge, when that restraint is recinded by Congress, you shall have the earliest intillegence, from him who has the honor to subscribe himself with the utmost Regard & Esteem, Your Excel lency’s most Obedient Humble Servant, Fra’ Lewis. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:658.


[Page 227]
March 14, 1779 193 John Jay to Robert R. Livingston Dear Robt. Philadelphia 14 March 1779 Mr. Sands delivered me your Favr. of the 4th Inst. Yesterday. 1 It gave me much Pleasure. The Length, the Subjects and the Spirit of it pleased me. Dont apologize for Egotisms, for I would much rather receive them than not. Unless the Pain my last occasioned was severe, I dont regret it. That You have deserved well of your Country is agreed, and that you became latterly a little relaxed, is not disputable. You have never been thrown out or distanced in the Pursuit of Virtue, but like some game Horses, you sometimes want a Whip. This is a coarse Simile. Friendship will pardon it. That full Confidence which enduced You to think loud, flatters me. The like Return is due and shall be paid, but Letters in our Days are danger ous Conveyances of our Sentiments on many Subjects. I seldom write without adverting to the Consequences of a Miscarriage, and hence the Reserve & Caution which mark all such of mine, as are trusted to com mon Carriers or doubtful Bearers. The State of your Politics is much as I expected. I fear some of your Measures are more severe than Wisdom or Humanity will justify. Poster ity will think dispassionately & probably condemn, especially when in formed, that they were hast’ned, lest the Influence of Resentment should be lost. My Silence on a certain Subject arose from reflecting that an Explana tion ought not to be on Paper. 2 The Probability of it turns on an Event not yet determined. If I discern right, there will be Room. A Genteel Suit of Cloaths, will cost a noble price. We shall be exceed ingly happy to see you. I hope your Visit will not be delayed longer than the Roads may render it necessary. Manage matters so as to stay at least a Month. My best Respects to your Mama, Mrs. Livingston & the Rest of the Family. 3 I am Dr. Robt, Your Friend & Servt, John Jay. RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Livingston’s March 4 letter is in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 570-71. 2 For this “Subject,” which concerned Livingston’s willingness to accept a diplomatic assignment if Congress wished to consider him for an appointment abroad, see Jay to Living ston, January 13, 1779, note 1. 3 Livingston’s April 21 response to Jay is in Jay, Papers (Morris), pp. 583-84. Gouverneur Morris to George Washington Dr General. Phila. 14th March 1779. You will excuse in me the Liberty I have taken in requesting Colo. Morgan to call on you. That Gentleman can give you much and impor-


[Page 228]
194 March 14, 1779 tant Information relative to the State of our Western Frontiers. From the first View of the Commander in that Department at York Town he struck me as one of those who excell in the Regularity of Still Life from the Possession of an indolent Uniformity of Soul. The little Eagerness he shewed to go thence when every Thing almost depended on Vivacity gave no good Omen of his Success. I observed in Silence & untill this Moment no one hath known any Reflections I then made and perhaps I am even at this Moment much very much deceived. When I heard of some Pro ceedings in the Department I ventured to say aloud that no Good would follow from the Exertions of the Army under his Command. Unfortu nately I have not been mistaken. I have Reason to beleive that his Recall hath become necessary from a Variety of Causes. 1 For a Successor I think you will be puzzled. Good Sense, Genius, Activity and a Habit of Busi ness. These are Qualities which appear to me better adapted to this Office than all the military Science in all the military Books put together. Excuse one more Observation. It is that the Reason why a good Partizan Officer is so rare a Thing among regular Soldiers may be deduced from this that in order to become such, a Man must unlearn all that he has learnt or the greater Part of it which few have good Sense enough to do. One good Mohawk would on such Occasion do more with one hundred Men than Prince Ferdinand with a thousand or Braddock with ten thousand. I must here again beg your Pardon for intermeddling with Things out of my Line and beyond my Reach. But you will I am sure excuse me for thinking loud to you upon a Subject which presses itself upon my Sensibilities, especially when I assure you what I beleive you Well know that such Liberties with you arise from personal Confidence & Esteem. I believe it is unnecessary for me to say that Colo. Morgan is a Man of Honor and Truth as he is of your Acquaintance but as you may not know him so well as to know how much he may be relied on permit me to assure you that I have the highest Reason to beleive that you cannot derive Information from a more certain Source or thro a surer Channel. 1 Adieu. My Respects to Mrs. Washington who I am told has no Great Opinion of me as a Christian Priest and yet I am sure we are of the same Religion expressed in the one Word Benevolence. Yours, Gouv. Morris RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Gen. Lachlan McIntosh’s resignation as commander of Ft. Pitt had been accepted by Congress on February 20, but Gouverneur Morris clearly hoped to influence General Wash ington’s decision on a court-martial for McIntosh by supporting the accusations of McIn tosh’s subordinate, Col. George Morgan. Washington refused to order a formal inquiry into either McIntosh’s or Morgan’s actions, and on May 18 Congress supported his decision. Congress then approved McIntosh’s request to serve with the southern army. McIntosh left for Georgia in the summer of 1779; Morgan resigned as Indian agent for the middle department on May 28, 1779. See JCC, 13:213-14, 14:606, 669; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:193-96, 262, 15:40-41, 76-77; and John Jay to Washington, May 19, 1779.


[Page 231]
March 15, 1779 197 John Fell’s Diary Monday March 15th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from Genl. Washington and Genl Maxwell, Imagine Admiral Gambier, is going to New London. Genl Putnam has sent 400 Men there. Letter from Mr Deane, Long debate, the Committee on forreign Affairs to Report on Friday. Congress went in a Committee of the whole House to consider Bounds &c. MS (DLC). John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 15th March 1779 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of this day for the Relief of such of the Troops of the United States as are not included in the Quotas assessed on the different States. I have the Honor to be, With the greatest Respect And Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia March 15, 1779 I have not been unmindful of the small commission you gave me to procure the song and receipt for you. I once had these, but they are mislaid so that I could not find them when I returned home from Wil liamsburg, or they should have been sent from thence. I have here applied to Mr. Peters for the one, and to Mrs. Shippen for the other and I have hopes of getting them both. I send you herewith a small pamphlet con taining a collection of such papers and proceedings as clearly defeats the calumny of the British Commissioners charging this war to our ambition, 1 when the Tyranny and avarice of the British Court most indubitably produced and has continued it. That our enemies will not get aid from any power in Europe to carry on the war against us is very certain, and the probability is great that Spain will speedily join in the war with France against England. Yet such is the temper of the British Court that it seems clear to me that nothing but the severest gripes of adversity and the last necessity can inspire wisdom and moderation. They certainly mean another campaign, a last effort; and


[Page 232]
198 March 15, 1779 Georgia and South Carolina, with the frontiers and sea coasts appear to be their objects at present. Whether Gen. Clinton will take the field or not must depend on the succors he shall receive and the strength of our army. The flattering royal visits that are industriously made to the Nobility and gentry of England may possibly give such energy to the militia as to enable the sending a small reenforcement from their national troops to Gen. Clinton. With our present prospects every nerve should be strained to make our Army strong. By being prepared we shall have a moral certainty of defeating the designs of our enemies the next campaign, which will in my opinion put a glorious period to the war. I am, with much esteem and affection yours, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 For Gouverneur Morris’ Observations on the American Revolution, see William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, February 7, 1779, note 4. Board of Treasury to Benjamin Lincoln Treasury Office March 16. 1779 In Philadelphia. Sir Felix Warley Esqr. being appointed Auditor of the Detachment of the Army in the Southern District, 1 it is the Direction of Congress as well as the Particular Desire of the Board of Treasury that you exert every Mea sure in your Power to facilitate and support him in the Execution of his Office, and see that he is accommodated with the Decorum due to his important Station. When you consider how much the CEconomy of the Army and your own Care in Matters of Account depend on the Institution of this Office, we are persuaded that it will give you Pleasure to carry into Effect the Intentions of Congress in their full Extent. 2 I have the Honor to be, With great Respect, Sir, Your most obed Servt. Jas. Duane, Chr. In the Name of the Board of Treasury RC (OMC: Slack Collection). Written and signed by Duane. 1 Felix Warley had been appointed an auditor of the army on February 11, 1779. See JCC, 13:177, where his name is spelled Varley. 2 James Duane wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Gen. John Sullivan announcing that William Bedlow had been appointed an auditor of the army. Gates Papers, NN. For the appointment of Bedlow on February 9, see JCC, 13:112-13, 156. James Duane to George Washington Dear General, Philad. 16h March 1779 Your Favour has been presented to the Committee of Conference. 1 I beg you will do me the Justice to believe that my Zeal for the publick


[Page 233]
March 16, 1779 199 good—and may I be permitted to add—my Respect and Affection for your Excellency, will never suffer what you have at Heart to languish for Want of my best Exertions: Yet must I ask for Allowances for your Rep resentatives, who are too much incumberd with a weight of Business, always to act with the necessary Vigour and dispatch. You will find that most of the Acts you recommended are passed in Congress: Such as re main will I flatter myself be pushed thro’ by the End of the week. The Provision for the Waggoners is that which I like the least, being expensive beyond Bounds: it may however be necessary, & we must at so critical a Time submit; I do it the more chearfully as much is left to your Excel lency. With the utmost Respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most obe dient humble Sert. Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Duane is referring to Washington’s March 15 letter to John Jay, which was put before Congress with a report on it from this committee on March 18.JCC, 13:332. Washington’s letter, in which he strongly urged Congress to adopt a plan for strengthening the army, is in PCC, item 152, 7:183-94, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:241-45. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday March 16th. 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. After Reading Letters &c, Went in to a Committee of the whole house, to consider of Boundaries &c. 6 P.M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela. March 16th. 1779. The Act of Council I shall indeavour to dispose of in such a Manner as to give Mr. Gilchrist the full advantage of it. 1 Nothing has taken place since my last, worth communicating except some accounts from S. Carolina, which I have sent to the General Assem bly and to which I refer you. I am Sir with Affection and Sincerity, Yrs. J. Henry Junr. RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 See Henry to Johnson, March 9, 1779, note.


[Page 237]
March 17, 1779 203 William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror Philadelphia 16 March 1779 Your favor of the 9th Ulto is this moment come to hand & as I am told the post goes out in half an hour I have not time to make a full reply. It has ever been a principle with me to support Truth & integrity against the opposite Charecters, this naturaly leads me to oppose Mr. D 1 who has infamously endeavourd to stab the Charecter of the most Faithful & most able Servant that America has had in Europe & for no other reason but because he was a check to his avarices & I may with propriety add vilanous designs. However as those things will all come to light in due time, I will drop the subject for the present. We have very favorable accots from the southward which time will not permit me to give you the perticulars of. The advantages gained by our little Army there will be attended with very important benifits, must refer you to my next for perticulars, in the meantime, I am most affectionately, Yours, W.W. RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). Endorsed: “Reed per post April 9.” 1 Silas Deane. Board of Treasury to a Committee of Congress Sir Philad. 17h March 1779. Besides the Satisfaction it woud give the Committee on the Treasury to see a Requisition which a Sister State has at Heart, complied with: on principles of Policy we woud wish there shoud be no other Paper Cur rency than Continental. But such is the State of demands on the publick Treasury; & such the Exertions which must be necessary to preserve the publick Faith & fulfil our Obligations; that we are compelled to declare that it is Still out of our Power to promise the Supply of money requested by the honourable House of Assembly of Pensylvania. 1 We are directed to emit 52,000,000 which must be delivered out the 1st of August to exchange the two Emissions called of May 1777 and April 1778 & for other Purposes. There are 15,000,000 in arrear, for a great part of which Warrants are issued: The Supplies on opening the Cam paign Are to be provided for & will be large; & it will be with the utmost Difficulty, and by the most strenuous Exertions, that money can be emit ted in Time for their great & Various Demands. I am, Sir, Your most Obed Servant, Jas. Duane for Self, Mr Geary & Mr Carmickle, Mr Griffen & Mr Langworthy & Mr Freelinghuysen, the Com. on the Treasury. RC (DNA: PCC, item 20). Written and signed by James Duane. Addressed: “Honble George Plater Esqr.” 1 The Board of Treasury was responding to a March 4 letter from the Pennsylvania Assembly to its delegates in Congress containing a request for a loan from Congress to avoid


[Page 238]
204 March 17, 1779 “the disagreable Necessity of Striking & uttering new State Emissions.” The letter had been referred by Congress to a committee chaired by George Plater, for which see the following entry. JCC, 13:292; and PCG, item 69, 1:639-42. Committee of Congress to the Board of Treasury Sir Philada March 17 1779 The Committee to whom the Letter from the Speaker of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, upon the subject of borrowing a Sum of Money of Con gress, was referr’d, cannot proceed upon that business untill they shall be furnishd with a State of the Treasury; I must therefore beg that you will furnish the Committee with such information as you have in your power; 1 and also whether you think it possible for Congress to grant this requisi tion & comply with their other engagements. 2 I am sir, Your Obedt Srt, Geo Plater, RC (DNA: PCG, item 20). In a clerical hand and signed by George Plater. Addressed: “Hon. James Duane Esq.” 1 See the preceding entry. 2 Although Plater’s committee recommended against granting Pennsylvania’s request, Congress nevertheless resolved on March 20 “That a sum not exceeding two millions of dollars be granted on loan to the State of Pensylvania, at 6 per cent, per annum, agreeable to the request of the said State.” JCC, 13:335-36, 344. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Mar 17th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. 1 Motion to Publish, the Acct, that the King of the 2 Scisellys would open his Ports for the Vesells of the United States, And also to Publish as much of the Information from the french Minister as is necessary for the Public to be acquainted with. 2 Report of the Committee on Genl Arnolds affair Postponed till Monday. Letter from the Speaker of the Assembly 3 for the Loan of 2 Million of Dollars. Committee of the whole to take in to consideration the Bounde- ries &c. 6PM Met the Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). 1 According to the journals, the first item of business considered by the delegates this day was a motion by Henry Laurens (seconded by Samuel Adams), “That a member from Massachusetts bay be added to the Committee on Foreign Affairs [i.e., the foreign affairs inquiry committee, which was composed of one delegate from each state, not the Committee for Foreign Affairs], in the room of Mr. Gerry.” Because the proposal encountered opposi tion, however, a motion was adopted to postpone consideration of Laurens’ motion “until Mr. Gerry comes in.” Little else is known about the incident except that Laurens and Adams had acted without the knowledge or consent of Gerry, who did not react publicly to it until April 21, when he


[Page 242]
208 March 18, 1779 The Conquerant had been captured by the British armed sloop Granby, but off the North Carolina coast it began to leak and list badly and while its British prize crew was seeking aid from coastal residents, Pillas, the French mate, and the would-be rescuers regained control of the ship and brought her into Bogue Harbor. When she docked without papers, the sloop was libeled by William Gibbs, the state naval officer, and others who claimed that she was British property. Gibbs appealed the case to Congress, which referred the case to the Com mittee on Appeals on February 6, 1779, but in this decree the committee affirmed the state admiralty court decision. See JCC, 13:150; and transcripts of the state court records, with other pertinent depositions, in case file no. 42, RG 267, DNA. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 18th. [March 1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from Genl Washington Rec- comending a better Plan for Cloathing and Recruting the Army. Letter from Genl Schuyler to Resign, 7 No 5 Ay Negative. Report from the Committee, to the Request from Pennsylvania, that the Treasury could not comply with their Request. Memorial Read from Mr Girrard. 6PM Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). John Fell’s Diary Friday Mar 19th. 1779 Coml. Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters Read. Went in to the Con sideration of the sundry articles agreed for an Ultimatom in setling Bounderies, long Debates till 4. 6PM Attended the Marine Committee. MS (DLC). John Jay to William Galvan Sir, Philadelphia 19th March 1779. This morning Congress took your memorial into consideration, & direct me to inform you that they cannot comply with your Request for leave to raise an Independent Corps. 1 That part of your memorial which respects your desire of being ap pointed an Inspector is referred to the Board of War. 2 The Zeal you express for the welfare of these States, and your desire to promote it must be very agreeable to every American. I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & very Hble Servt. JJ.


[Page 243]
March 20, 1779 209 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 13:337. For Galvan’s arrival at Philadelphia the preceding summer, see Henry Laurens to John Laurens, August 29, 1778. 2 The Board of War’s report of April 1 recommending Galvan to the state of South Carolina appears to have been rejected by Congress on April 3, 1779. JCC, 13:417-18. There is no record that any further action was taken on Galvan’s memorial at this time, but for the resumption of his quest for a Continental commission at the end of the year and his success early in 1780, see JCC, 15:1334, 1414, 1419-21, 16:44. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 19th March 1779. I have the honor of Transmitting to Your Excellency, herewith en closed, Copies of three Acts of Congress, One of the 18th Inst for exchang ing Captain Greene, who was made Prisoner at the Cedars in Canada in 1776, with an Extract from a Letter of Major General Schuyler on that Subject. 1 Another of the 18th Inst declining to accept General Schuyler’s Resig nation—and a third of the 16th Inst, concerning the Issuing Commis saries. 2 The Subjects of your Excellency’s Letter of the 15th Inst, will I am persuaded meet with all the Attention due to their Importance. 3 Regulations for the cloathing Department are under consideration & I hope soon to have the pleasure of transmitting them to you. I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect And Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress’ resolve authorizing the exchange of Capt. Ebenezer Green was actually adopted on March 19. yCC, 13:338. 2 See JCC, 13:321-22; Jay to Philip Schuyler, January 15, note 1; and Jay’s two letters to Schuyler, March 21, 1779. 3 For Washington’s March 15 letter to Jay, see Committee of Conference to Washington, March 16, 1779. James Duane to Philip Schuyler Dear Sir Philada 20 March 1779 Congress have declined accepting your Resignation. 1 It woud be too great a Gratification to malevolence & too great a sacrifice of the Interest of the Publick & the Security of your own State. We are not yet out of the woods tho’ we begin to see our Way. Men of publick Spirit & great Abilities cannot be spared. The Operations of the War will lead where you have most Experience. But the Reason which ought to satisfy you is that the Commander in Chief expressed the Strongest Aversion to your


[Page 244]
210 March 20, 1779 leaving the Service, giving you high Commendation & urging your Ge nius & your Experience & that he greatly relied on them. I know your Infirmity of Body and am sorry for it: but it is not my Intention that your Health shoud be exposd to hardship it cannot sustain. Your advice when you cannot move and your general Superintance under the authority of your Command, will be of the highest Importance. Con sider besides who may be your successor, & how much your State has to hope & to fear. Consider All these Circumstances & then tell me whether as a Man of Honour I coud see you driven out of the Army by illiberal Treatment; or as a Patriot submit to the Loss? The Delegates from New York were unanimous in their Resolution that they woud not Vote to accept your Resignation. As our State extends from Lake Nipissin to the Source of the Missisippi, or at least along the 45 d. of N. Latitude from Connecticut River to the Missisipi; how necessary will it be for us that your Military Knowledge shoud be kept alive & your Authority undimin ished. I hope you will chearfully submit to what is done, & drop the Correspondence, at least with Congress, on this Subject. If more must be said let it pass thro’ your Friends: and whenever you Resign let it be after the Impressions so cruelly attempted to be inculcated are effaced. At least let it not be said that you was obligd to give way to those who persecuted you without a Cause. Congress have orderd the Articles for Onei[d]a & Tusc[aror]a presents to be sent as you request; 2 The Commiss[ion]s are to be reported upon by the Board of War & you will hear of them in good Time. 3. The bolting Cloath cant be purchasd under £120 Pen. Cur. I have consulted Col. Livingston. We dare not submit to such an Act of d d Intention without your permission. It is of Light Carriage & can easily be forwarded. I presume at Kingston you can make a much better Bargain. Give my Compliments to Mrs. Schuyler & assure her I straind hard to oblige her: but Conscience is a tender thing, & she must excuse me—with Compts to Gen. T. B., J Tayler, Gen Gansevoort & all our Circle, I remain, Dear Sir, Your Affectionate Friend & most Obed Servant, Jas Duane P.S. I have a long List of personal Grievances to lay before you: such as Banishment; incessant anxiety; unremitted Labor; intolerable Fatigue &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c &c. I do not say they woud weigh down your pains of Body; but this I say that I strive to support them with Fortitude & without Hopes of personal Advantage: Nay under the Expectation of Censure & neglect by those I study to serve. RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 For further information about General Schuyler’s resignaton, see John Jay to Schuyler, January 15, note 1, and March 21, 1779. 2 This recommendation was contained in a March 20 Board of War report, but Congress did not actually adopt it until the 24th. See JCC, 13:363n.2; and the second letter of John Jay to Washington, March 24, 1779.


[Page 245]
March 20, 1779 211 3 Pursuant to a subsequent report of the board, Congress on April 3 empowered the commissioners of Indian affairs for the northern department to confer commissions on “faith ful chiefs of the Oneidas and Tuscaroras, giving them such ranks as the said commissioners shall judge they merit.’yCC, 13:411. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear General Philad 20 March 1779 Much as I have said on the Chapter of Resignations in the Letter which accompanies this I totally forgot to answer two of your Queries. Know then that neither General Lee nor General St Glair have resignd. The latter has I believe taken his place in the Line. The former is in Town but talks of going in a few days to his Farm in Virginia. He seemd much hurt by the [Apirrance?] of the sentence of the Court martial at first: but is long since restored to apparent good humour; & bears his misfortune much better than was expected. General Glover sent in his Resignation three weeks ago on Account of his private affairs but Congress declin’d receiving it, allowing him however a furlough for I think Six months. 1 You will be deemd every Indulgence which you require on Acct of your Health: But why shoud you wish to be a Silent spectator where You have a Right & abilities to direct? At least let us first see our Frontiers pro tected, and proper Posts established for our future Security. But I will not enlarge, only to repeat that I am Dear Sir, Your Affectionate & most Obed Servant, Jas. Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 See the second letter of John Jay to Washington, March 2, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Saturday March 20th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letters from General How, Govr Rutledge So Carolina, Govr Henry of Virginia. Report of G. Morris for a Fast, to be on the first Thursday in May. MS (DLC). Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia March 20th 1779 We have received your Letter of the 10th of Feby. informing Us, that the State which We have the Honor to represent “has often, for a long Season, been quite ignorant of what has been transacting at Congress,” &


[Page 247]
March 20, 1779 213 directing Us, by Order of the hona Assembly,” to write to the Council of the State at least once a Month, & oftener if necessary, informing of all such Matters as have been transacted at Congress, that can be communi cated consistently with their Orders, & also to send the Journals as far as they have been published.” We have never before received from the Gen eral Assembly, or either Branch thereof, any Information similar to that which You have been pleased to communicate, & shall carefully improve it, by following their Directions, & preventing to the utmost of our Power, the Inconveniences complained of, in future; in doing which, We shall be under the Necessity of employing a Clerk, unless general Descriptions of the proceedings of Congress will answer the Purpose. But lest the honor able Assembly should conceive that We are responsible for such Inconve niences, We beg Leave to inform them, that Congress have always en trusted their President with the Business of transmitting Such of their Proceedings to the several States as were necessary for their Information, & in Consequence thereof have allowed him a Secretary & Clerks at the publick Expence; And We think that our honorable Colleague who has filled the Chair will join with Us in Opinion, that as on the one Hand, It might have been deemed officious, in any Members to have taken the Charge of transmitting such Proceedings to their respective States, so on the other, the Secretary of Congress could not have been justified in per mitting Extracts of the Journals to have been taken previous to his fur nishing the president with Copies for the several States; neither could the Members of any State who had not relyed on the Care of the president, have expected that he would detain the Expresses for their Dispatches. We fully agree with the honorable Assembly, that it is necessary that the Assemblies of the several united States should from Time to Time be made acquainted with what passes at Congress, in Order that Measures may be adopted seasonably, for carrying their resolutions into Execution; and We are more convinced of this from our own Experience of the Want of Information of what passes at the General Assembly, Whose salutary Plans, as far as they depended on Us, may have been frequently ob structed, from our not having received their Journals, or a regular Com munication of their proceedings since the Beginning of the Year 1776. The Propositions of the Assembly touching the continental Frigates, & the Expence of making good the Wages of the Officers & Soldiers of the continental Battalions raised by the State, & of the officers & Soldiers of Colo Jackson’s, Lee’s, & Hendly’s Regiments, & Colo Crane’s Regiment of Artillery including Stevens Corps, are committed to the marine Com mittee & Board of War, & when they report We shall use our best En deavours to obtain the Resolutions proposed. Mr Gerry begs Leave to remind the hona Assembly that he proposes to return the Beginning of May next, & will be glad that one of his Colleagues may be present to supply his Place. We remain Sir with the greatest Respect for the General Assembly & Yourself, your most obedt & very humble Servants, Samuel Adams James Lovell E. Gerry S. Holten


[Page 254]
220 March 21, 1779 reputation: At least from your professions of friendship & regard for me, I thought it incredible, that such a measure could be seriously resolved on without your giving me some previous intimation of it. Besides it appeared to me altogether improbable and too injurious to the reputation of Coun cil to suppose that words spoken in July 1778 1 should lie rankling in their minds till March ’79; more especially when I considered that a few weeks after the transaction, I had received a pressing invitation to meet the person offended who then held the first post in government & others of the highest rank, to form a club for purposes you are well acquainted with; that I attended one evening and received every mark not only of civility and respect, but of confidence & friendship; that at parting I received a cordial invitation to join the club and upon my mentioning how my evenings were engrossed by the duties of my office was told that the company sensible of this would not insist on a constant attendance, but that my occasional visits would be agreeable. It is true I did not attend again. But no offense could be taken as there was an obvious reason for my not attending & whatever private objections I had remained secret in my own bosom. For the reasons above mentioned I thought it altogether improbable that my name should at this time be brought into your dispute. But, it seems, I was mistaken. A point is now to be carried, and to attain this, every bond of friendship is to be broken, every sentiment which would influence a generous mind is to be sacrificed. Nay, it is said that a person in high office and confidence of council has declared “That they are determined to put every thing to the issue and either to sink Congress or sink themselves” or words to that effect. Can it be possible that such a resolution is taken and an avowal of it encouraged by those who are entrusted with the supreme executive power of Pensylvania? Yet the per son making the declaration had a right to know, & must have been very deficient in his duty if it was longer to remain a secret. If this is really the case, it will be easy to account for what to me seemed so highly improb able. But the difficulty still occurs how to credit this which seems to sur pass all belief. What must be the consequence if either event takes place? Have you, Sir, have Council provided for your safety so as to be guarded against the consequences? You are surely too wise and too prudent to put all to the hazard. The world will never believe you capable of such folly. Pride and passion are bad councillors; but cannot be supposed to influ ence the conduct of a prudent man. Suppose the worst that could happen to America, personal safety, nay riches and honors will be but a poor recompence for the loss of character and the curses of posterity. I pray you, Sir, to consider that in contests such as those in which we are en gaged, Suspicion and jealousy are awake; that however patriotic and upright your designs are, they may be misconceived or misinterpreted. Already surmises are creeping in; and people are beginning to sound each others sentiments by shrugs and wishes that all may be right. Slander will soon begin to open her mouth. A people who wish to be free will ever be


[Page 256]
222 March 21, 1779 1 The best clue to the meaning of this reference that has been found is the following entry from the minutes of the Pennsylvania Council for July 13, 1778. “An indecent & affronting application having been made by Charles Thompson, Secretary of Congress, to the Hon’ble George Bryan, Esq’r, Vice President, demanding possession of a House which he says Colo. Proctor unjustly detains from him, & insisting [Blank in Council Book].” Pa. Council Minutes, 11:531. Little is known about this incident beyond what is contained in this quotation and in Thomson’s letter to Reed, but Bryan had apparently revived the memory of it in mid February 1779 when the Pennsylvania Council was collecting evidence about insults experi enced by the state at the hands of Continental officials. This conclusion can be deduced from the following one-sentence letter to Vice President Bryan from Daniel Roberdeau, dated “Monday Morning, Feb’y 21, 1779.” “Be pleased to furnish me,” Roberdeau wrote, “with the Date of the Resolution respecting the papers laid before Congress by the Supreme Executive Council, said in the Journal to be from T. Matlack.” See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:198; where it is endorsed “Date of the paper enquired for, is 13 July, 1779.” Although the evidence of this document is patently flawed—the endorsement should have read 1778 in stead of “1779”; and February 21, 1779, was a Sunday and not “Monday”—it seems clear that Bryan’s resurrection of this episode provided the occasion for the letter from Thomson. The latter was obviously disappointed in Reed and the council for letting their passionate pursuit of Arnold cloud their judgment to such an extent that they injected a number of tangential issues into their dispute over the general’s malfeasance and in the process under mined their own case. See also the “fifth” complaint of Pennsylvania against Continental officers quoted in Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debate, March 26, 1779, note 1. Thomas Burke to George Washington Dr Sir Philadelphia March 22d 1779. When I had the pleasure of Seeing you in this City, I had a little Conversation with you on the Subject of Reinlisting Such of the North Carolina Troops and levies whose time of Service might be nearly expired. My Collegues and myself wrote to the State on the Same Subject. 1 The Assembly thereupon resolved that “three hundred dollars per man be given to each Soldier who shall reinlist for one year or more in the North Carolina Continental Service.” 2 The delegates are authorised to act ac cordingly, and we are unwilling to take any measures without previously Consulting you lest we Should Contravene Some general Orders by you given under the late regulations for recruiting the army. We are inclined to give the State bounty, in addition to the Continental, to all who shall inlist during the war. We deem Soldiers obtained on Such Terms better worth the agregated bounty than Soldiers inlisted for one year are worth the State bounty, and indeed Sir we are disposed to do every thing in favor of the Soldiers, deeming them the most useful, the most Suffering, and most important order of our fellow Citizens. My Collegues concur with me in requesting your advice on this Subject as soon as possible and in assuring you we Shall Cooperate with you with the greatest chearful- ness. 3 I beg leave Sir to offer you my best wishes and to present my most respectful Compliments to your Lady. I have the honor to be Sir, with the greatest respect and Esteem, your very obt. Svt, Tho Burke 4


[Page 257]
March 22, 1779 223 RC (NHi: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 See North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell, December 22, 1778, note 3. 2 For this North Carolina Assembly action, which was transmitted to the state’s delegates in a March 1 letter from Gov. Richard Caswell, see N.C. State Records, 13:608, 718, 721, 14:25-26. 3 For Washington’s April 5 response to Burke’s request for advice, in which he declared that “I am most clearly convinced of the impolicy of State bounties in all cases,” see Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:336-37. 4 This day Burke also began another letter, of which only the following fragment survives. It is endorsed “unfinished Letter suppose to Col. Harrison.” “I delay’d thus long answering your favor of Feby 18th in hopes that every day would bring to a period some important Business on which we have for some time been engaged, but delays, many of which are the Effect of Artifice, have hitherto intervened and prevented me, and at this time I am not at liberty to communicate anything. “I am in Sentiment with you on our finances, and our affairs generally, but my hopes are more Sanguin than yours, perhaps from having a filler information. I have great Confidence in the Resources of our People, and I am persuaded.” Burke Papers, NcU. John Fell’s Diary Monday March the 22d. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Order of the Day, for considering the Ultimatum for the Fishery, Long Debate. Report for Appointing Clothier General &c to be considered tomorrow morning. 6 P.M. Committee on foreign Affairs. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary [March 22, 1779] 22. Monday. I dined with Mr. Gerard & a No. of the members of Congress dined there. I wrote to the Council of Massa. Bay & to Mr. Avery, & Mr. Warner. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten’s letters to the Massachusetts Council and to Elias E. Warner are printed in the following entries, but his letter to John Avery has not been found. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia March 22d, 1779. By a resolution of the Genl. Assembly of the 15th of Octr. last, the honble. Council are desired to transmit or cause to be transmitted, to each of the delegates from the Massachusetts-Bay, then in Congress the sum of


[Page 258]
224 March 22, 1779 £800—And as I am desirous of giving the board as little trouble as possi ble; Therefore if a warrant is made out for the above sum, on the treasurer of the State, payable to me or my order, and delivered to the care of Mr. Avery Depy. Secy, is all I desire of the honble. Council in consequence of said resolution. I have the honor to be, Sir, with great respect & esteem, your most obedient & most huml servant, S Holten P.S. Congress on Saturday last resolved that it be recommended to the several states to set apart the first Thursday in May next, as a day of fasting & prayer thro’ these states. 1 RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honble. Jeremiah Powell Esqr. president of the honble. Council of Massachusetts Bay.” 1 See John Jay to the States, this date. Samuel Holten to Elias Warner [March 22, 1779] [. . ,]Self with interest: I suppose Mrs. Holten had not then received a Sum of money I sent her about that time; The remainder of the money, which I suppose will be about £40—I desire you 1 to transmit to Mrs. Holten by some safe hand; Colo. Hutchinson who represents the Town of Danvers, will deliver to Mrs. Holten any letters you may send with plea sure, if you’l let him know whose business it respects. It is natural to suppose that I shall be desirous of knowing whither you are able to transact this business; Therefore a few lines from you will be very Acceptable, inclosing my reciept & note given to Mr. Hancock if you procure them, but in order to guard against Accidents, I desire you to take my name from the same, before you inclose them. It is possible the money may be sent by the honl board to me, before this reaches you, in that case, please to return me the inclosed order, 2 with Mr. Hancock’s letter & account, and I’ll send you the money you ad vanced to Mrs. Holten by the first oppertunity, Yours affectionately FC (DLC: Holten Papers). In the hand of Samuel Holten and endorsed by him: “Copy of a letter to Mr. Elias E. Warner, March 22d. 1779. This business is all Settled.” First page or pages of this letter are missing. 1 Elias Warner (1750-81), brother-in-law of Samuel Holten and a Boston merchant, had apparently been pressing Holten for repayment of a debt. In addition to the endorsement on this letter quoted above, Holten also made the following relevant notes on a separate sheet: “Minutes taken from my memo book—I wrote Mr. Warner Nov 10th, 1778, but can find no copy. 1779 Jan 14th I wrote to do. but have no copy. “1779 Feb. 16th. I reed, a letter from Mr. Warner but can’t find it. “1779 March 2d. I wrote to Mr. Warner, but can find no copy. Then follows letters & copies. “N.B. For some time after I attended Congress first I kept no copies of my letters except public letters. I therefore conclude, that I paid Mr. Warner for the horse before I kept copies


[Page 270]
236 March 23, 1779 No Letters from Boston Today. No Man not even a Currier is thought to be obliged to behave as formerly when the Money was better. How shall we contrive to burn half of it? If Men will not lend we must emit. Why is there not so much Patriotism as to enable us to declare solemnly that we will not strike a single Bill more? But, that Topic adds a Sickness at my Stomach to the Pain in my Jaw and obliges me to close with a Repetition of much regard. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). Thomas Nelson to George Washington My Dear General Philada. March 23d 1779. I had the satisfaction of receiving your Letter of the 15th 1 by Colo. Laurens and I would have answer’d it by Colo. Harrison but I had not the pleasure of seeing him (being from home when he call’d on me) till he was about to leave the City. I am happy that my taking a seat again in Congress meets with your approbation; and shall be still more happy, if by my advice or assistance, America shall be relievd from her present distresses; for in my opinion she has not, at any time, since the commencement of this War, been in so much danger as she is now, and principally from the state of our finances, which seem to me to be in strange confusion. What may be the result of the late determination of Congress for calling in the Emissions of April & May 77 & 78 I know not; but the present effect is very contrary from what was expected. Our immediate Country is almost thrown into convul sions by it. I fear it has given a deadly stab to the Credit of any Paper Money that may hereafter be issued by Congress. Let us however profit by experience and endeavor to apply a remedy to the sore, before it make the bone caries. I propose certainly to pay you a visit in the Spring, for believe me when I assure you that I am with the greatest regard & esteem, Your Obedt. Servt & affectionate friend, Thos Nelson Jr. [P.S.] I beg you will present my Compts to Mrs. Washington. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s March 15 letter to Nelson is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:246-47. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 23d March 1779 I have only time at present to acknowledge the receipt of Your favor of the 20th Feby. 1 & must take some future opportunity to consider its con-


[Page 272]
238 March 24, 1779 2 Congress had refused to reimburse Samuel Davis and Ephraim Whitney for their loss of Continental money in a fire. See JCC, 13:299-300; and Whipple to Weare, December 8, 1778, note 1. 3 See John Jay to the States, March 22, 1779. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. March 24, 1779 The Bearer of this Letter being prevented setting off today by a Storm, I have had Time to transcribe the inclosd Extracts. 1 They were written to me in Confidence, as you will observe. I think I am warranted in commu nicating them to j>ou, because I know the Writer has as much Confidence in your Prudence and Discretion as he has in mine, if not more; and I do not see how I can better use them for the Purpose he intended in sending them to me, than by sending them to you. Those Parts which are descrip tive of the Weakness, or if you think more proper, of the reserved Caution of Age, you will judge it prudent to keep secret for the present. There are some of our Friends, who having been long habituated to admire the Wisdom of the Philosopher, cannot easily be perswaded to believe, that in the different Character of a Politician, he may be lyable to human Frail ties at the Age of more than three Score and ten. Those Parts which may serve to set Dr Lee in his true Character of an honest and diligent Servant of the Publick, you will make Use of for that Purpose; for it is of equal Importance that the Fidelity of one and the Treachery of another in the Service of the Publick, should be made known. A Man of inflexible repub lican Virtue, cannot but incur both the Dread and Hatred of those, who are ambitious—desirous of making Fortunes—artful and enterprizing, especially if much of the publick Treasure has passed, unaccounted for, through their Hands. Mr. Dean would have the World beleive that Dr Lee is a dishonest Man and a Traitor. The writer of these Extracts who has had full Opportunity of enquiring, says, “He is a Man of Integrity and Honor.” “A Worthy Character.” “Invariably attached to the Cause of America.” I am inclind to think, that no honest and sensible Man who is acquainted with both, will hesitate to determine, on which of their opinions to rely, or which of them, in the present Instance, ought to be supposd the impartial Judge. Adieu. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Adams undoubtedly enclosed extracts from John Adams’ December 5, 1778, letter, which he quoted below. For this letter, see also Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, March 7, 1779, note 7. Thomas Burke to George Washington Sir Philadelphia March 24th 1779 The Governor of South Carolina has pressed the Governor of Virginia for an aid of Cavalry, and the latter has recommended to the Several


[Page 277]
March 25, 1779 243 inlistment Containing the age, and description of the Negro, and the price agreed on between the owner and the said Colonel, or other commanding officer, which Certifi cate properly Indorsed and authenticated Shall intitle the bearer to receive the said price when the same shall be due.) That no pay or bounty be allowed to the said Negroes, 2 but that they be cloathed and subsisted at the Expence of the united States. That every Negro who shall well and faithfully Serve as a Soldier 3 to the End of the present war and return his arms be emancipated, and receive the Sum of dollars. (That it is also Expedient, that it be Recommended to the State of South Carolina to fill up their quota of the Confcederal Troops with Negroes upon the foregoing Terms.) That it be recommended to the States of Virginia and North Carolina 4 to raise as many Battalions of Regular Soldiers as their Circumstances will admit, every Battalion to Consist of the following ranks and denomina tions of Officers, and rank & file. Vzt, That a bounty not exceeding dollars be given to every Non Commissioned officer and Soldier who shall inlist in the said Battal ions. That the time of Service of the said Battalions 5 Shall not exceed one year from the day of next. And that they shall not be compelled to Serve on any Enterprise, or on the defence of any post to the Northward of the State of Virginia. The circumstances of the army will not admit of the detaching of any force therefrom for the defence of South Carolina and Georgia. The Confcederal Battalions of those two States are very feeble in force, and not adequate to their Defence. That the three Battalions of North Carolina Confcederal Troops which are now on that Service are composed of Militia draughted for Nine Months only, which Term with a great part of them will expire before the End of the campaign—with the remainder has commenced the begining of this present month. That all the other force now employed for the defence of the Said States Consists of Militia from them and the Neighboring States who from the remoteness of their Habitations, and the difficulties attending their Ser vice, cannot be relied for Continued Exertions, and a protracted a War. That the State of South Carolina as represented to your Committee by the Delegates of the Said State, and by Coll. Huger who has come hither at the request of the Governor of the Said State on purpose to explain the particular Circumstances thereof is unable to make any Effectual Efforts with her militia by reason of the great proportion of Citizens Necessary to remain at home to prevent Insurrections among the Negroes, and to pre vent the desertion of them to the Enemy. That the State of the Country and the great Numbers of those people among them exposes the Inhabi tants to great danger from the Endeavours of the enemy to excite them either to revolt or desert.


[Page 278]
244 March 25, 1779 That it is Suggested to your Committee by the Delgates of the said State, & by Coll. Huger that a force might be raised in the said State from among the Negroes which would not only be formidable to the Enemy by their Numbers, and the disciplin which they would very readily admit of, but would also lessen the danger to the Inhabitants from revolts, and desertions by detaching the most Enterprising and vigorous Men from amongst the Negroes. That as this measures may involve inconveniences peculiarly affecting the State of South Carolina your Committee are of Opinion that the Same Should be Submitted to the governing Powers of that State, and that if the said Powers Shall Judge it expedient to raise such a force the united States ought to defray the Expence thereof—upon a View of the foregoing Cir cumstances your Committee report. MS (NcU: Burke Papera). In the hand of Thomas Burke. 1 On March 18, 1779, Congress appointed a committee of five—Burke, Henry Laurens, Thomas Nelson, John Armstrong, and Eliphalet Dyer—“to take into consideration the cir cumstances of the southern states, and the ways and means for their security and defence,” at the behest of South Carolina and its emissary Isaac Huger. The motion to appoint the committee was offered by Laurens; South Carolina’s role in initiating the recommendation to raise black troops in the southern states is made explicit by Burke in this draft. The committee submitted a report to Congress on March 25, at which time the delegates opened a debate on it that was continued on the 29th. The latter day Congress endorsed the committee’s principal recommendations and adopted a number of resolves for raising black troops in South Carolina and Georgia at Continental expense, securing additional aid for those beleaguered states from North Carolina and Virginia and retaliating against residents of the Bahama Islands, from which privateers had recently been operating along the Caro lina coast. JCC, 13:336, 374, 385-88. In addition to this draft by Burke, two other key documents on this subject have survived: a draft committee report by Henry Laurens, and the committee’s final report (in Burke’s hand), upon which Congress’ resolves of the 29th were based. See Henry Laurens’ Draft Committee Report, this date; and PCC, item 20, 2:365-71. No clear evolution between these three texts has been discerned, however, and the relative contributions of Burke and Laurens to the committee’s final recommendations can only be conjectured. For delegate comments on the proposal to raise black troops, see William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, March 28, postscript; John Collins to William Greene, March 30; and John Armstrong to Horatio Gates, April 3, 1779. For other aspects of this committee’s work, see Thomas Burke to George Washington, March 24, 1779. 2 “Agreed” written in the margin at this point. 3 “Agd” in the margin. 4 “Agd” in the margin. 5 “Agd” in the margin, and repeated adjacent to the next eight paragraphs. John Fell’s Diary Thursday March 25th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Debates ab’t the Clothier General’s department, Postponed till tomorrow. 1 A Report from the Delegates of So Carolina & Georgia, for Raising Battalions of Negroes to be Offic- erd by White Men and appointed by the Authority of the State, to be


[Page 281]
March 25, 1779 247 that State offered very high Bounties for recruits but with no favorable prospect of success. That a Body of permanent Troops are absolutely necessary for the defence of So Carolina & recovery of Georgia. That continuing the Militia or Yeomanry of So Carolina in the field for any considerable time will be attended with fatal consequences in the approaching Season, from Sickness, death, neglect of husbandry & me chanical employments & by affording temptation to Negro Slaves to rise in Rebellion or at least to desert to & strengthen the hands of the Enemy— from these considerations Your Committee beg leave to recommend to the House, to Repeat their former applications to the Governments of Virginia & North Carolina for sending all possible aid & succor to the States of So Carolina & Georgia & particulary to require that the Resolution of be carried into effect. Resolved 3 That it be recommended to the Governments of So Carolina & Georgia to consider of the necessity & utility of arming able bodied Negroes either for filling up the Continental Battalions of those States or for forming seperate Corps to be commanded by White Officers commissioned & non commissioned 4 to be appointed by the Legislature or executive authority of the said States, or for both purposes Resolved that Congress will make provision for paying the proprietors of such Negroes as shall be inlisted for the Public service during the War at a Rate not Exceeding Dollars for each active able bodied Negro Man so enlisted, 5 of Standard Size and not exceeding (forty} thirty five years of age. And Whereas it is Represented to Congress that The Bahama Islands are now Garrisoned by & under Military Goverment of the K of G B, & the Inhabitants of those Islands have of late fitted out many Privateers & armed Vessels for cruizing on the coasts of these States & that such Priva teers & armed Vessels 6 have actually made prize of divers Vessels on the Coast of So Carolina, Resolved that the Resolve of Congress of so far as it respects the said Bahama Islands be from & after the date of this Resolution 7 held be void & repealed to all intents & purposes. (Resolved that the Inhabitants of the Bahama Islands be & they are hereby declared to be in Enmity to these States & the said Inhabitants & their property Liable to seizure & condemnation as other subjects of the King of Great Britain are.) 8 MS (Nc-Ar: Secretary of State Papers). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 For the background of this draft report, see Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, this date, note 1. 2 A reference to Congress’ resolve of February 2 requesting North Carolina and Virginia “to afford all possible aid to South Carolina and Georgia, of men, arms, and other necessary articles.” JCC, 13:132.


[Page 283]
March 26, 1779 249 Morris that a Committee be appointed agreeable to the Request, Mr Smith moved as an amendmant the Committee of Council be struck out. Long debates 5 Ys, Ns 5. There ensue’d a long debate on order till Ad- journd, an unhappy dispute, Occasiond intirely by means of Major Gen eral Arnold. 6PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary [March 26, 1779] 26. Friday. Mr. Gorham, Mr. Wales & Mr. Inches, a committee from the Genl. Court of Massa.-Bay arrived here. 1 Ms (MDaAr). 1 This committee had been sent by the Massachusetts General Court to Philadelphia to reinforce the state’s request for permission to import flour from the southern states. Congress had, however, on February 26 already acted on the state’s request by recommending to the southern states that they allow such imports, exempting Massachusetts and Rhode Island from the embargo on grain and flour. JCC, 13:257. See also Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, March 1, note 2, and April 1, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates 26 March 1779. 1 G.M. 2 “By their publication they have directly & positively appealed to the Public & stand as the accusers of Congress to their Constituents, therefore (assigning many reasons') we cannot consistently with the honor & dignity of this Congress nor consistently with the regard we owe to our Constituents confer with the State of Pennsylvania, before they shall have made reparation” &c &c. O^in a second Speech—he compared the Power of the Executive Coun cil with the Power of other States—“it was inferior to that N. York—& believed it was inferior to the Powers of many other States—he had known some Corporations of less Limitted powers.” Query, what are the States, but, so many self Created Corporations. General Armstrong & Mr. M’Lean displayed the constitution & powers of the Executive Council. G.M. after comparing powers as above—“I ask, if the Governor of this State had published such charges against Congress, would you confer with him, before you had vindicated your honor to the World & received some satisfaction—I trust not. I think I may answer for every Member present, there is not I am persuaded, a single Gentleman on this floor, who would venture to give his voice for descending so far below the dignity of this


[Page 284]
250 March 26, 1779 House.” “I don’t know what the publication is, I have heard of it but I have not seen it.” Mr. Lovell reminded him of S. Deane’s publication of the 5th Decem ber & the conduct of Congress thereon. G.M. replied—“The Cases were not similar (or parrallel), but granted, a thousand wrongs don’t make one right, if we did wrong in the Instance let us take care to avoid doing wrong again.” M.S. 3 “If I have been abused & traduced & held out in Print to the Public, shall I as an individual submit to a conference with the Man or any set of Men who have used me in that manner—No Sir! I don’t know the powers of Congress whether it extends to expulsion, but I will sooner be expelled & turned out of that door, than submit to give my voice in favor of so disgraceful a measure (or conduct). No Sir, Let us publish & vindicate our conduct first, to the World, before we talk of conference.” J.P. 4 Would any Gentleman in private life, after he had been abused by another Gentleman, enter into a conference before he had received satis faction. No! I am sure I would not, I don’t know what other Gentlemen’s feelings may be, I speak for myself. I can’t answer it to my state, consis tently with the honor & dignity of those who I have the honor to repre sent. G.M. I think, I am sure that publication, ought to be taken under consideration of a Committee & narrowly scaned, before we talk of confer ences. There are such things as preliminaries to treaties, which are necessary to be established before the Treaty is entered upon. If we have done wrong let us acknowledge it before we confer, if we have been wronged let us not confer before we receive satisfaction. I have no Idea of compromising quarrels. I am for following Shakespear’s advice, “beware of entrance to a quarrel; but being in, bear’t that the opposer may beware of thee.” 5 W.H.D. 6 —supported these doctrines, & voted accordingly, talked of the duty of every Man to know & to feel his own dignity. 7 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens, and endorsed by him: “Speeches in Congress, 26th March 1779, against conferring with the Executive Council of Pennsylvania.” 1 This day Congress read a letter of March 25 from a joint committee of the Pennsylvania Assembly and Executive Council requesting “a free conference with a committee of Congress upon divers transactions of that honorable body, which may have a tendency to interrupt the harmony and confidence so necessary for the common interest of this and the United States.” JCC, 13:374. The request immediately encountered opposition, and a motion was offered by Gouverneur Morris to refer the letter to a committee, apparently to avoid taking direct action upon it. The speeches recorded in these notes by Laurens were doubtless made during debate on Morris’ motion, which was lost when the states divided equally, although Congress resumed consideration of the issue on the 29th and appointed a committee of five to confer with the Pennsylvania authorities. The requested meeting was actually held the evening of March 30, and William Paca, the committee’s chairman, reported the results of it to Congress on April 1. Two days later Congress adopted a series of resolves designed to restore harmony and bring the crisis with the state to a close. See JCC, 13:374-78, 389-90, 409, 412-17; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:730.


[Page 289]
March 27, 1779 255 an Order from the Commissary at this upon the Deputy Commissarys in Maryland for the same quantity and for the same purpose least any difi- cultys should happen. We request you will immediately order the Schoo ner to take in the flour and Iron remaining at Senepuxent and proceed round to Chesapeake Bay to compleat her Cargo. We would prefer lading her with the most Southern flour, but we wish you to pursue that plan which in your judgement will be productive of the most despatch. We shall pay your drafts for any advances you make or will remit you money just as you may find convenient. We are Sir, Your hble servants 1 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Another item of Marine Committee business was transacted this day by its secretary John Brown, who sent the following brief note to William West (1724-1808), a Philadelphia businessman, who was apparently the owner of the building rented by the committee for its quarters. “I am favoured with your letter of the 20th instant,” Brown wrote, “which has been laid before the Marine Committee who have ordered me to inform you that they dealing not in hard money, would be glad to know how much Continental Money you will take for the Rent of your Bank House after the present Contract is expired.” PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 212. John Fell’s Diary Saturday March 27th. 1779. 1 Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from Major Genl. Arnold requesting the Report of the Committee to be taken up, on which the Report was Read, and the Papers, Letters &c that Passed between the Committee and the Execitive Council after which a Motion was made that Genl Arnolds affair be Postponed, and the Motion of Yesterday taken in to consideration for a Committee to meet a Committee of the Assembly and a Committee of the Execetive Council in Conferrance, Ys & Ns Carrd in the Affirmitive, then M Smith moved after a long Speech, that the Chair be requested to call on Each Member to know if they have Receiv’d any intelegence from any foreign Court, in Europe and Particularly from England Ys & Ns carrd in the Affirmitive, All No. 2 Mr Lovell moved for Mr Aken to Print the Journals, debate about the Propriety of Printing the Yas & Nas & the Ys & Ns calld for on the Question carrd in the Affirma. I was No. I think they are very often Ridicolous. MS (DLC). 1 This day Connecticut delegate Joseph Spencer took his seat in Congress pursuant to his appointment by the state assembly “in the room of Andrew Adams, Esqr, resigned.” He apparently continued in regular attendance until September 17, 1779, when his name last appears in the journals on a roll call vote. See JCC, 13:378, 15:1081-82. His claim for “my service attending the Conti. Congress from March 15th to Septemr. 28th, 1779, both inclu sive, 198 days at 18s per day—£178.4,” clearly includes his travel time to and from Philadel-


[Page 291]
March 28, 1779 257 William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir No 11 Philadelphia 28th March 1779 Some days ago I hastily acknowledged the receipt of Your favor of the 20th Ulto. 1 I am fully of Your opinion, & was at the time that the Good effects of calling in the two Emissions will be in a great Measure Marred by Exchanging them, but you know the best Political systems are often destroyed by one stroke of bad Policy. I believe I sent you some time ago News papers containing the Laws you mention respecting the Estates of Refagees (as you call them). (You’ll pardon the criticism, but I never liked the word as applid to those People nor can I like the Epithet used by the Massachusetts assembly viz Absen tees. Those people have either fled from justice or deserted the Cause of their Country & therefore I think are more properly to be called Fugitives or by some other epithet more descriptive of their true Charecters.) You say you have not the vanity to think N.H. the fitest State to take the lead in this business; I will not pretend to say, who ought to take the lead, but every State should judge of their own circumstances, and pass such Laws as the scituation of their affairs require. Great dangers may arrise from placing too great confidence in men who are not Heartily attached to the Independence of America. Such charec ters shod be watched with the most jealous Eye, but there are another set of people that we are to apprehend great danger from; I mean those who entertain principles repugnant to Republicanism; such undoubtedly there are in every part of the World & it will be happy for N.H. if such charec ters do not insinuate themselves into Your councils & by their baleful influence weaken the foundation of that noble fabric (which I suppose you are about to erect) & render it unworthy the acceptence of the Goddess to whom it ought to be dedicated. That Heaven may guard my Country against the influence of such false Patriots is the most fervent wish of Your very affecte Friend and Most Humle Sert. WW 29th. Your favor of the 27 th Feby is just come to hand. The Report of the dispatches with proposals of peace &c is without the least foundation, this is only a Tory Tale calculated to put people off their guard & slaken their exertions in the insuing Campaign. 2 I believe I informed you in some of my former letters that the last accots from Europe Breathed nothing but War. Tho’ I do not believe they would persue the plan were it not for the unhappy scituation of our Currency & the Flattering accots they have had of our dissentions, these circumstances have encouraged them to try an other Campaign; but I hope notwithstanding the many difficulties we have to encouter we have still virtue enough left to withstand their utmost efforts. Indeed I have not a doubt but we shall succeed but still every exertion is necessary to recruit, & put the Army on a respectable footing. Mr. Frost intends to leave me in about a fortnight. I wish to know who is to take [h]is place, also when I may expect to be releived. My anxiety,


[Page 292]
258 March 28, 1779 for the determination of some important matters will induce me to tarry as long as my constitution will bear this Climate, but I do not think it possible for me to tarry longer than May. The last accots from S. Carolina were favorable. A recommendation is gone thither for raising some regiments of Blacks, 3 this will I suppose lay a foundation for the emancipation of those poor wreches in that Country, & I hope be the means of dispensing the Blessings of freedom to all the Human Race in America. Adieu, Yours &c, WW RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 See Whipple to Bartlett, March 23, 1779. 2 Bartlett’s February 27 letter to Whipple is in the Peter Force Collection, DLC, and Josiah Bartlett Papers, microfilm, NhHi. Bartlett had written: “Report here says, that the Mifflin, privateer that arrived at Boston some time since from France, had brought some important dispatches for Congress, containing proposals of peace and such as could not be rejected by Congress. I heartily wish it may be true as I am tired of the war but doubt the truth of the report.” 3 See Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, March 25? 1779, note 1. Committee on Appeals Decree March 29th. 1779. Jonathan Tredwell &c I Appeal from Lib[ellan]ts & App[ellan]ts 2 the State of vs Aaron Lopez &c. App[ell]ees J Rhode Island 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States having heard and fully considered as well all and singu lar the Matters and Things set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court aforesaid in the above Cause as the Arguments of the Advocates of the respective Parties in the above Appeal Do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of Jonathan Tredwell &c entered in the above Cause be dismissed with Costs And that the Judgment or Sen tence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid pronounced and published in the said Cause be in all its parts confirmed and established And we do adjudge and order that Jonathan Tredwell & the Appellants pay unto Aaron Lopez &c. the Appellee in the above Cause two hundred and eighty Dollars for his Costs and Charges by him expended in supporting and sustaining the Sentence of the said Court of Admiralty against the said Appeal &c. Wm Hy. Drayton Wm. Paca John Henry William Ellery MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 37). In a clerical hand, and signed by Drayton, Ellery, Henry, and Paca. 1 The Rhode Island Admiralty Court had ordered the schooner Hawke and cargo returned to its owner, Aaron Lopez, a Newport merchant. The Hawke had been captured by Capt. Jonathan Tredwell while sailing north from Jamaica to an undisclosed destination. Tredwell


[Page 293]
March 29, 1779 259 appealed the case to Congress, which referred it to the Committee on Appeals on October 26, 1778. As the committee in this decree “confirmed” the judgment of the Rhode Island court, Tredwell’s appeal was dismissed and the appellants were ordered to pay Lopez’s costs in supporting his cause during appeal. SeeJCC, 12:1064; case file no. 37, RG 267, DNA; and Stanley F. Chyet, Lopez of Newport; Colonial American Merchant Prince (Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 1970), pp. 164-70. For a companion case involving Lopez, see Committee on Appeals Decree, April 10, 1779. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad 29th March 1779 I am Just, my dearest Polly, returnd from a Visit to our Brother & his Lady 1 who enjoin me whenever I wrote to present their affectionate Re gards to you & our Daughter. Our friendly Sister often repeats the Satis faction she expects to find in the Society of a Relation who she says has a first place in her Husbands Heart. On my part I really expect it will contribute to our Social Happiness: our Brother whom I so lately thought in a declining Way is free from Complaint and gathers Health and Spirit daily: the Anxiety, which too much oppressed him, for his Jamaica Estate has subsided, & he enjoys the greatest Tranquillity of Mind. When I visit them we ride out as much as the Time will admit—and I find the Benefit of it myself. I do not know when I enjoyd better Health for which I cannot be sufficiently grateful to the Almighty. May he graciously dispense the same Blessing to you, our dearest Children & Friends! Make my Duty, Compliments & Blessing Acceptable to them all in their respective Rela tions. I shall write to you again soon And in the Meantime, beg you will believe me to be with all possible affection—My dearest Polly, your faith ful Husband, Jas Duane [RS.] The enclosd is from Bror. Robert. Be pleasd to deliver it. I am not in the way of news papers: but will [solicit?] & forward some the next Conveyance. RG (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 Robert Cambridge Livingston and Alice Swift Livingston. John Fell’s Diary Monday March 29th. 1779. Coml. Committee. Congress. Motion for taking into consideration the Raising Negroes Troops in So Carolina & Georgia. Repeal of the Resolve relating to the Bahama Islands. Motion for appointing the Committee of Conferrence, with the Execi- tive Council & Assembly of Pennsilvania, A Motion Per M Smith of a


[Page 298]
264 March 30, 1779 2 The Rhode Island delegates continued throughout the year to press Congress for com pensation for the state’s black soldiers but without conclusive results. See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, April 13, June 29, and September 28, 1779. William Ellery to John Sullivan Dear Sir Philadelphia March 30th. 1779. I received your letter of the 28th February last with Genl. Prescott’s certificate. I am satisfied, from the wording of it, that neither Crossing nor Corey were, properly speaking, commissioned-officers of the Crown of Great-Britain at the time they were employed in the maroding, kidnap ping Business for which they have been sentenced to die by the judgment of a Court martial. 1 The Question with me is not what kind of powers those powers were, which they received, and were lodged in the possession of Genl. Prescot; nor why they were so lodged; nor how they have been always consider’d. The plain Question is whether they are commissioned Officers of the Crown of Great Britain in the same sense and to every intent purpose as other British Captains & Lieuts are? As I have already said I am satisfied they are not. I imagin their future commissions de pended upon circumstances which had not taken place at the time they undertook their expedition. I do not mean to argue on this subject. They have escaped, and I imagin will neither be retaken or returned. Suppose the Sentence of the Court martial should be confirmed! Do you think General Prescott will deliver them up to be executed? I should think not. If they have got to the Island they will abide there, at least until the determination of Congress shall be known; and when this will be I know not, for great & important matters are now on the tapis. I read that part of your former letter which respected money matters to some of the members of the Treasury board, who told me that not long before a considerable Sum had been transmitted to the Paymaster. 2 I made out an extract from the letter I am now answering and deliver’d it to the Treasury board, which produced Money sufficient I hope to answer the present exigencies of the detachment, two or three days before the arrival of the Paymaster. I believe it would be well hereafter that He should write to the Treasury board, at the same time you write to them and point out the Sum wanted and for what purposes. I shall always with great cheerfulness execute your requests. You forgot, Sir, to make the inquiry after Francis Brindley I desired you to make; 3 or, if made, to communicate the result of it. I have since been informed by the Chaplain to Glover’s Brigade that he was married to the Widow Lawton, who acts as a Matron to the Hospital, by Mr. President Manning. If this should be true I would be much obliged to you if you would procure a certificate thereof and transmit it to me, that I may hand it to Brindley’s wife who is a worthy woman.


[Page 299]
March 30, 1779 265 Please to inform me what number of troops there are on Rhode Island & what Number of ships there are in the harbour of Newport. It is re ported here that Adml. Gambier is gone from New York with his heavy Ships to Newport. It is also reported that Count De Estaing had received a reinforcement of Six Ships of the line and had sailed to attack St. Lucia. What think you, Sir, of another attack on Rhode-Island? Americans can make three hits I believe as well as Britons can stand them. A brilliant stroke this campaign might produce an honorable peace. I wish you could make it; for I wish you all the honour that can be acquired by a gallant officer, being with the highest Sentiments of esteem, Dr Sir, Yr most obedt. Servant, William Ellery RC (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). Endorsed by an unknown hand: “Letter from Mr. Ellery to General Sullivan Open’d by Order by Gen. Glover dated Philadelphia 30th March 1779.” General Sullivan had left Providence on March 29 for army headquarters in Middle brook, N.J., to take command of the expedition against the Six Nations, leaving Gen. John Glover acting commander of Continental forces in Rhode Island. Sullivan, Papers (Ham mond), 2:556-57. 1 For the court-martial of William Crossing and Francis Corey, see John Fell’s Diary, January 4, note 1; and Ellery to Sullivan, January 24, 1779. 2 See Board of Treasury to John Sullivan, March 31, 1779. 3 See Ellery to Sullivan, January 24, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday March 30th. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. A Number of Letters, and one from Mr Gerrard to hasten the Plan for Treaty. 1 Agreed to an Ultimatum for the Fishery, which I am afraid will involve us in a Continuance of the Warr. Motion Per R H Lee 6 Ays 5 Nos, 1 devided, 1 not Represented, NB New Jersey. 2 6PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 This March 31 memorial of Conrad Alexandre Gerard, which was endorsed by Charles Thomson—“Letter from M. Gerard minister plenipotentiary of France March 30, 1779 read the same day”—was only one of several written by Gerard urging Congress to come to a decision on its peace ultimata and to select a minister plenipotentiary. See PCC, item 94, fols. 148, 182, 186-88, 225-32, 251-53; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:106-7, 154, 156-58, 175-78, and 194-95. A copy of the memorial Gerard submitted this day located in the Henry Laurens Papers, ScHi, contains the following revealing endorsements in Laurens’ hand. “Directed to the President of Congress, Read in Congress 31st March, 1779. Very displeasing to some of the Members, and laid by without debate or any order on it.” “Mr. Gerard to Congress 31st March 1779 an Insult sought for and invited by Members of Congress.” 2 For the action Congress took on the “Ultimatum” this day, see Gouverneur Morris’ Proposed Resolve, March 22? 1779, note.


[Page 300]
266 March 30, 1779 Samuel Holten’s Diary [March 30, 1779] 30. Tuesday. I dined with the president of Congress. I wrote to Mr. Hancock, Capt. Batchelder, Mr. Wadsworth & Mrs. Holten (No. 48).' Congress sit late. MS (MDaAr). 1 None of these letters has been found. John Jay to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia 30th March 1779. I have the Honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed two Copies of an Act of Congress of the 29th Inst, on the Subject of a conference with the Assembly & executive Council of Pennsylvania. 1 I am, With great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant. P.S. Copies of the Depositions of Majors Clarkson & Franks are also enclosed. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 It is not clear just what Jay may have enclosed concerning “an Act of Congress of the 29th Inst,” but for the “conference” at issue, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, March 26, 1779, note 1; and JCC, 13:389-90. 2 Not found. But for a declaration by Benjamin Paschall, a Philadelphia justice of the peace, that Matthew Clarkson and David S. Franks, aides-de-camp to Benedict Arnold, had sworn depositions before him “about a month agoe ... to prove that Major General Arnold did not purchase goods upon his coming into the City of Philadelphia other than for his own private use,” see PCC, item 69, 2:47. These depositions had been requested by Reed in a March 29 letter to Jay. See JCC, 13:391. Reed’s letter is in PCC, item 69, 2:35-36; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:270. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Sir. Philadelphia March 30th 1779. We are to acknowledge the Receipt of your Excellency’s Favor with its Inclosures—to all which we shall pay due Regard. I hope in a few Days to be able to give you the Information respecting the Commissary’s Depart ment which you & the Council desire. 1 In the mean Time we have the Honor to be with great Regard Sir Yr most obt hble Servants, Geo. Plater J. Henry Junr. RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Plater and signed by Plater and Henry. 1 The Maryland Council’s March 26 letter to its delegates in Congress is in Md. Archives, 21:328-29. In it the council had suggested that emergency procurement measures might not


[Page 301]
March 31, 1779 267 be required because it had received reports that “considerable Quantities of Wheat” had already been collected at mills in Harford and Cecil counties and that there were “large quantities of Flour” at the Head of Elk. Board of Treasury to John Sullivan Sir Philadelphia 31st March 1779 No application has been made to the Treasury nor to our knowledge to Congress for Money to pay the Army under your command untill the honorable Mr. Ellery presented us with an Extract from your Letter to Him. 1 In that Extract no Sum was specified: As it came to hand at a time when from a multitude of Drafts the Treasury was exhausted: This Board however did all in their Power to releive your Necessities by procuring an estimate of your wants from the Board of War and reporting a warrant for 600,000 dollars to be transmitted by that Board, which will we presume, be done in a little time, as every possible exertion is making for supplying the Army. We have the honor to be with great respect, Sir, Your Most Obedient, Humble Serts Jas. Duane Ch. In the Name of the Board of Treasury P.S. The Information from Mr Ellery was received by us the 19th Instant, an immediate application was made to the Board of War for an estimate of your wants, on the 22d we reported to Congress & on the 24th a Warrant Issued on the Treasurer for the sum above mentioned. 2 RC (NHi: Horatio Gates Papers). Written by William Carmichael and signed by James Duane. 1 See William Ellery to John Sullivan, March 30, 1779. 2 See the first letter of John Jay to Washington, March 24, 1779, note 3. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday March 31st. 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. A Letter from Thos Payne Read. 1 A do from Govr Trumbull, to setle his Brothers Accts. 2 Committee on Commissary Trumbulls Accts Reported, that his Estate be Allow’d as follows to wit V2 Per Ct on all the Moneys laid Out, Yas & Nas Carrd Affirmitive 2’/2 Per Ct. on all Purchases made by himself, do do ‘/2 Per Ct. on all the Money lay’d out, do even, Lost— not finish’d. Motion made per Mr Smith that Mr be appointed Printer for the Public and that the Journals be Printed in Sheets and sent to the Legislatures of the different States. Dr Wetherspoon. 3


[Page 302]
268 March 31, 1779 MS (DLC). 1 Thomas Paine’s March 30 letter to Congress, which is in PCC, item 55, fols. 43-46, and Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888):410-12, contained his complaint that he had been denied access to the written proceedings of Congress related to his case. See John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, January 10, 1779, note. According to a pseudonymous article in the Pennsylvania Packet of April 20, 1779, this protest by Paine led Congress this day to adopt a resolve ordering “that, for the future, the journal, except [for ‘parts ordered to be kept secret’], be printed weekly and sent to the executive powers of the several states.” See JCC, 13:395. 2 The letter was not from “Govr. Trumbull,” but from Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., the brother of the late Joseph Trumbull. JCC, 13:395. 3 This reference to John Witherspoon, which appears in the margin of Fell’s entry, appar ently reflects the fact that Witherspoon returned to his seat in Congress sometime during this day’s debates. Secretary Thomson recorded five roll call votes on March 31, but Wither spoon is listed only in the last two. JCC, 13:398-401. John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 31st March 1779. Enclosed herewith is a copy of an Act of Congress of the 29th Inst., recommending certain measures for the defense of the Southern States. 1 I have the Honor to be With great Respect, Your Excellencys Most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To Governor Henry.” Endorsed: “N.B. The like verbatim to Governors Caswell, Rutledge & Houston.” 1 JCC, 13:385-88. For the work of the committee that drafted the resolves enclosed with this letter, see Thomas Burke’s Draft Report, March 25, 1779. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 31st March 1779. You will receive this from the Hands of Lt Colonel Laurens. This Gen tleman’s Zeal for the American cause, & his Bravery in support of it, have induced Congress to honor him with the Commission he now holds. His Excellency General Washington has, in compliance with the Colonel’s Request, consented to his joining in the defense of his native State, & it would be very agreeable to Congress that he should have a Command suitable to his Rank as soon as the Service in your Department will admit of it. 1 Permit me to recommend him warmly to your Attention, and to assure You that I am of the Number of those, who, from public, as well as personal Considerations, are sincerely disposed to promote his Welfare & Honor. I am Sir, With great Respect & Esteem, your most Obedt. & Hble Servt.


[Page 310]
276 April 2, 1779 for what are essentially necessary, have already exhausted & distressed her exceedingly. We hope that you will concur with us in opinion that our Militia may return home as soon as may be, & that no more Battalions should be raised in our State for the purpose of being sent thither. We were not surprized on this occasion to see the New England States vote for the proposition above mentioned. The object is to them peculiarly important, their Country from its situation & strength is secured in a great measure from the danger of ravages to which the Southern States from contrary circumstances are exposed, and nothing but a conviction of our being unable to carry on the War without the assistance of our Allies, who by their engagements are not bound to assist us in obtaining it, could induce us to decline it. But we were much surprized to see Pennsylvania & Delaware Vote for it, who of all the States are most injured by the War, & are as little as any Interested in Fisheries, the Improved state of Agricul ture & the more flourishing circumstances of those States have made them the objects more immediately of military operations. Their commerce, which in Peace is exceedingly flourishing is entirely ruined by the War, their Husbandmen are harrassed with military services, their agriculture much decayed & their frontiers wasted or deserted. The necessaries of life at the most enormous prices, & a considerable part of their Country deso late & in ruins, yet those States thus circumstanced vote for the continuing the War, without Men, Money, Arms, clothing or Provisions! This must be infatuation or something worse. Tis time, Sir, for every State not thus extravagant to reserve her exertions, for her own particular defence. We thought it our duty to give Your Excellency the above information, relying on your good sense that you will make such a use of this Letter as its importance deserve. 4 We have the honor to be with the greatest Re spect, Your Excellency’s Most obedt. humble Servts. John Penn Whitmell Hill Thos. Burke Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 31). In the hand of Henry Laurens. Endorsed by James Lovell: “A true Copy carefully compared & examined with the Original, which I believe to be in the handwriting of one of the Signers John Penn.” 1 Numeral added by Laurens. This document is one of nine, dated from April 2 to 8, preserved by Laurens and pertaining to his dispute with the North Carolina delegates over his support of American claims to the northern fisheries. 2 The evidence for this date is found in the following endorsement that Laurens appended to his transcript of the document. This endorsement refers to both this and the following entry, which Laurens copied at the same time: “Neither of these Letters dated—they were brought from the President’s House by one of his servants, to mine. Friday 2d April 1779. I informed Mr. Penn & also Mr. Burke I would consider & answer them on Monday the 5th or sooner if possible. Answered the 4th having in the meantime been fully employed in Congress & in Committees.” 3 For Congress’ March 29 resolutions requesting additional aid for the beleaguered states of South Carolina and Georgia, see Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, March 25, 1779, note 1.


[Page 311]
April 2, 1779 277 4 This letter was apparently never sent to Caswell. That it was composed simply to deter Laurens from insisting on making a claim to the fisheries a prerequisite of peace with Great Britain seems clear from the concluding paragraph of the following entry. North Carolina Delegates to the South Carolina Delegates Gentlemen [April 2, 1779] 1 Considering that your State is always deemed so feeble in Internal strength and resources, that her defence when attacked must chiefly be performed by the Neighbouring States, and must fall more Immediately on North Carolina from her circumstances, and contiguous Situation. Considering also that a Question now before Congress Involves the continuance of Hostilities, even tho’ our Liberty, Sovereignty and In dependence, absolute and unlimitted, as well in matters of Government as Commerce shall be acknowledged and secured, unless Great Britain will acknowledge a right of Fishing on all Banks and Coasts of No. America which were exclusively reserved to Britain by the Treaties of Utrecht and Paris, as fully as the Inhabitants of the Countries now composing the United States of North America injoyed when Subject to Great Britain; a right which we deem more Extensive than can with Justice be insisted on, and which our Allies by their engagements are not bound to assist us in Contending for, and which the Minister Plenipotentiary of France assures us his Court can not agree to continue the war for. Considering also that in a late vote upon the Question alluded to, Mr. Laurens one of the Delegates from your State gave his voice for continuing Hostilities for the aforesaid object, even tho’ our Allies should not be in a Condition to assist us from which we Infer, that he relies on a degree of Strength and resources in your State which is unknown to us, or on a mistaken Idea of the strength and resources of North Carolina. This long experience, and intimate knowledge of his own Country induce us readily to admit the former as the ground of his opinion. But we esteem it our Duty to inform you that in case of the continuance of the War for the aforesd. object North Carolina is not in a Condition to make any exertions for the Defence of So. Carolina, nor do we believe she will be inclined to make any. We beg you to consider that in the event of the Continuance of the war your Country will probably experience all the calamities which can be apprehended from an Insolent, Relentless, Iritated, and Rapacious enemy, from your own Slaves armed against their former Masters, from the Savages excited to more bloody and merciless dispositions and con ducted by leaders who have Inclination and Abilties to make their force and ferocity as effectual against you as possible. Upon general matters we would not presume to lay our thoughts thus before you; how inadequate the resources of the Continent are to a con tinuance of war without allies, & what must most probably be the event


[Page 312]
278 April 2, 1779 John Penn


[Page 313]
April 3, 1779 279 we suggest not to you, your participation in the publick Councils make it unnecessary and improper; but upon a matter so supremely Interesting and which so peculiarly affects the lives and properties of the States which you & we have the honor to represent, in which may be involved Desola tion To our Countries and the most unbounded Ravages and carnage to their Inhabitants of all ages and sexes, and which may fall with peculiar weight and Injury on the State we represent, upon such a matter we cannot dispence with offering you this official memorial, and we hope you will consider our Expostulation as flowing from the anxious Concern we feel for our Country and that it will have with you its due weight. We inclose a Copy of a letter which we mean to address to the Govr. of our State, we wish the Conduct of your Delegates on this Important affair may supersede the necessity we deem ourselves under of sending it for ward. 2 We have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, Your very obt. Servts. J Penn Whitmell Hill Tho Burke RC (MeHi: Fogg Collection). Written by Penn and signed by Penn, Burke, and Hill. Ad dressed: “The Honble Henry Laurens and W. H. Drayton Delegates for South Carolina.” Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 31). In the hand of Henry Laurens and numbered by him “No. 1.” 1 For the date of this letter, see the preceding entry, note 2. 2 See the preceding entry, note 4. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Dear General. Philada. 3d April 1779 Several Weeks have passed since I designed the pleasure of writing you, waiting from day to day, in hopes of aproaching a little nearer some Short System of communicable Politicks, as well as of the intended dispossition of the Army; but must at last content mySelf with a little cruder imperfect detail. Of the late communications from the French Minister to our House, however some circumstantial matters we cannot devulge must remain out of sight, the Substance I think you have aright to know Viz. In the media tion of Spain betwixt the Courts of France & England The Independance of America is by the Court of France made a preliminary, which if not acceded to by Britain, the Spanish Minister has intimated that his Court will not See that of France involved in War without assisting her; 1 hence arises a probability of Peace, inform’d as we also are that Britain has applyed to the Empress of Russia for Troops & repeated that application with proposals as flattering to Russia as they are degrading to Britain, with repeated refusal on the part of Russia. We Expect a Loan in hard money either from Spain or Holland, the City of Amsterdam being much


[Page 314]
280 April 3, 1779 in our favour. The King of the two Cicilies has Opened his Ports to America. France is Called to Mediate betwixt the Emperor & his Prussian Majesty, but insists that Spain be also taken into that mediation. Thus we may Shortly have Some matters of importance to trafnsact] with Spain as we have heretofore had with France and perhaps wth Eng land which require certain preparatives on the part of Congress, and greatly enlarges the Circle of business under the Epithet of Foreign affairs. The great depreciation of Our Money is truly allarming, a Subject [which] must again be immediately taken up. That of the Army has also long called for farther consideration. These three topicks require equal dispatch, yet have their constant interruptions not only from the daily dispatches on One branch or another of the publick busines, but also from the Spurious Sources of Pride, Ambition & intrigue for One purpose or another, whereby annimossitys, divisions & destruction of time must en sue—So that compared to Congress in its present attitude, I call the Army a Bed of ease, a Pillow of Down. General Arnolds affairs with the Civil powers of this State, has lost much of the Publick time, when half a dozen of polite or wise words, or Short plain & candid answer to the Supreme Council (authorized by Congress as they were to ask the questions) wou’d have prevented the whole at first. This disagreeable matter tending to interrupt the necessary harmony betwixt Congress & this important State is I trust chiefly Settled by means of a free conference requested by the Assembly & held betwixt a Committee of Congress & one formed out the assembly & Council of the State, in which for the publicks Sake, the Council generously gave up what they had considered as an insult agst. them, Some Other matters are refered to a Court Martial to be appointed by the Commander in Chief. 2 Mr. Dean is now Urging a final determina tion on his affairs, which I apprehend will prove vexatious. Common Sense if permitted has lately challenged him (Dean) to the Bar of Con gress & that the doors be Open. 3 Open doors will not be allowed, yet perhaps both may be had. Poor Pane, not the most prudent man in the world, is excereted by a number & much out of the books of Congress, yet has most certainly brought various things neither reputable nor Salutary in our affairs, at least to a probable point of view, which otherwise wou’d have remain’d dormant. We must also have a Sudden Struggle on the point of Sending new Commissioners to Europe. Some are for recalling the whole that are there, others not—nor is it improbable that some may wish to be Sent from hence, who will not have the general Sufferage of the House. Congress have passed a resolve to raise & emansipate three thou sand Negroes in S. Carolina & Georgia, pay, feed & Cloath them during the War. The proprietors to have from Congress 1000 dollars for each Negroe—Also to raise more troops in N. Carolina & Virginia for the Southern aid, a Regiment of Horse. I presume Blands or Bailors will also be Sent & if in Service will soon be melted down. The affair of the blacks is optional and Submitted to the Govt, of S. Carolina, it was moved by their own delegates. Young Coll Laurens is appointed the first Lt. Coll of


[Page 317]
April 3, 1779 283 Genl Schuyler for the friendly Indians agreed. An Inspector to be ap pointed for the Batallions of Negroes to be Raisd in South Carolina and Georgia. No. 2 A very impertinent Letter from Thos. Payne stileing himself Historian—orderd to lay on the Table. 3 Committee appointed to conferr with a Committee of the Assembly and a Committee of the Execitive Council of the State of Pennsylvania, Re ported that they had finishd the Conferrance, (Happily) and that they had 4 different charges against Major General Arnold, which the Com mander in Chief is directed to have try’d by a Court Martial vizt. for an abuse in orderding the Shops of this City to be Shut, for sending a Malitia Sargant for a Barber for his Aid, for Employing the Public Waggons for Private use, for. 4 MS (DLC). ' Commissary John Beatty’s March 31 letter to John Jay concerning the case of Lt. Chris topher Hele is in PCC, item 78, 3:305-6. For Hele’s case, see Henry Laurens to Beatty, November 7, 1778, note 1; and John Jay to Hele, February 16, 1779, note 1. 2 For the Board of War’s recommendation on appointing William Galvan “to the Office of Sub Inspector to the Battalion of Negroes proposed to be raised in the Southern States,” see JCC, 13:418. 3 Thomas Paine’s April 3 letter to Congress, in which he had declared his intention “to furnish the United States with a History of the Revolution,” is in PCC, item 55, fols. 47-50. In it he had complained of Congress’ refusal to do him justice and asserted that Congress had no right “to pass Censure without a hearing.” For the background of Paine’s complaint, see John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, January 10, 1779, note. See also Charles Thomson’s Statement, April 23, 1779. 4 Thus in MS. Henry Laurens to William Henry Drayton Dear Sir No. 3. Chesnut Street Philadelphia 3d April 1779 You will find under cover with this—the Letter from the Delegates of North Carolina to the Delegates of South Carolina, and also their Address to Governor Caswell respecting and animadverting my conduct in Con gress. 1 You had some knowledge of these Letters before we read them Yesterday Morning, therefore I request you will honor me with an explicit and candid opinion on the propriety of the measure which North Carolina has adopted on this occasion—if you Sir, approve of their proceeding I shall be glad of a conference with you on the important subjects alluded to. I am open to conviction, and will change my late sentiments, when reasons shall be offered outweighing those which influenced the vote on my part which has given offence to the Representatives of a neighbouring State. As the first mentioned Letter although directed to us jointly, respects only myself, you will be pleased to return it to me when you shall have again perused it—the other Letter you will send or deliver to the Gentle-


[Page 322]
288 April 4, 1779 ensuing campaign in the Southern Army with the Pay & Subsistence, as well as Rank of Major. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 13:407; and Jay to Noirmont, February 13, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 4th April 1779. Your Excellency’s Favors of the 24th, 26th, and 29th Ulto. have been received & communicated to Congress. 1 The enclosed is a copy of an Act of Congress of the 1st Inst, relative to a Body of Men lately raised by the State of New York for the Defence of their Frontiers. 2 I have the Honor to be, With the greatest Respect and Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt Servant. John Jay, Presidt 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 Letters from Washington of March 24, 26, and 28 are in PCC, item 152, 7:199-210; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:289-90, 295, 302. Jay apparently erred in acknowl edging receipt of one of the “29th Ulto.,” for according to the journals, letters from Washing ton of March 29 and April 2 were laid before Congress on April 5. See JCC, 14:384, 391, 402, 419. 2 See Jay to George Clinton, this date. 3 Jay also wrote a brief letter this day to Lt. Martin Eichelberger of Col. Thomas Hartley’s 11th Pennsylvania Regiment informing him that Congress had accepted his resignation pursuant to his request. See PCC, item 14, fol. 79, item 78, 8:311-14; and JCC, 13:384. Henry Laurens to Richard Caswell Sir, Philadelphia 4th April 1779. The Honorable the Delegates of North Carolina now in Congress, have shewn me a Letter intended by them to be addressed to Your Excellency, 1 in which they display very freely & as I apprehend very unjustifiably an Instance of my conduct in that Assembly. “I will hear the other party” has ever been a governing principle in my mind. No Man more convinced of the truth of this assertion in my own favor, than the Honorable Mr. Burke, Your Excellency will believe it too when you recur to my Letter of the 27th April 1778. 2 I am persuaded Sir, that I shall not find Your Excellency less impartial. Were I in the present moment to attempt a vindication of that part of my conduct which has given the Gentlemen offence, I should Copy the bad example set by the Honorable subscribers of the Letter alluded to; I should join in the disclosure of a momentous subject now under delibera tion, which I have pledged my faith & honor to keep secret.


[Page 323]
April 4, 1779 289 But admitting, as the Gentlemen allege, that I am in error, admitting that my supposed mal-conduct arises from “Infatuation or something worse” does it follow that one State in our Union should be devoted to carnage, & the Interests of the other twelve essentially injured because South Carolina is so unhappy as to have one of her Delegates wrong- headed or foul hearted? Can we discover no medium? To speak a little freely Sir, in my turn, these Gentlemen of North Carolina appear to be under the government of Passion, I will not say anything worse. Are Men to be driven into measures by sophistry, misrepresentation & menaces? Could I have expected such attempts from Gentlemen whose daily & laudable boasts are, “I am accountable to my own State & will be governed by my own Judgement.” “Fiat Justitia ruat Ccelum.” 3 “I have my own feelings & I am not answerable to any Man or set of Men but to my Self & my Constituents.” &c &c &c &c &c. One moments reflection Sir, I am persuaded will determine your Excel lency’s “good sense” to make “such an use of the Gentlemen’s Letter as the importance of it deserves.” Were I to presume to give an additional hint, it would be to keep in Your Excellency’s own breast a secret which the Gentlemen have obtrusively & unnecessarily thrust into it. It is possible I may have erred in judgement, the Gentlemen in their attempt to correct the supposed error, have committed Acts, which ap pear to me in the glare of heinos Crimes. They have attacked the freedom of debate & suffrage. They have menaced a free Citizen in order to bias his Vote. They have advised the abandonment of an Innocent people to the rage of a powerful & merciless Enemy. They have recommended measures which if adopted will endanger the safety of the United States. And have they not sacrificed their sacred faith & honor to pique & resent ment? But Sir, I will disclose to Your Excellency a secret which I never prom ised to keep, It is a settled Plan & has been for some time past “to hunt me down.” Were there any just cause, unjustifiable means for accomplishing the pious purpose, would not be resorted to. The, “’vantage ground of truth” says Lord Bacon, “is an incomparable pleasure, ’tis an Hill not to be commanded & where the Air is always clear & serene” & beleive me Sir, I do consistently with truth add, that I have seen from thence particularly in late Instances, “The Errors, and wanderings and Mists and Tempests in the Vale below.” All this if my Address arrives alone will be a riddle; If the honorable Gentlemen shall think proper to send forward their Letter to Your Excellency, that will produce explication. I have the honor to be, With the highest Regard & Esteem Sir Your Excellency’s, Most obedient & Most humble Servant. Henry Laurens.


[Page 328]
294 April 4, 1779 forbear to withdraw their aid from a Sister State invaded, for reasons on one side of the question only adduced to them, and because among others it is supposed that as I have given my opinion in favor of a question that appears to me to involve the most essential interest of the U. States, that therefore I have discovered resources in South Carolina which enable her to wage war with her single strength against the power of Great Britain? I am &c. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 25). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 This document appears to be the draft of a letter intended for the North Carolina delegates from Henry Laurens in response to their letter to him of April 2. But as it is the work of Richard Henry Lee—i.e., numerous deletions and interlined insertions clearly indi cate that this text was actually composed by Lee—one can only conjecture how he came to be involved in Laurens’ correspondence with the North Carolina delegates over the fisheries issue. It is clear from numerous other documents that the two men frequently collaborated on foreign policy issues, particularly those involving Arthur Lee, for the Laurens Papers contain many letters from Arthur Lee to Richard Henry as well as transcripts by Richard Henry of other documents related to the Deane-Lee controversy. And transcripts—in the hand of Laurens’ secretary Moses Young—of five documents (dated April 3 and 4) relating to Laurens’ controversy with the North Carolina delegates at this time are in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. It therefore seems obvious that when Laurens received a letter from the North Carolina delegates threatening to withhold aid from South Carolina because of his support of New England claims to the northern fisheries, he consulted Richard Henry for advice in preparing a response. Interestingly enough, Lee’s draft is much more detailed than Laurens’ reply and rehearses a number of issues ignored by the latter in the letter he actually returned to the North Carolina delegates, for which see the preceding entry. 2 See North Carolina Delegates to Henry Laurens, April 2, 1779. s JCC, 13:62-63. 4 See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:40; and PCC, item 94, fols. 109-10. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee {Congress 1 } April 4, 1779. The {governor} of {Virgin}ia {inform}s us that {Ford} your {secre tary} 2 is a {bad man}. Such are the {opinion}s entertained of {Ford} in that {state} that it is by no means {proper} he should {continue with} you any longer. He is said to be an artful man, that he has imposed on many where he was not unknown, and therefore it is not to be wondered that he has succeeded where he was a Stranger and where there were no means of discovering him, and as he has documents with him of former services which might naturally lead to an opinion that he was a {good man}. {Richard Henry Lee}. RC (MH-H: Lee Papers). 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lee in cipher. 2 The cipher here is 230bXIII, which would indicate a word beginning with the letters “lo.” Since 330bXIII translates as a word starting with “se” and Richard Henry is clearly


[Page 332]
2gg April 5, 1779 In an effort to prevent “anarchy and confusion”, Georgians from eight counties met in Augusta on July 24 to nominate a “Supreme Executive Council” to direct the affairs of the state, which was also authorized “to elect fit and discreet persons to represent this State in Congress,” and on August 31 it selected Edward Telfair, John Houstoun, and Edward Langworthy as delegates. None of those chosen, however, took their seat in Congress. Later in the year the supreme executive council issued a proclamation dated November 24 ordering the election of representatives to a new assembly on the first Tuesday in December as mandated by the constitution of 1777. In the meantime, however, the failure of the allied siege of Savannah in October and the disarray in Georgia government prompted Gen. Benjamin Lincoln to suggest to George Walton that an assembly be convened as soon as possible Arriving in Augusta in late October, Walton used Lincoln’s letter as his authority for calling together on November 23 an “assembly” that elected him as governor and William Glascock as president of a newly designated council. Styling the supreme executive council under John Wereat the “Tory Council,” Walton and his group claimed to be the legitimate authority in the state and applied to Congress and its agents for the $500,000 voted for the use of the state, but the money was denied him. The Walton “assembly” or its council also appointed a slate of delegates to Congress, among them ex-governor John Houstoun, which they expected to leave for Philadelphia “shortly. Houstoun certainly considered his election valid, for in a December 27 letter he explained to Henry Laurens that he had reluctantly declined the appointment and hoped that “the Representation is by this Time filled up with an abler Man than myself, and a better than some who were joined with Me in the last Election.” See PCC, item 73, fols. 246-55; Candler, Revolutionary Records, 2-141-44 175 180 182; Charles C. Jones, Jr., The History of Georgia, 2 vols. (Boston: Hough ton, Mifflin and Co., 1883; reprint ed., 1965), 2:428; Edwin C. Bridges, “George Walton: A Political Biography,” (Ph.D. diss., University of Chicago, 1981), pp. 158-70, 174-77; Ken neth Coleman, The American Revolution in Georgia, 1763-1789 (Athens: University of Georgia Press, 1958), pp. 157-58; and Houstoun to Laurens, December 27, 1779, Myers Collection, NN. By mid-December, however, the Walton faction had apparently decided to follow pre scribed constitutional forms and its congressional delegation was withheld. Instead, Walton issued a proclamation requiring the “Members elect” of the new assembly called for by the supreme executive council on November 24 to meet in Augusta on the first Tuesday in January 1780. He further informed Congress that the assembly would soon meet and that “Delegates will attend Congress as soon as the Season will permit.” Controlled by the Walton faction when it gathered in January, the assembly quickly declared the acts of the supreme executive council illegal, appointed Richard Howly governor, and elected Walton, Edward Telfair, Benjamin Andrew, Lyman Hall, and William Few as delegates to Congress. Whether some of those named were also on the slate chosen by the Walton “assembly” six weeks earlier is uncertain. Apparently convinced of the validity of the new government, congressional agents turned over to John Hardy, one of the Georgia treasurers, $597,000 voted for the state. Walton, Telfair, and Few reached Philadelphia m the spring and pre sented their credentials to Congress on May 15, 1780, thus becoming the first constitution ally elected delegates to represent Georgia in Congress since Edward Langworthy’s term expired on February 26, 1779. See Walton to Congress, December 15, 1779, PCC, item 73 fols. 262-65; Candler, Revolutionary Records, 2:191, 196-97, 202, 207-8; JCC, 17:426-27; and Coleman, The American Revolution in Georgia, p. 159. 3 Not found. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General [April 5? 1779] I am in a droll State. I have referred Doctor Cooper to you and have not Time to communicate what I wished, as I find by the Time of Day


[Page 333]
April 5, 1779 299 that the Express will be upon me. I will only be short; Yr. Favors are come to Hand by Doctr. Brown. I doubt whether any great Matter will come from their Contents being read in Congress. 2 They are referred to the Board of War. They will Serve, as The Lords’ Protests, to show yr. Sentiments. We have done our best Endeavours except in the Matter of Fortifications at Boston. I do not think you could possibly intend that I should deliver your Letter to Count D Estaing open, to Mr. G d 3 and I have Reasons for not doing it, open or shut. Your Sentiments about Nova Scotia touch my Heart and will make me industrious to forward them. This very Matter, if known would prevent some others from giving them any Expedition. 4 I will not write to you in Figures. 5 There are Men, here, in too great Plenty who, think a stark naked Acknowledgemt. of the 13 United States under territorial Limits which Britain will not dispute is all that we are warranted to demand and all that our Allies will support us in the Claim of. Two European Powers have fancied that they could claim the Fishery of the Banks & Gulphs of America not only against their european Nations but agst. all weaker People even bordering on these Sease. A private Party pretend to know possitively that Gr Br. will not be thought to set up a strange Claim if she persists to demand all that she has not given to France. I mean all eastward of the Bounds of Massachusetts. He therefore that says we ought to demand and fight for the same Rights of Fishery as we have always had, is the willfull murderer of thousands, because Allies will not, support us beyond the professed End of the Treaty. To be sure every Thing looks on our Part like Unpreparedness for even Defence. But if we may not demand what the Deity intended for us we will not formally or impliedly relinquish it. We must at least declare that we mean not by any Words or Treaties be supposed to foreclose future Claims of our Right to catch Fish in all open Seas if we cannot cure them but on our own Lands. I cannot read over what I have written, but will say more on this head in some more composed minute. I shall be unpardonable, however, if I do not add a few Words on a private Topic. Mrs. L 6 expresses the highest Regard for you & your Lady and wishes me to say how much She is grieved that she is not able to show it in what is now a days called taking Notice of Strangers. Poor Woman! I pity her Feelings, if she was only as Republican in Sentiment as she is truly Generous in Heart she would be freed from much of her Regret on this Occasion by barely considering that her present Incapacity to behave in her old Line of Politeness springs from my strict Attachment to a most glorious Cause. Her Uneasiness would vanish. Call on her often hereafter when her Cellar will abound in french & Spanish Wines, or what is better good American Cyder. Drink Water with her now in Love. J L


[Page 335]
April 6, 1779 301 differs widely from what he delivered Orally as before mentiond. This narrative, which is very lengthey, I intend to procure a copy of, I shall also (when I leave this place) take some other papers with me, which places Mr Ds Charecter in a true point of light. I shall trouble you no more on this subject, unless any new matter shod appear in print which may need explanation in that case shall give you such satisfaction as the case may require. I know of no Opportunity at present for Europe from this place but its not improbable there may be, being under no such restraints as you men tion I shall with pleasure forward Mr. S s 2 letters to his Friend in Europe Tho’ it may be necessary that I shod have it in my power to Vouch for the contents of any such letters. Please to present my Respects to Mr. S. & tender him my best services in that or any other way in my power. I am, Your very affect Bror, WW RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). 1 That is, Silas Deane. 2 Whipple may have been referring to Jacob Sheafe, a merchant in Portsmouth, N. H. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday April 6th [1779]. Commercial Committee. Congress. Mr Rutgars and Mr Horton ap pointed Deputy Muster Masters. Mr McPherson nominated. 1 Order of the Day. Long Debate about Mr Deane and the Commissioners abroad, on the Report of the Committee on foreign Affairs. 2 PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 Fell’s entry is misleading, for the nomination of William MacPherson mentioned here was merely a recommendation of the Board of War. Congress postponed action on the board’s report at this time, and it seems clear from MacPherson’s memorial to Congress of September 16, 1779, that no action had been taken on the recommendation. See JCC, 13:425-26; and PCC, item 41, 6:145-48. 2 This “Long Debate” marked the opening round of a protracted controversy sparked by the report of the foreign affairs inquiry committee (the “committee of thirteen” appointed on January 20), which had been submitted nearly two weeks earlier on March 24. For the origins of this committee, see Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes, January 21, 1779, note 1. The committee’s report consisted of ten articles that named the commissioners as signed to Paris, Madrid, Vienna, Berlin, and Tuscany and stated that because “suspicions and animosities have arisen among the (late and present) Commissioners (viz. Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane, Arthur Lee, Ralf Izard, and Wm Lee) highly prejudicial to the honor and interest of these United States, . . . the appointments of the said Commissioners be vacated, and that new appointments be made.” Ilie report also stated that ministers pleni potentiary were necessary only in Paris and Madrid and that only one commissioner need reside at these missions. For the committee’s report and the list of charges and evidence presented against the commissioners, see JCC, 13:363-68.


[Page 339]
April 6, 1779 305 It may possibly have reached our State that this State nicely jealous of their honour, had conceived that they were not treated with the same respect & justice as had been shown by congress to others. There have been such suspicions; but they are happily removed. Union and Harmony are the great supports of our Independency. We have not received the copy of one act since we have been here passed by our State in pursuance of recommendations of Congress; nor of any other acts saving one respecting a supply of Provisions and one rela tive our Quota of the tax. We should be glad to know what passes in government. We are frequently under embarrassment for the want of such knowledge. We are this moment informed that the French minister hath reed, ad vice that Count De Estaing is reinforced and now hath one more ship than Byron, and that the French have retaken St. Martins and another small island, have also retaken a frigate and taken the Liverpool. We have postponed writing until the post was ready to go out, write in Congress and therefore hope that our Errors & Inaccuracies will be can didly forgiven. We are with the highest Sentiments of Respect, Yr Excel lency’s, most obedient, hble Servants, William Ellery John Collins RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 See Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, March 16, 1779. 2 Washington’s April 2 letter to President Jay, for which see John Jay to Washington, April 7, 1779, note 1. 3 Lt. Col. Zebulon Butler’s March 23-28 letter to the Board of War is in PCC, item 78, 3:301-4. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 6th Api 1779 Inclosed is several resolutions of Congress respecting particular depart ments of the Army, they may have been transmitted officially but lest that should not be the case, I shall in future see it done. Please to inform me of all that has been transmitted since the Commensment of the present Year either printed or in maniscript; you need only mention the dates. I have no news to give you, there are flying reports, but as such are not to be relied on they are not worth relating; we have had no intelligence from the Southward this 6 weeks nor from Europe since the begining of Deer. Mr. Frost talks of leaving me next week; 1 I have not had the least intimation who is to take his place. 2 Firmness & Intrepedity were never more necessary than at the present day, I therefore hope no one will be sent here who are not fully possessed of these Qualities. I shall endeavour


[Page 340]
306 April 6, 1779 to write to you fully per Mr Frost on subjects that it may not be proper to trust by the post—in the mean time am with great sincerity, Yours &c, W. Whipple RC (PHi: Etting Collection). 1 George Frost’s last recorded attendance in Congress was for a roll call vote on April 16, and three days later Whipple informed John Langdon that Frost had departed on the 16th. See JCC, 13:458, 461; and Whipple to Langdon, April 19, 1779. 2 Nathaniel Peabody, who was elected a delegate by the New Hampshire Assembly on March 25, began attending Congress on June 22. See Whipple to John Langdon, April 19, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday April 7th. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters Read. Motion for 15000 Ds. to be Paid to Captains McNutt, Nevers & Rogers, they are to endeavor to open a Road in to Novia Scotia. 1 Order of the day, for examening in to the conduct of the Commissioners abroad, and foreign Affairs, great and warm debates. Agreed to Read all the Letters. MS (DLC). 1 Proposals for uniting Nova Scotia and the United States had been considered by Con gress as early as November 1775, and in January 1777 and May 1778 Congress had autho rized Massachusetts to launch expeditions to Nova Scotia. See these Letters, 2:286-88, 327n.l, 6:52-54n.4, 7:74-75, 9:734-35n.3. Therefore, the renewed proposals by Alexander McNutt, Phineas Nevers, and Samuel Rogers to open a road to Nova Scotia from Maine did not fall on virgin ground when their letter reached Congress on September 29, 1778, al though Congress deferred action on their plan then and again on January 12, 1779. The persistent McNutt, however, had the support of New England delegates such as James Lovell and William Whipple, who were members of a committee appointed in December to consider one of McNutt’s many memorials. Indeed, Lovell wrote the report that was adopted by Congress this day, advancing $15,000 “to clear a road from Penobscot river to St. John’s river in the most commodious line.” See JCC, 12:965, 1222; 13:326, 428-29. See also Samuel Holten’s Diary, January 29; Lovell to Horatio Gates, April 5 and 19 and June 3; and Whipple to John Langdon, June 6, 1779. John Jay to the States Sir, Circular Philadelphia 7th April 1779. Herewith enclosed are Copies of two Acts of Congress—One of the 23rd Ulto. for regulating the Cloathing Department—The other of the 5th Inst, providing for the Pay of the Officers employed in it. 1 You will perceive that the first refers the Appointment of the Sub, or State Cloathiers to the different States, & that the second leaves their Salaries to be ascertained & paid by the States appointing them.


[Page 344]
310 April 8, 1779 influence of this sentiment I scribbled over my answer of the present date; if the Gentlemen enjoy feelings similar to my own, the affair will not come before Congress. I had every advantage over them that could have been wished for by a vindictive mind, & have disdained to insult Men who have surrendered. I long to be relieved from a duty which is now become a burthen, & in the honest prosecution of which I am in danger of being betrayed & sacrificed by a Man who ought to love & support me—send forward that relief I earnestly entreat you. Quarrels cannot last long where there are not faults on both sides. I have pursued such steps, suppressed resentments which might have been justified, & so far guarded against a quarrel—but th[ey] cannot command harmony, without which Colleagues cannot pro ceed in public business to good effect. I have heard nothing of importance from the Army since you left me— the business which employs me daily seven or eight hours or more at the State House & here is of a secret nature. Therefore I have no News to offer but such as may appear in the printed Papers which I send to Colonel Gervais & to which I refer you. Forty four days have passed since we had any intelligence from Charles Town I suspect the miscarriage of a Messen ger. I intreat you let me hear from you by every opportunity. I pray God to bless & protect you, Henry Laurens. P.S. 11th. Since writing as above No. Carolina has been silent, & what is more extraordinary my Colleague has called upon me to confer on busi ness of our Constituents, he met a cordial reception & a frank communi cation of sentiments on my part. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 A reference to the letters Laurens exchanged with the governor and the delegates of North Carolina on April 4 and 8, 1779. 2 That is, William Henry Drayton. Henry Laurens to the North Carolina Delegates Gentlemen, (No. 9) Chesnut Street Philadelphia 8th April 1779 The explanations contained in your Letter of this Morning 1 afford me the satisfaction of feeling myself once more a free Agent. I have, in the course of a two Years acquaintance given you repeated proofs of my abhorrence of that temper which leads some Men to take unfair advan tages of the rashness or inadvertency of others. I have the honor of adding another in the present instance, and of assuring you Gentlemen, your confidence in my candor shall not be abused. Be persuaded Gentlemen, my late Vote, you know what I refer to, and to be more minute would be dangerous, because our correspondence may perchance fall into improper hands, was the effect of as deep meditation


[Page 351]
April 9, 1779 317 appearing before the Legislature of a State, nor on the other could that Character derogate from that of the Legislature. I have not the Vanity to suppose my Talents were of any Consideration; nor indeed could they have been so. If great the Electors had a Right to the best they could procure and if small it would have been their Misfortune. Justice, I hope and beleive, was the Object on all Hands. Mr Reid as well as Mr Morris was at once a Lawyer and a Delegate. In the Moment of Friendship and Confidence, I told you that I was employed, You never hinted to me that it would be disagreable to your Countrymen. You assured Mr R. Morris and Mr Biddle in my Presence that those who applied for Seats, and whose Cause I was to advocate, were more strong Partizans of the same Side of the Question than those who now sit, And that they mistaking you to be friendly to that Side had applied for your Patronage and Interest with the Assembly on the Ground of their strong Attachment to the Con stitution. This then was not advocating the Measures of any Party. But the Sentence is well turned and I forget it. The third Ground of Complaint against me is the Letter of Robert Lettis Hooper, 4 on which you say. “Which Letter was publickly shewn by the said Mr. Morris to the Commander in Chief and others but being demanded by the Delegate of Pensilvania as a high Insult to the State was refused upon the Allegation of it’s being a private Letter.” The Opposition between publick and private you will I dare say take Notice of. A private Letter may be publickly shewn without the Fault of the Writer. Nor ought he to be prejudiced by the Imprudence of him to whom the Letter is directed. Let me remind you Sir that upon the Receipt of this Letter I shewed it as containing a Piece of News on the one Part, and a very extraordinary Determination on the other. That you pressed for it in Order to lay it before the Council. That I then told you I did not imagine Mr. Hooper meant by Writing that Letter to publish such Determination. That I did not think it written to me as a Delegate but meerly in my private Capacity. That there was Something dishonorable is using such a Communication to the Prejudice of a Man who might have entrusted it confidentially. And that if he really intended to publish such a Determi nation other Evidence would not be wanting against him. Sir I refused to deliver that Letter, because I think it wrong to turn to a Man’s Disadvan tage private Communications. I entreated you to consider it as such and by no Means to publish the Contents of that Letter, and I believe you know that it was not shewn by me after your Demand of it. I do not take Notice of the Matter as before the Board of War who I am told can fully exculpate themselves, but I must call to your Remembrance that I chear- fully cooperated with you and Doctor Witherspoon in collecting Evidence against this very Mr. Hooper. I have heard, but I do not recollect my Informant for I cannot believe the Fact, that you asserted to the Assembly, that in a Conversation with me, I had not only declared my Intention to procrastinate a Determina tion on General Arnold’s Case but even pointed out the Mode I would


[Page 355]
April 9, 1779 321 Health and Circumstances; and as he had open Letters to New York, I asked for those which were directed to my former Friends there, or were written by any such in Jamaica, intending if it were necessary to aid his Negotiations for Money in this City. He had not his Letters with him but assured me that on these Subjects he was perfectly at Ease. I then as an American expressed my Hopes that he had not been plundered or ill treated by my Countrymen, and my Confidence that, notwithstanding the apparent Ingratitude of their Conduct, at which he seemed much en raged, they would not take from him his wearing Apparel, and such other Things as it had been customary to leave in the Possession of Persons in his Situation. How he came to misinterpret what I said I cannot concieve, but the Fact stands as I have stated it, and no one who knows me, nor indeed any other but a very base and wicked one will beleive me capable of the Infamy of suborning a Witness. Another Insinuation against me no less cruel is, that I support Mr. Deane from interested Motives. If by supporting Mr Deane is meant the just & honorable Support which is due from a Representative of America to a Servant who asks for Justice, I am proud to declare that I have given and will give it, tho I disdain to sell it either for Price or Condition. But if by Support is meant Assistance in Fraud or Guilt I repel the Calumny and I despise the Calumniator. While Mr Deane was a Petitioner to be heard, I maintained his Right to a fair and a candid Hearing, with the Warmth, not of an Advocate but, of an honest Representative whose Duty it was to do Justice to the Public and to Individuals. If he shall appear to be guilty I will condemn and prosecute him and if innocent I shall en deavor to place that Innocence in it’s proper Light. But the Supposition that I forward his Views (if any he has) to future foreign Employment is ridiculous. Mr Deane considered in himself is not the Negotiator I should chuse under his present Circumstaces, tho compared with some now Em ployed and others who wish to be employed he has an infinite Preference. Nor can I, notwithstanding Appearances, perswade myself that you really second the Views of Men who have already attempted to blast your Repu tation, or of a Party whose Enmity you must be fully convinced of what ever may be their present Professions. Neither can I believe that you have such Weakness as to sacrifice the permanent Interests of this State to any momentary Objects which now offer themselves. It is hardly worth mentioning further that as it serves to shew how sedulously some Persons employ themselves to my Prejudice that Enquir ies have been made whether I am not concerned with Mr Deane in Trade. There is Nothing which may not be overdone, and this is among the Number of those Things which must soon recoil upon the Inventors. I am well content that my Conduct be probed to the Bottom, and I trust will then appear to deserve, not the Forgiveness, but the Applause of my Country. I have mentioned above a Publication which you urged me to make, but which hath as I have been informed given you Offence. How this can


[Page 358]
April 10, 1779 for a new trial, but on February 19, 1780, their motion was denied and the committee ordered this April 10, 1779, decree into effect. See JCC, 12:886; and case file 28 RG 267 DNA. That Lopez had come to Philadelphia to monitor the committee’s proceedings in this and a companion case involving another of his schooners is evident from the following note to him from Connecticut delegate Jesse Root, dated “Philadelphia, March 31st, 1779.” Root, who was attorney for Lopez when this case was tried in Connecticut, had himself been appointed to the Committee on Appeals on March 9, 1779, but avoided becoming formally involved in this decree. “I am called upon,” Root wrote, “to attend a Committee of Congress at five O Clock this afternoon the time I appointed to wait on you—which I knew not of when I saw you this Morning. You will be so good as to excuse my not meeting you at that time & I will attend you at any other time you will nominate.” Wetmore Papers, MHi. See also JCC, 13:297; and Committee on Appeals Decree, March 29, 1779. Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 10, 1779] 10. Saturday. We had a letter from the Governor of S. Carolina, inclos ing one from Genl. Lincoln, the news not very agreeable. 1 I ride out with Mesrs. Gerry & Whipple. MS (MDaAr). 1 The journals do not mention the receipt this day of any letters from John Rutledge or Benjamin Lincoln. John Penn to John Williams Dear Sir [ca. April 10, 1779] 1 I am sorry [that] you [. . .] promise, this is the 4th letter I have written [. . .] tho’ I have not received a single line in retu[rn, how]ever I cannot help thinking but that some of [your] letters may have miscaried by the way as [I take] it for granted that you would at least write mfe. . .1 mv Children do. The President left me ten days ag[o, he] is a very Sensible Clever man, so pleasing [to every] person that I seem al[most . . .] that ![....] The pleasure that I received in his Company more than made amends for the expense or crowd that attended his being with me, his Lady is with him. We have much to do, business increases tho’ we meet at 10 oclock [& si]t till 4 frequently, every man is a Speaker [. . .] much time is spent in debates, we [. . .] and still are busily engaged in matters of [great] Impor tance. I shall stay as long as I can, [at] least till those matters are ended before I move as I wish to be present upon that occasion. I suspect the enemy will indeavr. to keep possession of New York & Rhode Island & plague us with Detachments sent to a distance. If we do but act with any degree of spirit this Campaign I am persuaded will be the last. The French Minister is in a bad state of health, I fear he will be obliged to cross the water again in order to his recovery, remembr. me to all that ask after, Dear Sir, Your obt. Servt. J. p en n


[Page 360]
326 April 12, 1779 his general orders of April 21 that he was confirming Steel’s acquittal “of each and every of the charges made against him” and ordered him released from his arrest. Washington Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:423. 5 This day Jay also wrote the following brief letter to paymaster William Palfrey. “You will receive herewith enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress directing a warrant to issue on the Treasury in favor of Coll. Richard Butler for the amount of certain Warrants drawn by General Washington on You.” See PCC, item 14, fol. 86; and JCC, 13:437-38. Henry Laurens’ Notes on the Conduct of William Henry Drayton [April 12? 1779] 1 The inclosed Letter & Papers were brought up to my House on Satur day Morning the 10 April 1779 by the Honble Mr. Drayton in a few minutes after a Letter from Mr Gervais had been sent to me by the Presidt. of Congress. Mr. Drayton & my self perused them & agreed to present them excepting a few parts which we judged improper to be made public to Congress. When Congress were collecting I asked Mr D. who with the President of Congress & my self were standing together & had been conversing of Carolina affairs, from whom he had received the Pa pers, he replied, from the President of the State, I answered the President of the State, that’s extraordinary, then the Express must have come to him. The President of Congress said nothing & we seperated—in the Evening Durst the Express called on me, I asked him if he had been sent to the Presidt. of the State, he answered “No I don’t know the Presidt. of the State, I carrd. all my Letters every one to the Presidt. of Congress here the next Door to you.” Mr. Drayton had kept the Papers in his possessn till Monday Morning, & when he had then delivered them to me in Congress Room I said to him in presence of Colo. F L Lee, Mr. Drayton you told me On Saturday that you had reed these Letters from the Pres ident of the State, Yes says he, I thought so—but you reed them I find from the Presidt. of Congress—yes I find I did but I thought on Saturday they came from the President of the State. I withdrew full of contempt for Men capable of so much meaness & mean quibbling. N.B. The President & myself live under one Roof he sent in the Letter to me from Mr Gervais. The Dispatches to the Delegates he chose to send in to Walnut Street 2 altho I am the eldest & the first Named in the Delegacy from So Carolina. Moreover he heard Mr D. tell me he had received the dispatches from the President of the State & by his silence discovered a consciousness of an unjust & affrontive partiality. 3 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “Mr Drayton & Mr President Jay’s tricks.” 1 The episodes described herein by Laurens took place on Saturday, April 10 and Mon day, April 12, 1779. 2 That is, to Drayton’s residence.


[Page 363]
April 13, 1779 329 the latter, that I did myself the pleasure of addressing him last July, but have not heard whither it came to hand. I am, my dear sir, with great respect & sincerity, your most obedt. humble servant; S. Holten RC (MiDbEI). 1 Edmund Putnam (1734-1810) was a deacon in the First Congregational Parish in Dan vers, Mass., of which Holten was a member. D. Hamilton Hurd, History of Essex County, Massachusetts, 2 vols. (Philadelphia: J.W. Lewis & Co., 1888), 1:434-35. 2 Holten inserted an asterisk as this point, to which he keyed the following note at the foot of the page: “The eastern states are called (here) New England.” 3 Rev. Benjamin Wadsworth (1750-1826), a graduate of Harvard College, was the minis ter of the First Congregational Parish in Danvers. Ibid., pp. 454-55. John Jay to Patrick Henry Sir, Philadelphia 13th April 1779. Herewith enclosed is a Copy of an Act of Congress of this day, request ing the State of Virginia to lend the United States one thousand Stand of Arms, for the Use of the Forces destined for the defence of South-Carolina & Georgia, & directing the Board of War to replace them without delay. 1 I have the Honor to be, With great Respect, Your Excellencys, Most Obedt. Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 13:444. John Jay to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia 13th April 1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to your Excellency a copy of certain Resolutions of Congress of the third Inst, declaring the high Sense they entertain of the Importance & Services of Pennsylvania, & expressing a determination to observe a Line of Conduct which cannot fail to establish a mutual confidence between them & the several States they represent. 1 Permit me to assure You of my best Endeavours to second the views of Congress and of my constant attention to such parts of my duty as may respect this State. I have the Honor to be, With great Respect, Your Excellys. most Obedt. Sevt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 13:413-17; Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:287-88; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:741. With these enclosed resolves, the delegates hoped to end the bitter controversy between Congress and Pennsylvania that had developed in the wake of the campaign launched by the state in January to secure the prosecution of Gen. Benedict Arnold, the military commander of


[Page 365]
April 13, 1779 331 RG (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 “Doct’r G” is undoubtedly Dr. Joseph Gardner, to whom Lovell had directed Gates in a March 1 letter to obtain the alphabet key to the cipher—i.e., “Figures”—referred to here. 2 Lovell is referring to an enciphered phrase from his March 1 letter to Gates: “Lickspittles of the Plenipo,” i.e. supporters of the French minister Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 The French ambassador to the United Provinces had presented a memorial to the States General on December 7 requesting a definitive answer on whether they would adhere to strict neutrality by defending their commerce against English seizures. Contrary to Lovell’s expectations, the States General adopted an evasive answer which left the United Provinces free from direct participation in the war. Friedrich Edler, The Dutch Republic and the American Revolution (1911; reprint ed., New York, AMS Press, 1971), pp. 112-17. 4 For the erroneous report from a ship captain that Dutch warships had convoyed Ameri can vessels from Surinam, an act apparently presumed to be possible only if the Dutch had already declared war, see the following entry. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia April 13th 1779 We have the honour to acknowledge the receipt of yours of the 11th & 15th of March. 1 Notwithstanding it is so long since they were wrote, yet they did not come to hand until the last evening owing perhaps to the Route of the post being alterd. We shall embrace the first favorable op portunity for laying the requests of the State before Congress, and will hope they will be complied with. Congress have under consideration further measures for the defence of South Carolina. They had recommended to that State to purchase and form two battalions of black men, the purchase money to be paid by the Continent. They have also recommended to the States of Virginia and North-Carolina to inlist a body of militia for the defence of the Southern States, the bounty money to be paid by the continent &c. These examples will be in favour of the application of our State; but the large Sums of money which these bountys, and the bounty for recruiting the quotas of the several States, the purchase money before mentioned, and the neces sary supplies for the main army require will be in our way. 2 However we shall exert our best abilities on this occasion, and if we cannot command Success we will endeavour to deserve it. We are informed that the Captain of a Vessel which arrived here last Saturday from Surrinam advises that his and six other Vessels were con voyed from thence by a dutch Ship of War until they were thought to be out of danger from the enemy; and that the Governor had offer’d them Cannon &c for their defence. All the news we have from So Carolina is in the paper. No foreign news hath lately arrived. We are in great haste but with the highest Sentiments of respect, Yr Excellency’s most obedt. Servts. William Ellery John Collins


[Page 366]
332 April 13, 1779 RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 Governor Greene’s March 11 and 15 letters are in William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 212-14. 2 The Rhode Island delegates subsequently proposed that Congress “pay the bounty, wages, cloathing and subsistence” of 1,500 men raised for the defense of Rhode Island. Afraid of setting a dangerous precedent that would establish Continental responsibility for bounties and wages above Continental Army rates, the delegates engaged in lengthy debate and complex political maneuvering before approving support for an additional brigade of Rhode Island troops on May 4. See JCC, 13:468-71, 476-78, 14:504-6, 539-40, 546-48; and the letters of the Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, April 20 and May 4, and to Congress, May 3, 1779. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia April 13th 1779 Your two favors of the 13th and 22d ulto are just come to hand. I have rec’d the letters you mention, but you made a mistake in the No. I thank you for the open letter to the Commercial Committee. I wish you had been a little more particular in describing the miserable order the goods came in &c. It affords me great satisfaction to find you have had a supply of cash, as I know it must relieve your anxiety. I am happy to find you have taxed so largely, but still wish you had gone higher—this is the time to lessen the quantity of circulating paper by high taxes—nothing will more effectually cure the evil you complain of; though other measures must be pursued. I understand you are calling town meetings to oppose certain Acts, instead of opposing those Acts, I wish some plan would be adopted to banish from the country those wretches who are and ever will be curses to Society. The enclosed paper will show you what this State is doing with the estates of such cattle. 1 Being this minute called off I have not time to write to Mrs W. as I intended by this post which you’ll be kind enough to excuse for me. Yours most sincerely, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 The Pennsylvania Council on April 12 began preparations for the sale of many estates forfeited by loyalists under the confiscation act of March 6, 1778. Pa. Council Minutes 11:745-47. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday April 14th. 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters Read. On Motion for supplying the Officers with sundry articles at the Price things were when they Entered the Service & whether by the State they belong to, or by Congress—long Debate. 1


[Page 367]
April 14, 1779 333 MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress recommended to the state legislatures that they provide officers rum, sugar, chocolate, coffee, and tea, at fixed rates, and “that an agent be appointed to supply the officers not belonging to any particular State.” JCC, 13:450-51. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 14th April 1779. This morning I had the Pleasure of receiving & communicating to Congress, your Excellency’s favor of the 12th Inst. 1 The enclosed Act, on the Subjects of it, will inform your Excellency, that Congress cannot agree to the Request of Major Harnage & Captain Hawker, but do not object to their remaining where they are 2 —And that the Proceedings of the Court Martial in the case of the Officers at Springfield, (herewith enclosed) are returned, that such order thereon may be taken, as your Excellency may judge proper. 3 I have the Honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient & very Humble Servant, John Jay, Presidt RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 JCC, 13:448. Washington’s April 12 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 152, 7:247-48, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:369-70. 2 JCC, 13:448-49. Maj. Henry Harnage and Capt. Earle Hawker, who had been captured with Burgoyne’s army at Saratoga in October 1777, had remained behind in Massachusetts to recuperate when the Convention Army had been moved to Virginia. Hamage’s March 27 letter to Washington requesting permission to travel by water from Rhode Island to Virginia to join his regiment is in PCC, item 152, 7:251-54. 3 See Jay to Washington, February 15, 1779. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philadelphia April 14th 1779 Mr Cumberland Dugan having represented to Us, that he was autho rized by the Board of War of Massachusetts Bay to purchase a Quantity of Flower in Virginia & Maryland on the publick Account, & that he could not pass the Notes issued by the Treasurer of the State for that purpose, We have requested Michael Hillegas Esq. continental Treasurer to exchange sixty thousand Dollars agreable to the Tenor of the inclosed Copy of a Letter to him, 1 in Expectation, that the honorable Assembly will approve thereof, & authorize a proper person to receive the Notes so exchanged in Part payment of the Warrant issued the 5th Instant by Congress in Favour of the State for one hundred & fifty thousand Dollars.


[Page 368]
334 April 14, 1779 Mr Dugan, having also informed Us, that the executive Council of Maryland had refused to permit him to export Flower, unless upon the express Application of the executive Council of Massachusetts Bay, We have this Day applied to Congress on the Subject. To remedy the Objec tion, they have passed the Resolution inclosed; 2 notwithstanding which, it may be expedient for the honorable Council to transmit to Mr Dugan such an Application to prevent further Delays. We remain sir with the greatest Respect, your most obedient & very hum. servants, Samuel Adams James Lovell E Gerry. S. Hol ten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Gerry, and signed by Gerry, Adams, Holten, and Lovell. 1 The Massachusetts delegates had written the following note this day to Michael Hillegas: “It is the request of the Delegates of the State of Massachusetts Bay now in this City that you exchange for Mr. Cumberland Dugan Sixty thousand Dollars, and receive the amount thereof of him in Notes issued by the Treasurer of the sd State. And we hereby authorize you to pay the said Notes in discharge of such draughts as shall be made on you by the sd. State for the One Hundred & fifty thousand Dollars for which they have a Warrant on you issued the 5th of this month by order of Congress.” Revolutionary War Letters, M-Ar. 2 See JCC, 13:449; and Massachusetts Delegates to Thomas Johnson, April 16, 1779. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 14th Api 1779 1 Your two favors of the 13th & 20th Ulto came to hand Yesterday. 2 The reports you mention were form’d in this City & I find they lost nothing as they travelled Eastward. That the Spanish Court are well disposed to us, I have no doubt, indeed I am warranted to say that an alliance 3 might have been concluded e’er this if we had done our duty. There are Villains in all societies, & were I to say there are none in you wod charge me with what I mean never to be guilty of; You say you are sick of the war, so am I, but I am much more sick to think that the Glory of America shod be tarnished by the artifice of a few Rascals who are endeavouring to frustrate every measure that is proposed for the real interest of their Coun try. I feel much disposed at this moment to carry my Raillery to a consid erable length, but lest you shod charge me with imprudence I will drop the subject & refer you to Mr. Frost for particulars. I am by all means for doing justice to the Army but at the same time we ought to remember that justice is also due to the Citizens, the Officers ought to consider their seven Years half pay as some compensation, many other things have been, & will be done by Congress, some are now under consideration, I think the proposals you have made are sufficient to satisfy any reasonable beings, and beyond that no Government ought to go. I don’t know why you shod suppose I shod think you Gloomy; Your letters have not that complection. I agree with you that Members of C— ought


[Page 371]
April 15, 1779 337 Mr. Samuel Adams. Perceiving some attachment in them to Mr. A. Lee, and apprehending something like a party respecting him to subsist, and unwilling to say any thing that might be made use of on either side, I answered with caution and reserve, and only said in general that he was considered as a man of parts, that this Idea of him was founded more on the reputation he had brought with him from England than on any thing he had done amongst us. Several attempts were made to get me to declare whether he had the full Confidence of the Court of France, and I waived answering as much as good manners would permit, and only said gener ally that the Congress had confided in him, and therefore the Court of France paid him all due respect. In short whatever good I could with Justice say of the Gentleman, I said expressly. When Questions were put to me which might be answered against him, I observed a reserve and Silence from whence a man of Sense might easily conclude that the an swers which must in truth be given to them, if I was pressed to it would not be in his favor. I was determined to this manner of conducting myself in the Conversation by my sense of good breeding, and my reluctance to speak evil of any person. Mr. Sami. Adams afterwards pressed me closely, and directly to this point, finding I could no longer avoid it without rudeness, I determined to be candid and explicit with him, and accordingly delivered myself to him at large upon the subject to the following Effect. 3 I must confess that Mr. Arthur Lee was suspected by People of all ranks, and even of the highest in France, of being unfriendly both to France and America, and the Ministry were sollicited to exclude him from all Negotiation. The Ministry observed that he was confidentially en trusted by the Congress, and therefore that there ought to be good proof of want of Integrity before a resolution should be taken openly to exclude him—they for this reason desired to know what proofs could be given— the following circumstances were then adduced, and much Insisted on. Mr. A. Lee kept up a continued connection with several Principle men in England who were intimate with the Cabinet, those persons came fre quently to Paris and conversed with him privately, and unknown to the Ministry, and to his Collegues. He frequently sent his Secretaries and Messengers to London, unknown to his Collegues and the Ministry, and they returned again without their business or the result of their Journies being known either to his Collegues or the Ministry. He had no Intimate in France but Count Loriga 4 who was a man of high Spirit, high fortune, and high birth, and from the Misfortune of some Malady or disappoint ment had conceived great disgust against the French Court, Ministry, and Nation, had removed his Fortune chiefly into England, had connected himself with Charles Fox, and several of the English Politicians and usu ally railed against France in the manner of the most enraged Englishman. This man was generally observed to speak of the Conversations which Mr. A. Lee had had with the Ministry, and to publish the particulars without


[Page 372]
338 April 15, 1779 reserve, also to use the same angry and contemptuous Language which Mr A. Lee had been frequently hear’d to use against the French Nation and Ministry. The Ministry however on Considering all those Circumstances did not think them proof sufficient to warrant their excluding a man who had been trusted by Congress from all knowledge of the Negotiations which related to them, and the Count 5 observed that he found there was some things which he had communicated to Mr A. Lee which he found Count Loriga was not informed of, and he therefore Concluded that Mr A. Lee observed some reserve to this Indiscreet man—and that he might still be safely trusted with some Confidence. Mr Laurens also Conversed with me on this Subject, and I observed the same Conduct as I did in conversing with Mr Lee and Mr Adams. Mr Laurens observed it, and told me he saw I was willing to say all the good I could but no evil. Upon the whole the conclusion that Mr A Lee had the full confidence of the Court of France could only be drawn from my not denying it possitively which good breeding, and a reluctance to say any thing which might be used by his Enemies, if he had any, against him, prevented me from. 6 MS (Nc-Ar: Secretary of State Records). In the hand of Thomas Burke and endorsed by him: “Conversation with Minister of France in presence of General Nelson relative Arthur Lee.” 1 Burke submitted this statement to the North Carolina Assembly in October 1779 with a report he delivered on “the variety of Business which came before Congress from the begin ning of January ‘79 to the middle of August.” During a debate on the subject of Arthur Lee, Burke explained, “a Gentleman from Massachusetts Bay (Mr. S. Adams) declared that he had it from the highest Authority, that Mr. Lee was not denied the full Confidence of the Court of Versails.” Because Burke’s reference to Samuel Adams pertains to remarks that Adams apparently made on April 15, it is reasonable to conclude that the incident Burke describes in this document occurred soon after Adams delivered those remarks. The fact that Henry Laurens and the French minister, Gerard, also had a conversation on April 16 on the same subject suggests that Gerard’s meeting with Burke and Thomas Nelson herein re counted also took place at about the same time. See John Fell’s Diary, April 6, note 2; Laurens’ Notes Respecting Gerard’s Views on Arthur Lee, April 21?; and Thomas Burke’s Report to the North Carolina Assembly, October 25? 1779. 2 The speaker is Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 For the difficulties Gerard had in conversing with Samuel Adams, see the document pertaining to this matter that he delivered to Adams on April 21. A transcript of that document, made by Henry Laurens, appears as a preamble to Laurens’ Notes Respecting Gerard’s Views on Arthur Lee, April 21? 1779, printed below. 4 Louis-Leon-Felicite de Brancas, comte de Lauraguais, who was also a major topic of the following document written by Richard Henry Lee concerning Gerard’s views on Arthur Lee. The document, which is in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN, was printed by Burnett under the date April 21, 1779, but it could have been written at almost any time after August 1778 that Lee was in Philadelphia. Burnett, Letters, 4:170-71. “At the time that Mr. Adams and R.H. Lee waited on Monsr. Gerard the Minister plenipotentiary of France to the United States in order to notify him of the time and place of his audience of Congress after the immediate business of the Committee was over and other


[Page 375]
April 16, 1779 341 Liberty & Independency. I had viewed the detention of the Convention Troops, in the light of a great stroke & as not a trial, the Resolution of the 22d April 1778, another, this like the Sailor’s gale of Wind, feels the heaviest but I am confident I shall weather it. Six Merchant Vessels laden with various kinds of wet & dry goods arrived yesterday at this City after Passage of fourteen days from Marti- nico, ’tis said the Deane Frigate their Convoy is in the River, others say she was left off the Capes in pursuit of an English Privateer, we are also told that fifteen other Vessels were ready to Sail from Martinico for this port—not a word of Count d’Estaing or other Interesting public Intelli gence has yet reached me. Mr. Gervais will show you the Public Prints & Mr. Wells two New York-Garrison Papers which contain trifles. It having been intimated to Mr. Langworthy that he had been sitting in Congress the last two Months without authority, he first examined very narrowly his old credentials, then said he had a new appointment at home, but has not exhibited his appointment nor himself since the 12th or 13th Inst. If it should be, as we believe it to be, that he has not a new mission, what shall be done with that Gentleman’s important Yeas & Nays from the of February last? Some people are so ill natured as to say, what I will not at present repeat. 1 I have not heard any thing lately from Camp—write to me often & largely. I pray God to give you success in all your laudable purposes & to bless you with health, Henry Laurens. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 For Langworthy’s attendance in Congress, see Edward Langworthy to John Houstoun, April 5, 1779, note 2. That Laurens was vitally interested in Langworthy’s eligibility to sit in Congress and subsequently attempted to make a formal issue of the matter is apparent from I^urens’ Notes of Debates in Congress for May 8, 1779. Henry Laurens to William Livingston 16th April [1779] Conscious of delinquency on my part in the correspondence which your Excellency had been pleased to honor me with, I had entertained hopes of waiting on you in my late journey into N. Jersey 1 and of obtaining your Excellencys forgiveness by making a candid acknowledgment of my tres passes. I was exceedingly mortified by a disappointment. I learned from your Excellencys dearest connexions that you were gone abroad but your locality not to be fixed. At my return to this City I took up my Pen to make a long apology and promise better behavior and this I attempted more than once, the same mauvais hont which had duped me into Silence before I went into the Country continued its influence to my disgrace.


[Page 377]
April 17, 1779 343 off her restrictions on the exportation of Military Stores. 1 Had there been any such intelligence as you mention you may be assur’d I shod have given a hint of it tho an injuncion of secrecy might have prevented my disclosing the whole. 2 The paper currency concerns me more then any thing, it is impossible to form an opinion what will become of it. It is the wish of Congress to appreciate it, a plan is now under consideration for that purpose but if this plan shod be adopted it will be a long time before it can take effect, to strike the whole deed at one blow wod be too danger ous an expedient while the necessaty of keeping a powerful Army in the field remains. The papers will give you all the intelligence in my power to furnish at present. I long to quit a mode of living so extreamly disagreable but my anxiety for the events that seem to be at hand will keep me here some time longer. This goes by Mr. Frost I wish his place may be well filled, no one shod be here who is capable of indulging Gloomy Ideas or who is not a thorough Republican. It gives me pleasure to hear our Families & connections are well. I hope you will be able to get a good Tenant at Kittery. When do you retire to the mountains? Let me hear from you as often as is convenient. Adieu. Your Affect Bror, W Whipple RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers). 1 For information on the erroneous reports of Dutch support of the United States that had recently reached America, see James Lovell to Horatio Gates, April 13, note 3; and Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, April 13, 1779. 2 In the absence of Joseph’s letter it is impossible to determine William’s precise meaning, but he was probably referring to reports than an “alliance” with Spain had been negotiated, which William also refuted in his April 14 letter to Josiah Bartlett. John Fell’s Diary Saturday April 17th [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Long debate about the manner of Gen Lincolns leaving, the Southern Army, on Account of His Ill State of Health. 1 Motion from the Delegates of Rhode Island to Raise 1500 Men, long Debated &c &c. Report from the Treasurey for 50,000 Ds in speicea to be sent to the Commissary General of Prisoners, Adjournd. P.M. M[a- rine] Committee on special Business. Dined with Mr. Jay. MS (DLC). 1 Gen. Benjamin Lincoln was this day given permission by Congress “to join the army under General Washington . . . when his health will admit of it.” On the other hand, although President Jay wrote to Lincoln this day, he did not notify the general of this decision for nearly a month, after Congress was able to agree on a commander to succeed him. See the following entry; Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779; and yCC, 13:464-66. Lincoln, however, did not leave his command in South Carolina until after surrendering his army and the city of Charleston to the British in 1780.


[Page 378]
344 April 17, 1779 John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 17th April 1779. I have had the pleasure of receiving & communicating to Congress your Favor by Major Mead. It was referred to a Committee. Whatever Resolutions Congress may enter into respecting your Department shall be immediately transmitted. 1 The Subjects of France in South-Carolina have offered to embody for the defence of that State. Congress has approved of their Proposal & recommended the Marquis of Bretigny to the Governor of South Carolina as a proper Person to command them. 2 Enclosed is a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 14th Inst, restraining Persons from going within the Enemys Lines, unless authorized in the manner mentioned in it. 3 I have the Honor to be Sir, with Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt, John Jay, Presidt 4 RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 General Lincoln’s March 7 letter to Congress, which on April 15 was read and referred to the delegates of South Carolina, who were to confer with his aide Maj. Everard Meade on the subject of it, is in PCC, item 158, 1:243-46. Jay’s statement that Congress’ resolutions “respecting your Department shall be immediately transmitted” is incongruous in view of the fact that the delegates did in fact resolve this day to permit Lincoln “to retire from the command of the southern army” but Jay did not notify him of this decision until May 15, when his replacement was appointed. See JCC, 13:453,464-66; and Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779. 2 For Congress’ April 13 resolve authorizing the formation of a corps of French volunteers in South Carolina under the command of the marquis de Bretigney to be borne as a Conti nental expense “while embodied in actual service,” see JCC, 13:443-44. For the comments of Conrad Alexandre Gerard on the appointment of Bretigney, who had apparently been nominated for the post by Gerard, to command the corps, see Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 607-8. For a previous, extraordinary measure adopted by Congress to provide for the “security and defence” of South Carolina and Georgia during this critical period, see Thomas Burke’s Draft Committee Report, March 25, 1779, note 1. 3 See Jay to Certain States, April 18, 1779, note 1. 4 This day Jay also sent the resolves cited in notes 2 and 3 above to South Carolina president John Rutledge. PCC, item 14, fol. 88. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir April 17 th 1779 You are directed to open this Letter when you are clear of Montough point. 1 We now desire that you will proceed with all expedition to the Capes of Delaware which you are to enter and advise us immediately of your arrival there, when we will send you fresh Orders. 2 When you get within sight of the light House of Cape Henlopen you will hoist a Pennant


[Page 390]
356 April 19, 1779 Marine Committee Report State House 19 April 1779. The Marine Committee determined on Saturday evening the 17th in stant to dispatch the Packet Eagle to Charles Town with Military Stores—That she should be convoyed part of the way by the Cutter Re venge of 18 guns provided the State of Pennsylva. could spare the Re venge for that purpose That the frigate Deane of 30 guns should convoy the Packet the whole way to Charles Town. The Chairman of the Marine Committee has waited on the President of Pennsylvania and find that the Cutter Revenge is not at the disposal of the State, it seems doubtful therefor whether the Cutter can be obtained, so that the Deane frigate can only be relied upon for Convoy. The Committee were desirous of collecting a Marine force in order to attack the enemies Ships on the Coast of Georgia—And the best measures are taking to get together the following Ships, Confederacy of 32 guns, Warren 32, Deane 30, Ranger 18, Queen of France 20. The first of these Ships we hear is blocked up at New London, but the Committee think she may get out and have directed it accordingly. 1 The Deane is now in the Delaware. The other Three it is expected are cruising between Delaware & Charles Town. Richard Henry Lee Chn. M. Committee MS (ViHi: Edmund Jennings Lee Papers). Written and signed by Richard Henry Lee. 1 For the committee’s instructions to the commander of the Confederacy, see Marine Com mittee to Seth Harding, April 17, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 19th 1779 Since our last of the 26th ultimo we are favoured with yours of the 24th of the same month. 1 Your design of sending a force to intercept the Hudson Bay Company Ships and perhaps to surprize and carry their factory meets our approba tion—this Committee as well as your Board have had it often in contem plation; we therefore approve of the proposition made by the owner of a Privateer of twenty Guns, and agree that the Boston, instead of the Provi dence, shall be join’d with her and sent on the expedition above men tioned. 2 If you deem it necessary that the Ships should have a Tender, you may if you think proper, employ one of the Packets lately built, in that way, You will no doubt before the Sailing of these vessels draw up a plan to direct their proceedings. To assist you in that plan, we enclose some hints respecting the expedition which probably may be serviceable. 3 The Vessels we think Should have their full complement of Marines, and we


[Page 391]
April 19, 1779 357 need not mention how much the Success of the plan depends upon the secrecy with which it is conducted. We again request your endeavours for the Speedy manning of the Frig ate Providence, she will be wanted very soon for an important business which we hope you will have her ready to execute. She should Still have on board the quantity of Provisions we formerly Ordered. We are Gentn, Your Hble servants P.S. enclosed are Coppies of Accounts of William Bingham’s Esqr at Martinico for Disbursments of the frigate Deane, Captain Nicholson and for the Brig Genl. Gates, Capt. Waters which accounts we consider as being very extravagant, and desire that you will examine them and judge what articles were proper for the use of the Vessels, and such as you deem superflous you are to charge to the respective Accounts of the said Com manders & deduct from their pay on settlement. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s March 24 letter to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. 2 The navy board’s plan to attack the posts of the Hudson’s Bay Company was not carried out by the United States; a French naval force commanded by Jean Francois de Galaup, comte de Laperouse, destroyed the company’s posts at Hudson Bay in 1782. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 25:441, 445. 3 Enclosure not found. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 19th April 1779 Having nothing new to tell you and being too much engaged to attend to speculative matters, the design of this is only to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of the 25th of March and beg your care of the enclosed to Mrs W. 1 It gives me pleasure that delegates are appointed 2 —I hope one of them will come on as Soon as possible, as I am now alone, my colleague Frost having left me the 16th inst. 3 1 should be glad to be relieved immediately, but my great desire to have the Navy put on a more respectable footing inclines me to tarry till that is done, unless my constituents determine otherwise. I am respectfully yours, Wm Whipple. [P.S'.] The Deane is arrived in the river from Martinico—has taken noth ing on her passage. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Whipple’s enclosed letter to his wife has not been found. 2 In his March 25 letter to Whipple, Langdon had probably reported the election of Nathaniel Folsom and Nathaniel Peabody on March 24 and 25 as delegates to Congress. Subsequently on April 3, Woodbury Langdon, John’s brother, was elected to replace Fol-


[Page 396]
362 April 21, 1779 my Order (ie) the Store Keeper should deliver it as I may direct. Every Measure becomes necessary to prevent that Ruin which menaces us from Commissaries and QuarterMasters. I am with great Respect, your Excel lency’s, most obedt. & humble Servant, Gouv Morris RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written and signed by Gouverneur Morris. Endorsed: “re ceived the 30th of April 1779.” John Fell’s Diary Wednesday 21st April [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Motion made Per R H Lee 1 & Sec onded Per Mr Carmichal, the doors of Congress should be open. Some very severe remarks on the impropriety of the motion, agreed to Committ it to 5 vizt Mr Lee, Mr Adams, Mr Lovell, Mr Laurens & Mr Ellery. Letter from T. Payne, (lay on the Table). Order of the Day for foreign Affairs, Report of the Committee that all the Commissioners be Recall’d amended Per seperating the names, and that the Name of Dr B. Franklin Minister Plenopitentary be first put, long debate about his Carracter, till 4 oC and then adjournd. MS (DLC). 1 Before Lee offered this motion, the delegates had actually disposed of a number of other matters this day, one of which is both puzzling and ambiguous as it stands upon the journals of Congress. The mystery pertains to the decision of Elbridge Gerry to respond at this time to the March 17 attempt made by Henry Laurens and Samuel Adams to replace him on the foreign affairs inquiry committee, for which see Fell’s Diary, March 17, 1779, note. Why Gerry, who had been attending Congress regularly the entire period, waited so long to react to this maneuver will doubtless never be known. And the journal entry for this day is so muddled—in both Thomson’s manuscript copy and the published journal edited by Worth ington C. Ford—it is uncertain just how Thomson should have recorded the information pertaining to the incident. In Thomson’s manuscript, the three-paragraph entry concerning Gerry’s query opens with a motion by James Duane introducing a resolution explaining what had transpired on March 17, but since this passage introduces a resolve found in the third paragraph of the entry and was obviously interlined sometime after the second paragraph was penned, it is not improbable that the secretary misplaced the passage, which may have been intended to precede the third rather than the second paragraph. The confusion is somewhat com pounded in the printed journal by the fact that Ford injected yet a fourth paragraph, which consists of an alternate resolve attached to Duane’s motion drawn from the PCC. See JCC, 14:488; and PCC, item 1, 21:245-46; item 36, 1:19-20. Samuel Holten’s Diary [April 21-22, 1779] 21. Wednesday. Congress sit till 4 o’Clock considering the state of our foreign affaires.


[Page 401]
April 22, 1779 367 debate concerning “the conduct of the late and present commissioners of these states”—that he understood, “from the highest authority in America” [i.e., Gerard], that Lee was “pos sessed of the confidence of the Court of Versailles.” For the primary evidence relating to the efforts of Lee’s friends and detractors to determine the accuracy of Adams’ assertion, see Thomas Burke’s Statement respecting Gerard’s Views, April 16?; Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, April 26 and 30; and William Henry Drayton and William Paca to Congress, April 30, 1779. 2 There is a copy of this “Certificate,” in the hand of James Lovell, in the Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Since Lovell was fluent in French, it seems reasonable to conjecture that the original had been given to him to translate. That the original “Certificate” was in French seems clear from the copy of it, which is in the hand of Richard Henry Lee, that is in the Lee Papers, ViU. At the bottom of the Lee copy, which differs only slightly from Laurens’ transcript, appear the following notations: “True Copy, R. H. Lee. “Mais que le Ministere de sa Majeste n’a pas adopte cette facon de penser sur 1’attache- ment de Monr. Arthur Lee pour la cause Americaine et pour l’alliance. “Directed A Monsieur “Monsieur Samuel Adams Delegue au Congres de la part de 1’etat de Massachusets Bay.” Marine Committee to Henry Fisher Sir April 21st. 1779 We expect one of the Continental frigates will shortly appear at the Capes of Delaware bound into the Bay and in that case she will want a Pilot. She will shew a Signal by hoisting a Pennant at her foretopmast head and a jack at her main top mast head by which you will know her and we request that you will send her off a Pilot. Should the Captain 1 of this Frigate send you on Shore any despatches for this Committee we request you will immediately forward the same to this place by an express and we shall pay any expences that may arise. Your well known zeal for the Public cause induces us to apply to you on this occasion. We are sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Capt. Seth Harding, commander of the frigate Confederacy, had been directed by the committee on April 17 to contact Major Fisher when his ship reached Lewes, Del. See Marine Committee to Harding, April 17, 1779. William Henry Drayton to Timothy Matlack Sir, Eleven, A. M. April 22nd, 1779. In obedience to the order of Council this day published, 1 I do without delay return into your hands the first & second Vols of “State Tracts” which I had removed from the State Library, where I had not time to use them to my lodgings where, after Congress hours, I had time to turn them over with attention. These are the only books which I ever removed from the Library. If I could have thought that such an use of the Books would have given


[Page 402]
368 April 22, 1779 offence, I should not have taken such a liberty. However, I shall not repeat a conduct which I find is disagreeable. 2 I am, Sir, Your most obedt. Servt, Wm Hy Drayton. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:328-29. 1 Reflecting its pique over recent confrontations with members of Congress, the Pennsylva nia Council had resolved the previous day to recall state library books lent to members of Congress. Pa. Council Minutes, 11:755. The episode suggests that the breach between Pennsyl vania and Congress that had opened as a result of the state’s efforts to punish Benedict Arnold had not been closed, despite recent efforts to do so. See Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, March 26, note 1; and John Jay to Joseph Reed, April 13, 1779. 2 The council minutes indicate that “Mr. Drayton returned 2 Vols. of State Tracts belong ing to the State Library” this day. In an immediate reply to Drayton’s letter, Secretary Matlack stated that “It was not the intention of Council to prevent the delegates of Congress from the use of the State Library, but so great a number of books being abroad, without any account of them, it became absolutely necessary to publish them, in order to call them in. I shall, without hesitation, at any time, send you any books you shall have reason of.” See Pa. Council Minutes, 11:755; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:335. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 22d Api. [1779] Commercial Comm. Congress. Letter from Genl Mullenburgh about Rank. Do from Colonels Van Courtland & Gansevoort abt Do. Referrd to the Board of Warr. Letter from Genl Washington. Do from Genl Green in Town; Referrd to Whipple, Morris & Arm strong. Judge McKean. 1 Order of the Day on foreign affairs, after long debate till Past 4 the Question was put whether Dr Franklin should be Recall’d, Yas & Nas, Car[rie]d in the Negative. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 This entry simply indicates that Thomas McKean took his seat in Congress in the midst of this day’s proceedings. Delaware was not represented when the first roll call vote of this day was taken, but McKean later cast the state’s vote against the recall of Franklin when two votes on the issue were taken subsequently. Although this much is clear, the delegates’ excited reaction to McKean’s appearance this day is puzzling. Objection was made to having his attendance recorded in the journals—his only appearance between February 24 and June 11—although how the matter arose and why the objection was voiced is not clear. Secretary Thomson made the following entry in his journals for April 22 but, as the words are crowded in the margin and between the lines, he obviously penned them as an afterthought: “Mr. McKean a delegate for Delaware attended & took his seat.” That they were subsequently lined out merely adds to the confusion; and according to Fell’s diary the following day: “Mr. S. Adams moved that Mr. McKean being Enterd on the Journals as attending, might be cancelld and a Debate insued agreed to stand.” If Fell is right on this latter point, the entry should not have been lined out at all. Amid so much conflicting evidence, any interpretation must remain largely conjectural. See JCC, 13:491, 498-500; PCC, item 1, 21:250; and Fell’s Diary, April 23, 1779.


[Page 403]
April 22, 1779 369 That the congressional debate on the recall of the American commissioners in France sparked controversy is beyond doubt, and McKean himself later recurred to this subject in the following March 25, 1780, letter to Richard Henry Lee, claiming in the process an inflated role for himself in opposing the recall movement. “In the Winter & Spring of 1779 there was a cabal, whose views I could not fathom; there were some possessed of restless spirits, and who endeavored to set member against member, and the Congress against the States, particularly Pennsylvania and those of New-England, and the States agt. Congress. Every artifice was used to instill prejudices against all our foreign Ministers and Commissioners, particularly your brothers; and I really believe, if I had not in April last gone off the Bench into Congress, in the face of a vote of the Assembly of Pennsylvania, that they would have been recalled without exception. My fears were, that at that critical period, when it had been propagated in Europe; and some uneasiness discovered on that score by the court of France; that we were listening to overtures from Great Britain, a change of men might have implied a change of measures, and given some countenance to the reports; and for this reason I thought it wrong to recal any Gentleman in such a conjuncture. The vote was taken with respect to Doctor Franklin, and being determined in the negative, it was postponed as to the rest until I was absent on the circuit. Places were sought after by some, and vacancies were necessary for the purpose of obtaining them, but I could not think this was the only thing in contemplation; tho’ I may have been mistaken, as harmony seemed to be restored in some measure upon the appointments of Messrs. Jay and Carmichael. The death of Mr. Drayton, and the considerable change about that time of the members, several of them not having been re-elected, left us pretty quiet ever since, tho’ prejudices still too much prevail.” Lee Papers, PPAmP. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother, Annapolis Api. 22d. 1779 I am thus far on my way home from Congress, & finding a Vessel about to depart from hence tomorrow morning for France; I embrace the oppor tunity of letting you know that all your friends are well. There is as yet no determination on Deane’s affairs, but probably soon will be, & I fear, much to your prejudice, shou’d it be otherways now, I am satisfied you will in the end be sacrificed, & therefore it may not be amiss to think in time, of some establishment in which your honor & fortune will be less dependant on the villainy & folly of Mankind. For my own part I am determined to retire being fully convinced, that at present, the post of honor, is a private station. Tell our bror. W. 1 to look to himself, I shall write fully to him about his affairs, by the first opportunity after my arrival in Virginia. You was not mistaken in your opinion as to the support D 2 brot with him; the open and indecent countenance which has been given to those who were never friends to independance, nor of course to the Alliance, will I fear injure greatly the common cause, if England is wise enough to make use of the advantage. The world will expect from you a clear refutation of all the infamous slanders, which a most abandoned junto have thrown on you; with a full exposure of their wicked plots against the public. Therefore no pains shou’d be spared in collecting materials. The want of a cypher & the uncertainty of this con veyance prevents my being more full, but I expect R.H.L. 3 who is still at


[Page 404]
370 April 22, 1779 Congress, will give you a compleat Idea of our present system of Politicks. Remember me to Mr. Adams & Mr. Lloyd. Love to W.L.’s family. Yours ever, Loudoun [Francis Lightfoot Lee] 4 [P.S.] Mrs. Lloyd & Mrs. Lee command me to give their Love to you. This moment I have reed, advice from Virga, of the death of our friend Col. Tayloe. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 811.5). 1 That is, William Lee. 2 Silas Deane. 3 Richard Henry Lee. 4 Lee’s departure from Congress on April 16 brought to an end a distinguished career that began with the autumn session of the Second Continental Congress in September 1775. Although he is last mentioned in the journals on April 14, his accounts give his final period of attendance as “from the 7th Novr. 1778 to the 16 Api. 1779 inclusive being 161 Days at 15 Dollars a day £724.10.” Emmet Collection, NN; and JCC, 13:452. Another manuscript in Lee’s hand pertaining to his congressional career consists of some “queries” and foreign “Intelligence,” apparently drafted for publication. As it is accompa nied by two draft letters in the hand of Richard Henry Lee addressed to “Mr. Dunlap,” all were doubtless intended for submission to the Pennsylvania Packet, but no evidence that they were published has been found. They demonstrate the Lee brothers’ continuing effort to protect the positions of Arthur and William Lee abroad. The documents’ contents seem to indicate that the queries were written shortly after the foreign affairs inquiry committee reported to Congress on March 24, for which see JCC, 13:363-68. The covering letters were written thereafter, but apparently a few days apart. The rough state of the documents and their location in the Samuel Adams Papers suggests that they were sent to Adams for review. The fact that the queries were never published in the Packet may be attributed to Francis Lightfoot’s departure for Virginia, the momentum that the “recall debate” quickly assumed, and Richard Henry’s decision to resign his seat in Congress. For information on the recall debate in Congress, see John Fell’s Diary, April 6, 1779, note 2. For Lee’s resignation, see Richard Henry Lee to the Virginia House of Delegates, May 4, 1779. See also Francis Lightfoot to Richard Henry Lee, January 5, 1779, note 3. The cover letters drafted by Richard Henry, which bear the heading “Publication respect ing Mr. Silas Deane,” read as follows: “Mr. Dunlap. As Mr. Silas Dean has thought proper to produce before the public a suggestion of much suffering and great merit on his part, which he insinuates on the part of others much demerit, and having given reason to expect that his insinuations should be realized by a communication of facts which it was of importance should be known, Which communication having been long promised but not complied with—As a free and virtuous Citizen of America I have taken pains to get the best possible information about the causes and probable consequences of Mr. Deanes unusual Address of the 5 th of December last, and could wish to be aided in my enquiries by having plain answers given to the following plain quiries. “Mr Dunlap. I chanced the other evening to fall in company with a person whom I found after conversing upon the subject which has lately engaged the public attention to be a Supporter of Mr. Silas Deane, after some general and evasive justification of Mr. Deans conduct he proceeded to shew the necessity of recalling the other Commissioners] by the following reasons—Because said he they have quarr[el]ed, and there have been such dis- pu[ta]tions and disagreements as tend to the injury of the public affairs—That the M[ess]rs. Lee wanted obilites [abilities?] and that their Manners were ungracious, their tempers suspi cious, quarelsome, and jealous; and these opinions of those gentlemen I found were to be supported by the evidence of Mr. Deane, and two or three others whom he has combined with him &c by a similarity of manners, and of interested views. This conversation suggested to me the following quiries which an honest enquirer would be thankful for a plain answer to.” Francis Lightfoot’s draft “queries” continue:


[Page 405]
April 22, 1779 371 “A Person in public employ, informs of misconduct in another, & furnishes documents on which he founds his opinion, are his proceedings to be invalidated, by the accusation of the Accused Person upon his bare assertion, unsupported by any evidence or ought he to be in the least affected, by such accusation? “Is the former to be deemed & punished as quarrelsome because the latter, will fasten a quarrel upon him, for endeavoring to prevent the waste of public money; & informing those of his grounds of suspicion, who alone have the power of remedying the Evil? Has there been any quarrelling with A.L. since S.D. left France? Was there any quarrels between A.L. & Doctor F when they served Massachusets together in London? Has not S.D. transfer’d the quarrels from France to America? If S.D. has been successfull in infusing Jealousies into the minds of some of the French Ministers of A. Lee (which is denied from the best Author ity) what has that to do with the Court of Spain, to which he belongs? & with whom he has had considerable success, in procuring supplies? “Deane’s insinuations have gone forth to the world as charges against A.L. & W.L., a recal fixes those charges as truths & persons will be sacrificed, who have given up their greatest prospects to serve the Public, & have entrusted their honor & everything dear to them to the Justice of their Country, & why? Because persons, whom they have endeavoured to prevent from injuring the public, abuse them for doing their duty. What man hereafter will endeavor to bring defaulters to justice, who will certainly be offended & quarrel if in consequence of the defaulter’s quarrelling with him, he must necessarily be disgraced & ruined? Is it not the most proper way to punish the Offender & enlarge Your confidence in the Man who has contributed to bring him to Justice. The Cause being removed, the effect will cease. What Minister can be confident in his exertions for the public good, when he knows, that if any designing persons, disappointed in their views, shall fasten a quarrel upon him, he must for that reason alone be inevitably ruined? In the present case it is necessary to examine well into D’s Conduct, to see if there were not good grounds for A Lee’s interfering with his proceedings if there was, was it not his duty to do it? If in consequence of his doing [his] duty, D. wou’d quarrel with him is it his fault? Is there any [.. .] reason to suppose A.L. will have any quarrel in Spain, unless from the same cause, which Congress may prevent, by instructing A L not to notice any misconduct in persons employed by the public in his District. “May it not be the design of some to obtain the benefit of such an instruction by futile appointments as an assortment of Characters may present such Incapacity & littleness dis covers as it may greatly import the public to be made acquainted with. “W L & A L went to London [in] 1768 quite strangers, it is notorious, the rank they held there at the commencemt of this war. They had the honor of an acquaintance & even intimacy with Lds. Chatham, Temple, & Shelburne, Sergeant Glyn, Mr. Dunning & many other eminent characters in that Country, for all this they coud not be indebted to their connections or parliamentary interests, they had none, nor to their wealth; for tho born in a Wealthy family, they were the youngest of many children. The persons above named were certainly acquainted with mankind, & it cannot be supposed that they wou’d have honored with their regards, Persons who were unfit for any public character & of disgracefull man ners, who were circumstanced as the Messrs. Lees were at that time. This discovery is reserved for Deane & a few others who have seen more of the world, kept better company, & of finer parts & understanding than those Noblemen & Gentlemen. Is it possible for human credulity to be stretched so far, as to pay any regard to them? “Intelligence reed, from the American Commissioners “It had been debated in the british Cabinet, whether Independance shou’d be acknowl edged. That there was no prospect of our Enemies getting any reinforcements except what might be raised in their own dominions. The sailing of the Cork fleats. The situation of the whale fishery, the vessels employed in it, easy to be destroyed. “The friendly sentiments of Holland, & of their having actually agreed upon a Treaty, to take place at a proper time. “The friendly disposition of the King of the two Sicilies, & of his having opened his ports to American Vessels, with a desire of being informed how to distinquish them.


[Page 408]
374 April 22, 1779 Congress, except for prizes taken by the ships belonging to the United States. These states have, in this instance, considered the resolve of Con gress in its true light, as advisory, and done as they saw best. But we are told, that it is proper that Congress should have an appeal on those matters both in law and fact. Perhaps it may be so. It is likely the civilized world would be better satisfied with such a course of proceeding; but then the trial of the original capture should be by witnesses and not by jury, which admits of the full appeal desired. The claims of our own people, however, for shares or distribution, concern not foreigners, and may continue as heretofore; and such is the case of the sloop Active. How ever, if any new regulations are needed, before the consideration shall be enforced by the accession of the state of Maryland, the only hesitating state in union, let them be devised and recommended to the several com munities. These cannot, in the nature of things, look backward, or take in cases, for which the laws in being have provided. Again, it is alledged for this jurisdiction in Congress, that persons from different states may have controversies upon these points, and that an impartial body, like Congress, will be necessary to decide between them. But this would equally prove the necessity of a Court of Appeals in debt, real actions, and all other civil suits; nay, in criminal too, to secure justice to the people of one state, who may have debates about property, or may be charged with offences in another; an idea not entertained, as yet, as I have heard. Lastly, it is supposed, that this claim is supported by the law of nations. Not to mention, that when the resolves of November, 1775, were made, no pretentions to national character were yet set up; it is observable, that the band of national union, the Confederation, is not yet agreed to by all, nor binding on any. Besides, a General Court of Appeals in the hands of the Supreme Power of the nation, is not, perhaps, a dictate of the law of nations, but rather the creature of treaties between the Maritime Powers of Europe. At least Blackstone, and Lee in his Treatise upon Captures, 4 say, that the Privy Council in Britain decide ultimately in prize causes, in pursuance of treaties. After stating this controversy, I shall add, that it is now proposed, in order to support the honour of Congress in this business, that the Trea surer of the United States be authorized to pay the appealants a sum equal to the product of the sloop Active and her cargo, to be charged to the state of Pennsylvania, unless cause be shewn, &c. 5 Against this Penn sylvania will protest; nor will the difficulty end here. Should it be done, the like reimbursement will be due to Capt. Hugh McCulloch of this state, late of this city, for a ship and cargo of sugar, condemned at Boston; the appeal to Congress, which he earnestly sought here and in New-England, being denied him. Others too, in like cases, will ask like recompence; particularly, those whose vessels may hereafter be brought into Philadel phia under seizure, as the offensive act of Assembly continues in force.


[Page 409]
April 22, 1779 375 It may be asked, whether this extreme nicety of character is either proper or safe, when assumed by Congress, for the Body, but much more for a Committee. The several states will doubtless have, from time to time, debates with the General Council of the nation. Now, it will be a very dangerous idea, that when Congress contend mistakingly for any point, that for the sake of the dignity of that Supreme Assembly, the state af fected must recede from her right. I have hoped that these extravagant positions, which suit admirably well with the superstitious and slavish reverence paid to Princes, would be left with the Europeans. I call for no formal acknowledgments of error; but I should think it no derogation from Congress to forbear proceeding in a wrong path, when convinced of mistake. In the reign of George the First of England, an interested suitor carried an appeal from Ireland to Westminster. The British House of Lords catched at the opportunity of enlarging their authority, and voted that the decree of the Irish Lords, in this case, was void, as made without jurisdiction. Suppose the Commons of Ireland, as they ought, had im peached the Barons of their Exchequer for taking notice of and executing the judgment of a foreign jurisdiction; and that these Judges fixed in premunire, 6 had been subdued, and the decree of the Irish Peers executed, what would have become of British dignity? This ought to have been done. But the corrupt Commons of Ireland were managed, and the na tional rights sacrificed to the ambition and character of the Nobles of Britain. The Delegates of New-York must recollect the noble stand made by the Judges of the Supreme Court in the late province, in the case of Forsey and Cunningham, when a designing Governor, in a Court of Ap peal, attempted to examine the verdict of a jury; a parallel case with the present; and the event of it, to wit, that his masters in England, who doubtless wished that he might succeed, ashamed of the futile claim, or dered it to be dropped. Douglas tells us,’ that after the King and Council of Britain, determined in Mr. Winthorp’s case, who appealed, when no appeal lay, that the judgment from England, declaring against the law of Connecticut for dividing inheritances, was disregarded in America, and the appeal to his Majesty still denied. I shall leave the subject with mentioning the fatal consequence of the conduct of the British Legislature, in declaring, by act, their power over North-America in all cases whatsoever, consequently in taxing, passed, to save their honour, on repealing the Stamp act. What has become of vio lated dignity in this case? The people abroad suspect, that all this ado is not, however, made to repair the supposed contempt, nor yet to do justice to Gideon Umpsted and his fellows, but for the benefit of the managers of the puppets. It is thought too much for the same men to sustain the characters of Advocates, Judges, and perhaps in this business, An AMERICAN MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet, or the General Advertiser, April 22, 1779. Authorship of this article has been attributed to Morris because it appeared over the signa ture, “An American,” the usual pseudonym of Morris.


[Page 411]
April 23, 1779 377 The “examination of Capt. Folger” referred to here by Thomson is apparently the docu ment now in PCC, item 72, 1:71-76. For Congress’ investigation of Folger in January 1778 for the theft of the dispatches of the American commissioners in France, see these Letters, 8:560-64,9:189, 550. Thomas Adams to the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates Sir Philadelphia April 23d. 1779 My ill Health and the present deranged State of my Affairs at Home render it indispensibly necessary for me to leave this Place, I have there fore to entreat that you will make my Resignation of my Seat in Congress acceptable to your Honorable House, 1 & to assure them that I have a proper Sense of the high Honor they did me in conferring on me so important a Trust. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect, Yr. mo. obt. Sert. Thos. Adams RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Adams’ letter of resignation was laid before the House of Delegates on May 7. For the controversy created in the house over the resignations from Congress of Adams, Thomas Nelson, Francis Lightfoot Lee, and Richard Henry Lee, see Richard Henry Lee to the Virginia House of Delegates, May 4, 1779, note. John Fell’s Diary Friday April 23d [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Mr S Adams moved that Mr McKean being Enterd on the Journals as attending, might be cancelld and a Debate insue’d agreed to stand. 1 Letter from T Payne, and extract inclosed, Read. Letter from Capt Albouy Read. Committee Reported on the Petition from Bermuda for Provision, against granting the Yas & Nas being call’d &• 5 for & 5 agst. the Question was lost, Recommitted. 2 Report from the Committee appointed to Conferr with General Green. Rhode Island Motion for Raising 1500 Men, Long Debate. (J. Dicken son from Delaware). 3 P.M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 See Fell’s Diary, April 22, 1779, note. 2 See Fell’s Diary, April 19, 1779, note. 3 Fell’s meaning is simply that John Dickinson took his seat in Congress this day as a delegate from Delaware. Dickinson last attended Congress, as a delegate for Pennsylvania, in July 1776. See JCC, 14:501; and these Letters, 4:364-65, 5:9-10, 563-64.


[Page 413]
April 24, 1779 379 N.B. Dr Benjn Franklin Minister Plenoptenary, fixt. Silas Deane. Arthur Lee. Court of Madrid (Never has been there). Ralph Izard Court of Tuscany No use Willm Lee. Courts of Viena & Berlin No use J Adams. Private. MS (DLC). 1 Samuel Holten’s diary entry this day reads: “Congress adjourned at 2 oClock. I ride out with the Honl. Mr. Gerry.” MDaAr. Richard Henry Lee to John Adams My dear Sir, Philadelphia April 24th 1779 To such uncertain issue are all letters now exposed that are committed to Ship board, that it absolutely prohibits that full and explicit declara tion of ones sentiments on many important points which I shall ever wish to make to you on whose wisdom and goodness I have the firmest reliance. The principles you adopt, and the conduct you intend to pursue, as men tioned in the letter you did me the honor to write me the 5 of Augt. last, I do most thoroughly approve. I know well that your support will only be given to the cause of virtue and your country, and that it will never be withheld therefrom. Who fails in doing right, fails nobly because Virtue is its own and a very great reward. You will see by the public prints, which Mr. Lovell tells me he has transmitted since the 1st of December last, that we are not exempt from the common Lot of humanity. But, tho Deanes and Partners of Deanes may and will shoot up in every Soil, and the foulness about them thicken for a time the purest streams, these will at length work themselves clear and as they run refine. The bold and sudden attempt made by Deane’s Libel of Deer. 5 on the public mind, seized it for a time with great violence, and hurried it away with too much rapidity for reflection. But no sooner did men begin to think than they began to see, and S. Deane has now fallen under universal contempt and censure. I am sure it has not been this Mans fault if he hath not done more injury to these States than G. Howe ever did. But enough of him. We shall soon transmit our plan for foreign affairs, and in the mean time, we are very impatient to hear from you, not having done so for three months past. We hope Spain will join France, which will indeed make decisive work. We are preparing for the ensuing Campaign with all possible vigor, but the enemies and our troops yet remain in quarters this way, and it seems probable that the former will be glad to continue so all the Summer as they have not more than 10 or 12,000 men both in York & Rhode Island, which force, if collected, would not be sufficient to take the field. The enemy have made a successful impression on Georgia this winter, but I


[Page 414]
380 April 24, 1779 consider this in the same light of mere temporary effect, as we have seen all their former operations. Measures are taking to remove them from that State, and tho the Climate wars against us, it will not fight for them. I see, with you, the importance of the Confederation, and I am not without hope that it will eer long, be completed. All have agreed except Mary land, and that State it is thought will come in at the next meeting of their Assembly, which will be in a few months. The Assembly of Virginia have directed their Delegates to move Congress to fix a day for closing this great Compact between such of the States as have consented, allowing either a given or indefinite time, as to Congress shall seem best, for dissent ing States to become Members. We shall shortly move Congress for this purpose 1 The Currency is an object of the last importance. Tax we do, and very largely indeed, but this is still inadequate. Some aid, by foreign Loans, is indispensable by way of absorbing the immensity of the Mass. Two Millions of pounds sterling applied this way would, with the aid of Taxes, so restore us As to put the remainder of our Money on a good foundation, and then, Taxation with ceconomy will do the rest. 2 Lately our Coasts have been pretty free from the enemies Cruisers. They have now an ample call for their Sea force in other ports, and at present our frigates preserve our trade from the interruption it met with by the numerous small Privateers of the enemy. Be pleased to accept a pamphlet that accompanies this containing a special collection from our Journals made to counteract certain false and ill designed assertions of the British Commissioners lately here. 3 I am, yours dear Sir with the most affectionate esteem and regard, Richard Henry Lee [P.5.] Direct your letters for me to the care of Dr. Shippen in Philadelphia. FC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. 1 For Virginia’s next move to secure ratification of the Articles of Confederation, see North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell, May 20; and Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates, May 22, 1779. See also John Henry to Thomas Johnson, January 20, 1779, note. 2 For some of the specific proposals found in the reports of the committee on the treasury that were under consideration at about this time, see JCC, 13:491-98, 14:519-20. 3 Undoubtedly Gouverneur Morris’ Observations on the American Revolution (Philadelphia: Styner and Cist, 1779). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 24th 1779 Since ours of the 19th instant we are favoured with yours of the 6th. 1 As the frigate Providence will be wanted for a very Special and particular purpose we do not wish to run the hazard of her being out of the way when called for therefore we request that when she returns you will keep her in Port ready in every respect for the Sea.


[Page 415]
April 25, 1779 381 We have lately purchased a Small vessel that will carry about 300 barrels flour and are now lading her with that article for the use of your Department. We are Gentlemen, Your hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 In its April 6 letter to the Marine Committee, the board had informed the committee of plans for a coastal cruise by the frigate Providence. Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir Philada. Apr. 24, 1779. The inclosed Copy of a Letter to the continental Treasurer 1 is sent to inform the honble. Assembly that, agreable to the Tenor thereof, we have made a further Appropriation of the Sum of twenty five thousand Dollars out of the one hundred and fifty thousand which Congress ordered on the 5th of this month to be advanced to the State on Account. Mr Purviance informed us that Gentlemen in this City were desirous of purchasing the Draughts of his Brothers on the Board of War; but we thought it more eligible to order the Bills to be negotiated by the Trea surer, lest they should be presented to the Board of War at a Time when they were not in Cash to answer the Draughts. We hope for the Concur rence of the Assembly in this Affair. We are with much Truth, Sir, your very humble Servants, Samuel Adams James Lovell E Gerry S Holten RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Adams, Gerry, and Holten. 1 Not found, but for similar letters to Michael Hillegas, see the Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, April 14 and 26, 1779. John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir, Philadelphia 25th April 1779 1 I shall do myself the honor of communicating your Favor of this day, together with the memorial accompanying it, to Congress this morning. 2 The Importance of the Subject, as well as the Respect due to the Appli cations of their good & great Ally, will, I am persuaded, induce Congress to place it among the first Objects of their Attention. I have the Honor to be Sir, With perfect Esteem & Respect, your most Obedt. & Hble Servt.


[Page 417]
April 25, 1779 383 There is nothing to be written from hence that can at all benefit or amuse you, if I was not greatly engaged in preparing for the Departure of a Vessel for France tomorrow. Schuyler’s Resignation is accepted. It is said the Marqs. De Fayette is safe home so that I hope to hear of some help thence to our Currency. I am very affectionately yr. Friend & humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MiU-C: Greene Papers). 1 Although the addressee is not indicated on this document and the manuscript is located in the papers of Gen. Nathanael Greene, the letter’s content clearly indicates that Lovell was writing to Benjamin Lincoln. Lovell’s reference to “Majr. Mead” is to Lincoln’s aide Ever ard Meade, and it was Lincoln whose retirement had recently been authorized by Congress because of his poor health. 2 See John Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779. Gouverneur Morris to John Dunlap Mr. Dunlap. [ca. April 25, 1779] 1 Several Pieces in your Paper 2 having reflected upon my Reputation you will do me the Favor of inserting this. That I have taken no Notice of them hitherto and take Notice of them now requires an Explanation. I neglected them because I supposed myself superior to them and I sup posed so because I felt a Consciousness that I merited Something different from Detraction. I now write because some Friends whom I value at a Distance from the present Scene or otherwise not well informed draw odious Conclusions from my Silence. It is not my Object to inveigh against any Man. Every free Citizen hath a Right to think, speak and write freely of public Measures and of public Men. As I feel no one Spark of Resentment I shall cast no one Reflection. I am vain enough to believe that I could convey a Pang to the Bosoms of those who have stimulated Publications agt me. But satyrical Remarks can do no Good (to the Public) & therefore I shall avoid them. I applaud the Zeal of those Gentlemen who laudably endeavor to bring bad Men and bad Measures to Light. They will however pardon me for holding & declaring an Opinion that Charges not well founded in incon- testible Facts are injurious to the Public. They weaken such as may be afterwards made on better Ground and by lessening the Confidence of the People frequently defeat the most salutary Efforts. If I have done Evil let the Consequences of Guilt overtake me. If not all I ask is that in future & with Respect to others a Life devoted to the Service of Mankind & the voluntary Sacrifice of Time, Ease and health in public Cares may induce so much Charity as to believe that a Difference in Opinion upon Subjects of great Magnitude does not imply a Guiltiness of Intention & That self Interest is not always the Spring of human Conduct. I have not much Time that I can call my own nor have I a Right to intrude upon the Patience of others. Brevity on the present Occasion


[Page 419]
April 25, 1779 385 Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed Sir, Phila. 25th April 1779. I was honored with your Excellency’s Favor of the 16th late on Sunday Evening last. 1 Since that Period I have been so occupied with indispens- ible public Affairs that I have not been able to answer it. I hope you will excuse a Delay which by no Means proceeded from Inattention. You express a Wish to know whether my Letter 2 was public or private. As it was my Design to render it agreable I pray you to consider it in which ever Light you shall think proper. As you hold up the Idea that your Conduct on the Conference was that of a public Man I have nothing more to say with Relation to it but must lament in Silence my Misfortune. Your Information of my Conduct in and out of Congress leads it seems to a Conclusion that I harbor hostile Sentiments to your Government and pursue a Line of Opposition to you. I believe your Information is not so good as you suppose. Mentioning out of Congress Matters which pass in it tending to irritate shews a Disposition in the Relator which renders many Allowances necessary for a candid Interpretation. I did indeed as a Dele gate reprobate those Proceedings of your Council which in my Opinion reflected upon Congress; but even this would have been done with more Temperance if I had not been stimulated by Attempts to prevent it under the Pain of personal Danger. As for the Rest I still think as I always did that in your State and every other the Government as a Government is to be supported that the Form and the Administrators of it depend on the People and that Congress ought not to interfere either one Way or the other. My Conduct out of Congress has been much misrepresented and I could give you Instances to contradict the Conclusions you have drawn but this is not the Season nor are you perhaps in the Temper to receive them. Clearly you have misunderstood what I said with Respect to the Per sonalities in Arnold’s Case. Many Reasons will suggest themselves to you upon Consideration to shew sufficient Ground for the Hint without touch ing you and to remove from me the Imputation of a Versatility of Con duct which you have charged me with. Whoever hath asserted that I encouraged Genl. Arnold and those about him to insult your State was either misinformed himself or meant to de ceive you. The direct contrary is true. The Mischief was done before I knew a Syllable of the Matter. Afterwards I advised Concession and Apol ogy tho I did not think myself authorized to compel them. You say that you have incurred Censure for parting with Wilkins’s Letter. 3 To gratify the good Wishes of those who can censure one Gentle man for sending another his Letters I return that in Question. Permit me at the same Time to express my Acknowlegement for the Sacrifices you made on that Occasion.


[Page 428]
394 April 27, 1779 James Duane to George Clinton Sir; Philad. 27th April 1779. We had the Honour of your Excellency’s Favour respecting the Ex change of our unfortunate Friends in the Hands of the Enemy. 1 Congress some time since vested the Commander in Chief with full power to settle a general or partial Cartell for the Exchange of Prisoners, leaving the whole transaction to his Discretion. I have for this Reason, with the approbation of my Colleagues, transmitted your Excellency’s Letter and the Enclosures to the Commander in Chief, and requested him to correspond with you on the Subject: & I have no doubt but he will do every thing you wish or recommend. 2 I congratulate your Excellency on the important Success of our little Squadron; it is a Seasonable Supply for us, & will distress our Enemies. Favourable Reports prevail respecting the Operations to the Southward but they are not sufficiently authenticated to deserve a detail of particu lars. The Extravegance of living here is beyond description and the Burthen of publick business, intollerable. I am for my own part worn down and stand in great need of Relaxation; when our Finances are placed on some Footing, I must beg for your Excellency’s Indulgence, the more so, as I am here without Summer Cloaths, and cannot reconcile it to my Feelings to purchase at the immoderate Prices which are current. I beg leave to refer your Excellency to Mr. Lewis for Information on the State of publick matters, and have the Honour to be, with the highest Respect, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:761-62. 1 For Gov. George Clinton’s April 11, 1779, letter concerning the exchange of civilians captured and placed on parole by loyalist and Indian forces in New York, see ibid., pp. 710-11. 2 For Duane’s letter to Washington and the general’s response, see New York Delegates to Washington, this date. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday [April] 27th [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Petition from General Arnold. Letters from S. Deane. Genl Gates, 1 Genl Heath, General Washington, order on the Treasury for 2000 Guineas. 2 Letter from Lt Hale, Committed. Auditors 8 Drs. Per Day. Jos Howell Nominated. 3 This day, too much like many others, spent in Debate to answer no valuable Purpose. P.M. Marine Committee.


[Page 429]
April 27, 1779 395 MS (DLC). 1 The journals do not record the receipt of a letter from Horatio Gates this day. 2 Congress’ resolve authorizing Washington to draw on the treasurer “to the amount of two thousand guineas” indicates that the action was taken to provide “specie for secret services.” JCC, 14:526. 3 Capt. Joseph Howell, having already been recommended by the Board of Treasury as an additional army auditor, was actually elected to the post this day. JCC, 14:515. Marine Committee to the Commissioners at Paris Sirs April 27th. 1779 We have long expected that the Agents in France would have furnished us with accounts of their Disbursments for the Continental Ships of war and with the Sales and distribution of Prizes taken by those Ships, but are Still without them. It is now become highly necessary that we should have these Accounts, therefore we request Gentlemen that you will give Orders to the Agents immediately to make them up fully and clearly and send them to us as soon as possible as we have already been much embarrassed for want of them. We also request that in future you will give strict orders that it be the constant practice of the Agents to furnish this Committee regularly with Duplicate or triplicate Accounts of their Disbursments for the Continental Vessels of war, Inventories of all Prizes taken—Accounts Sales corresponding with those Inventories & the distribution made of such Prizes. The Ship Reprizal being unfortunately lost returning to America, we have frequent application made to us for pay & Prize Money by the representatives of her Crew which from the want of accounts we are un able to satisfy, the Cutter Revenge commanded by Captain Conyngham is arrived here, and is partly claimed by private persons, we are equally at a loss for want of her accounts and the many Prizes she took in the European Seas. When necessity obliges advances to be made to Navy Officers in France that are returning from captivity or otherways, we request you will order that we be regularly advised of all such advances. We have the honor to be, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 27th 1779 Since ours of the 24th instant we have not been favoured with any of yours, Captain J.B. Hopkins has informed us of the great success of the Continental ships in their late Cruize, 1 which account was very pleasing and we hope ’ere this the Prizes are all Arrived. We request that you will prepare for the Sea with all possible expedition all the Continental Vessels


[Page 430]
396 April 27, 1779 of war that are now under your direction to go upon a Cruize of great utillity to the Public and benefit to the Seamen and you will shortly receive our further Instructions concerning their destination. You are hereby directed to purchase the Prize Ship Jason of 20 Guns & the Prize Schooner Hibernia provided on Survey they are found to be suitable Vessels for the Navy. If they are purchased you will prepare them to sail with the other Vessels. We have had reason to beleive that the frigate Confederacy would have been ready and at sea some months ago, which not being the Case we desire you will inform yourselves immediately of the cause of her detention and as it is of great and immediate importance to the Public that She be immediately got to Sea, if in your Opinion that purpose will be more speedily effected by giving Captain Saltonstal the command of her, we desire you will do so, and immediately thereafter cause a Court of Inquiry to examine into the conduct of Captain Har ding. 2 We request you will send forward to us with all despatch properly adjusted compleat accounts of the Prizes taken by the frigate Deane on her late cruize. That vessel is now in this River and her Crew will expect to receive their share of Prize Money before they reenter therefore it is of much importance that we be speedily furnished with the necessary Papers to enable us to make distribution amongst them. Captain Nicholson writes to his Agent Mr Mathias Brimmer to pay the proceeds into your hands, and you can draw upon us for the amount. We beg this business may be finished with all despatch. The Number of Marine officers now in Commission we consider are more than is consistent with that oeconomy which Should be Observed in all our public Affairs—and as a new System is now forming for the regu lation of the Navy Department, we do not desire to have any new officers of that kind apointed. As the One twentieth part of Prize Money alloted for the commander in chief by the Regulations of Congress concerning the distribution of Prizes, was under the Idea of such an Officer being at the head of the Fleet; but as at present there is no such Officer, It is our determination that the Said twentieth part be distributed Amongst the Officers and Crews of the Ships at large, which you will please to make known to the Agents in your department. We Shall Shortly send you a supply of money and are Gen tlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 This news from John Burroughs Hopkins was brought to Congress by Capt. Richard Palmes. For the consequences of Palmes’ unauthorized trip to Philadelphia, see Massachu setts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council, April 26, 1779, note 2. 2 The Marine Committee also sent these same directions for the Confederacy, and captains Dudley Saltonstall and Seth Harding, with the following introduction from a letter of this date to John Deshon, Connecticut’s member on the Eastern Navy Board: “By a letter from your Board this day we are informed of your being now in Connecticut. We think proper to make you acquainted with a Paragraph of our letter of this day to your Board and desire you will take such measures as you may think will tend to despatch the business to which it relates .... ” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:69.


[Page 437]
April 29, 1779 403 fisheries, see Gouverneur Morris’ Proposed Resolutions, March 22; North Carolina Dele gates to the South Carolina Delegates, April 2; and Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, May 8, 1779. 3 Although Adams clearly continued to confide in Cooper, the Boston minister had appar ently already broken with Adams. According to the reports of Joseph de Valnais, the French consul in Boston, to Jean Holker in Philadelphia, Cooper was working not only to promote French interests but even to undermine Adams’ reputation. As Valnais explained to Holker on June 3, 1779: “le Dr Cooper travaille a aneantir le credit de M S Adams dans cet Etat 554. 552. Il a meme deja reussi a le perdre dans L’esprit de plusieurs personnes de la plus haute consequence, qui meme sont ses meilleurs amis & ses seul Suports.” A number of Valnais’ letters to Holker, including this one of June 3, which is partially in a code that has been deciphered by Holker, are in the Jean Holker Papers, DLC. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Api 29th [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. The chief of this day spent in consideration on the Subject of Finance, and to Tax largely. P.M. Thunder, Lightening, Hail and Rain. Went to Marine Committee No Members. MS (DLC). Frederick Frelinghuysen to the Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly Sir, Trenton, April 29th, 1779. Agreeable to the appointment of the Legislature, I repaired to Philadel phia in the month of January last, and have since that time attended Congress, until the public business entrusted to my care in the county of Somerset rendered my absence unavoidable. It is needless for me to remind the honorable Legislature, that I did with great reluctance accept of the appointment of a delegate for this state in Congress. I was then sufficiently sensible that the trust was too impor tant for my years and abilities. I am now fully convinced that I should do injustice to my country did I not decline that service. In doing this, I am conscious to myself that I am actuated merely by motives for the public good, well knowing that whatever may be my abilities, they will be useless to the state in the supreme council of the Nation, and that the other appointments with which the Legislature of New Jersey have been pleased to honor me in the county of Somerset, are more than sufficient to employ my whole attention. I might add some other circumstances which render my situation there peculiarly disagreeable, but I fear the evils which might arise from my opening myself on this subject, would more than counterbalance any good


[Page 439]
April 29, 1779 405 Motions were made for filling the blank 1st with fifteen, 2d Eighteen, 3d Thirty. The question to be put on the highest Sum. I rose & said Sir, the largest Sum is to be put to question first, it is a very large Sum—I perceive I have no Colleague present & I think it necessary to consult my Colleague before I give my voice for taxing my Constituents so heavily as their quota of 30 [Millions] will be. I will not take an advantage of my Colleague by calling for the Yeas & Nays in his absence. I shall therefore move in right of a State for postponing the determination of this question, unless the House will agree to postpone the question more generally. (^Having seen my Colleague a little time before take his Hat & Cane, I apprehended he had gone home, but it appeared he was only in the Library Room—where he presently informed by J.P. 2 of what had passed—he came in & sat by me, I repeated what I had said—he replyed I leave that matter entirely to you, & shall aquiesce in whatever you determine, you know I dont understand these matters so well as you do— then retired again to the Library. I rose again & addressed the Chair, Sir, I have had some conference with my Colleague on the business before us, he is pleased to do me the honor of leaving the matter wholly to me, & as it is a subject of great importance, & the transaction devolved upon my self, I find it incumbent on me to deliberate & to take time for reflection, more especially when I consider the present circumstances of my Country. I could for these reasons wish the further consideration of this article may be postponed—it is near our time for adjourning, we may fill up the remainder by reading Public Letters & giving away a few Millions under the Reports of the Board of Treasury. The consideration Postponed, & the House Adjourned. 3 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens, and endorsed by him: “Minutes on the Motion for Taxing the States 15, 18, or 30 Millions Dollars. “Vide Report of Board of Treasury, Art. No. 4. “Vide additional Note 19th May within.” Tr (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). In the hand of James Custer and endorsed by him: “Anecdotes on Mr. Drayton’s manners on questions for Taxation. Apr. 29.” 1 The treasury committee report containing the recommendations embodied in this pro posed resolve is printed in the journals under the date April 22, 1779, JCC, 13:493. In Laurens’ copy of these notes of debates, reference to this report is found in the following interlined note that he keyed to the beginning of the entry: “See overleaf the introduction taken from the Treasury Report.” 2 John Penn. 3 See JCC, 14:533. For additional notes on this subject, see Laurens’ Notes of Debates, May 19, 1779. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Sir, Philada. April 29th. 1779 As the Books & Papers of the Comtee. of foreign affairs remain on the Table of Congress to be used in the public Deliberations which still con-


[Page 443]
April 30, 1779 409 information upon the Motion made on Monday the 26th Inst, by the Honorable Mr. Paca, which had been under debate near two Hours when adjournment was called for & carried, what did we adjourn from?—surely from prosecuting the business then before us to another day, the day is now arrived, we must resume the consideration of that business.” The President acquiesed—Remarks were then made on the impropriety of the conduct of the Gentlemen who had now produced information from Mr. Gerard on a certain point, while a question was pending, whether such information should be applied for? N.B. Mr. Paca’s motion was made on the 26th. 3 the House adjourned that day at ’/2 p. 4 P M. Mr. Gerard went out of Town at 9 oC. A M the 27th. The information therefore which Mr. Drayton and Mr. Paca had ob tained from Mr. Gerard must have been delivered them between */2 p 4 Monday afternoon & 9. Tuesday Morning. The Gentlemen, when they heard Mr. Laurens call for the adjourn’d motion on the 26th Moved for leave to withdraw the said adjourned motion, the House in general consented. Mr. Laurens objected & called for the Yeas & Nays. The President said, as not one whole State objected, the motion might be withdrawn, Mr. Laurens denied the doctrine, he said it could not be determined who objected until the House should be called over, that he had an indubitable right to the Yeas & Nays, which would bring the motion on the Book & that such measures, such extraordinary measures ought to appear to our Constituents. Mr. President made some little objection to the right of Yeas & Nays. Mr. Laurens, who was by no means surprized at the President’s leanings, appealed to the Rules, & said nothing less than violence could deprive him of his right & that he trusted there would be no appearance of violence in that House. Mr. Duane rose & delivered a soft intriguing address, talked of leaving Congress, not be cause such infamous measures had been adopted & pursued respecting the application to the French Minister, but because, such measures were likely to be properly held up to public view. Mr. Laurens said since he saw Gentlemen were distressed, he was inclined to be good natured & would not insist upon the Yeas & Nays. The question was then simply put for leave to withdraw; Mr. Drayton’s voice was heard in a Bravado, No. his sincerity may be determined by his first opinion for withdrawing & by the President’s declaration that there was not one whole state against it. The Motion was withdrawn—a true Copy of it is however preserved, & accom panies this Memoire; Mr. Drayton who has been a very principal actor in these illicit practices with the french Minister. 4 MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 31). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 See the following entry. 2 As resolved on April 28. JCC, 14:532. 3 See Laurens’ Notes of Debates, April 26, 1779. 4 Laurens’ notes end abruptly at mid-page.


[Page 445]
April 30, 1779 411 was ready to put to Sea—that the said Commissioner, by his conduct on several occasions, created the highest disgust in the Court of Versailles against him—that the Court of Madrid, in the closest connection with that of Versailles, entertained the same sentiments respecting the said Commis sioner, not only on account of his conduct on those occasions, but, because of his imprudent conduct in Spain—and, in a word, the Minister Plenipo tentiary expressly declared, that he has every reason to think, that neither of those courts have that confidence in the said Commissioner, which, is necessary to give success to the Negociations of a Foreign Minister. The undersigned having received such decisive information from the Minister of France, with liberty to communicate it to Congress, think it is their indispensable duty to the United States, & to themselves, to lay the same explicitly before this the Supreme Council of America; to the end, that they may not be misled to continue the said Commissioner as the Representative of these United-States at a Court, in the highest manner disgusted at his conduct, & at which, of consequence, his Negociations must be unsuccessful. But, if, unfortunately, it shall be disregarded, they will have the consolation to reflect, that in giving this information, they discharged their duty to the United-States; & that having given it, they cannot justly be held responsable for the consequences of a measure, but too likely to prove unconciliatory abroad, ruinous to the Public Finances at home, & an impediment to a speedy & honorable Pacification, secur ing the Independence of the United-States of North-America. 3 Wm. Paca Wm. Hy. Drayton MS (DLC: Peter Force Collection). Written by Paca and signed by Paca and Drayton. Endorsed by Charles Thomson: “No. 38. Information of Mr Paca & Mr W H Drayton respecting Mr Arthr. Lee laid on the table & read April 30th. 1779.” 1 See Henry Laurens’ Notes Respecting Gerard’s Views, April 21? 1779. See also Thomas Burke’s Statement Respecting Gerard’s Views, April 16?; and Laurens’ Notes of Debates, April 26 and 30, 1779. 2 See Meng, Gerard Despatches, p. 358. Vergennes’ letter to Gerard was actually dated October 26, 1778. 3 For Gerard’s May 4 report to Vergennes on the congressional debate over Arthur Lee’s removal, see ibid., pp. 615-17. On August 8, 1779, after learning that James Lovell had sent a copy of this Paca-Drayton report to Arthur Lee, Gerard also sent a copy of it to Vergennes. Ibid., pp. 844-45. That document, in Drayton’s hand, is in Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, Supplement, 1:276-77, Archives du ministere des affaires etrangeres. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen April 30th 1779 In our letter of the 27th instant which went by Post we directed you to purchase the Prize Ship Jason provided on being Surveyed she was found to be A Suitable for our Navy. Should you purchase her it is our determi nation that you give the command to John Peck Rathbourne and we will


[Page 446]
412 April 30, 1779 send from this place a Lieutenant to go on board her. The Sloop we some time ago mentioned to be ladeing with flour for the use of your depart ment will Sail this day—the Navy Board will write you respecting her Cargo. It is necessary to inform you that She has been purchased to carry this Flour—After her arrival you will dispose of her as you shall think will be most conducive to the Public Interest. We are Gentlemen, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Thomas Burke to Henry Laurens Sir [April ? 1779] 1 In a letter from a Mr Brakenridge to Mr Drayton, 2 I find my name mentioned as one Reported to have Some Interest in a Commercial Con cern with Mr Deane the design and tendency whereof is supposed to be Injurious to the political Interests of America and that the Report Origi nated from you. 3 This last Circumstance, only, makes it of Consequence enough to engage my attention, for, so far as the public are Concerned in my Transactions, the Evidence relating them is clear and unequivocal, and easily to be found and I am at all times ready to Commit my self thereon to my Immediate Constituents to whom only I hold my self Judi cially accountable, And as to my private acquaintance they know me too well to admit such a report to a ready Belief, at least without an Enquiry, for the Result of which I am under no Apprehensions. But while such a Report is Circulated under the Sanction of your Name, it becomes of Serious importance and I feel myself under an Indispensable Necessity of asking you whether You have expressed at any time an opinion, Conjec ture or declaration which may have given rise to it? If you have, Sir, I doubt not it was founded on Information which you thought good, or on Some Circumstances which fell under your own observation, and which you thought Sufficient to Justifie the Conclusion—in either case, I must Request you to make known to me that on which the Idea was founded if Such you ever entertained. But if the fact be that you never entertained or expressed Such an Idea I hope you will think a plain declaration thereof a Satisfaction which you ought to give, and which I am Justly entitled to require. (One or other of the answers I have ask’dfor is Necessary to direct my mind in the Investigation and refutation of this Injurious Calumny, for so directly Contrary to Such Connections has the whole tenor of my Life been that I can fix on no Incident which could have given the least color for it, and it is almost incredible to me that you who have long been witness to my public Conduct Should entertain Ideas so very repugnant to its uniform tenor.) 4 I am persuaded you will not decline it—and


[Page 447]
May 1, 1779 413 I Request your answer with all Convenient dispatch, with due respect, Sir, Your Obed Sev. FC (Nc-Ar: Burke Papers). In the hand of Thomas Burke and endorsed by him: “Copy of Letter to Mr Lawrens with his answer relative to report Suggested in Lettr from Mr Braken- ridge to Mr Drayton.” 1 The dating of this document is conjectural, but it appears to fall within the context of the Arthur Lee recall debate reflecting particularly the efforts of Lee’s supporters to discredit the pro-Deane faction by insinuating that its members were influenced by their financial connec tions with Deane. As former delegate Charles Carroll of Carrollton later observed to William Carmichael in a letter of May 31, 1779, “The faction of the Lees is industriously propagat ing, as I hear, that their opponents, or most of them, are engaged in mercantile connections with Dean & others.” General Manuscripts Collection, NjP. For the debate on the recall of the American commissioners in Europe, which actually came to a focus on Arthur Lee on April 26 and 30 and May 3, 1779, see John Fell’s Diary, April 6, 1779, note 2. 2 Apparently Hugh Henry Brackenridge (1748-1816) and William Henry Drayton. 3 Burke originally opened this letter with the following sentence before beginning afresh. “I have Seen a letter from a Mr Brakenridge to Mr Drayton wherein A Mr Snowdan is quoted as having given you as the author of Certain Charges against Some Gentlemen of Congress.” 4 This passage is marked “dele” in the margin. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My Dear Sir, Philad. 1st May 1779. You may wish to know the Proceedings on your last Letter respecting your determination to resign. 1 They were concise. The President read your Letter among the other dispatches. I had not then mine from you on the same Subject: nor was I in Congress. Indeed not a member was ap prized of it. On reading your Letter a motion was made to comply with your Request: It was seconded and passed without a single Remark or Dissent. Thus you have your wishes. I feel a strong temptation to expostu late with you on this Subject—but what End will it answer? My Views & Expectations which were honourable for yourself and important to my Country are disappointed: and I own, & feel, the Superiority of the Planet which governs you over my feeble Star. Here let it rest. It gives me, however, great Consolation that you can still be highly serviceable to your Country, even with respect to military Operations: and eminently so in the Cabinet: In the military by advice and private Exertions; In Council, by taking your Seat in this House to which you can now have no Objec tion. To retire to private Life, before the War is terminated, you cannot reconcile to your Reputation, or to your Feelings. It is needless to enlarge on a point so evident; & of which you are so good a Judge! You know my Opinion of the necessity of appointing Commissioners in our State for managing our Affairs with the Six Nations: and securing Satisfaction for the Injuries we have suffered by their unpro[vo]ked Dep redations. No other Way can be devised to awe them into Peace & justice; Than after having convincd them of our Superiority, to insist on a Cession


[Page 450]
416 May 2, 1779 I have sent Mrs. Darnall by Mr Ridout Two small Pots of Dentrifice. Doctr Baker had not any brushes. With my respectful Compliments to her, I am, Dear Sir, Your most Obedt Servt Daniel of St. Thos Jenifer. RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear Son, Philadelphia 2d May 1779. I think I writ to you by a late public Messenger under the 27th Ulto. altho my Book gives no proof of it. 1 Mr. Gerard & Don Juan are on a visit at Middlebrook, 2 my worthy friend the former Gentleman, has been ensnared by certain Men, into such Acts & concurrences as will hereafter appear blots in his administra tion—I am exceedingly greived by such conduct. You know I mention such things in perfect confidence to yourself & Mr. Gervais. General Washington writes that the Enemy had made a descent upon the Jerseys with a view of surprizing some of our outposts & of plundering; in the former they failed & upon the whole had made a poor adventure. North River remains yet unprovided with Cannon, how shall I account for the quietness of the New York Delegates on this occasion? Is not North River the Door leading to those parts of that State which the Enemy are not yet possessed of & will not the complete possession of those parts give them the whole of the State of Rhode Island & endanger Connecticut? What said Hamlet? I do not like appearances—a Great Man in a late conversation which he had obtruded on me very improperly & which it did not become me to understand, & so I intimated to him, dropped a menace which shocked me—“we have had & may yet obtain better terms from Great Britain.” “Therefore you should be moderate in your demands”—& now the strife is for turning out an honest faithfal Servant, merely for being possessed of those bad qualities of honesty & fidelity & to put in a supple Jack. We want Men of Spirit & inflexible honesty here. Some very honest worthy Men we have, but they are not of the temper which is necessary for stemming a torrent of cunning artful misrepresentations. I act such a part as tends in some degree to disappoint or procrastinate evil purposes, to mortify the schemers, without exposing my conduct to any thing more than their teeth outward censure. They see & are convinced that I am of no set-party, & that I have no projects in view for aggrandizing or bene fiting myself. I speak plain truth & feel no inclination to deviate to the right or to the left for the purpose of gaining applause from any Man or set of Men—one set are now convinced that I am neither to be wheedled nor frighted into their measures & yet I vote with them as often as they appear to be right.


[Page 452]
418 May 3, 1779 other information he had the honor to receive from them, while imployed by the Commissioners abroad. He was informed & beleives, that this want of Confidence arose from information given by Mr. Garnier Charge des Affaires for the court of Versailles at London, That Ld. Shelburne and Mr. A. Lee left London in concert to visit France immediately after the arrival of Mr. Deane in that Country. He believes that the Court was confirmed in these suspicions by Mr Lees visits to Ld. Shelburne while at Paris, and he knows that several of high rank were alarmed and appre hensive that the secrets of the court would be betrayed from this Connec tion with the opposition in England, as will appear from the following extract of instructions given by the Ct. D’Estaing to Mr Deane at the very time Ld. Shelburne was at Paris. A copy of the instructions is in the hands of the Underwritten transcrib’d from the Original by Colonel Nicholas Rogers of Maryland & Himself when he received a Message from the Ct. Estaing desiring Him to return it. “L’unite secrette des enterets qui existe entre la France, 1’Espagne et les Americains etant plus grande plus durable plus necessaire que celle qui attache les Anglais de 1’opposition au sort de l’Amerique, il en resulte que Monsr Deane doit avoir plus de confiance dans ces deux puissances que dans des particuliers qui ne veulent uniquement que chasser des Ministres pour remplacer. Il semble aussi que sa confiance dans les membres de 1’opposition ne doit pas aller jusq’a leur dire tout ce que la France et L Espagne font ou promettent de faire; L’esperance de causer une revolu tion dans le ministre anglais sufferait peutetre pour en rendre la publica tion aussi avantageux au part de 1’opposition qu’elle serait nuisible a l’Amerique: rien est plus a redoutter que de voir la bonne volonte se changer en mefiance, car en negotiation la mefiance eloigne ceux que 1’interet raproche. Il semble aussi qu’il faut soigneusement eviter de com- promettre, d’embarasser une grande puissance sur des petits objets et cela dans le temps qu’on en espere des grands services: C’est encore sur ce point important que les veritables interets de l’amerique different de ceux du parti de l’opposition.[”] This suspicion was farther confirmed by Mr Lees connection with Ct. De Lauregais of whom Ct. De’Estaing speaks in the following manner in the peice above mentioned “Excepte son intime Liason avec Monsr Le Compte De Lauregais, et que 1’amitie de ce dernier pour my Lor Shelburne dont l’addresse et les projets sont connus pourrait faire transpirer ce que le Ministre de France voudrait que fut ignore, sans que cet accident arrivat par la Faute ni par le canal des charge des Affaires de l’Amerique.” Mr. Lee Himself was so sensible of this suspicion, that he wrote to Monsr. Le Compte de Vergennes or Monsr Girard on the Subject, which letter was carried by the underwritten to the Bureau for foreighn Affairs at Versailles, & Mr Lee received an answer, a copy of which no doubt he transmitted to some one of his correspondents on this side of the Atlantic. Ld. Shelburne is particularly disagreable to the Bour bon courts, because he formed the desighn of exciting a revolt in Mexico & for this purpose pensioned a French Nobleman, a Major general in the


[Page 455]
May 3, 1779 421 but two days at Nantes & leave the Candid to Judge whether he could in the temper of mind, he then was, speak in the manner he is represented to have done. Wm. Carmichael MS (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). In the hand of William Carmichael. Endorsed: “(Dupli cate).” Tr (MH-H: bMS Am 811.5). MS damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Carmichael submitted this statement to Congress in the course of a debate on the issue of Arthur Lee’s recall. Charles Thomson’s journal entry recording the submission of this docu ment essentially paraphrases Carmichael’s opening paragraph. JCC, 14:542. 2 Caron de Beaumarchais, Jacques Donatien Leray de Chaumont, Ferdinand Grand, and George Grand. 3 It is not clear to what Carmichael is here referring. The only documents submitted with this statement that have been positively identified are letters to him by Henry Newman of April 9 and by Samuel Nicholson of May 2, 1779, which are in the Lee Papers, MH-H. The latter is a copy in Carmichael’s hand; both bear Charles Thomson’s endorsement: “Inclosed in Mr Carmichaels information delivered in May 3. 1779.” They are printed in Deane, Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21:446-48. 4 Edward Bancroft, James Moylan, John Ross, Jonathan Williams, and Capts. John Paul Jones and Samuel Nicholson. Moylan and Ross were the commercial agents at L’Orient and Nantes, respectively. 5 See note 3 above. For another document concerning Lee that was submitted during this day’s debate, which described him as “une espece de fol [a sort of madman],” see also James Lovell to James Warren, August 13, 1779, note 2. John Fell’s Diary Monday May 3d [1779]. Commercial Committee. Congress. The Business of this day intirely taken up till 5 o Clock, on the Question of Recalling Mr A. Lee, 1 4 Yeas 4 Noes 4 States Divided. (Dined wth President Reed). NB. For his Recall 22 Yeas. Nays 14. R. H. Lee Excused, Mr. Plater absent & Mr McKean. MS (DLC). 1 According to the journals, Congress dispatched a considerable amount of business before returning to the debate on Arthur Lee’s recall. JCC, 14:539-42. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia May the 3d. 1779 Always attentive to your commands, I have obtained here, and now inclose you the song and the receipt you desired. I once had both of them at home, but they are mislaid among a mass of papers, so that I could find neither previous to my leaving Chantilly, or your request would then have been complied with. I hope you have received the pamphlet I sent you some weeks ago entitled “Observations on the American revolution” con taining a collection of the most material congress papers with a few re marks interspersed, in order to shew in one comprehensive view the pro gress of our glorious revolution, and to rectify some false representations of


[Page 458]
424 May 3, 1779 The Undersigned trust that Congress will never give to any one of the United States just occasion to tax them with partiality, sincerely wish that their Union may be perpetual, and are with the greatest Respect, Yr Excellency’s most obedt. humble Servts. William Ellery John Collins RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 For the background of the Rhode Island delegates’ effort to secure Continental support for 1,500 additional troops in Rhode Island, see Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene April 13, 1779. ’ 2 The Rhode Island delegates’ bold ploy proved successful. The following day Congress adopted their proposal for raising a brigade of 1,500 men in Rhode Island at Continental expense. See JCC, 14:539-40, 546-48; and Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, May Thomas Burke to Timothy Matlack $’ r State House May 4th 1779 A paper purporting, Instructions from the honorable President and Council of the State of Pennsylvania, to their Delegates in Congress, Stat ing Some supposed Grievances in their Line of Officers in the army of the United States, was referred to a Committee, of which the Chief Justice of Pennsylvania was a member. Upon his declining, or discontinuing his attendance in Congress some time past, the papers which were in his possession, have been mislaid; and among them that above referred to, we have for some time delayed reporting in hope of recovering the papers, that hope is now entirely lost, 1 and I am under the Necessity of applying to you for a Copy of the Essential paper here described. I request you Sir to transmit me a Copy as soon as Convenient. 2 I am Sir with due respect, your Obt Servant Tho Burke RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 Thomas McKean, Samuel Atlee, and Burke had been appointed on December 29, 1778, “to enquire into the state of the Pennsylvania troops, and report whether an additional brigadier is wanting for the troops of that State.” JCC, 12:1260. Because of the demands of his judicial duties, Chief Justice McKean had attended Congress irregularly. His votes in January and February indicate active participation in congressional affairs, but he appears to have been absent from Congress from approximately February 25 to June 10, other than for his surprise appearance on April 22 to vote against the recall of Benjamin Franklin from Pans. McKean apparently resigned his place on the committee sometime in February, but not until he had become involved in its deliberations. See JCC, 13:248-49, 14:499-500, 718. In January, meanwhile, Joseph Reed and the Pennsylvania Council renewed the long standing dispute over the rank and seniority of the Pennsylvania officers in the Continental line. In a letter of the 20th to the Pennsylvania delegates, Reed accused Congress of favoring officers of other states and acting “arbitrarily in cases of promotion,” especially in its prefer ential treatment of Benedict Arnold over John Armstrong, Sr., and Arthur St. Clair. In an accompanying set of resolutions entitled “State of the General Officers of Pennsylvania,” the council further addressed itself to the cases of Anthony Wayne, Robert Magaw, William Irvine, and Edward Hand and instructed their delegates to support Pennsylvania’s interests with their “whole weight and influence” whenever debate over new brigadiers for the Con-


[Page 469]
May 6, 1779 435 any other Gentleman on behalf of Mr. Deane that he would not depart from America until further Orders from Congress, would secure my Vote for the Recal of Mr. Lee, but the president, interrupted me by informing the House, that Mr. Burke had withdrawn his Motion. These are simple facts. Men of Candor & in the least acquainted with the proceedings of popular Assemblies will require no Comment from me. Such Men will instantly draw proper conclusions & will not wonder that I refused to join in a persecution. Henry Laurens. MS (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “for Lieutt. Colo. John Laurens’ information & at his disposal except publication, So Carolina.” 1 According to the journals, Smith had called for the yeas and nays “On the question, shall Mr. A. Lee be recalled” on May 3. The “preceding day,” on which he had pressed for Lee’s recall, cannot be determined. The May 3 vote on Lee’s recall was printed essentially as it appears in the journals in the May 6 issue of Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet with the follow ing unsigned statement: “As the following state of Votes on an important question may gratify the curious, I send it to you for publication.” See JCC, 14:542-43. Congress did not sit on May 6, 1779, a “Fast Day.” 2 The day in question here cannot be determined, but for Laurens’ assertion that he thrice proposed to support Lee’s recall provided Silas Deane were ordered to remain in America, see the first entry of his notes of debates for May 8, 1779, below. 3 As the vote to recall Lee was taken May 3 and no evidence has been found to indicate that Congress returned to the issue on the fourth, Laurens must be in error on this date. Gouverneur Morris to Thomas Johnson Sir, Phila. 6th May 1779. I am to request of your Excellency that all the Flour in your State except 5000 Barrills may be delivered to the Order of the Commissary Genl, to be forwarded on for the Use of the Army. It will be most proper that such as lies nearest to the Head of Elk should be applied to this Purpose. The late Movements of the Enemy requiring a considerable Aid from the Militia will increase greatly our Expenditures. I have the Honor to be most respectfully, your Excellency’s most obedt. & humble Servant, Gouv Morris RC (MdAA: Red Books). Virginia Delegates to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia May the 6th 1779 The inclosed letter 1 being referred by Congress to the Virginia Dele gates we have judged it proper to request of you that you will be pleased to assist us with your advice upon the occasion. We see this business involved in circumstances of such a nature as to create much difficulty and embarrassment. On the one side is presented


[Page 470]
436 May 6, 1779 Colo. Spotswoods merit as an Officer, his seniority of service, the peculiar situation under which he resigned, and that resignation not accepted by Congress 2 —On the other hand we see a probable discontent in the army, arguments drawn from his resignation, and the measures consequent thereupon such as the Office he held being filled by another, and the new arrangement having passed him by unnoticed. In this state of things we are puzzled to know what report to make. We could wish earnestly to do justice to Colo. Spotswoods merit and his claims, whilst in doing so, we are unable to foresee the consequent ill effects that may be produced by it in the army from dissatisfied ideas of injured rank. Whether an adequate provision may not be made for him from the circumstance of the new Levies of Virginia (going Southward) which will amount to about 2000 men, we cannot be certain. We have understood from Colo. Spotswood what when that service was over, if any rank given him there should create dissatisfaction in the army, that he would be willing to resign, after having had that opportunity of distinguishing his zeal for the service of his country. But how this can be done, unless by his being created a Brigadier is the question, and what effect this may have on the arrangement and in the sentiments of the army we are greatly at a loss to judge. We wish exceedingly to be favored with your sentiments on this subject, for which we shall be much obliged. 3 We have the honor to be with very particular esteem and regard, Sir your most obedient and most humble servants, Meriwether Smith Richard Henry Lee Cyrus Griffin Wm. Fleming RC (DLG: Washington Papers). Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Fleming, Griffin, and Smith. 1 Col. Alexander Spotswood’s April 29 letter and memorial to Congress, which were referred to the delegates on May 4, are not in the Washington Papers or PCC. See JCC, 14:544. 2 Spotswood had resigned his commission in early October 1777, a few days after the battle of Germantown, and Washington had accepted it. Although Congress subsequently declared its opposition to Spotswood’s resignation, the Virginia colonel left the Continental service. See JCC, 9:981; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:64-66. 3 Spotswood had begun to make efforts to obtain reinstatement in the army in the sum mer of 1778. See Spotswood to Washington, July 16 and August 23, 1778, in the Washington papers, DLC; and Washington to Richard Henry Lee and to Spotswood, August 9 and 11, 1778, respectively, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 12:306-7, 315-16. In his May 13’ 1779, reply to the Virginia delegates, Washington advised against reinstating Spotswood and appointing him a brigadier because “it would be considered an Act of injustice by the Army at large and particularly so by the Virginia line.” Ibid., 15:64-66. John Fell’s Diary Friday 7th May [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. A Number of Letters and Memori als & another Petition from Bermuda, for Bread, after long Debate agreed


[Page 479]
May 10, 1779 445 former instance—“it may be so,” being asked two days ago by a Gentle man, “Are we likely to have peace soon, tis so whispered abroad.” I replied turn up a ha’penny and call head or tail—’tis indeed whispered that we shall very soon have terms of Peace tendered to us, probably we shall be told to morrow the Enemy is making the most vigorous exertions for prosecuting the War against us and so it precisely happened. I have ever thought it would be a mark of wisdom on our part to meet offers of peace with full Battalions but unhappily my Country Men, if I may judge from their practices have been of a different opinion, a days amusement by the sound of Treaty and peace Stagnates for a Month all Battalions progress. The present intimitation of our Enemy’s design to persevere in the War may have a good effect, although I have suspicions of its being calculated for the purpose of a day—a day or two more will remove or confirm the jealousy. I am exceedingly concerned for the particular distresses of my native Country. I had done every thing in my power for averting, and am using all my feeble endeavors for removing them, I lament the little success I have hitherto had in either case. America virtue is become torpid. I do not think it quite dead. I believe there are virtuous Men among us but too many of them are in the Disguise of Traders and Speculators flattering themselves in errors which threaten to bring us as a Nation into great disgrace. I have the honor to be &c, H L LB (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 'Jacob Read (1752-1816), a South Carolina lawyer who was later elected to Congress and attended in 1783-85. DAB. 2 Read’s July 16, 1778, letter is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. 3 Dr. William Read, for whom see Laurens to William Read, September 15, 1778, and February 9, 1779. John Armstrong to George Washington Dear General Philadelphia 10th May 1779 Necessarily as now you must be led to consider on the One hand, the various distributions of your Army, I mean the Seneca or Northern Expe dition—Some force at Fort Pitt, together wth the representation of Gover nor Green on behalf of the Providence Plantations & adjacent Country which Stands exposed to the contrasted force of the Enemy at Rhode Island—And on the Other, the intelligence of Mr. Gerrard respecting the return of the Count De Estaing to our Coasts, with a resolution of this day, throwing into your hands entirely & afresh the military Operations of the Opening Campaign, to vary or even recind former determinations at pleasure, a Step this, however honorary & confidential it may be, that must in present Circumstances inevitably embarrass yr. Excellency. In deed Sir I conceive that at best you have only a choice of difficulties, but


[Page 481]
May 10, 1779 447 Destination of this armament cannot be ascertained, but from its consist ing in part of Horse, and from other Circumstances, it is believ’d, to be designed against some of the Middle or Southern States. I therefore think it my Duty to give You the earliest Notice of this Advice, that in Case the Enemy bend their Course to our Bay or to Chesapeak, the Delaware State may be in preparation for defending itself or cooperating in the Common Cause. 1 I would be more particular on this subject, but that Congress has this Moment resolv’d to send Copies of the Dispatches to the Southward, and Mr. Jay assures Me You shall receive one. 2 Your Letter came to my Hands, but I have not been able to obtain any satisfactory Information, concerning the prisoners you mention. 3 Human ity & your Recommendation will powerfully induce Me to pay Attention to their Case, and I shall transmit to you the Result of my Enquiries & Applications. I mention’d Mr White’s Affair to Mr. Vandike 4, who tells Me, the papers are in Mr. McKean’s Hands. He is now on the Circuit. When he returns, I will endeavour to have that Business finish’d according to your Desire. The very important Business of the Quarter masters & Commissaries departments demands the most speedy & vigorous measures. You know, how much my sentiments correspond with your own on that Head, and I have the pleasure to inform You, that there appears in Congress a hearty Inclination to probe the Disease to the Bottom. For my part, I must say, that as I do not know a more effectual Way of rendering essential services to my Country, than by contributing my Assistance whatever it may be, to the Relief of these Evils, so, I shall industriously labour to perform my part of this great Duty. 5 I think You mention’d to me, before I left Kent, that You had some Thoughts of coming to Philadelphia this Month. I most earnestly wish You would and if possible, before the Meeting of our Assembly, which I understand, is to be on the 17th. If You cannot, I wish to receive the Sense of yourself and as many of the legislative Council & Assembly, as can be conveniently collected; as soon as possible, on a general Question, which may be of eminent Use to my Collegues & Myself in regulating our future Conduct. We have most momentous Business to transact. It may happen in managing the Affairs of so extensive a Confederacy, that particular states may be more interested in certain points than other States or than the Confederacy in general. My Opinion is clear, that the Interests of each State being Objects comprehended within the Confederation, are to be regarded as the Inter ests of the whole, & as such to be contended for and defended. [On] Interests of this kind, Difficulties, I apprehend, will not arise—but on Interests, beyond these Limits they may. On these, my Opinion is also clear, that as a Delegate I am bound to prefer the general Interests of the Confederacy to the partial Interests of Constituent Members, how many soever they be, & however respectable and meritorious; and further, that


[Page 482]
44 8 May 10, 1779 if ever such a Competition should arise, it is my Duty to prefer the par ticular Interests of the State that honours Me with her Confidence & invests Me with a share of her power, to the particular Interest of any other State on this Continent. I cannot be more particular on these very important Considerations, not being at Liberty to disclose the Subjects of Debate to which they may refer. But obviously just as my Determinations seem to Myself on the most mature Deliberation to be yet so strangely crooked do the plain Lines of sound Policy appear by passing thro some Mediums, that I should receive great satisfaction in finding Myself fortified in the Resolutions that will actuate my Conduct, by knowing that the sentiments leading Me to those Resolutions are approved by my Country. I am, Sir, with great Regard, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson [PS] Captain McClean’s Company is by a Resolution of Congress an nexed to the Delaware Battalion. RC (DLC: Rodney Papers). 1 For the destination of the British fleet, see William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, this date, note 3. 2 See John Jay to Patrick Henry, this date. See also Jay to Washington, May 15, 1779, note 2. 3 Governor Rodney had written to Dickinson on April 17 inquiring about the exchange of two Delaware officers imprisoned on Long Island. See Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 298-99. 4 Rodney also felt that the case of Thomas White, an alleged loyalist arrested by Gen. William Smallwood in March 1778 for “Correspondence with the Enemy,” deserved a hearing and asked Dickinson to “move Congress for that purpose.” On August 3, 1779, Congress ordered White discharged from his parole. See ibid., p. 298; JCC, 14:917- and these Letters, 9:336-37, 418, 520-22. 5 In his April 17 letter, Rodney had expressed grave concern that the “public are much injured” by the “management in the Quarter-Masters and Commissaries departments,” an issue that had long plagued Congress. John Fell’s Diary Monday 10th May [1779], Commercial Committee. Congress. This day a Letter was Read from Governor Livingston, and also the Memorials of the Officers of the State of New Jersey. Letter from Genl Washington with an Acct of Coll Van Scacks Expedition to the Onendagos also an Acct of the Imbarkation of 8 Regiments from N York and the Conferrence with the Commissioners for the Excha of Prisoners at Amboy, orderd to be Printed. Letter from the Minister, reccomending the finishing the appointment of a Minister to Spain &c &c. Expidition reccomended to Genl Washing ton. 1 A Letter from Mr De Franca and a long Memorial from Mr Beau- marsha (not finish’d). 2 Count DeEstang.


[Page 486]
452 May 10, 1779 Island. “You will receive herewith enclosed,” Hancock was informed, “a copy of an Act of Congress of the 11th Inst, by which You will perceive that Congress has directed the pay ment of a Bill drawn by Major General Gates; the amount of which is to be charged to You.” PCC, item 14, fols. 111-12. For the “Act of Congress” Jay enclosed with this note, which originated in a Board of Treasury report dated May 8, see JCC, 14:569, 570n.l. John Jay to Patrick Henry Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1779. Herewith enclosed your Excellency will find a copy of an Act of Con gress of the 7th Inst, making further Provision for the defence of Georgia and South-Carolina, and particularly requesting that the new levies in Virginia may be furnished with the cloaths promised them by Law as speedily as possible; And if this cannot be immediately done that the State use it’s Influence to induce the men to proceed with satisfactory Assur ances that the Cloathing shall follow as soon as possible. 1 I also now transmit to your Excellency a copy of a Letter from General Washington containing Intelligence of an Embarkation of Troops at New York probably destined to some of the Southern States. As the Rescue of the convention-Troops may probably be their Object, Congress hope due attention will be paid to it, & You will be pleased to consider yourself at Liberty on the Appearance of danger to remove them further into the Country. 2 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge, May 7, 1779, note 1. 2 Washington’s May 7 letter to Congress contained extracts of two letters to him concern ing the embarkation and possible destination of from 4,000 to 7,000 British troops at New York. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:11-12. For the attack on Virginia carried out by these troops, see William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, this date, note 3. John Jay to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1779 I have been honored with your favor of the 8th Inst—It has, with the memorial enclosed with it, been communicated to Congress, & gave Oc casion to a Resolution of which the enclosed is a copy. 1 Your Excellency will also find enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 5th Inst, for facilitating the Settlement of the late Commissary General Trumbull’s, & other public Accounts. 2 I have the Honor to be, With great Respect & Esteem, Your Excellen cy’s Most Obedt. & Hble Servant.


[Page 488]
454 May 10, 1779 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 JCC, 14:553-54, 566-67. Washington’s letters to Jay of May 3 and 7 are in PCC, item 152, 7:287-90, 295-97, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:484-85, 15:11-12. For Congress’ response to the latter, see the following entry, note 1. 2 See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, May 8, 1779, notes 2 and 3. 3 See South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge, May 7, 1779, note 1. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1779. Congress have directed their Thanks to be presented to Colonel Van Schaick & the Troops under his Command on the Onandaga Expedition. It appears to me most proper that this be communicated to him by your Excellency, & therefore a Copy of the Resolution on that Subject is en closed. 1 The Conduct of Colonels Davies & Harrison in their Conferences with the British Commissioners respecting a Cartel is approved by Congress, & a copy of the Resolutions on that head is now transmitted. 2 I have the honor to be, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant, John Jay. Presidt. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 In his letter of May 7 to Congress, Washington had enclosed an extract of an April 27 letter from Gen. Philip Schuyler and a copy of Col. Goose Van Schaick’s “Minutes & proceedings of the Onondaga Expedition,” dated April 24, 1779. See JCC, 14:566-67; PCC, item 152, 7:295-305; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:11-12. 2 JCC, 14:567. Washington had also sent to Congress a lengthy report to him from Col. William Davies and Lt. Col. Robert H. Harrison, commissioners he had appointed to nego tiate a cartel for the exchange of prisoners of war, which is in PCC, item 28, fols. 1-32. See also Jay to Washington, March 5, note 2, and June 4, 1779, note 2. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1779 Enclosed is a Copy of a Letter from the minister of France to Congress of the 9th Inst, and of an act of this Day expressing the Sense of Congress that your Excellency consider yourself at Liberty to direct the military operations of these States in such manner as you may think expedient. 1 The Intelligence conveyed by the Letter from the minister is important, and may occasion alterations in the Plan for the ensuing Campaign. Con gress confide fully in your Excellency’s Prudence and Abilities; and I am directed to signify to you their wish, that neither an undue Degree of Delicacy or Diffidence may lead you to place too little Reliance on your


[Page 489]
May 11, 1779 455 own Judgment, or persuade you to make any further Communications of your Designs than necessity or high Expedience may dictate. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most obt. Servt, John Jay. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). l JCC, 14:568. The French minister’s two letters to Congress of May 9 are in PCC, item 94, fols. 194-204; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:161-62. Gerard reported that he had just learned of the comte d’Estaing’s plans to return to the North American coast and wished accordingly to begin preparations for the arrival of the French fleet. Congress was evidently seeking to avoid direct involvement in planning for d’Estaing’s return and, al though Gerard had already discussed the subject with the general during a recent visit to his headquarters, wished Washington to understand that he was to take full responsibility for coordinating operations with the French forces. In a May 11 report to the comte de Ver gennes, Gerard discussed his hope that the return of the French fleet would renew American confidence in the alliance and improve his relations with the delegates. Meng, Gerard Des patches, pp. 634-35. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir May 11th—79 Mr. Hodgson forwarded to me your Letter of April. 1 I thank you for the Concern you express for my Health. It is a Blessing which I have less enjoyd the Winter past than in any equal Part of my Life—I hope by the Blessing of God to recover it when I may have the Pleasure of living in my own Country. We have had on the Carpet Questions relating to our Ministers abroad—Whether they should be recalled—It was agreed that the Ques tion be put severally with Respect to Each—A Majority of Voices were against the Recall of Doctor Franklin, though some Gentlemen spoke warmly aginst him—That for the Recall of Dr. Lee met with an equal Division & so it was lost. I will only remark to you that after long De bates, in which as great Freedoms, I suppose were used as could be consis tently with Decency and Truth; his Abilities, his Integrity & warm At tachment to America remain unimpeachable. It is unfortunate when Attempts are made to remove a Servant of the Publick, whose Fidelity shines the brighter, the more his Conduct is sifted, but so it will happen, when others wish to supplant him. I do not say this is the Case at pre sent—I hope there is no Motive more unworthy; but I will not answer for all among the Thousands in America, who may conceit themselves fit for important Trusts, and some of them may shortly offer themselves with a View of serving such Purposes as may not be agreable to others. I suspect from a Letter which I have heard publickly read 2 that our Friend J.A. is or will be as obnoxious to a Party as Dr F. & Dr Lee, and for the same Reason—But I will tell you all when I see you. Pray inform Mr. Story that his Petition is refered to the Treasury and that I expect it will have a


[Page 490]
456 May 11, 1779 favorable Issue. 3 Be so good as to let Mrs. A know that I am well, but have not Time to write to her now. Adieu my Friend. Yr affectionate, S.A. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 Adams was apparently referring to Warren’s letter of March 30 in which he had ex pressed great concern about reports of Adams’ ill-health. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:96-97. No Warren to Adams letters in April have been found. 2 Adams may have been referring to Ralph Izard’s September 12, 1778, letter to Henry Laurens, which had been read in Congress on December 7, 1778, and was the only piece of evidence cited against John Adams by the Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee in their report of March 24, 1779. John was charged by Izard and the committee with threatening Izard “with the displeasure of Congress in his opposing the 11 and 12th articles of the Treaty of Commerce."JCC, 12:1197, 13:368. Izard’s letter is in PCC, item 89, fols. 90-97; and Whar ton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:710-14. 3 William Story’s petition requesting an increase in salary as clerk of the Eastern Navy Board was referred to the Board of Treasury, which favorably reported on it to Congress on June 12. Congress, however, recommitted it to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 14:544, 735-36. James Lovell later reported that the Board of Treasury was ordered to “direct the Navy to a Sum more adequate than heretofore, but in a Way that may not draw on other Applica tions in necessary Consequences.” See Lovell to Samuel Adams, June 16, 1779. William Carmichael to Charles Carroll of Carrollton [May 11? 1779] 1 Mons. Girard informs us by order of his Court, of the hostile intentions & preparations of the british court, which is confirmed by the intelligence we receive from Gen. Washington. We are informed that 4000 men are embarked at NY & sailed from thence the 5th instant supposed for Geor gia. The General also speaks of expected reinforcements & seems to think it will be necessary to draft the militia in order to compleat the quotas of the different States. We have intelligence that the Enemy have planned an expedition from Canada ag[ains]t the frontiers of NN, 2 N. Jersey & the northern parts of this state; their force to consist of 1500 regulars besides Canadians & Indians. We have the strongest assurances that words can convey of the support of France, and I know that their best exertions will be employed to harass the enemy in our part of the world this year. 3 A Company of Bankers has been formed at Paris to pay the interest due in Europe on money borrowed here, so that one fund is on a permanent footing, & we have the King’s assurances that he will do everything that he can in his present situation to assist [us &] restore the credit of our finances. 4 Tr (MdHi: Carroll Papers). In the hand of Charles Carroll of Carrollton. This extract from Carmichael’s letter is copied into Charles Carroll of Carrollton’s letter of May 15, 1779, to Charles Carroll, Sr.


[Page 491]
May 11, 1779 457 1 This date has been assigned because Charles Carroll of Carrollton mentions Carmi chael’s letter in the context of papers he had received from Pennsylvania “by yesterday’s post,” and because Carmichael also wrote a letter to Thomas Johnson dated May 11, which was probably conveyed by the same post. 2 Apparently a slip of the pen, where “NY” was intended. 3 In his May 15 letter to his father in which this extract is found, Carroll explained that “the words underlined, are also underlined in his [Carmichael’s] letter.” 4 Carroll’s correspondence is a rich source for the study of Congress, not only because it contains references to a number of letters from Carmichael that do not survive, but also because it contains letters to Carmichael from Carroll, such as the following, discussing issues before Congress during this period from the perspective of a former delegate. “What you say about the army is truly alarming,” Carroll responded in a long letter of May 31. “A Subsidy from France would put a stop in some degree to these discontents, which I suppose arise principally from the badness of their pay—but a subsidy alone will not do I fear; the true Patriot’s scheme must be adopted at last: Taxation in the present urgency of the evil is too slow and languid a remedy. “Your talking of ultimatoms now, is somewhat out of season: is it not? I do not like the Mobbs you speak of, and for the reasons you quote from de Retz. These rapacious monopo lisers, and Engrossers, are a Detestable Race: they aggravate the miseries we experience. I wish laws could be devised to reach them, without occasioning as great or greater mischiefs. I can think of none that will be effectual, and not in other respects very exceptionable: the root of the evil lies in the quantity of money, and its depreciation arising from that, & other causes. “The ostensible motive of these Mobbs is the punishment of Monopolisers &c: what do you think to be the real one?” General Manuscripts Collection, NjP; and Bumett, Letters, 4:238-40. William Carmichael to Thomas Johnson Sir Philadelphia, May 11th 1779 I hoped we should have been able last week to have sent the further supply of money requested by Your Excellency in your Letter of the 30th Ulto. 1 We obtained the warrant for 800000 dollars on Wednesday last, but the State of the treasury is such, that altho’ we have been very impor tunate with the Treasurer it hath not been in his power to satisfy our demands. This week However we are promised the Money which shall be immediately forwarded to Your Excellency properly escorted. The ex tracts you did me the honor to inclose me enabled me to urge with the Board of Treasury the necessity of giving directions to the Treasurer to pay the warrant in favor of our State, in preference to many of a prior date, & silenced the clamors of some who alledged that the Commissioners imployed by the State to purchase, had raised the Price of flower. Inclosed is an extract of a Letter which contains some intelligence of the Enemies motions, necessary for Your Excellency to be informed of. 2 There is no doubt that they mean to prosecute The warr vigorously this campaighn. The Minister of France informed us of this circumstance a few days ago, with the Strongest assurances of the King his Masters intentions to sup port us at every hazard, and even in preference to every view of conquest


[Page 493]
May 11, 1779 459 pointed Commandant of the whole. A number of other Reports and ap pointments, in different departments read and agreed to. The Minister of France told the President, if Congress would write to the King, 2 for the Purpose, he would send Clothing, &c for the Army to be Paid for after a Peace, A Noble generous Offer. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 For further information on Jean Theveneau de Francy’s May 7 letter and his long memorial on the claims of Caron de Beaumarchais, see JCC, 14:690-92; and John Jay to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, 1779. A copy of this “Memorial on Mr. Beaumarchais’s Af fairs” is in the Laurens Papers, no. 9, ScHi. 2 See John Jay to the King of France, July 10, 1779. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia May 11th, 1779. I have the honor of inclosing the Journals of congress for the month of Januy. last, and was in hopes to have been able, before this time, to have furnished the honble. court with the Journals weekly, but the several printers in this city have been very much engaged. By the best intelligence, from New York, I believe a fleet have sailed from thence, not many days since, with four or five thousand troops, whether to the West Indies, Rhode Island, or Georgia is uncertain, but I believe, it is most probable the latter. By a late expedition into a settlement of the Onondaga Indians, we have, I understand, destroyed one of their principal settlements, but not having the particulars before me, beg leave to refer you to the public prints. Last week congress received a letter signed by his most Christian maj esty, under the great seal of his state, informing his great & good allies (as he expresses it) the congress of the united states, of the birth of a princess, being his first issue, and congress has in a formal manner noticed the same. Congress having been informed, that such is the state of health of Gen eral Lincoln (not from the General) that it was become necessary, that he should be permitted to return from that hot climate, to the northward, so that his country, may not be deprived of his future services in a climate more agreeable to his constitution, And have given permission accord ingly. I have no further intelligences of a public nature worthy the attention of the honble. Board, that I am at liberty to communicate. I have the honor to be with the greatest respect, Sir, your most obedient servt. S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The honble. the president, of the council of Massa. Bay.”


[Page 494]
460 May 11, 1779 John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 11th May 1779 Under cover with this your Excellency will find Copies of two Acts of Congress—One of the 5th & the other of the 7th Inst. The former was passed in Order to facilitate the Settlement of the late Commissary Gen eral Trumbull’s & other public Accounts 1 —The latter respects the de fence of the State of Rhode-Island & Providence Plantations, to which important Object, Congress have no doubt that due attention will be paid. 2 I have the Honor to be, With Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To Governor Trumbull. N.B. The like verbatim to Presidents Weare & Powell.” 1 JCC, 14:550-53. For earlier efforts made to reach a decision on the settlement of the accounts of Joseph Trumbull, see Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., October 16, note 2; and Richard Henry Lee to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., November 2, 1778. Jay also sent copies of this resolve to Gov. George Clinton and Pres. Joseph Reed. His cover letter to the former is dated May 10; to the latter, May 12. PCC, item 14, fols. 98, 106. 2 See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, May 8, 1779, note 3. Henry Laurens to John Laurens My Dear son, Philadelphia 11th May 1779. My last Letter to you was under the 4th Inst by Doctor Read, I have received none from you since that which you favored me with from Balti more. You will learn divers branches of Intelligence from Governor Rutledge & Mr. Gervais—Our Commissioners, Colonel Davis & Colo. Harrison met those appointed by Sir H. Clinton at Amboy for settling a general Cartel & tariff for the exchange of Prisoners 1 & after having experienced the usual chicanery & artifice of the British Agents speaking the language of their Instructed, return to Head Quarters abortive as to the main business—their proceedings will in a few days be published & I am per suaded the World will be pleased & satisfied, with the part acted by Colo. Davis & your freind 2 RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 See John Jay’s second letter to Washington of May 10, 1779, note 2. 2 Remainder of RC missing. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Sir, Philadela May 11th 1779. We should have sent by Col. Hyde a larger Sum than five hundred Thousand Dollars had not the Demands on the Treasury been so pressing


[Page 497]
May 12, 1779 463 RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 The question of recompense to Tristram Dalton for the Fair Play dragged on for years, despite the aid of the American ministers in securing an order from the French king to make “reparation from the Chest at Guadaloupe.” See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:420. 2 See Massachusetts Delegates to Benjamin Franklin, this date. John Jay to Richard Caswell Sir, Philadelphia 12th May 1779 I have the honor to transmit to your Excellency herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress passed the 7th Inst, providing for the further defence of South-Carolina & Georgia. 1 By it You will perceive that the Recruits lately raised & raising in Virginia to compleat that States quota of Continental Troops are ordered to join the Southern Army—And that four of the Continental Regiments of North-Carolina are also to be em ployed in the Southern Service. I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obed. Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See South Carolina Delegates to John Rutledge, May 7, 1779, note 1. John Jay to Louis Le Begue de Presle Duportail Sir, Philadelphia 12th May—1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to You herewith enclosed a Copy of an act of Congress of the 11th Inst, ascertaining the Pay & Subsistence of the Engineers, Sappers, & Miners, and appointing You Commandmant of those Corps. 1 I have the Honor to be Sir, With Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 14:570-71. See also these Letters, 9:722-23; and Paul K. Walker, Engineers of In dependence: A Documentary History of the Amy Engineers in the American Revolution, 1775-1783 (Washington: Office of the Chief of Engineers, 1981). John Jay to Thomas Johnson Sir, Philadelphia 12th May —79 1 As it is of importance that the Operations of the Enemy should be known to every State which may be particularly affected by them, I now transmit to your Excellency a copy of a Letter from General Washington respecting a late embarkation of Troops at New York. 2 Their destination


[Page 498]
464 May 12, 1779 is uncertain, but it is generally supposed they are bound to the Southern part of this Continent. I have the honor to be, With Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedt. Servant, John Jay, Presidt, RC (MdAA: Red Books). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 The copy of this letter in Jay’s letterbook is dated May 11. PCC, item 14, fol. 104. 2 See Jay to Patrick Henry, May 10, 1779, note 2. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 12th May—1779. Copies of three Acts of Congress are herewith enclosed—One of the 11th Inst, ascertaining the Pay & Subsistance of Engineers, Sappers, and Miners, & appointing Brigadier General Du Portail Commandant of those Corps 1 —Another of the 12 Inst appointing Coll. William Irwin a Brigadier for Pennsylvania 2 —And the third of the 12th Inst, for accepting the Resignations of Lieutenant Vallance, and Ensign Brush of Coll. Warner’s Regiment. 3 I have the Honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient And Humble Servant. John Jay, Presid RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 See Jay to Duportail, this date. 2 Col. William Irvine of the Seventh Pennsylvania Regiment received the promotion as a result of Pennsylvania’s complaint that considering the number of Pennsylvanians in Conti nental service the state did not enjoy its proper share of general officers. As a result of the inquiry conducted into the state’s January 20 memorial on the subject, Congress resolved on May 11 that Pennsylvania was indeed entitled to an additional brigadier, and Irvine was appointed the following day. See JCC, 13:117, 14:574-78, 580; PCC, item 69, 1:567-82; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:162-63. See also Thomas Burke to Timothy Matlack, May 4, 1779. 3 For the Board of War’s recommendations on the resignation of Alexander Brush and David Vallance, see JCC, 14:579; and PCC, item 148, 3:311. John Jay to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia 12 May 1779 Mrs. De Lancey 1 will be the Bearer of this Letter. When Philadelphia was evacuated, she went round with the Fleet to New York; and left it last October, so circumstanced, as to bring out but very little of her wearing apparel. She is anxious to obtain Permission to send for the Remainder. The Request appears to me reasonable, and therefore I take the Liberty of recommending it to your Excellency’s Attention.


[Page 504]
470 May 15, 1779 most distant Degree interpose in a matter to which you alone, from a thorough knowledge of all it’s Consequences, are competent. I am uncer tain whether a formal Act of Congress is necessary, I rather presume your Powers are adequate: but however this may be, from a Reluctance to embarrass you on any Occasion, I shoud not reconcile it to myself to take any Step to accomplish this transfer without having previously consulted you. If the Obstacles are important in your Opinion, I flatter myself that the State of which I am a Citizen will be contented, from the unreserved Confidence they Justly repose in your wisdom, Impartiality and attention to the general Interest, as well as from the lively Sense they entertain of your unwearied Exertions for their own more immediate Protection. 2 I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Respect and Affec tion, Sir, your Excellency’s most Obedient & very humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, January 4, 1779, note 4. 2 For the objections Washington expressed to such a transfer in his May 26 reply to Duane, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:157-58. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 15th April [i.e. May] 1779. 1 I have the Honor of transmitting to You Copies of two Acts of Con gress-One of the 17th March, 2 permitting You to return from the Com mand of the Southern Army—the other of the 13th Instant, appointing Brigadier General Moultrie Commander of it in your absence, and during it’s continuance to the Southward of North-Carolina. 3 I have the Honor to be Sir, With Respect and Esteem, And the best wishes for the Recovery of your health, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant, John Jay, President RC (MHi: Lincoln Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 In Jay’s letterbook, this letter is correctly dated “15 May 1779.” PCC, item 14, fol. 108. 2 That is, April. See Jay to Lincoln, April 17, 1779, note 1. Although Congress resolved on April 17 to relieve Lincoln, Jay failed to notify him officially of this fact until a successor had been named, for which see the following note. 3 Congress’ appointment of William Moultrie to succeed Lincoln was something of a compromise, for although there was support for appointing him to the southern command, his promotion to major general, a rank normally associated with command of a department of the army, prompted objections from states having brigadiers with seniority claims that conflicted with Moultrie’s. See JCC, 14:585-86.


[Page 505]
May 15, 1779 471 John Jay to William Moultrie Sir, Philadelphia 15th May 1779 Major General Lincoln’s ill state of health has induced Congress to permit him to retire from a Climate, & a Service unfriendly to it’s Recov ery. I have now the Honor of transmitting to You a Copy of an Act of the 13th Inst, appointing you Commander of the Southern Army in his Ab sence, during it’s continuance to the Southward of North-Carolina, & until the further Order of Congress. Accept my best wishes that this appointment may be productive of fresh laurels and that You may again be instrumental in encreasing the honors & Security of your Country. I have the honor to be, with great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). John Jay to Jeremiah Powell Sir, Philadelphia 15th May 1779 I have the honor of transmitting to You herewith enclosed, a copy of a Memorial from Mr Austin with a copy of an Act of Congress of the 13 Inst, on the Subject of it. 1 I am Sir, With great Respect, your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For the claim of Jonathan Loring Austin and Congress’ resolve requesting the Massachu setts Council to determine the “proper allowance” to be made to him, see JCC, 14:567-68, 581-82, 776; and PCC, item 41, 1:39-42, item 85, fols. 171-72. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 15th May—1779. Major General Lincoln’s ill state of health has induced Congress to permit him to retire from a Climate unfriendly to it’s Recovery. Your Excellency will perceive by the enclosed Copy of an Act of the 13th Inst, that Brigadier General Moultrie is to take the Command in his absence under certain Restrictions. 1 I also transmit a copy of a Letter from Governor Johnson to Coll. Hollingsworth 2 —And am, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, John Jay, Presidt


[Page 507]
May 15, 1779 473 MS (DNA: PCC, item 89). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by Charles Thom son: “Paper read by Mr Laurens in his place May 15. 1779. Ordered to be entered on the journal.” 1 Laurens’ delivery of this speech was actually an extension of the previous day’s debate on a motion by Meriwether Smith designed to embarrass Laurens. Smith had called attention to the recent publication in James Rivington’s New York Royal Gazette of a captured letter from Laurens to Georgia governor John Houstoun, and after asserting that it “contained matter derogatory to the honor of Congress” he moved “that the said letter be read, and that Mr. Laurens be called on to declare whether he wrote that letter.” Smith’s ploy had failed on the 14th on a point of order, but Laurens returned to the subject the following day by reading this speech immediately after the daily reading of the journal. See JCC, 14:588-93. For the August 27, 1778, letter from Laurens to Houstoun that was at issue, see these Letters, 10:509-11. 2 For the vote on Laurens’ request to have his address entered on the journal and the motion Meriwether Smith submitted in response to Laurens’ speech, see JCC, 14:593-95; and the following entry. Henry Laurens’ Speech in Congress Sir, [May 15? 1779] I have reserved to my self a right of Voting on this very extraordinary and unprecedented motion 1, not from any apprehensions of inconvenience to my self, because I am sure the contents of my Letter to Govr. Houston, are not only inoffensive but proper, and breath a Spirit of true patriotism and display a becoming Zeal and unshaken attachment to the Interests of these united States. I am confirmed in this opinion from declarations 2 which have been voluntarily made to me by several of the most respect able Characters in this House, that the Letter even as printed in Mr. Rivington’s Paper deserves the highest praise with the addition of their wishes that a Copy were sent to the Governor or President of each State. My apprehensions are for the honor & dignity of Congress. And my present objections amounting to a Protest against the motion are. Because, it is beneath the dignity of this House to pay attention to such Publications by Printers employed by the Enemy. Because, the Letter even as published by them contains nothing like Treason, or a design in the party said to be the writer to injure these States or any faithful Citizen of these States. Because, it would be dangerous and unprecedented to call upon any Member of this House to give up his private correspondencies—or to extort from him his private opinions. Dangerous, as it would be a direct attempt to deprive the Citizens of these States of that freedom & Liberty ever exercised in Great Britain from whence they have seperated in order to enjoy greater Liberties, and exercised in America even while she was under the dominion of Great Britain.


[Page 509]
May 15, 1779 475 6 Beside this paragraph, Laurens wrote the following passage in the margin: “in the same Paper Willing & involvg honor of Congress.” This is a reference to a letter from Robert Ross to Thomas Symonds, dated “Pensacola, March 27, 1779”—concerning “the conduct of James Willing, who . . . ravaged the British plantations on the Mississippi”—which was printed by Rivington in the Royal Gazette immediately following Laurens’ August 27, 1778, letter to John Houstoun. 7 In the margin: “disgust, many will be disgusted therefore dangerous.” 8 This last paragraph is in the hand of Moses Young. On the verso of this sheet only the following cryptic passage appears: “forgery WHD Sir JW.” For the next episode in this bitter controversy between Laurens and Smith, see Meriwether Smith’s Speech in Congress, May 18, 1779. William Paca to Benedict Arnold Dear Sir, May 15, 1779. As congress cannot possibly comply with your request, the committee can make no report, that will be of any service to you. You cannot have a copy of the report you refer to, nor of the letters which passed between the committees, because, on the late conference and accommodation between congress and the state of Pennsylvania, those proceedings are to cease, and not to be brought again into view or discussion. The whole of the evi dence, which relates to the charges on which you are to be tried, is trans mitted to general Washington, with the charges, and there is nothing kept back, which you could avail yourself of in your defence. 1 As to the resolu tions of the report acquitting you of particular charges, they were founded, you know, on ex parte hearing. The committee were obliged to finish the report, and as the executive council, from some difference be tween their committee and the committee of congress, would not produce the evidence in support of those charges, the committee took up the evi dence offered on your part, and passed the resolutions of acquittal; but the executive council and congress having settled the misunderstandings between the committees, and congress not having decided on the report, and the said executive council having offered to produce the evidence before a court martial, the resolutions of the committee can have no op eration whatever: when we therefore come to report on your late applica tion, we must report, that your appliction cannot be complied with. I am, sir, Your obedient humble servant, W. Paca. MS not found; reprinted from Proceedings of a General Court Martial. . .for the Trial of Major General Arnold, June 1, 1779 (Philadelphia: Francis Bailey, 1780), p. 54. 1 In a letter to Congress of April 26, 1779, Arnold had requested “Copies of all the Papers relative to the Charges against me,” on which he was to be tried by a court-martial that General Washington had been ordered to convene. His letter had been referred to a commit tee consisting of Paca, Thomas Burke, and James Duane, which rebuffed Arnold’s request for the reasons stated here by Paca. See JCC, 14:513; PCC, item 162, fols. 181-84; and John Jay to Washington, April 12, 1779.


[Page 511]
May 17, 1779 477 Chief & the executive Authority of the State whose Citizens respectively shall be the Subject of the proposd Exchange, to negociate & Settle the Manner & Terms of the Exchange”. 2 This will I think answer the present Purpose, & I hope will meet with Approbation. I have the Honour to be—with the utmost Regard & Esteem, Dear Sir, your Excellencys most Obedient, humble Servant. Jas Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See New York Delegates to Washington, April 27, 1779, note 2. 2 A resolve of similar wording was introduced by Duane and adopted by Congress on May 22. JCC, 14:636. John Fell’s Diary Monday May 17th [1779] A.M. came to Town. Congress. A number of Letters Memorials &c from Genl Washington, Genl Lincoln, Genl Maxwell, Coll Morgan, Dal- laware Indians &c &C. 1 MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress received a letter of May 14 from Washington enclosing documents from Indian agent George Morgan and a delegation of Delaware Indian chiefs who had conferred with the general at his headquarters at Middlebrook, N.J., on May 12. See Com mittee for Indian Affairs Speech, May 26, 1779, note 2. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates [May 17? 1779] 1 Upon reading Letters [....] Mr. Gerry arose, said [the lack of supplies?] was greatly owing to the conduct of Officers in the [purchasing?] department who had been guilty of the most barefac[ed frauds; that they had?] enhanced the prices of articles which they were to purchafse inducing people to?] demand higher prices than they had at first asked, even [.. .]. That it was their interest to do so. That Congress had known these things above eighteen Months and had taken no notice of them, thence the rapid depreciation of our Paper Cur rency—if Congress do not immediately take proper measures to prevent it, our Paper Money will be at an end. (Mr. Gerry referred to November 1777 when Congress had been in formed of these things, but I do not recollect his expressions) Then Mr. Gerry moved that the Report from the Board of Treasury on Finances should be taken under consideration at 2 o’clock on every Tues day, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday &c &c. Amended by Mr. Dickin son to Monday, Wednesday and Friday immediately after reading the Journal, and not to be set aside without unanimous consent.


[Page 515]
May 18, 1779 481 RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). Written by Lee and signed by Lee and Smith. 1 The “instructions” referred to here were probably the five resolutions adopted by the Virginia House of Delegates on December 19, 1778, which expressed its pique over Mary land’s failure to ratify the Articles of Confederation and sought to prevent Maryland specu lators from purchasing Indian lands already claimed by Virginia. Specifically, the assembly instructed its delegates in Congress to propose that each state authorize its delegates to ratify the articles, which would then become “forever binding” on the ratifying states notwith standing that other states might decline to ratify, and it further directed the Virginia dele gates to ratify the articles. In a cryptic third resolution, however, the House of Delegates instructed its delegation “to inform Congess of the resolutions of the General Assembly, respecting purchases of lands from any Indian nation,” but did not specify to which resolu tions it referred. In a fourth resolve, the assembly expressed concern about the Illinois- Wabash land partners who had purchased land from the Indians “on the northwest side of the Ohio river, within the territory of Virginia” and directed the delegates “to cause an inquiry to be made, concerning the said purchase, and whether any, and what citizens of any of the United States, were, or are, concerned therein.” Finally, the assembly offered land to “landless” states that would need bounty lands to service Continental veterans’ claims at the end of the war. This last proposal had already been introduced in Congress on January 26, 1779. See Journal of the House of Delegates of the Commonwealth of Virginia; Begun ... on Monday, the Fifth of October [1778] (Richmond: Thomas W. White, 1827), pp. 124-25; and JCC, 13:116. See also John Henry to Thomas Johnson, January 30, note 1; and Virginia Dele gates to the Virginia House of Delegates, May 22, 1779. 2 For information on the visit of the Delawares to Philadelphia in May 1779, see the Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians, May 25? 1779. ’Although George Mason had suggested to Richard Henry Lee in a letter of April 12, 1779, that the matter of conflicting claims to Indian lands could be avoided if Congress would “declare that every Purchase of Lands heretofore made, or hereafter to be made by any Indian Nation, except by public Authority, and upon public Account shou’d be void,” he ensured that the Virginia assembly made its intentions perfectly clear in its spring session. On June 9, 1779, the House of Delegates declared that “the Commonwealth of Virginia had the exclusive right of a pre-emption, from the Indians, of all lands within the limits of its own chartered territory,” a right that “will, and ought to be, maintained by the Commonwealth to the utmost of its power.” On June 17 the assembly enacted specific legislation to “remove and prevent all Doubt concerning Purchases of Land from the Indian Natives.” See Mason, Papers (Rutland), 2:498-99, 512-13; and Hening, Statutes at Large, 10:97-98. For further information on the tangled controversy over western land claims, see Max Savelie, George Morgan, Colony Builder (New York: Columbia University Press, 1932), pp. 87-96; George E. Lewis, The Indiana Company, 1763-1798: A Study in Eighteenth Century Frontier Land Speculation and Business Venture (Glendale, Calif.: A.H. Clark Co., 1941), pp. 199-222; and Mason, Papers (Rutland), 1:313, 399-409, 414-22, 461-62, 2:494-500, 509-13, 518-19. Board of Treasury to George Washington Sir Treasury Office, Philada. 18th May 1779 Auditor Johnston has represented to this Board that several Pay Mas ters and other Officers have resigned and quitted the army; without pre viously settling their accounts. This is an inconvenience which will greatly embarrass and obstruct the system laid down by Congress for adjusting the army accounts through the Auditors: And we beg that your Excel lency will be pleased to give the proper orders for preventing it in future. 1 We have the Honour to be, With the utmost respect, Sir, Your Excel lency’s Most Obedient, Humble servants. Jas. Duane, Ch.


[Page 516]
482 May 18, 1779 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by James Duane. 1 Washington responded on June 9 that he would continue his efforts to pievent officers from leaving “the service without having previously settled their accounts.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:254-55. Committee of Congress to Jeremiah Wadsworth Si r, Philadelphia 18th May 1779. By the enclosed Copy of a Letter received this Morning from Mr. Hol- ker you will perceive that there is an immediate Demand for a very considerable Quantity of Flour for the Use of the French Squadron at Martinique. This Demand must be complied with. 1 In Order to deter mine our Abilities the Committee have made the following Estimate. 1st. They suppose that the Northern Department will be supplied from the State of New York. 21y. That the Magazines to the Westward will be sufficient for the Troops destined to act in that Quarter & if they are not it must be owing to Deficiencies in that Country which cannot at present be supplied from other Quarters. 31y. That the Distresses in the Eastern Depart, cannot be so immedi ately releived from hence as that a great Quantity can with Propriety be destined thither but supposing that by the 1st of July a Part may reach them, then we allow for that Destination 5,000 Barrils which exclusive of the Corn and Rice which may perhaps arrive, will contain 1,120,000 Rations. From the first Day of July to the 20th Day of Octr., by which Period it is to be hoped that the new Crop will be at Market to supply that Demand, is 112 Days so that this Quantity will furnish 10,000 Ra tions daily. 41y. That the Consumption of the Troops from Byram to Potowmack Rivers, exclusive of the northern and western Dept, will not exceed 25,000 Rations daily which is per Month 750,000 lbs of Bread and allowing only 224 lbs of Bread to the Barril of Flour is 3,348 Barrils monthly. From the last day of May to the last day of October is five Months making 16,740 Barrils but we allow for Deficiencies 260 Barrils and state the whole De ¬ mand at 17,000. 51y. That the marine Committee for their Demands may want 3,000 Barrils which for six Months will amount to 500 per Month and allowing 200 lbs. of hard Bread to the Barril of Flour is Monthly 100,000 Rations or daily 3,333 Rations. 6thly. That by Ayletts Returns it appears that the Convention Troops can be supplied in that Quarter. Wherefore the Account stands thus. Eastern Department 5,000 Barrils Grand Army & Posts 17,000 Marine Committee 3,000 Squadron at Martinique 12,000 Total Demand 37,000


[Page 517]
May 18, 1779 483 By Blaine’s Return of the 12th Instant deducting what is for the western Expedition there appears to be a Remainder of 8,424 tho perhaps there may be more as the Return is much couched in round Numbers. And for the same Reason there may be more than the 16,755 Bushels of Wheat which however at six Bushels to the Barril will contain 2,792 */2 Barrils amountaining in the whole to 11,216 '/2 Barrils. By Aylett’s Return to February last there are 959 Barrils and 9,626 Bushels of Wheat equal as above to 1,604 Barrils, in the whole 2,563 Barrils of which we allow one half to have been already expended the Remainder is 1,281 V2 and by his last Return there appears to be a moral Certainty of 4,460 Barrils more in his Hands which with the former Quan tity is 5,741 V2. By Governor Johnson’s last Letters the Committee expect from Mary land 10,000 Barrils. Wherefore the Account stands thus. Blaines’s Returns 11,216 V2 Barrils Ayletts Returns 5,741 */2 Maryland 10,000 Deficiency 10,042 Total 37,000 No Allowance is made in this Calculation for what may be in the Hands of the issuing Commissary beyond the Supplies of the current Month. And on the whole it appears that only 10,000 Barrils remain to be purchased before the next Harvest which seems to promise plentifully. By the Returns of Salt it appears that 20,000 Bushels of it may be easily spared and the Committee have good Reason to beleive that by giving two Bushels of Salt for a Barril of Flour in Part of the Pay the necessary Quantity may easily be obtained and therefore recommend it to you to pursue that Measure in the most prudent Manner and at the same Time to reduce if possible the Price of Flour which may we think be done and in that Case there is but little Doubt that the Quantity will be increased by drawing it from the Hands of Engrossers who now expect to make an Advantage by the public Wants. Qne Means of reducing the Price is to divide the whole Quantity among your several Purchasers and limit the Times at which it is to be delivered. Whether a Limitation of Price will be expedient we cannot so readily determine but incline to think that it would. To return to Mr. Holkers Letter it is the Desire of the Committee that the 1,000 Barrils said to be at Lancaster the 800 in the State of Delaware and as much of the 2,000 said to be at the Head of Elk as will make up the Deficiency of 2,000 Barrils be immediately delivered to Mr. Robert Mor ris together with the 4,000 Barrils of Biscuit and a Copy of his Receipts therefor delivered to the Committee. It is their further Desire that all the Flour bought by Mr. Aylett be immediately sent forward to Baltimore and delivered to William Smith Esquire and that Copies of his Receipts be in like Manner delivered to the Committee.


[Page 525]
May 19, 1779 491 Samuel Holten’s Diary [May 19, 1779] 19. Wednesday. Congress sit late. It is sd. 4000 of the enemy is landed in Portsmouth, Virginia. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 For the British attack at Portsmouth, see William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, May 10, 1779, note 3. John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 19th May 1779. I have the Honor of transmitting to Your Excellency herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 18th Inst, for affording Releif to the distressed Inhabitants of Bermuda. 1 And am With great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To His Excellency Governor Henry. N.B. The like verbatim to the Governors of Maryland, No. Carolina, Delaware and Pennsylvania.” 1 For Congress’ response to Bermuda’s request for permission to import provisions from the United States for the distressed inhabitants of the island, see John Fell’s Diary, April 19, 1779, note 1. To this congressional recommendation that Bermuda be permitted to import 1,000 bush els of com from each of the five states addressed, the Pennsylvania Council responded immediately “That it is very clearly the opinion of this Council, that the said Resolve of Congress cannot be complied with, consistent with the Laws of this Commonwealth.” Pa. Council Minutes, 11:782. John Jay to Nathanael Greene Sir, Philadelphia 19th May—1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to You, herewith enclosed, a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 11th Inst, making further provision for Officers in your Department. 1 I have the Honor to be Sir, With Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedi ent Servant, John Jay, Presidt 2 RC (PPAmP: Greene Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 These May 11 resolves for augmenting the pay of officers in the quartermaster depart ment were adopted in response to recommendations contained in an April 15 letter from General Greene and an April 23 report of the Board of War. See JCC, 13:472, 14:573-74; and PCC, item 147, 3:231-34. Jay also sent these resolves to General Washington with a brief covering letter dated May 19. PCC, item 14, fol. 112.


[Page 526]
492 May 19, 1779 2 Jay also sent Greene the following personal letter of recommendation the next day. “Lt. Colonel [Lewis] Morris having left Majr. General [John] Sullivans Family, & being desirous of a Place in your’s; I take the Liberty of introducing him to you. He has long had my Esteem & Regard. I therefore wish he may have an opportunity of acquiring yours. Let not your Convenience however be taxed on this occasion by your Politeness. Be pleased to make my Compliments to Mrs. Greene. I am Dear Sir, your most obedt. Servt, John Tay.” Greene Papers, PPAmP. John Jay to Thomas Johnson Sir Philadelphia 19 May 1779 I had the honor of receiving your favor last Evening on the Subject of the Enemys Operations in your Bay. 1 I detained the Express till this afternoon, in order that he might be the Bearer of any Dispatches Con gress might direct on the Occasion—but as it did not appear to them necessary to detain him longer—he is now dismissed. I am Sir with great Respect, your obt Servt, John Jay. RC (MdAA: Red Books). l JCC, 14:614. Governor Johnson’s May 16 letter to Jay enclosing a report from three lookouts assigned to reconnoiter British vessels in Chesapeake Bay is in PCC, item 70, fols. 321-25. John Jay to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 19th May—79 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of a Memorial of Capt. Allen McLane, & of an Act of Congress of the 17th Inst, on the Subject of it. 1 I have the honor to be with great Respect, Your Excellency’s, Most Obedient Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Capt. Allen McLane’s April 28 memorial to Congress seeking reimbursement for ex penses he had incurred while recruiting troops for Col. John Patton’s Additional Continental Regiment, which had since been broken up and distributed between Pennsylvania and Delaware, is in PCC, item 41, 6:133-39. It was read and referred on May 1 to the Board of Treasury, which made the recommendation adopted by Congress on the 17th that the Continent would compensate Delaware for any award “which that State shall judge proper to be made.” See JCC, 14:537, 598, 606; Fred A. Berg, Encyclopedia of Continental Army Units: Battalions, Regiments, and Independent Corps (Harrisburg, Pa.: Stackpole Books, 1972), p. 93; and Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, January 4, 1779, note 4.


[Page 537]
May 21, 1779 503 John Jay to Thomson Mason Sir, Philadelphia 21 May 1779 Your Favor of the 17th Inst, was delivered to me Yesterday morning— It contains the first authentic & most particular Account of the Enemy’s Operations in the Bay that Congress have yet received. 1 I am happy to hear that the Militia turn out with Spirit—God grant that by reaping Laurels they may be compensated for being obliged to neglect their other Crops. I have the honor to be Sir, your most Obedient And Humble Servant. JJay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 14:617. Mason’s May 17 letter to Jay, reporting the appearance of “forty Sail of the Enemy ... in Hampton Road on Sunday the 9th Instant” and their attack on Portsmouth the following day, is in PCC, item 78, 15:441-44. Thomson Mason (1735-85), the brother of George Mason of Gunston Hall, was a resident of Loudoun County, Va. He represented three different counties in the House of Burgesses in the course of a long career as a Virginia legislator. DAB. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia the 21st May 1779 My last I think was the 11th inst 1 since which I have not been favored with any of Yours. I have been some time in expectation of a Colleague to supply the place of Mr. Frost, who I suppose must have been at home some weeks. My Task is really arduous, but my anxiety to see a determi nation of some important matters now under consideration prevents my pressing a speedy relief. The State of the currency is truely deplorable, but not so alarming in my judgment as the failure of public Virtue, the former may possibly be assisted by human means, but we must depend on him who alone can control the hearts of men to establish the latter. We are now about trying once more what can be done to save the sinking credit of the money, the prevailing Opinion is that nothing will do but (I was going to say) excessive Taxes, but I will soften the epithet, & adopt the words very high if a sufficiency can be raised by Taxes to support the war, farther emissions will be unnecessary, this is part of the plan now under consideration, a consequent Resolution past this day to raise 45,000,000 to be paid in by the 1st of Jany. I must suspend giving you my Opinion of this measure for the present, let it suffice to say there was a great Majority in favor of the question, & but a small Majority against the Question for 60,000,000 this is a bold Political stroke, and I hope will be carried into effect, as to all appearance nothing else can save us from destruction, the People in this


[Page 538]
504 May 21, 1779 part of the Country are every where clamerous for heavy Taxes, the great est difficulty appears to me is, the levying it on the proper persons, if the whole sum could be drawn from those speculating miscreants, who have been sucking the Blood of their country, it would be a most happy circum stance and I hope the assessors will be particularly attentive to those people, He who increases in wealth in such times as the present, must be an enemy to his Country, be his pretentions what they may. If the Con necticut mode of collecting Taxes was adobted the business would be much facilitated; In that State five or six Taxes are collected in a Year by that means they collect very large sums without produceing the least uneasiness among the people. If the people are duely impress’d with the advantages they will derive from paying in their money while it is at the present low state they certainly will do it with chearfulness. Spirited mea sures with the Property of the fugitives, as well as with the persons of the resident, enemies to the Revolution, would in my humble Opinion have an exceeding good effect, at this particular Crisis. The Enemy seem determined to carry on a predatory war agreeable to the threats held up in the British Commissioners Proclamation last Sum mer. Their Conduct in Virginia is an evidence of this, for the particulars I must beg leave to refer you to the new papers. Time only can inform us of the events of the present Campaign, but this we may be assured of, that nothing is so likely to give us success as vigorous & decisive measures both in Council & in the Field. A Mr. Hamilton Govr of Detroit is taken prisoner (by Major Clark of Virginia) with his Garrison at a post he held on the Ohio, 2 this vipers nest has been exceedingly troublesome to our frontiers, Whether our troubles in that quarter will be soon ended, de pends on the success of the expedition into that Country under the Com mand of Genl Sullivan. Whether we shall have any naval assistance from our ally (depends in my judgment) on the Chapter of accidents but this is not the Opinion of many others; but Mum! I want every State in the Union to feel the importance of Sovereignty, & I wish the United States were fully sensible of their importance among the powers of the Earth; we should then under Heaven depend on our own strength, & banish from among us every Idea of servility, which now like the Tares among the wheat, prevents the growth of that virtuous republican pride so essential to the happiness of America. You have sev eral times mentioned to me the Flagg that was detained by order of Congress & as I know the importunity of the people must be very trouble some I heartily wish Congress could be prevailed on to decide on that matter but from various causes nothing has Yet been done ’tho several reports have been made & recommitted, on the whole I think it will be best for the executive authority of the State to act their own judgment in that matter. Mr. Emerson of Durham who was a Commissioner of accots. died here last week of the small pox after three or four days illness, 3 1 shall get what


[Page 539]
May 22, 1779 505 information I can of his affairs here, for the satisfaction of his Family, with whom I most heartily sympathize. I am very sincerely, Your Friend & Huml Sert, Wm. Whipple RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). 1 Not found. 2 See William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, May 22, 1779, note 4. 3 Moses Emerson (1717-79) had been appointed a commissioner of accounts for the east ern district in February 1778. See JCC, 10:114, 14:670, 723, 15:1027, 1067, 1078; and Whipple to Ebenezer Thompson, July 19, 1779. John Armstrong, Sr. to Horatio Gates Dear General. Philadelphia 22d May 1779 In answer to your favour of the 27th Ulto, please to accept my thanks for that friendly & good letter, in which I must not Overlook your pious wish for the Wisdom &. Integrity of Congress. Neither Niagara nor Detroit are in contemplation, the Seneca Indians & their connexions whether Tories or others, are I presume the only present object of our Arms to the North. Genl. Sullivans movements & Operations will probably give the Enemy an Opportunity either to elude or by their Canadian Assistance to Over come him—we must hope the best, the Enterprise being absolutely neces sary, for with how much propriety soever Peace may be made with any other tribe who shall offer it, the arrogance & barbarous mischiefs of the former cannot be dispenced with, nor is retaliation the only thing in view, but the prevention of much greater evils than those already effected which we cannot doubt under the direction of Butler or some other person of note, our enemies have in immediate contemplation. Sullivan has asked of Congress two Extra Aids DeCamp for the Campaign, not yet granted nor ought they to be. 1 The Packet from France to which you alude brought us the news of the birth of a Princes of that Nation under the hand of the King! Shortly after, we received an intimation from the Minister of the intended or expected return of the Count DeEstaing to our Coasts for important pur poses, taking Georgia & South Carolina in his way. (Secrecy enjoined by Congress) latterly by a letter from Mr. Bingham an Agent at Martinique we have reason to doubt the coming of the Count. 2 1 wish I cou’d give you a more favourable relation of sudden & vigorous exertions in our House for recovering the expiring credit of our Money and in the dispatch of our foreign affairs, whereon depends the Political life of America. Sometimes our efforts point that way & promise a happy progress in the plainest path that ever pure necessity pointed out to man, but anon a diversion is made, new & impertinent matter thrown on the Anvil under Specious Colour ings tending at least to Such delay as may be fatal; thus like the Scale of the beam we rise & fall. The prices & rise of things here are truly allarm-


[Page 540]
506 May 22, 1779 ing. The virtuous Mob (25th May) 3 are now begining to appear & per haps may in some degree correct these errors which the inattention of Others have Suffered to grow to the present enormous heighth. Portsmouth & Suffolk in Virginia are laid in Ashes & some consider able loss of Publick & private Stores, Shiping &c must be Sustained at those Ports. The hostile Steps of the Enemy are Said to be marked rather with the barbarities & Cruelties, than the National & known rules of War. I am of Opinion they intend no long Stay where they now are, being under three thousand or perhaps under two in number, but will set out for the South, or attempt the Same business at Baltimore. The Soldiers on furlough and new recruits intended for the Southern Army joined to the Militia will we expect Soon drive them from Virginia. Dr. Brown is not yet returned to this place. I presume Major Armstrong has Shewn you a paragraph in my last to him by Mr. Newcome, in regard of your letter of Cristmas last to Mr. Jay. 4 I am dear General with every Cordial Wish, and Respectful Compli ments to yr Lady & Family, Your Affectionate friend & Humbe. Servt. John Armstrong. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gen. John Sullivan’s May 20 letter to Congress requesting that he be allowed four aides “for the present Campaign,” which was read this day and referred to the Board of War, is in PCC, item 160, fols. 245-48; and Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 3:25. JCC, 14:626. 2 In his April 13 letter to the committee for foreign affairs, William Bingham had reported that d’Estaing had just received orders from France to remain in the West Indies. See PCC, item 90, fols. 77-86; and JCC, 14:579-80. 3 Although this passage indicates that Armstrong interrupted this letter and resumed writ ing it on May 25, it is not clear from the appearance of the manuscript at which precise point he had left off before resuming the writing. 4 Armstrong may have written to his son—Gates’ aide Maj. John Armstrong, Jr.—on the subject of a proposed expedition against Quebec, a subject close to Gates’ heart. Armstrong’s “last” letter to his son has not been found, but Gates’ draft of a letter on the subject of such an expedition, dated December 25, 1778, the only one of that date in the collection, is in the Gates Papers, NHi. John Fell’s Diary Saturday 22d May 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Several Letters Read, and an affa- davit of Particulers relating to the Cruelty of the Enemy in Virginia &c. Memorial from the State of New York, relating to the seperation of the State of Vermont, Postponed the consideration till next Saturday. The order of the day on foreign affairs deferred till Tuesday on Account of a Long letter from the Seiur Gerrard. MS (DLC).


[Page 546]
512 May 22, 1779 alent from the enemy, as tending to encourage their obstinacy in refusing a general exchange on terms of fair equality, by which our captive Offi cers [suffer?]. We have no news here but what comes from Virginia. All good men are waiting with anxious expectation to hear that our Countrymen have given these wicked Invaders cause to repent of their undertaking. We have been told that Colo. Hamilton of Detroit is our prisoner, made so by the brave Colo. Clarke. I wish it may be true, and I hope the Prisoner will be well secured, because his enmity to us, his activity, and influence among the Indians, are equal, and all very great. My respects to Mr. Wythe and my other friends. I am dear Sir yours sincerely, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:270-71. 1 In his April 21 letter to Lee, Jefferson had strongly endorsed the exchange or parole of the baron de Geismar, a captain of the Hesse-Hanau regiment who was a Convention Army prisoner in Charlottesville, Va. Ibid., p. 255. Col. Theodorick Bland, who commanded the guard detail at Charlottesville, also wrote to George Washington on May 31 concerning an exchange (Washington Papers, DLC). Washington’s reply of June 28 and his recommenda tion of July 22 to the Board of War for exchange, but not parole, are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:338-39, 459. 2 See John Fell’s Diary, February 20, 1779, note 1. Virginia Delegates to the Virginia House of Delegates Sir, Philadelphia May [22, 1779] Having [informed] Congress on the [20th] of our instruction from the honorable Assembly the 19th of December last touching a final ratifica tion of the confederacy, 1 our motion was followed the next day by the inclosed intemperate paper presented by the Delegates of Maryland to Congress and at their motion placed on the journal. 2 We have the honor to transmit this paper to you, that the Assembly may, if they judge it proper, direct a counter declaration to be prepared, which being placed on the same journal may prevent future arguments derived from a claim now set up [and] not now controverted. We observe that Connecticut has furnished her Delegates with instructions concerning the Confederacy 3 similar to those that we have received, and we hope that no State will be found to abet Maryland in her unreasonable claim. The declaration, to which the inclosed instructions allude having been some time ago pub lished, we thought it unnecessary [to] detain the Express for a copy at this [time], [We have the honor] to be Sir your most obedfient and very humble serv]ants, Meriwether Smith Richard Henry Lee Wm. Fleming


[Page 547]
May 23, 1779 513 RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). Addressed: “Honorable Speaker of the House of Delegates of Virginia.” Written by Lee and signed by Lee, Fleming, and Smith. Tr (Burnett, Utters, 4:224-25). RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 Although instructions received by the Virginia delegates had contained five resolutions, the delegates permitted Charles Thomson to copy only the first two on May 20. According to his endorsement, the “original was taken back by the delegates because it contained other & farther instructions which they did not think proper at that time to lay before Congress.” For those instructions, see Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry, May 17, 1779, note 1. For Thomson’s copy of the first two resolves, which were entered in the rough journal for that day, see Continental Congress Collection, DLC; and PCC, item 1, 22:87-88. See also JCC, 14:617-18. With Thomson’s copy of the resolves is a declaration also laid before Congress on May 20 and signed by William Fleming, Cyrus Griffin, Richard Henry Lee, and Meriwether Smith, which stated that “In Consequence of the foregoing Instructions & Powers to us given We do hereby declare that we are ready & willing to Ratify the Confederation with any one or more States named therein, so that the same shall be forever binding upon the State of Virginia.” 2 For the “intemperate paper presented by the Delegates of Maryland”—instructions con cerning confederation adopted by the Maryland Assembly on December 15, 1778, but with held until “a proper time” as ordered—see John Henry to Thomas Johnson, January 20, 1779. 3 The Connecticut Assembly’s resolution authorizing the state’s delegates to “ratify and confirm said articles of confederation” were laid before Congress on May 21. See JCC 14:624. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee {Dear Brother} 1 {Congress} May 23. 1779 As I shall have occasion frequently to mention {name}s in the course of {this letter} remember that the {column}s in the {system} of {name}s are {numberjed 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. Since my last the {party} have pushed a {vote} for {your recall} but they have {fail}ed, the {state}s being {di- vide}d. Nothing has been done since. But every thing will be attempted to {injure you} regardless of {truth, virtue}, or {public good} tho the last is the pretext and forever {protrudejd in some {mouth}s. Tis remarkable that the uniform, fixt, invariable {Whig}s are for {you}. Those against {you} are generally well known in America. The latter are {mark}ed in {the list}, “T”. The papers 1. 2. 3. 4. will {show you} the {ground} they {were} on. What part {Gerard} 3 has taken the papers 2. 3. 4 will {dem onstrate}. I believe verily that {Deane} is not more your {enemy} than {Gerard}. And the latter possibly more bitter and much more subtle. It would be well to search diligently if {Gerard} is not connected in some {intrigue} with {Deane}. Our cruel enemies have lately invaded Virginia with 2000 men and taking the advantage of the dispersed state of the people there, they have burned Portsmouth, & Suffolk, and every house they came to. Murders in cold blood and rapes without end mark their way. Every outrage and every ravage that would disgrace the worst Sav ages they have committed. The people are collecting and will be in force very soon to punish these Wretches. But according to custom, as soon as they see a force equal to their own collected, they will fly to their Ships,


[Page 549]
May 23, 1779 515 they think it will be wise in you, to take the first favorable opportunity to resign, or rather ask leave to do so. I before mentioned and again repeat my earnest wish, for I think it indispensable that when you come you bring every material for making the fairest and fullest settlement of the expenditure of such pub. money as has passed thro you, or been entrusted to your care. It will by no means be proper for one of us to endeavor to shelter ourselves, as some bad men do, under a thousand delusive pretexts for not settling accounts and demonstrating the rectitude of our conduct. If you come, I suppose, that as you cross the Sea, having the necessary Materials, you may be digesting a complete state of all your transactions and your well supported ideas of {Deane}’s culpability. I {set off} this {day} to guard my {family} from the insults and cruelty of the enemy. Capt. Nicholson says that Williams bot for Dean a prize Brigantine that he captured, and that she came out loaded with private property with our fleet in spring 1777. Enquire about this & the manner in which Williams disposed of all the prizes committed to his disposal. RC (MH-H: Lee Papers). 1 Words printed in braces in this text were written by Lee in cipher. 2 At this point Lee wrote “419aXXVIII,” which in the Lee cipher indicates the word “welcome,” and was so employed just three lines above. Since “welcome” makes no sense in this context, it seems clear that Lee erred in his use of the cipher. The sentence appears to make the best sense if it is assumed that Lee had in mind “Gerard,” and therefore should have written “455.b.l.XIV,” which he did four times previously in this letter. For the cipher used by the Lees and the conjectural element involved in deciphering their correspondence, see these Letters, 9:654n.2. Maryland Delegates to George Washington Dear General Philadela. May 23d 1779. We had the Honor of a Letter from his Excellency the Governor of Maryland last night, by express, dated on the 20th Inst. 1 The Devastation and cruelties hourly committed by the Enemy in Virginia, and the prob ability of their acting the same part in Maryland, unless timely prevented, has justly alarmed the people of that State. We lament that the Army under the Command of your Excellency does not admit of a Detachment from the Maryland Troops. Were it possible to head the Malitia by a small Body of regular Troops, they would turn out with more alacrity and act with greater vigour thus incorporated, than alone. It may indeed happen, that the present views and progress of the Enemy may render any extensive preparations for Defence in Maryland unnecessary. But the De struction of Portsmouth and Suffolk joined to the Threats of the Enemy are sufficient to induce a belief in the minds of the Citizens of Annapolis and Baltimore, that their Cities are not safe unless defended by superior force. We have no accurate knowledge of the strength of your Army, nor any precise Ideas of your Excellencys present plans of operation, and


[Page 551]
May 24, 1779 517 sent to the Southward, when it was as forcibly opposed & asserted that the Enemy could not possibly mean to prolong the Campaign in the Southern States but by way of Diversion; this now, however, seems to be found erroneous. I told them, that perhaps a formal Application from the State with the notoriety of the necessity, might induce Congress to grant us the Aid. I likewise advised the application to Congress for Money 2 and in stanced the Sums granted to Pensylvania & So. Carolina, 3 and as our Militia are always carried out of their own State to Action, where our Curr[enc]y will not be reed, our Men with their pockets full of Money must starve for the little comforts of Life which are absolutely necessary in a Camp; therefore hope you will forcibly urge the grant of the Money, if they mean to protect this part of the Continent; if not, desire them to declare so, that we may know what ground we are on. “. . . . The Assembly have determined to fill their Continental Battal ions, tho I assured them it was my Wish never to s[ee a] Man sent from this State to the North of Virga, which they approve of, but are so sensible of the insufficiency of our Militia Exertions, that they deem the comple tion of their regular Regts, essential to the Salvation of the S. States—our Assembly & People are really zealous and determined in the cause, but many confess that Congress stands very low with them, particularly our speculative Gentry who met with heavy losses on the Business?] of the important Secret &c. 4. . . Messrs. Harnett & Penn were appointed Delegates this Session, 5 and expect Mr. Harnet will relieve you shortly. . . . The Assembly have allowed £5000 to their Delegates during the time they are in public Ser vice &c. 6 possibly, this may, for a short time, equal your Expences. Our Assembly has the Assistance of Mr. Johnsons Abilities, with a considerable number of new hands quite strangers to me; but I think public Business is not conducted with any greater degree of Brilliancy than heretofore; least ways the same Order is not preserved as Mr. Jay keeps up in the August Assembly of the Continent. . . . “I think to return to Philadelphia some time in the Fall tho perhaps not to Congress, indeed I could not, if inclined, till after another appoint ment, 7 on which shall not determine till I have the pleasure of seeing you. Inclosed you’ll receive Mr. Draytons Official Letter 8 to the Delegates of our State which you may perhaps have occasion of. “You’ll first and principally present my best respects to Mrs. & Miss Vining, Doctr. Bond & Col. Cadwalader and to Mr. President Jay, G. Morris, J. Duane, Carmical, Paca, Henry, Plaiter, Col. Atlee, M. Smith, Adams, Griffin, Penn, Drayton & Langworthy, to those Gentn. I wish Health & Happiness, to the residue of your honorable Body I sincerely wish better Hearts; to me they will no doubt repay the Complt. by wish ing me a better Head.” 9 RC (Nc-Ar: Thomas Burke Papers). The bulk of this letter is printed in the N.C. State Records, 14:1-4, without date. The complete text of that version is actually parts of two separate letters that were erroneously transcribed into Burke’s Executive Letter Book. As


[Page 564]
530 May 25, 1779 of Hope and they will offer us, as proud and haughty as they may be, honorable terms of peace. I believe we shall give our white and tawny foes to the westward a home stroke this Summer, and perhaps a brilliant stroke may be made in another quarter. Heartily wishing for such happy events, the Safety of our little State, and the health of your Honour I am with great Respect, Yr. most obedt. Servt, Wm Ellery P.S. The inclosed paper came to hand after I had written the foregoing. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). 1 See JCC, 13:281-86, 14:508-10, 634-36; and John Jay to the States, this date. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday May 25th. [1779] Com Committee. Congress. Mr. Dickinson one of the Committee to bring in a draft of a Letter to adress the People, and Read the same and the day taken up on the same. NB. Did not attend the Marine Committee. MS (DLC). William Floyd to George Clinton Sr Philadelphia May 25.1779 I do my Self the pleasure to Inform you that our Vermont Affair is by Motion before Congress, 1 and next Satturday is Appointed to goe into Committee of the whole on that Business, and from what I can Judge of the Disposition of Individual Members, I think I have Reason to hope that we Shall Succeed to our wishes. Inclosed I Send you another week of our Journals, and a paper of this Day to which I must beg leave to Refer you for the News. I am with the greatest Respect and Esteem, your Most Obedt. & humble Servt. Wm. Floyd RC (NN: Emmet Collection). 1 See John Jay to Clinton, May 22, 1779, note. Samuel Holten’s Diary. T . [May 25, 1779] 25. I uesday. I write a letter to the honl. Council of Massa. Bay to Joseph Hall jr, and to Mrs. Holten (No. 57).' The people met as a body to lower the prices of the necessaries of life. 2


[Page 565]
May 25, 1779 531 MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten’s letter to the Massachusetts Council is the following document; his letters to Joseph Hall and to his wife have not been found. 2 For information on the Philadelphia price protests, see Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Charles Carroll, and to Thomas Johnson, May 24, 1779. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia May 25th. 1779. I embrace the first opportunity of informing the Honble. Assembly of two (particular) resolutions of congress, that have passed since I had the honor of addressing you last, which are as follows. “Ordered, That upon application from the state of Massachusetts Bay a warrant issue on the treasurer in favour of Mr. John Lowell for eight hundred thousand dollars, the said state to be accountable, and to repay five hundred thousand dollars thereof to the commissioner of the continen tal loan office of the said state in the month of august next, with interest at six per cent, per annum, transmitting duplicate receipts to the board of treasury.” 1 “Resolved, That these united states be called upon, in addition to the sum required by a resolution of Congress of the 2d of January last, for their respective quotas of forty five million of dollars, to be paid into the continental treasury before the first day of January next.” 2 The last resolution, I expect will be sent you in a formal manner; I shall make no observations to shew the necessity of the said resolution, further than desiring the attention of the Honble. court to the state of our cur rency, which must really be alarming to every friend to his country, and I apprehend that it is become necessary, that the continental treasury should be supplied with money, as soon as possible, from the several states sufficient to pay the current expence, either by taxes or otherwise, so that the emissions may cease, or what may we expect from the increasing depretiation; Congress have assigned three days in a week to consider the state of our money & finances. I inclose the weekly Journals, &c, and have the honor to be with the highest sentiment of respect, sir, your most obedient servant. S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: “The Honble. The President of the council of Massa. Bay.” 1 This resolve, which is in JCC, 14:630, was sent officially to Pres. Jeremiah Powell under cover of the following brief letter of May 24 from John Jay. “You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22nd Inst., with the papers referred to in it ” PCC, item 14, fol. 117. 2 Sec JCC, 14:626.


[Page 566]
532 May 25, 1779 John Jay to the States Sir, (Circular) Philadelphia 25th May 1779. You will receive, herewith enclosed, Copies of several Acts of Con gress—Vizt. One of the 22nd Inst, directing a Copy of an Act of the 6th of March last, respecting the Controul of Congress by Appeal in the last Resort over all Jurisdictions for deciding the Legality of Captures on the high Seas, to be sent to the several States, which is accordingly en closed 1 —Another of the 22nd May relative to the Exchange of Citizens in captivity with the Indians 2 —And One of the 22nd Inst, directing that Continental officers exchanged and not continued in Service be consid ered as supernumerary Officers. 3 I have the honor to be, With great Respect, Your Excys. Most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For this unusual resolve, which involved no new principle of congressional jurisdiction in admiralty appeals but merely urged the states “to take effectual measures for conforming” to its March resolve enunciating Continental supremacy in such cases, see JCC, 13:281-85, 14:634-35; and Jay’s first letter to Conrad Alexandre Gerard of May 24, 1779. For the antecedents of the original March 6 resolve, involving a case on appeal from Pennsylvania, which Congress herein simply reaffirmed out of reluctance to become embroiled in a similar controversy with Massachusetts, see Committee on Appeals Decree, December 15, 1778, note; and Committee of Congress to Joseph Reed, January 26, 1779, note 3. 2 See Jay to the Indian Affairs Commissioners, May 26, 1779. 3 This definition of the status of exchanged Continental officers had become necessary in order to permit the treasury to proceed with the settlement of the pay due them under the terms of a resolve of Congress of November 24, 1778. The recommendation for its adoption was made in a report of the Board of Treasury of May 18, which is in PCC, item 136, 3:319-20. See JCC, 12:1156-57, 14:630. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 25th May, 1779 Copies of three Acts of Congress are herewith enclosed—One of the 22nd Inst, respects the Exchange of Citizens captivated by the Indians— Another of the 22nd provides that the Officers, exchanged, & not contin ued in Service, be considered as supernumerary Officers—The Third is of the 24th Inst, and directs a copy of a Memorial from Colonel Lewis Debois to be transmitted to your Excellency. 1 I have the Honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, John Jay. Presid. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 See Jay to Washington, April 28, 1779, note.


[Page 568]
534 May 25, 1779 prints) Since my Last. Congress have Come to a Resolution to Call on the united States for their Respective Quotas of forty five millions of Dollers to be paid in to the Continental Treasury by the first day of January next. A Committee is also appointed to draw up an address to send abroad to the people of these united States to Induce their Exertion to Supply the Con tinental Treasury for the necessary Expenditures without further Emis sions. 1 By Late accounts from the South about 2000 of the Enemy Landed Some time Since at Portsmouth in Virginia and have Committed Consid erable Ravages, and Continue therein without any Effectual resistance for what we have yet heard. I Inclose for your amusement, a Remarkable advertisement which was posted up in many places in this City Yesterday—the Cryer is also about the Streets this morning publishing the determination of the good people of this place to put the purport of the advertisement into Execution this afternoon; what will be the Event will probably be Soon discovered— There has been the most Soaring public Rise of prices in almost Every Vendable article within these few days, that was Ever before known. I am Sr. with great respect &, Esteam your obedient Humbe Servt. J. Spencer RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 The address “To the Inhabitants of the United States of America” on the subject of finance, which was drafted by John Dickinson, was read and recommitted by Congress this day. On May 26 Congress approved it and ordered 500 copies printed. JCC, 14:626, 643, 649-58. Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians [May 26, 1779] 1 Brothers. The Great Council of the united States of America have re- ceivd and considered the Representation made to them by you 2 the Depu ties of the Delaware Nation. 3 Open your Ears and listen to their Answer. The great Council are not unmindful of the several Treaties of Friend ship which they enterd into with your Nation in the years 1775, 1776 & 1777. It was one of their first and great Objects to secure to you and to your Women & Children Peace and Safety: and they extended the same benevolent wishes to All the Nations of Indians on this great Continent— however oppressed by the English who returnd our Love with Fire and Sword. We woud not suffer our Indian Friends to be plunged for our sakes into the Miseries of War. We stood forth like Men and fought our own Battles; and advised them to sit quietly under the Shade of their Trees and reap the Fruits of our Toils & Dangers; the Freedom purchased by our Blood. But the English acted a part very different by Deceit and


[Page 569]
May 26, 1779 535 Bribes they blinded the Eyes & understandings of many of our Indian Brethren: & turned their Hearts against Us. They did not stop here: but prevailed on many of them to Join in the War against us: to destroy our Women & Children and plunder our Substance & burn our Villages. For this perfidious Treatment we have never given the Slightest Provocation: our Treaties we have faithfully observed: & tho it was out of our Power to do All that we wished for our Indian Brethren we did them all the good which our Circumstances admitted. We sent over the great Waters for a large Supply of Cloathing & goods, on purpose to Open the Trade & relieve the necessities of our Indian Brethren as we promised them. They must not complain of us for the Disappointment: the English alone are to blame who having more Ships at Sea than the united States robbed us & you of the goods intended for your Support: Let them meet with your Reproaches who are the Cause of your sufferings. The time is at Hand, we trust, when it will be out of their Power to disturb our Trade or to injure our Children or our Friends. Our great & good Ally the King of France has Joined his Warriors by Sea and Land to the Warriors of these united States. Other mighty Nations on the other side of the great Water are our Friends, and will we expect soon take fast hold of the same Covenant Chain which bind us and France. Our great General and our other brave Warriors have already convinced all the World that these united States are not to be conquered; and we have the highest Confidence under the divine Favour that by their Courage and good Conduct as Warriors our enemies will soon be driven from this Country over the great Waters. We have also the best Reasons to expect that with the Aid of our powerful Ally a free Passage thro’ the Seas to distant Countries will be opened & preserved, And these united States possessed of the Means of supplying the Wants and establishing a great Trade & relieving the necessities of Such of the Indians as shall continue stedfast in their Friendship. You tell Us that it is your Opinion that it is for the Interest of the Delaware Nation that they should observe the Strictest Neutraility during the present War. You know best whether this is the general Opinion of your Nation: but we must inform you that it is reported that many of your young Men have Joined the Senecas & taken up the Hatchet aginst Us. Had the Indian Nations remained peaceable: had they not listend to the Voice of our Enemies, & broken their Treaties we are well persuaded they woud have consulted their truest Interest. But while too many of them take an active part, against Us, you cannot be surprized that our Warriors ask for & expect the Assistance of such as profess to be our Friends. Brothers. We shall take Care of your Children whom you leave with us, & give them a religious & useful Education, & we receive this Mark of your Confidence as a strong Testimony of the Sincerity of your Friend ship. Nor shall we neglect when the Country shall be restord to Quiet to encourage & promote your Civilization by inducing Ministers, School Masters, Tradesmen & Husbandmen to reside among you. It is a Measure wise & salutary and in which you will meet with the Applause & assist-


[Page 570]
536 May 26, 1779 ance of good men. When we know in what Measure we can be serviceable to your pious Instructor the Reverend Mr. Ziesberger we will afford him assistance & Encouragement: Well pleased that his Example & Labors have proved acceptable & beneficial to those of your Nation who have embraced Christianity. Brothers. The Great Council have never interposed with respect to the Claims or Bounds of their Indian Friends. Their disputes ought to be settled by Wise Men of your & our Nations acquainted with your Cus toms And your Rights which we do not profess to be: Nor have we time while the War continues to Rage to examine into such Matters: Altho’ we shall at a future day be glad to give you the best Advice in our power after receiving the Necessary Information. 4 MS (DNA: PCC, item 166, fols. 427-35). Written by James Duane and endorsed by him: “Speech to the Delawares 1779.” 1 This date is taken from the following endorsement by Duane on another copy of this speech: “The Speech of the Congress of the united States to the Wisemen representing the Delaware Nations & deliverd by their Committee for Indian Affairs the 26t. May 1779.” PCC, item 166, fols. 437-40. 2 The Committee for Indian Affairs was replying to an address of the Delaware Indians that had originally been presented to General Washington on May 12 and was then pre sented to Congress upon their return to Philadelphia from New Jersey. The manuscript of it that survives is in the hand of George Morgan and bears the date May 10,1779. Washington had replied noncommittally to the speech and had sent Congress a copy of it along with Morgan’s letter of May 9. Congress had received these documents on May 17 enclosed in Washington’s May 14 letter. See JCC, 14:597; PCC, item 166, fols. 411-19; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:53-56, 78-79; and Committee for Indian Affairs Speech, May 25, 1779. 3 In the margin of another copy of this document (cited in note one), Duane wrote the names of the “Indians present” when the speech was delivered on May 26. PCC, item 166, fol. 437. Because Duane’s handwriting is often extremely difficult to read and he appears to have rendered the names phonetically, it seem quixotic to attempt to reproduce them here. In Duane’s list, for example, the well-known first chief of the Delawares, Gelelemend (or Kelelamand—Capt. John Killbuck) appears as “Cayleylamont”; and the second chief, We- lepachtschiechen (Captain Johnny), appears as “Weylapacheicon.” Of the other Delawares in attendance, two were apparently Peykeling and Tetepachksit, identified as councilors, and two were identified by their Christian names, John Lewis and John Thompson. George Morgan’s name appears at the bottom of the list. See also Clinton A. Weslager, The Delaware Indians: A History (New Brunswick, N.J.: Rutgers University Press, 1972), pp. 295-311. 4 The surviving copy of the Delawares’ May 29 reply to this address, which is also in the hand of George Morgan, is in PCC, item 166, fols. 445-48. The Indians repeated their need for clothing, powder, and lead and hinted at the need to tum to the English at Detroit for supplies if they could not get them from the United States. They reaffirmed their neutrality and stated that the Delawares who had joined the British had been “obliged to forsake our Nation,” comparing them to the American loyalists. James Duane to Mary Duane Philad. 26t May 1779. I hope, my dearest Polly, our worthy and amiable Brother and Sis ter 1 are by this time happily arrived at the Manour. They sat out last


[Page 571]
May 26, 1779 537 Sunday week and by them I informed you of my Health & of my anxious wishes for your’s and the Childrens. The Servant and Mare were returned from an Apprehension that she was unable to perform the Journey. Him I dismissed as his Temper & want of manners disgusted me and his aw- kardness rendered him of little Service. I have engaged a Lad I like much better, he shaves and dresses very well, and is very obliging hitherto. I wish I may have it in my power to keep him. I flatter myself you are reconciled for the Reasons I gave you to my staying here a little longer. I want to give my Aid in placing our publick Affairs upon a firm Basis. We have difficulties to encounter: but our prospects are upon the whole agreeable; and with the Blessings of our gracious Creator, and our own Exertions this Campaign, we may reason able Hope for a Speedy and an honourable Peace. Too much paper money is our great Evil. It woud be for every Man’s Interest to give one half of it to the Flames: but this will not be done voluntarily: and indeed nothing will answer The purpose but large Taxes. To these the people ought chearfully to submit: and indeed while money continues so plenty, and Wisdom and Justice are exercised by the Legislatures in the mode of assessment, they will not be too burthensome, altho’ the nominal Tax of rich Individuals will make a high Sound. You need not be uneasy about Summer Cloaths for me: I shall make a good Shift with two or three pair of the Stockings and Changes of linnen or dimathy under cloaths which I have ordered to be made up & bought. I shall fix my Affairs so as to be able to stay at home entirely, or only to serve on some great Occasion; and wish therefore to give entire Satisfac tion to my Constituents at this time, when very much is to be done, and diligence and a thorough Knowledge of Business are essential to the pub lick Safety. I think of nothing to add, but my dutiful Regards to our honourd Parents: affectionate Compliments to the respective Branches of the Fam ily; and my Blessings to our dear Children. Adieu my dearest Polly and believe me to be with Constant Prayers for your Health and Happiness. Your ever faithful & most affect Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 That is, Robert' C. Livingston and Alice Swift Livingston. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday 26th May. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. A Letter from T Payne, abusing Mr. Deane was Read and took up a deal of time in debate. The Adress to the People was read paragraph Per paragraph and unanimously agreed to and 500 Copies ordered to be Printed. One of the Delegates of the State of Pennsylvania enform’d the House that the President with some other


[Page 572]
538 May 26, 1779 Gentlemen, were at the door, waiting with a Petition which they would be glad to Represent, in such way as would be most agreeable, after some short time it was agreed, that the Secretary should desire the President and the Gentlemen with him to come in and Present the Petition, which he did and after a short Introductory Speech on the Occasion the Gentle men withdrew, and the Petition was Read. 1 MS (DLC). 1 In the course of addressing Congress on the subject of Pennsylvania’s petition, which expressed the state’s concerns over rampant inflation, Joseph Reed had evidently hinted that some delegates harbored doubts about “the propriety of presenting the said petition.” As a consequence, the delegates “unanimously” resolved: “That Congress will at all times, cheer fully receive the sentiments of their constituents upon every important matter which may become a subject of their deliberations.” See JCC, 14:648-49; and PCC, item 42, 6:206-9. Samuel Holten’s Diary [May 26, 1779] 26. Wednesday. Genl. Election Boston. Congress reed, a petition from President Read, & a numbr. of others respect[in]g financing. MS (MDaAr). John Jay to Ebenezer Hancock Sir, Philadelphia 26th May 1779 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22nd Instant, ordering a Sum of Money to be transmitted to the Deputy Pay Master General to the Rhode-Island Department to be charged to Your Account. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedient &, Humble Servant, John Jay, Presidt. RC (ViU: Johnston Autograph Collection). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 For Congress’ May 22 order transmitting $600,000 to Deputy Paymaster Benjamin Stelle for the expenses of Continental troops in Rhode Island, see JCC, 14:629. John Jay to Patrick Henry Sir, Philadelphia 26 May 1779 I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 24th Inst relative to the cruelties said to have been com-


[Page 575]
May 26, 1779 541 ken tine* puotaM of eo> * Mr. Kotot M«m, fairr nfaUtt fa* ■wiM.'lii r to fa V to ,, tanriw, Jitoph . 'ftAN^EL^O^&DEA^Cto' cm* arhat toorien of to ahurr, I***. M to (rS day of ! n to art day W etwy aasotb l»«< V?*A Into *<s *ff*Aual owjwv, an 4s ‘’R-. <£r tot o fa it only br degras tot < Mudied, ano m> pto Mp mao* •pfafl i Mfbutu Wto • m tn tognaacht • Ay rf to Cwto/to, WILLIAM HANKY, Otows- < -V «■ b. Philadelphia Committee Broadside, May 25-26, 1779 •K aid for* oMr bi roJdt COMMITTEE-ROOM, 1?W. A OREEABLesarodtotoaoftoGeisnI >««a PHlLAD BLPHIAi Printed ^FRANCIS BAILEY^ is M^irt-Strut. etnni asioog suite!"*. I feom, and I tap* every niton tare Cram, to tought of getting rich fuck ing to Wood of hia country I r*«ato*! thiaunnalunl, At a General MEETING of the Citizens of Philadelphia, and Parts adjacent, at the State-Houfc Yard in this City, on Tuefday the 15th of May jyyp^Gqperal Robbrdeau was upanimoufly requefted. to take the Chair ; who tntr&d&ed the BuGnefs with the following Address : sun to "tad nrieaa of rum, frpr, flour, coffer and »m dan Into to to "r* "’t May intaH, to auMA to tu* for to premmate rf buyer and feuer, and • eel recto* in writ** nay com* piains etonf! to* Ail*" M aur refute to canto --A ,1. -LA- a ... . — — of J. inis oaeendon tooochsvt to Unaud • rn**t to tone M • gentral Towe tain for tot surrto 'te'm wiM ntopormd tossawniit** >• <U j.._ if. a— _u JI b 040, httod ot Mtenint toxica pto public haw « rito to acquir* Ciidt ntmudiosrp abuto, and pro. toll joyfully alE* in any judicioac OMsfurm to to M boih, tot to praoedinf *i thu *«*<*( te prioto saiHictepptoA, and hma* 4oabt but tot yon will sod Cam » to fawnl esobto to <Mr em&tooliM so to urn*. *4 efittor* torvn. It b a Curprning tong, tot to mst* goto *« And arbenna eoanpfaiMi of a nry axtraoritory ns* ta" tad brought into to dtp. to dtnrer toy tare tars toe. at diAnuu nM, ft—tM atonA pcrfcuu bsen) and to ■ «a W to tou which it h abMudy entruftod, or who tar* tam toruAed by CoognA — - - * — te. - .Ate. t—> ik. ■ ■ i ■> te te. w.* ** '* 1 ‘ aT — • - ■ ■ -__l -- - - -‘ ■ -■ M«r«h*ntakd* fear, MiMlintdo. jjdp fluff. i Brandy by to lug, pa galioo, I Motaffeeby tohsptasd dins. > Coffe*. pa poinuL Loef lugar, ntaiefale, drt®,


[Page 576]
542 May 26, 1779 tion about the inequitous practices of the Depy. D. Deputies of the Q.M. & Coms, departments—I know it will afford the little man pleasure to hunt them up. I have not any thing new to communicate to you, only that we must soon have an Assembly to raise our Quota of 45 Mills, of Dollars. Adieu & believe me to be very truly, Dear Sir Your Obedt. Servt. Daniel of St Thos Jenifer RC (MdHi: Gilmor Collection). 1 For this “enquiry,” which had been recommended by the Board of Treasury in April but was not ordered by Congress until May 28, see JCC, 14:519-20, 661-62; and John Dickin son’s Committee Notes, June 7? 1779. 2 For the flour scandal involving Samuel Chase, see these Letters, 10:626-28. Henry Laurens’ Notes of a Conference with the Delaware Chiefs [May 26? 1779] 1 Dufane]— exceed[in]g glad to hear them speak what they feel from their hearts. shall now tell them the reason why we hear them from their hearts instead of writing. that General M[clntosh] 2 had put hatchfet] in their hands & made sign writings in hands which they did not underst[an]d. which they have found to be false. great Council wanted to know if true. would furnish any servants impo on them. therefore brot G[eorge] M[organ] & C[olonel] Gibson 3 before [us?] now tell if the hatchet was forced or took it freely own accord, answer from bottom hearts & if any wrong done them. K[ill]B[uck], 3 Brothers] present who were at that Treaty. what did not see himself could not be certain as if face to face. Job Jilloway from Morgan informed he would speak to them next day going exp tomahawk will be put into your hands—take it or a lost people. his heart seemed to be afr[ai]d—formerly no such thing. frighted at sight of mak[in]g the Tom[ahaw]k. F[ort] Pfitt], Wfhite] Eyes said Bad Man who gave him the belt & Tom hawk from English & threw in the dirt. told Mclfntosh] might do with it as he pleased. McIntosh told him return Tom[ahaw]k by striking it into his head. drew T[oma]hawk out of his bosom & gave Wfhite] E[yes], Wfhite] Efyes] & K[ill]B[uck]—took the Tfoma]hawk & danced War dance & others did the same—said for good of Womfen] & Childfren] if Congfress] gave them the Tomfa- haw]k—could consult about it.


[Page 579]
May 26, 1779 545 General Mcl[ntosh] had his people M & W to Fort Lau- [rens]. after talked a little while left ten of his Men fort alway some of his Men Colo. Gibson has papers now. Men used to go day & night expresses. I used to fret myself very little lest should fall thro’ their laps—we are envied & hated most for assisting you. hate us bad as they do you on that account. MS (PHi: Laurens Papers). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 These undated notes were made by Laurens, as a member of the Committee for Indian Affairs, during the committee’s meetings with the Delaware chiefs after their return to Phila delphia from New Jersey. Although the exact date that they were taken is not known, they clearly pertain to the negotiations that followed the delivery of the committee’s formal address to the Delawares on May 26, and preceded the Indians 1 formal reply on May 29. The abrupt nature of the beginning and end of these cryptic notes suggests that they are apparently only a surviving fragment of a more complete set kept by Laurens. 2 Gen. Lachlan McIntosh had been the principal negotiator of the Treaty of Fort Pitt of September 1778, which formally allied the Delawares with the United States and called for joint military operations aimed at the capture of Detroit. The fruits of that alliance had been a disappointment to the Delawares, however, for after participating in an abortive expedi tion against Detroit they found that they had gained no advantages and were now exposed to British counterattack. The expedition’s failure was largely responsible for McIntosh’s request for a transfer to the southern department and Congress’ reassignment of him. See JCC, 14:606; and Max Savelie, George Morgan: Colony Builder (New York: Columbia Univer sity Press, 1932), pp. 157-60. 3 John Gibson (1740-1822), who had been designated as Indian agent for the Delawares in the treaty of 1778. A trader at Fort Pitt since 1760, Gibson had served as a colonel in the Continental Army from 1776 and had commanded the Ninth Virginia Regiment at Fort Pitt and Fort Laurens in 1778. He was subsequently second in command at Fort Pitt under Col. Daniel Brodhead. See Savelie, George Morgan, pp. 158-59; and Edward G. Williams, Fort Pitt and the Revolution on the Western Frontier (Pittsburg: Historical Society of Western Pennsylva nia, 1978), pp. 213-14. 4 That is, George Washington. For further information on the Delawares’ meeting with Washington, see Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians, May 25, note 2; and May 26, note 2. 5 White Eyes, a Delaware chief who had been the Indian force behind the 1778 treaty with the United States, had died under mysterious circumstances while leading American troops through Delaware territory west of Fort Pitt in November 1778. Although the Indians were told that White Eyes had died of smallpox, Morgan stated later that the chief had been “treacherously put to death.” “I have carefully concealed,” Morgan explained in a letter of May 12, 1784, “& shall continue to conceal from young White Eyes the Manner of his Father’s Death, which I have never Mentioned to any one but Mr. Thomson, & two or three Members of Congress.” George Morgan Papers, DLC; and Clinton A. Weslager, The Dela ware Indians: A History (New Brunswick: Rutgers University Press, 1972), p. 306. Henry Laurens to William Carmichael Sir. [ante May 26, 1779] 1 I have such confidence in the honor & integrity of Mathew Locke Esquire as leaves no ground for doubting the justice of his claim under the


[Page 581]
May 27, 1779 547 Marine Committee to George Washington Sir Marine Committee, Philadelphia May 26th 1779 Your Excellencys Letter of the 25th instant to this Committee together with an extract from another of the 17th instant to the President of Con gress has been duely considered by the Committee. 1 Unfortunately the situation of our Frigates is such, as to afford no reason to expect that they can possibly be collected in Season to execute the plan proposed. The Providence of 32 Guns & the Ranger of 18 are already ordered on A Cruize and it is supposed must be at Sea before different Orders can reach them at Boston. The Warren of 36 Guns & the Queen of France of 20 Guns have lately returned from A Cruize and are unmanned. Although the Naval force of the enemy at New York is at present trifling, yet as their Situation in this respect is very fluctuating, they may probably be so reinforced as to render it too hazardous to risk only the two Frigates in this River viz the Confederacy of 36 Guns & the Deane of 28 Guns, the later of which wants a great number of Hands to make up her Complement. Add to this that though the force of the enemy on the water would be inferior to ours, yet might they not retire under cover of the Batteries on Shore, and receive effectual protection from any Annoyance that could be attempted from the Guns of our Small Ships? I am desired by the Committee to Assure you Sir, that they shall always be ready with the greatest Alacrity to employ our little fleet in the execu tion of such Plans as may be suggested to them by your Excellency when ever circumstances shall be such as to render it practicable. I am Your Excellency’s Most obedt. and very hble servant, Sami Adams RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of John Brown and signed by Samuel Adams. 1 Washington had recommended a naval attack on the remnant of the British fleet that remained at New York. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:91, 144-45. Committee of Congress to John Chaloner and James White Gentlemen Philaa. 27th May 1779 The Committee have carefully exd. your Calculation but cannot agree with you as to the Magnitude of the Amount. They wish to have Materi als on which to form if possible a solid Judgment such as the Issues to the Army and Posts. Also the Issues from the Purchasing to the issuing De partment. In the Interim it may be prudent to suppose that the Error may as well lie on the one Side as on the other and therefore to allow Time for a Correction of it. With this View it may be proper to purchase South of the Delaware over and above the Consumption at the several Posts within


[Page 582]
046 May 27, 1779 that Tract of Country 10,000 Blls. by the 1st Day of August. To accom plish this let that Quantity be divided among ten, fifteen or twenty Pur chasers as shall be most convenient assigning to each one his Quantity, of this let */* be ready at some particular spot in his District by the 20th of June */4 more by the 10th of July and the Remainder by the 1st of August. Perhaps it might be of Use to give so much per Barril for the Purchase restricting it to contain 224 lbs at least instead of a Commission on the Money and to limit the Price giving a further Gratuity of so much in the Pound for whatever it is obtained lower, in which Case the Salt should be valued at a fixed Sum and rather too high than too low as thereby the Flour would eventually come cheaper to the Treasury. On these Regula tions we should be glad of your Sentiments. We must insist upon a Return of the several Officers in the Depart ment. Their weekly Purchases and the Gratuities as well of Rations as of Money or otherwise allowed them by the Public. You will forthwith order 2,000 out of the 4,000 Barrils directed to be laid in Store on the Waters of Chesapeak to be delivered to Mr. Holkers Agent at Baltimore taking Receipts as before directed. You will also be careful with all possible Speed to deliver to the Committee Accounts of whatever may be delivered by their Order—And you will transmit a Copy of this Letter to the Commissary General 1 who is to consider it of equal Validity as if directed to him in the first Instance. I am Gentlemen, your most obedient, & humble Servant, By Order of the Committee, Gouv Morris RC (PHi: Chaloner & White Papers). Written and signed by Gouverneur Morris Ad dressed: “Messr. Chaloner & White at their Office in Fourth Street.” 1 That is, Jeremiah Wadsworth, in whose papers at CtHi a copy of this letter is located. John Fell’s Diary Thursday 27th May. [1779] Commercial Committee. Congress. Letter from the Sieur Gerrard was Read. 1 The order of the day, for taking up the Ultimatom on the fishery, after many speaches and long debates, it was agreed to withdraw and Repeal all the former, Resolutions, amendments and Subsitutes, and be gin a new. MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress received two communications from the French minister: a letter of May 25 thanking Congress for its resolution of the 24th concerning British “cruelties” against French subjects in Virginia and a memorial of the 27th reminding the delegates of the importance of the Spanish mediation effort and pointing out that continued failure to reach a decision on negotiation demands would “incur the risk of cooling the good will” of the king of Spain. See JCC, 14:659; PCC, item 94, fols. 245-57; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:185-86, 194-95.


[Page 584]
550 May 27, 1779 Diggs will attend when called on. These, with the papers you have, shew enormity sufficient to place Mr. Deane in the light he ought to be seen in. I should not have troubled you Sir with so long a letter on so foul a subject, if I were not perfectly satisfied of your attachment to the cause of justice and general good, your dislike of public defaulters and your desire to protect and defend the virtuous Servants of the United States. I under stand by Mr. Sergeant that Mr. Secretary Thomson has been long ac quainted with Dr. Kendals evidence, 4 and having concealed it, and acted the part he has done renders him as unfit to be the Secretary of Congress as any other W—h—e 5 in Philadelphia. I shall continue to entertain the very agreeable hopes of being honored with your company in your way Southward. Your route is thro Baltimore, cross Potomac at Hoes, and from Mr. Hoe you will get exact directions to my house. I am, with most affectionate esteem dear Sir your most obedient and obliged servant, Richard Henry Lee P.S. My friend Colo. Scudder will exert himself in getting this evidence to prove the perfidy of our self applauding, discarded, wishing to be Minis ter. 6 RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). Addressed: “Honorable Henry Laurens Esqr. in Chesnut Street near the State House, Philadelphia.” Endorsed by Laurens: “Richd. Henry Lee Esqr. 27th May 1779. Reed. 29th. Answd 1st June.” 1 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant, who had been a member of Congress from New Jersey in 1776-77. 2 Probably Samuel Wharton, Pennsylvania merchant and land speculator, who had gone to England in 1769 to seek validation of the “Indiana grants,” but who remained to press the claims of the Walpole Company for a new colony, to be called “Vandalia.” In 1779 he went to Paris to discuss with Benjamin Franklin the possibility of obtaining congressional recogni tion of the claim. After returning to the United States, Wharton served as a delegate to Congress in 1782-83. DAB. 3 For further information on this “evidence,” see Lee’s January 3, 1778 [i.e., 1779], letter to Francis Lightfoot Lee in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:373-76; and Richard Henry’s August 1779 letters to the editor of the Pennsylvania Packet, ibid., 2:108-12, 125-30, 132-42. See also Arthur Lee’s April 26, 1779, letter to Congress, PCC, item 102, 3:20-21, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:136-37. 4 Probably Dr. Joseph Kendall, a surgeon of the Pennsylvania Regiment of Artillery and later a physician and surgeon aboard the ship America. See Joseph Kendall to Congress, May 12, 1784, PCC, item 41, 5:41-42, and JCC, 27:407. 5 Despite the confusion of how Lee placed his dashes, he was doubtless suggesting that Charles Thomson was no more to be trusted than a common whore. 6 This is Lee’s last letter as a delegate until he returned to Congress in November 1784. Embittered by the direction the Deane-Lee controversy had taken, the personal attacks upon his reputation, and the strength of opponents in Congress, Lee had resigned his seat as a delegate and was en route to Virginia. Lee’s hatred of Deane and his congressional support ers and his concern over congressional affairs, however, did not abate in the months there after. From Chantilly he maintained a heavy correspondence with colleagues in Congress, notably Henry Laurens, Samuel Adams, William Whipple, James Searle, James Lovell, and Nathaniel Scudder and contributed four articles to the Pennsylvania Packet under the name “Rowland” in which he assailed the Deane faction and defended himself and his brothers. For these letters and articles, see Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:59-167. For his resignation at this time and an analysis of his congressional career, see Lee to the Virginia Assembly, May 4, 1779; and Paul C. Bowers, “Richard Henry Lee and the Continental Congress, 1774-1779,” (Ph.D. diss., Duke University, 1965).


[Page 587]
May 29, 1779 553 Mr. Fell. Thinks Congress ought not to interfere, that is shd be postponed till the Delegates can obtain Instructions from their several States, and till the other Party can have an opportunity of defending themselves. Burk. Congress cannot hear Compts. of Citizens agt. their State. Shearman. Agd. in Congress not to go further than Res[olutio]n 30 June 77 5 —Deed, then that Congress had no Right to determine the Contro versy, & therefore only sd. they had not encouraged or countenanced Revolt. Ought to consider how we are to interpose, & wh[ich] way will be best likely to ensure peace. Confederation not compleat, & if it was it wd not give Congress Right to judge—can interpose only as mediators—I think that way best. Verm[ont] claims the Right of an independent State & a peremp tory Decision ought not to be made without hearing them. Line in 1764 obtained by misrepresentation of Govr. Clinton who sd it wd be agrea- ble to the People. That application was afterwards made to the king to revoke it, & was pending when the trouble came on. Never were sub jects of New York with their own Consent—and therefore when Inde pend was declared they became so, N Hampshire having relinquished them. There should be a previous Inquiry and all Persons concerned calld to a hearing—if they agree Congress may decide, if not they may advise. As there paying no Taxes, it is not much, they live on a Fron tier—are at the Expence of maintaining it, raise money among them selves are brave—as to relieving the Yorkers among them it cannot be done, without deciding the Qu. which being improper now cannot be done. Duane. Gerry. Always disposd to do Justice to N York—never encouragd Ver mont on his honor—& that those who did were unjustifiable. 2 Coun ties of Massachusetts 6 not now to be governed, nor will be till Peace. That if Conferation was compleat, Congress might decide Jurisdiction & then ought to repress refractory Inhabitants but can’t do it now. Inhabitants extraprovincial might set up for themselves. That a present Decision might be extra|ju]dicial & give Discontent—proposes a Com mittee of Congress to go to them. MS (NNC: Gouverneur Morris Collection). In the hand of John Jay. 1 Although Jay’s notes on the Vermont debate are undated, they were clearly made on May 29, when Gov. George Clinton’s May 18 letter with “sundry papers” was read in Congress and referred to the committee of the whole. These notes were taken during the ensuing debate in the committee of the whole on Clinton’s letter, “together with the papers enclosed, and the resolutions moved by the delegates of New York.” JCC, 14:667-68. Congress was unable to reach agreement on May 29 except to continue consideration of the Vermont question on June 1. At that time, they adopted Elbridge Gerry’s proposal to appoint a committee to go to the New Hampshire Grants to “confer with the said inhabi tants, and . . . promote an amicable settlement of all differences.” See JCC, 14:673-75; Jay to Clinton, May 22; Gouverneur Morris to Clinton, May 30; and New York Delegates to Clinton,June 1, 1779.


[Page 589]
May 30, 1779 555 was well made.” I pray that Holy God in whom we confide, of whose attributes nor Brutus nor Cassius had just conceptions, to continue to you his mercies & his protection; in him alone I trust in my daily prayers for the salvation of my Country. Henry Laurens P.S. I have heard nothing directly from you since the 23d April—Peruse my Letter to Mr. Gervais. I have not troubled him with a syllable respect ing my private affairs from an assurance that even a syllable would have been unnecessary, but I must remind you of my Papers, all my Papers, 2 Plate, wearing apparel & last of all Liquer. I would wish to have all these in safe places, the latter if only to give away. Negroes no doubt will partake the common fares of the Country. Upon the whole, Gods Will be done, is the sum of my prayer, to the total conclusion of unmanly & unchristian anarchy. RC (MHi: William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, 1973). 1 For the account that Laurens had received of the action in which John had recently been wounded during his journey to South Carolina, see Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates, June 29, 1779. 2 Because the papers of Henry Laurens are a principal source for the study of Congress during 1778-1779—the greatest single source after the Papers of the Continental Congress— the disposition of Laurens’ papers is of interest to students of the period. The following information, contained in a privately owned letter recently acquired at auction, is quoted here to suggest the ultimate fate of Laurens’ efforts to preserve documents bearing upon his public career. Responding to a request from Samuel Johnston of North Carolina for some legal docu ments, Laurens explained that he had recently ordered a search of his papers—“Six Small Trunks of Papers which some of my black Servants had hid & saved from destruction in the War”—and was “fully satisfied” that he was not in possession of the documents requested. “Most of my valuable Papers,” Laurens went on to explain, “were in 1780 carefully packed in 21 Mohogany Boxes & sent for safety to a Plantation 72 Miles from this City [Charleston, S.C.] under the protection of a particular friend, but the British Troops penetrated & to my very great loss & additional perplexity destroyed the whole. Two of my friends, then Prison ers, were eye witnesses & were severely threatned for attempting to save a part which had been thrown into a Pond of Water, in that destruction.” Henry Laurens to Samuel Johnston, August 4, 1791, Ronald von Klaussen collection. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Dear Governor, Phila. [May 30, 1779] Yesterday the House were resolv[ed into] a Committee of the whole upon our Vermont Business and as far as [Declarations can be trusted and Appearances I hope we shall be able to render our State a good Account of that Business. Nothing was concluded but on Tuesday next we are again to take it up in a Committee of the whole & I hope it will during the Course of the Week be concluded to our Satisfaction. Mr. Jay and Mr. Duane who had the principal Share in the Debate did full Justice to the Cause and stated the Merits with a Clearness and Force irresistible unless by Prejudice and Blindness. 1


[Page 590]
556 May 30, 1779 I did flatter myself with the Pleasure of seeing you the Begining of the next Month. The Care of my Health which has much suffered by a long and unremitted Attention was a principal Motive of my Design. Mr. Lewis who is with you and Mr Duer whenever he shall be with you will be able to give a full & accurate account of the Situation of our Public Affairs here. For this Reason and as I have lately been blessed with an Interval of better Health than usual I shall defer for some Time my Return. This Indeed I am compelled to do for the Business [of the imp]ortant Committees which Congress have done me [. . .] upon hath so principally devolved to my Manage[ment. . .] that I cannot quit it without Injury to the Public. [The Me]asures I have lately taken will I hope be productive of very [good?] Consequences to our State. To what Extent & Effect they may [. . .] It is not in human Prudence to determine because Human [Pru]dence cannot govern Events. I am not now at Liberty to state these Things but a little Time will I hope display them. The Torrent of Abuse which hath been poured out agt me hath doubt less reached my Constituents. 2 Those who know me will do me the Justice to think properly on the Occasion. Could I believe myself capable of any among the many Things which have been said I should heartily despise myself. One Consolation I derive from it and that is a great one. Those who vilify and traduce me are my Enemies because they are Enemies to the State I represent. They are my Enemies because I will not prostitute myself to the Purposes of Faction. Such Enmity I shall court rather than avoid. Nor can it ever give me one momentary Pang unless it should affect the Minds of my Constituents or my Friends. I pray you to pardon the Egotisms of this Letter & to believe me, most respectfully yours, Gouv. Morris RC (N: Clinton Papers). 1 For further information on the previous day’s debates on Vermont, see John Jay’s Notes of Debates, May 29, 1779. 2 See Morris to Joseph Reed, April 9 and 25; and Morris to John Dunlap, ca. April 25, 1779. Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dear Livingston Phila. 30th May 1779 It is now I beleive near three Months since I have written to you a Syllable or indeed to any Friend I have on Earth. 1 The General omission hath been owing to a Motive I hardly dare to name. It is however a Truth that I have not been a Moment that I was at once at Leizure in Health and alone. I should however have made Opportunities to write to you but I have been led to expect You here every Moment for the whole Time of my Silence, Why you have not come I know not Neither will I enquire because I hope you will personally give an Account of yourself at this


[Page 591]
May 30, 1779 557 Place in some very short Period. 2 This City is now the Scene of Politicks high and low I may add it is the Scene of Faction, Anarchy & Detraction. Never were the Affairs of any Country in a better and a worse Situation than those of America at this Moment. A Storm is gathering and will burst upon the Heads of our Enemies perhaps of our own. Would to God that the Desire of that great Luxury to be free was the Great Desire of my Countrymen. But other Luxuries more alluring have influence but too much upon this Conduct. The Torrent of Paper Money hath swept away with it much of our Morals and impaired the national Industry to a Degree truly alarming. Having successfully opposed the first energetic Efforts of the Enemy the struggle seems to have exhausted us and after foiling the Giant we shrink at the Touch of a Child. I fear before this reaches you Charlestown will no longer own the Authority of Congress. There indeed the Enemy will probably stop there they will collect their Forces and endeavor to weary us into a Submission by Harrassing our Coasts and Frontiers and striking at our Money. From Halifax, Rhode Island, New York, Portsmouth in Virginia & Charlestown their Cruizers will infest or rather destroy our Commerce and the little Armies necessary to watch their Motions and prevent their Ravages will effectually exhaust our little remaining Resources. This is one Side of the Picture. On the other like the Bottom of Pandora’s Box is Hope. Spain perhaps while I write this is in Arms and while France keeps Great Britain at Bay Gibral tar and Jamaica will call for Protection which they may not perhaps obtain. If the Squadron at St. Lucia is incapable of offensive Operations & kept in Check by D’Estaing five Ships of the Line would cleanse the Continent of her Foes, Or even if this should not be the Case a naval Victory in Favor of France either in Europe or America would turn the Ballance so powerfully in our Favor as to cover our Enemies with Confu sion. At any Rate a Continuance of the War must thoroughly exhaust them as well as us and the Business terminate as such Business usually does in the laying down of Arms from mutual Weariness. In this Case the most obstinate Councils would be the most efficacious. But whither am I going? Pray present all my Affections to your Family and give for me a gratulatory Kiss to the Brides of it. I think you have two. I wish much to see you. Mrs. Livingston’s Shoes will be well dried. By the bye I got two Pair instead of one. At 26 Dlls, per Pair & had I received your Note a Fortnight sooner should have paid only 16. If they were bought now the Price would be 40. O Tempora O Mores. God bless you, yours affectionally, Gouv Morris RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 Morris’ most recent extant letter to Livingston was dated January 21, 1779. A letter to Morris from Livingston of February 9 is in Livingston’s Papers, NHi. 2 Livingston was not elected a delegate until October 18; he began attending Congress on November 20, 1779. JCC, 15:1293-94.


[Page 593]
INDEX In this index descriptive subentries are arranged chronologically and in ascending order of the initial page reference. They may be preceded, however, by the subentry “identified” and by document subentries ar ranged alphabetically—diary entries, letters, notes, resolutions, and speeches. An ornament (☆) separates the subentry “identified” and docu ment subentries from descriptive subentries. Inclusive page references are supplied for descriptive subentries; for a document, only the page on which it begins is given. Eighteenth-century printed works are indexed both by author and by short title. Other printed works are indexed when they have been cited to document a substantive point discussed in the notes, but not when cited merely as the location of a document mentioned. Delegates who attended Congress during the period covered by this vol ume appear in boldface type. Accounts: James White, 131; John Chaloner, 131; prize, 185, 378, 395; William Hodge, 241-42; Joseph Trumbull, 267, 296, 433, 452, 460; Daniel Waters, 357; naval, 357; Samuel’Nicholson, 357; William Bingham, 357; William Heath, 427; of former Continen tal officers, 481; Silas Deane, 525; Joseph Baldesqui, 554 Accounts, commissioners of: pay and allowances, 79 Active (sloop), 7, 70, 141, 186, 187, 320, 372, 378, 400, 519, 529 Adams, Abigail Smith (Mrs. John), letters to, 81, 175 Adams, Andrew, 255 Adams, Elizabeth Wells (Mrs. Samuel), letters to, 158, 230 Adams, John: letters to, 164, 235, 379, 462; * correspondence reviewed, 33; letter quoted, 82; on Arthur Lee, 159, 219, 238; recall debated, 358, 432; attacked by Ralph Izard, 455-56; seeks restitution for American brig lost at Guadeloupe, 462; mentioned, 141, 167, 168 175, 370, 397, 407; see also Commissioners at Paris Adams, Samuel: letters from, 6, 24, 42, 48, 49, 75, 102, 111, 129, 158, 164, 211, 230, 231, 238, 272, 333, 342, 381, 390, 393, 401, 455, 467, 547; ☆ attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; marine committee, 6, 48, 547; on fiscal policy, 24-25; recommends Richard Checkley, 42; on public virtue, 50, 230-32; on peace prospects, 102; seeks sup port for orphans of Joseph Warren, 112; and Deane-Lee controversy, 158-59, 165-66, 204, 238, 337-39, 362, 364-67, 370, 410; Massachusetts Council secretary, 159, 230; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 204; peace terms committee, 227; requests replacement, 231; committee to confer with Pennsylvania, 260; opposes adoption of consular conven tion’by states, 272; confers with Gerard, 337-39, 364-67, 410; and recall debate, 368, 377; on peace terms, 401-2; health, 455; mentioned, 82, 87, 185, 205, 219, 291, 362, 437, 518, 520, 540, 550 Adams, Thomas: letters from, 26, 87, 377; * attends Congress, xxn; elected to Congress, xxii; portrait, xxvi, 88; recommends Col. Crozat de Crenis, 87; resigns from Congress, 377, 429; mentioned, 98, 517, 540 Address to the states (on finance), 537, 551 Admiralty proceedings: Continental appeals jurisdiction challenged, 140, 157, 373-75, 519, Stevens v. Henderson, 185-86; Gibbs v. Pillas, 207; Davis v. Gibbons, 232; Tredwell v. Lopez, 258; Brooks v. Lopez, 323; Houston v. Olmsted, 372-75; Massachusetts proceedings against 559


[Page 594]
560 Index Admiralty proceedings (continued) Spanish ships, 382; Cleaveland v. Luca, 519; Tracy v. Llano, 519; Continental appeals juris diction reaffirmed, 532 Agents, Continental; see Bingham, William; Bradford, John; Langdon, John; Lee, William; Smith, William; Williams, Jonathan Aitken, Robert, 255 Albany, N.Y., Indian treaty, 215 Albouy, Leonard: requests embargo exemption, 377; mentioned, 352 Alden, John R., Charles Lee, 11 Algiers, 109 Allen, William, 465 Alliance (Continental frigate), 20 Allison, William, exchange authorized, 502 Amboy, NJ., prisoner exchange conference, 448, 460 America (Continental ship), 550 “An American” (Gouverneur Morris pseudonym), 120, 152, 375 Andrew, Benjamin, elected to Congress, 298 Andrew Doria (Continental brig), 378 Andrews, Benjamin, death, 42 Annapolis, Md., 515, 522 Antislavery, 153 Aranda, Pedro Pablo Abarca de Bolea, conde de, 419 Armand-Tuffin, Charles, marquis de la Rouerie: letter to, 22; dr recruitment, 14, 23; pro motion denied, 22; mentioned, 20, 107 Arms and ammunition: imported, 3; manufacture in U.S. promoted, 6; for southern depart ment, 58-60, 438; mentioned, 20, 23, 53, 104, 128, 134, 329, 522; see also Cannon; Lead; Powder Armstrong, John, Jr., 282, 506 Armstrong, John, Sr.: letters from, 279, 445, 458, 482, 505; dr attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; confers with Pennsylvania Council, 187; committee on southern defense, 244; on foreign affairs, 279-80; on Benedict Arnold inquiry, 280; on Pennsylvania’s fron tier defense, 445-46; superintending committee, 458, 484; committee for Indian affairs, 527; mentioned, 249, 251, 368, 424 Army; see British army; Continental Army; Militia Arnold, Benedict: letter to, 475; * condemned by Pennsylvania, xxv, 3, 18, 26, 76, 90-91, 95-96, 127, 251, 255, 384-85; plans western land development, 17-18; supports orphans of Joseph Warren, 111-12; congressional inquiry, 143, 152, 163, 178-80, 204, 249, 266, 280, 283, 317; and Active appeal, 320; court-martial, 325, 339, 475; mentioned, 52, 93, 137, 187, 221, 239, 329, 345, 368, 394, 400, 424 Articles of Confederation; see Confederation, Articles of Artillery: Continental, 73, 89, 101, 325, 392; winter quarters, 355; Pennsylvania, 427; see also Cannon Ashley, Samuel, elected to Congress, xviii Atlee, Samuel J.: attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; committee on general officers, 424; committee on prisoner exchange, 502; mentioned, 87, 517 Auditors: appointed, 37, 98, 198, 394; mentioned, 481 Augusta, Ga.: attack on repulsed, 134; recaptured, 202, 304; mentioned, 174 Austin, Benjamin: identified, 167; letter to, 164; mentioned, 433 Austin, Jonathan Loring, seeks reimbursement for French mission, 471 Austria, 72, 372 Avery, John: letter to, 478; mentioned, 44, 223, 224 Aylett, William: letters to, 191, 253; ☆ supplies flour for French fleet, 196; charges Silas Deane with fraud, 242; marine committee instructions, 253-54; mentioned, 190, 483 Bacon, Francis, quoted, 289 Bahama Islands: retaliation against, recommended, 247; exemption for seizure of property from, repealed, 259, 263; mentioned, 151, 244


[Page 603]
Index 569 Duck, 6 Ducks, 351 Duer, William: statement, 167; ☆ on Silas Deane, 9, 525; thanked by New York assembly, 97; denies partisan intrusion into Pennsylvania politics, 167-73; mentioned, 120, 556 Duffield, George, 354 Dugan, Cumberland, 333, 390, 391 Dunlap, John: letter to, 372; mentioned, 25, 68, 167, 281, 370, 376, 383, 433, 489 Dunning, John, 371 Du Ponceau, Pierre Etienne, 348 Duportail, Louis Le Begue de Presle: letter to, 463; ☆ plans West Point fortifications, 458; appointed commander of engineers, 463-64; mentioned, 128 Durst, Mr. (messenger), 347 Dyer, Eliphalet: letter from, 51; ☆ attends Congress, xvi; elected to Congress, xvi; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 109; committee on southern defense, 244; mentioned, 3, 87, 98 Eagle (packet), 356 Eastern military department: Horatio Gates’ command, 286; commander’s allowances au dited, 427; flour needs, 482 Eastern navy board: letters to, 6, 24, 45, 103, 121, 176, 190, 219, 254, 356, 380, 395, 411, 429, 496, 546; * marine committee instructions, 6, 24, 45, 103, 121, 176, 190, 219, 254, 356, 380, 395, 411, 429, 496, 546; sent money, 24, 85, 101, 103, 121, 140, 190,’ 392,’ 546; borrows money, 202; requests salary increase, 232; recommends attack on Hudson Bay posts, 356; censures Richard Palmes, 390; suspends John B. Hopkins, 430, 546; pay and allowances, 456; mentioned, 42 Eayres, Joseph, court-martialed, 75, 176, 333 Edenton, N.C., 100 Edler, Friedrich, Dutch Republic and the American Revolution, 331 Edwards, Evan, 271 Edwards, Timothy, elected to Congress, xviii Effingham (Continental frigate), 308 Eichelberger, Martin, resignation, 288 Elbert, Samuel, captured, 271, 304 Elizabethtown, NJ., 113, 121, 126, 131, 135, 136 Ellery, William: letters from, 40, 70, 137, 181, 201, 233, 264, 304, 331, 359, 423, 431, 441, 528, 533; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; foreign affairs inquiry com mittee, 3, 7, 15, 21, 32, 43, 53; on fiscal policy, 181, 529; committee on appeals, 186, 258, 314, 323; on Rhode Island defense, 265; requests replacement, 442; mentioned, 267, 351, 352, 362, 478, 494 Ellsworth, Abigail Wolcott (Mrs. Oliver), letter to, 13 Ellsworth, Oliver: letters from, 13, 51, 57; letters to, 432, 533; * attends Congress, xvi; elected to Congress, xvi; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 3, 7, 21, 32, 43, 53, 58; leaves Congress, 14; mentioned, 92 Embargo: exemptions requested, 3, 40, 51, 76, 110, 129-30, 137-38, 249, 334, 352, 377,400; exemptions authorized, 33-34, 38, 114, 154, 272, 342, 345-46, 352, 484, 491; exemption denied, 437 Emerson, Moses: letter to, 79; death, 505 Emlen, Anne, letter to, 35 Engineers: southern department, 6, 20, 58; Continental, 325, 458; Duportail appointed commander of, 463-64; pay and allowances, 463-64 Engrossment; see Monopolization Enlistments; see Bounties; Continental Army Erkelens, Gosuinus, 500 Erskine, William, 355 “Essex Result” (Theophilus Parsons), 161 Estaing, Charles-Henri-Theodat, comte d’: repulsed at St. Lucia, 7, 19, 56; aid for Georgia sought, 20-22, 25, 59; returns to North America, 455; mentioned, 12, 32, 73, 149, 265, 295, 299, 305, 341, 392, 410, 418, 445, 448, 505, 557


[Page 604]
570 Index Ewing, George, resignation, 378 Exchanges; see Prisoners of war Exportation; see Embargo; Trade Fabbroni, Giovanni: identified, 89; letter to, 87 Fair Play (brigantine), 462 Family Compact, 133 Fast Day, set by Congress, xxvii, 211, 225, 237, 240, 433 Fast Day proclamation, illustrated, 212 Fell, John: diary, 3, 6, 14, 19, 20, 25, 31, 37, 43,52, 57, 69, 76, 87, 89, 92,98, 105, 109, 110, 112, 126, 132, 140, 145, 153, 157, 163, 174, 184, 186, 188, 197, 199, 204, 208, 211, 223, 234, 239, 244, 248, 255, 259, 265, 267, 271, 273, 282, 296, 301, 306, 308, 315, 327, 332, 335, 339, 343, 352, 358, 362, 368, 377, 378, 386, 394, 400, 403, 408, 414, 421, 425, 433, 436, 438, 448, 458, 462, 468, 477, 484, 490, 495, 502, 506, 516, 530, 537, 548, 551, 552; letters from, 6, 187, 245; * attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 3, 7, 15, 21, 32, 53, 110; marine committee, 109, 132; committee of commerce, 188; complains of treatment by fellow delegates, 245; visits Bristol, 468; on Vermont dispute, 553; mentioned, 227, 404 Fell, Peter, 551 Fell, Susanna Marschalk McIntosh (Mrs. John), 551 Ferdinand, Prince, 194 Few, William, elected to Congress, 298 Finance: fiscal reforms debated, 403-5; end of paper emissions debated, 500; “address” on, sent to the states, 537, 551; see also Accounts; Board of treasury; Congress, appropriations; Continental loan office; Loans, foreign; Paper currency; Prices; Requisitions; Taxation Fisher, Henry: letter to, 367; marine committee instructions, 367; mentioned, 345 Fisher, Jabez, 479 Fisheries: as peace terms, 129, 223, 226-28, 265, 299, 393, 402, 438, 462, 465-67, 494, 548-49; and North Carolina-Henry Laurens controversy, 275-79, 282-83, 285, 288-94, 314 Fitzhugh, William: elected to Congress, 429; mentioned, 177 Flags, state, 109 Fleming, William: letters from, 435, 449, 507, 512; * attends Congress, xxii, 393, 450; elected to Congress, xxii; requests replacement, 449; on fiscal policy, 507-8 Fleury, Francois-Louis Teissedre de: promotion recommended, 348; mentioned, 282 Flexner, James T., Traitor and the Spy, 144 Florida: claims to, 72, 83; mentioned, 150 Flour: embargo exemption requested, 3; for French fleet, 11-13, 196, 482-84, 498; New England shortage, 33-34, 38, 40, 76, 110, 114, 127, 129-30, 137-38, 154, 249, 272, 342, 345-46, 390; price, 139, 361, 431; for Continental Navy, 253-55; purchases halted, 359, 361-62; mentioned, 8,37,42,45,46,192,263, 273,303, 333,334,381, 389,391,397,412, 435, 457, 458, 462, 548 Flower, Benjamin: letter to, 59; mentioned, 52, 352 Floyd, William: letters from, 7, 17, 90, 94, 99, 101, 469, 530; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; criticizes staff officers, 90; seeks reimbursement, 99; and Benedict Arnold inquiry, 143; mentioned, 3 Fly, wheat infestation, 37, 138 Folger, John, 228, 376 Folsom, Nathaniel: elected to Congress, xviii, 357; mentioned, 29 Fontevieux, Jean-Baptiste-Georges, chevalier de, joins Col. Armand’s corps, 107 Forbes, James, elected to Congress, xvii Ford, Hezekiah, disloyalty suspected, 261, 294-95 Ford, Worthington C., 227, 362 Foreign affairs: Anglo-French relations, 62-68; Anglo-Russian relations, 67, 72, 118-19; Anglo-Spanish relations, 68, 142, 197, 262; peace terms debated, 71-73; Anglo-Prussian relations, 72; peace prospects conjectured, 102; effects of American independence assessed, 118-19; Spanish mediation offer, 122, 205, 279, 548; Franco-Spanish relations, 133; An-


[Page 606]
572 Index Gardner, Henry, 225 Gardner, Joseph, 45, 128, 331 Gardner, Rufus, 186 Gardoqui, Joseph & Sons, 15 Garnier, Charles-Jean, 418 Gates, Horatio: letters to, 127, 176, 279, 286, 298, 330, 354, 451, 505; ☆ proposes Canada expedition, 287, 299; relations with Washington, 287, 363-64; requests money, 441, 451; mentioned, 6, 52, 98, 394, 427 Geese, 351 Geismar, baron de, exchange proposed, 511 Gelelemend (Delaware chief), 536 General Arnold (schooner), 190, 192, 253, 254 General Gates (Continental brig), 357, 429, 496 George I, 375 George III: letter to, 61; addresses Parliament, 38, 41, 52; satirized, 61-68; mentioned, 141 George, Clifford & Tysett, 183, 184 Georgia: invaded, 9, 39, 297-98, 304; French naval support for, debated, 20-22; recruit ment of blacks in recommended, 244, 247; unrepresented, 297-98, 341; organizes tempo rary government, 298; prisoners exchanged, 308; assigned Continental naval force, 429; mentioned, 93, 109, 115, 131, 155, 160, 181, 198, 259, 274, 379; see also Houstoun, John Georgia delegates, attendance, 297-98 Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre: letters to, 21, 381, 426, 510, 518, 519, 551; * seeks provisions for French fleet, 11-13; requests compensation for naval aid to Georgia, 20-22; toasts Franco-American alliance, 25; requests American peace terms, 71-73, 227, 265, 279, 548; announces intent to return to France, 92; offends Congress, 265; seeks consular conven tion, 272; distrusted, 299, 331; health, 324; view of Arthur Lee, 336-39, 364-67, 387-89; 408-11; seeks Continental intervention against Massachusetts privateers, 382, 495, 518-19; visits Washington at headquarters, 387, 391, 416, 432; announces birth of French princess, 425-26; advises appointment of American minister to Spain, 438, 448; reports French naval plans, 454; reports prospects for French loan, 459; on restitution for Ameri can brig lost at Guadeloupe, 462; and Deane-Lee controversy, 513-15; addresses Dela ware Indians, 551-52; mentioned, xxix, 37, 38, 56, 69, 74, 87, 99, 105, 106, 120, 136, 141, 159, 184, 196, 200, 204, 205, 208, 223, 277, 293, 302, 303, 305, 328, 344, 351, 392, 433, 437’ 44o’ 442, 445, 451, 456, 457, 505, 506 Gerard (privateer), 373 Gerry, Elbridge: letters from, 129, 211, 272, 333, 381, 390, 462, 467; ☆ attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii; board of treasury, 203; and Deane-Lee controversy, 205, 362;’requests replacement, 213; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 362; criticizes staff officers, 477; on fisheries claims, 549; on Vermont dispute, 553; mentioned, 127, 185, 204, 273, 324, 379 Gervais, John Lewis, 201, 284, 310, 326, 341, 347, 416, 428, 460, 518, 555 Gibbons, William, Davis v. Gibbons appeal, 232 Gibbs, William, Gibbs v. Pillas appeal, 207 Gibbs v. Pillas, committee on appeals decree, 207 Giberne, Isaac, 389 Gibraltar, 150, 151 Gibson, John: identified, 545; mentioned, 427, 544 Gilchrist, James: seeks passport, 174; mentioned, 199 Gillett, Mary C., Army Medical Department, 480 Gilpin, Samuel, flour quota set, 431 Ginn, Mr., 453 Gist, Mordecai, reassignment requested, 516, 522 Glascock, William, 297, 298 Glover, John: granted furlough, 133; mentioned, 211, 265, 442 Glynn, John, 371 Gold: price, 86, 507; mentioned, 110 Good Friday, observance debated, 273


[Page 607]
Index 573 Gorham, Nathaniel, 249, 272 Gosport, Va., 191, 397 Govane, James, flour quota set, 431 Grain, importation requested by Bermuda, 352 Granby (British sloop), 208 Grand, Ferdinand, 241, 417, 420 Grand, George, 417, 420 Grant, James, 285, 295, 304 Great Britain: Spanish mediation offer, 29, 38, 71, 122, 205, 279, 548; relations with France, 62-68; relations with Russia, 67, 72, 118-19; relations with Spain, 68, 142, 197, 262; relations with Prussia, 72; trade with, 183; fisheries claims, 226-28, 292, 466; relations with Dutch, 330-31; appeals jurisdiction analyzed, 373-75; see also British army; British navy; Carlisle Peace Commission; George III; Parliament Green, Ebenezer, exchanged, 209, 237 Greene, Christopher, arranges Rhode Island regiment, 70 Greene, Nathanael: letters to, 132, 205, 346, 491; * requests tents, 6; requests wagon rules revision, 346, 352, 368, 377, 383, 400, 442 Greene, William: letters to, 38, 40, 114, 137, 154, 181, 189, 201, 225, 263, 304, 306, 331, 345, 359, 431, 441, 510, 528, 532, 533, 551; mentioned, 445, 453 Griffin, Cyrus: letters from, 26, 435; * attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; board of treasury, 203; commercial practices criticized, 340; mentioned, 76, 513, 517 Griffith, Joshua, Brooks v. Lopez appeal, 323 Grotius, Hugo, 63 Guadeloupe, 462, 467 Gurney, Francis, 112 Hacker, Hoysted, 190 Hake, Samuel, 81 Half-pay plan: state proposals, 270, 281; adopted by North Carolina, 499; mentioned, 334 Hall, Joseph, 530 Hall, Lyman, elected to Congress, xvii, 298 Hall, William, seeks recovery of slave, 253 Hall & Sellers, 41, 307 Hamilton, Alexander, 347 Hamilton, Henry: captured, 504, 509, 512, 529; mentioned, 533 Hamlet (Shakespeare): quoted, 253; mentioned, 416 Hammond, Col., 201, 202 Hampden (New Hampshire brig), 162 Hancock, Ebenezer: letters to, 240, 538; sent money, 240; mentioned, 451 Hancock, John: elected to Congress, xviii; mentioned, 15, 16, 45, 128, 159, 224, 266 Hand, Edward, seniority claims, 424 Hannah & Maty (schooner), 496 Harding, Seth: letters to, 47, 344; ☆ receives cruising instructions, 46-49; marine committee instructions, 47, 344; inquiry ordered, 396; mentioned, 367, 546 Hardy, John, 298 Hardy, Joseph, 485 Harnage, Henry, seeks travel permit, 333 Harnett, Cornelius, elected to Congress, xx, 517 Harrison, Col., 223 Harrison, Charles, 325 Harrison, Robert H.: reports prisoner exchange negotiations, 454; mentioned, 236, 460 Hart, John, 98 Hart, Thomas: identified, 61; letter to, 61 Hartford, Conn., 79, 323 Hartley, Thomas: letter to, 80; resignation, 69, 80; mentioned, 109, 288 Harvard College, 393 Harvie, John: asserts Continental over state authority, 315; mentioned, 251, 422


[Page 614]
580 Index McKean, Thomas: letter from, 4; ☆ attends Congress, xvii, 363, 368, 424; elected to Con gress, xvii; dispute with William Thompson, 4-5, 318; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 7, 15, 21, 58; and recall debate, 368-69, 377; committee on general officers, 424; on fisheries claims, 549; mentioned, 35, 421, 447 McKesson, John, letter to, 90 McKinly, John, 5 McLane, Allen, seeks recruiting expenses, 492 McLene, James: attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; mentioned, 249, 251 McLure, John, seeks naval protection for Baltimore, 108 McNeill, Hector, 98 McNutt, Alexander, proposes road to Nova Scotia, 306 MacPherson, William, 301 McQueen, John, 200, 284 Magaw, Robert: seniority claims, 424; exchange authorized, 502 Malcolm, Capt., 129 Malcom, William, 156, 469 Manigault, Gabriel, 417 Manning, James, 264 Marchant, Henry, elected to Congress, xxii Marine committee: letters from, 6, 24, 45, 47, 48, 100, 103, 107, 121, 136, 142, 176, 177, 185, 190, 191, 219, 253, 254, 274, 336, 344, 356, 367, 378, 380, 395, 397, 411, 429, 430, 496, 546, 547; report, 356; ☆ considers Pennsylvania request to buy frigate, 3; instructs eastern navy board, 6, 24, 45, 103, 121, 176, 190, 219, 254, 356, 380, 395, 411, 429, 496, 546; requisitions duck, 6; disbursements, 24, 103, 121, 140, 190, 392, 546; seeks shipping, 42; instructs Joseph Olney, 47; instructs Seth Harding, 47, 344; on naval defense of the Chesapeake, 107-8; requests prize accounts, 185, 378; authorizes purchase of schooner, 190; instructs Maxwell & Loyall, 190; lowers commission charges to French fleet, 190; authorizes sale of Revenge, 191; instructs William Smith, 191, 254; inefficiency lamented, 234; instructs John Beatty, 253, 336; instructs William Aylett, 253; seeks return of slave, 253; rents office, 255; seeks transports, 263; sells frigate hulks, 308; authorizes attack on Hudson Bay posts, 356; recommends southern defense measures, 356; instructs Henry Fisher, 367; conduct analyzed, 386-87; instructs commissioners at Paris, 395; instructs Samuel Tucker, 397; redeploys Continental fleet, 429; commends John B. Hopkins, 430; suspends naval captains, 496; rejects proposal for naval offensive, 547; mentioned, 12, 57, 98, 106, 109, 132, 135, 202, 232, 245, 272, 282, 302, 343; see also Continental Navy; Eastern navy board Marines, 356, 390 Martinique, 7, 104, 105, 341, 462, 505 Maryland: arms factory in, proposed, 6; fiscal quota, 8; provisions requested, 8, 37, 40, 266; arms for southern department sought, 17; Continental troops, 38; opposes Articles of Confederation, 51, 380; Continental loan office, 70, 461; and naval defense of the Chesa peake, 108; flour sought, 138, 154, 273, 303, 333, 342, 435, 483, 485; reimbursed for property damage by Georgia troops, 304; refuses to export flour, 334; grain export to Bermuda authorized, 352; Continental officers, 358; flour purchases halted, 359, 361; flour quota set, 431; urged to lend cannon, 444, 461; sent money, 457, 460, 485, 494, 523; instructs delegates on Articles of Confederation, 508, 512; militia, 516, 522; requests Con tinental aid, 516, 522; see also Johnson, Thomas Maryland assembly: letter to, 136; anti-merchant sentiment, 340 Maryland Council: grants passport to James Gilchrist, 175; requests money, 408 Maryland delegates: letters from, 8, 40, 136, 266, 303, 460, 485, 494, 515; letter to, 273 Mason, David: court-martialed, 75; mentioned, 52 Mason, George (1725-92), 235, 422, 503 Mason, George (1753-96), 235 Mason, Thomson: identified, 503; letter to, 503; mentioned, 495, 510, 511 Massachusetts: requests embargo exemption, 3, 38, 76, 110, 114, 129-30, 154, 249, 272, 334, 342, 346; privateer commissions, 145, 225, 346; constitutional revisions proposed, 161; asked to promote salt works, 200; Continental troops, 213; requests Continental naval


[Page 615]
Index 581 Massachusetts (continued) protection, 232; maritime law, 373; returns borrowed cannon, 427; requests money, 479, 484; sent money, 531 Massachusetts admiralty court: proceedings against Spanish ships, 382, 495, 519, 529; men tioned, 532 Massachusetts Board of War: letter to, 75; imports flour, 342, 381, 390-91 Massachusetts Council: letters to, 38, 114, 129, 189, 211, 223, 225, 272, 306, 333, 381, 390, 459, 484, 510, 531, 532, 551 accuses Continental officers, 75, 81, 176; status of secretary Samuel Adams, 159, 230; orders delegates to report more often, 213; requests information on consular powers, 272; mentioned, 52 Massachusetts delegates: letters from, 129, 211, 272, 333, 342, 381, 390, 391,467;^ pay and allowances, 223-24; arrange remittances for flour shipment, 381, 390-91; mentioned, 133 Masts, 85 Mather, James, seeks compensation for impressed cattle, 286 Mathew, Edward, raids Virginia, 450 Mathews, John, elected to Congress, xxii Mathews, Thomas, 495 Matlack, Timothy: letters to, 26, 187, 367, 424;☆ attacks William Duer, 173; attacks Gou verneur Morris, 384; mentioned, 222 Maxwell, James: letters to, 190, 253, 397; marine committee instructions, 190 Maxwell, William: repulses British attack, 121, 126, 134; mentioned, 95, 113, 131, 197, 450, 477 Mazzei, Philip, 87 Mazzei, Philip, Memoirs, 89 Meade, Everard, 309, 335, 344, 382 Medical committee, 32, 335, 351, 480 Medical department: sent money, 339; appropriations reduced, 351; provisioning, 479 Mercenaries: Hessian, 99; mentioned, 41 Mercer, Maj., 520, 540 Mercer, James, elected to Congress, 429 Mermaid (H.M. Frigate), 254 Middagh, Dirck: identified, 78; letter to, 78 Middleton, Arthur, elected to Congress, xxii Mifflin, Thomas, resignation, 110 Mifflin (privateer), 258 Militia: New Jersey, 78, 428; North Carolina, 195, 517; receive Continental pay, 281, 284, 286; drafts from, 358; New York, 358; Virginia, 399; Pennsylvania, 426, 427; Maryland, 516, 522; mentioned, 391, 446, 458, 503 Millet, Joseph, 24 Minorca, 150, 151 Minott, Samuel, 552 Mintz, Max M., Gouverneur Morris, 386 Miralles, Juan de: seeks Continental intervention against Massachusetts privateers, 382, 518-19; visits Washington at headquarters, 416; mentioned, 135, 433 Mississippi River, navigation of, 72 Mitchell, John: and Benedict Arnold inquiry, 143; mentioned, 127 Money; see Paper currency Monmouth, battle of, 10 Monopolization, xxix, 41, 457 Montieu, Jean-Joseph Carrier de, 32 Moore, Henry, 214 Moran, John, 496 Morgan, George: dispute with Lachlan McIntosh, 193-94, 493, 527; conducts Delaware chiefs to Congress, 477, 480, 527, 536, 542-45; on Virginia land claims, 481; explains murder of White Eyes, 545 Morgan, William J., Captains to the Northward, 234, 497


[Page 622]
588 Index St. Eustatia, 336 St. Johns Island, 462 St. Lucia: French forces repulsed at, 7, 19, 56; British army at debilitated, 105-6; men tioned, 93, 138, 295 St. Martin, 305 St. Vincent, 56 Salisbury, Conn., iron furnace, 271 Salt: manufacture recommended, 200; imported, 501; price, 501; mentioned, 458, 483, 548 Saltonstall, Dudley: appointed to command Warren, 496; mentioned, 190, 396 Sands, Comfort, 192, 193 Santander y los Santos Martires (Spanish ship), 519 Saratoga, battle of, 235 Savage, Samuel P., 50 Savannah, Ga., captured, 39, 195 Savelle, Max, George Morgan, 481, 528 Saxony, 63 Sayre, Stephen, 419 Schulenburg, Karl Friedrich Gebhart, baron von, 32 Schuyler, Philip: letters to, 97, 209, 211, 216, 217, 241, 359, 413; ☆elected to Congress, xx; resignation, 98, 352, 355, 383, 413; resignation rejected, 208-10, 214, 216-18; Indian affairs commissioner, 210, 437; resignation accepted, 359; mentioned, 35, 94, 283 Schweighauser, John, 32 Scollay, Mercy: letter to, 111; cares for orphans of Joseph Warren, 111-12 Scudder, Nathaniel: attends Congress, xix, 245-46, 386; elected to Congress, xix; relations with Henry Laurens, 246; committee on prisoner exchange, 502; mentioned, 550 Scull, Nicholas, xxv Searle, James: letters from, 6, 187; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 3, 7, 15, 21, 32, 43, 53, 58; marine committee, 109, 132; committee of commerce, 188; and Beaumarchais contract, 458; mentioned, 251, 550 Seaton, George, 184 Secret committee, 32, 126; see also Committee of commerce Secret service; see Washington, George, secret service operations Secretary of Congress; see Thomson, Charles Seneca Indians: expedition against authorized, 270, 281; mentioned, 445, 505, 535 Sergeant, Jonathan Dickinson, and Deane-Lee controversy, 549 Serious Considerations on Several Important Subjects (Anthony Benezet), 153 Shakespeare, William, quoted, 253, 353 Sharpe, Joseph, Jr., 61 Sharpe, William: letters from, 498, 499; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; mentioned, 61, 546 Shaw, Nathaniel: letter to, 378; marine committee instructions, 378 Sheafe, Jacob, 301 Shelburne, 2d earl of (William Petty), 158, 218, 371, 418, 419 Sherman, Roger: letters from, 485, 500, 528; ☆ attends Congress, xvi, 432; elected to Con gress, xvi; on fiscal policy, 485-86, 500; on Continental jurisdiction over western lands, 523; committee for Indian affairs, 527; on fisheries claims, 549; on Vermont dispute, 553; mentioned, 57 Shewell, Joseph, 131 Shewell, Stephen, 131 Shipbuilding, in Virginia, 191 Shippen, Alice Lee (Mrs. William), 197 Shippen, William, Jr.: letters to, 350, 479; mentioned, 31 Shippen, William, Sr.: attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; mentioned, 351, 380 Shoes, price, 557 Shrewsbury, N.J., plundered, 428 Sicily: U.S. trade with, 204, 280; mentioned, 262, 371 Silliman, Gold, exchange authorized, 502


[Page 623]
Index 589 Simpson, Thomas, 430 Sinepuxent, Md., 190, 192 Six Nations: land claims eyed, 214-16; mentioned, 35, 265, 413, 437 Skene, Philip, 479 Slavery: Anthony Benezet’s opposition to, 153; emancipation hoped for, 258, 398 Slaves: return of runaways proposed, 253; Henry Laurens’, 284; mentioned, 277; see also Blacks Slops, price, 190 Smallpox, 504 Smith, Meriwether: letters from, 26, 103, 182, 435, 480, 512; speech, 486; ☆ attends Con gress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; dispute with Henry Laurens, xxviii; and Deane-Lee controversy, 104, 125, 433-35; praises conduct of France, 104; attacks Carter Braxton, 182-84; on prisoner-exchange proposals, 195; peace terms committee, 227; opposes com promising conflict with Pennsylvania, 250, 260; moves to have delegates share private intelligence from abroad, 255; recommends reorganization of committee of commerce, 260-62; commercial practices criticized, 340; and recall debate, 358; and Beaumarchais contract, 458; attacks Henry Laurens, 472-75, 486-89; and unauthorized publication of congressional proceedings, 489; mentioned, 87, 127, 249, 267, 440, 468, 495, 517 Smith, Rebecca Moore (Mrs. William), 351 Smith, Samuel, captured, 406 Smith, Thomas, 127, 406, 451 Smith, William: letters to, 191, 254; ☆seeks naval protection for Baltimore, 108; marine committee instructions, 191, 253-54; mentioned, 46, 483 Smith, William (Lt. Col.), court-martialed, 75 Smith, William (1727-1803), 351 Smithfield, N.C., 516 Snowdan, Mr., 413 Sosin, Jack M., Revolutionary Frontier, 509 South Carolina: fiscal quota, 138, 154-55; rice sought by Rhode Island, 138; British incur sion, 188; defense measures, 200, 329, 331, 356; Indian policy, 215; appeals for aid, 238, 400, 437; recommends recruitment of blacks, 242-44, 247; Continental troops, 246-47; defense needs, 275, 282-83; mentioned, 189, 258, 259; see also Rutledge, John South Carolina delegates: letters from, 60, 437; letter to, 277 Southern military department: reinforced, 6, 17, 20, 23, 39, 58-60, 280, 433, 463; arms for, captured, 134; paymaster remittances, 154; prisoner exchange proposals, 188, 308; Lach lan McIntosh assigned to, 194; auditors appointed, 198; reinforcements requested, 239; recruitment of blacks for, recommended, 242-44, 247; defense measures, 268, 437, 452-53; casualties, 271; command change authorized, 343-44, 470-71; paymaster ap pointed, 554; mentioned, 288, 493 Spain: Arthur Lee mission, 4, 83; subsidy from, expected, 15, 21; king toasted by Congress, 25; offers mediation to Britain, 29, 38, 71, 122, 205, 279, 548; relations with Britain, 68, 197, 262; seeks masts, 83; relations with France, 133; entry into the war rumored, 142, 342-43; reported to acknowledge American independence, 336; view of Arthur Lee, 387-88, 410, 419; appointment of American minister to, 438, 448; mentioned, 82, 102, 119, 163, 334 Specie, 107, 216, 343, 395, 401, 427 Spencer, Joseph: letters from, 432, 528, 533; ☆ attends Congress, xvii, 227, 255; elected to Congress, xvii; committee on prisoner exchange, 502; mentioned, 500 Spotswood, Alexander: seeks reinstatement in the army, 436; mentioned, 177 Springfield, Mass.: Continental laboratory, 52, 75; mentioned, 81, 176, 333 Stamp Act, 375 Stark, John, 235 States’ rights: and admiralty appeals jurisdiction, 140, 157, 373-75, 519; adoption of con sular convention by states opposed, 272; Continental officials infringe Pennsylvania au thority, 315-16; state pass granting authority reaffirmed, 345-47; prisoner-exchange au thority debated, 476 Steel, Archibald, court-martialed, 105, 325, 382


[Page 624]
590 Index Stelle, Benjamin, sent money, 538 Steuben, Friedrich Wilhelm Ludolf Gerhard Augustin, baron von: letters to, 111, 302; * commended, 302; pay and allowances, 308, 348; mentioned, 89 Stevens, David, Stevens v. Henderson appeal, 185-86 Stevens, Ebenezer, 213 Stevens, Tomlin, “Carter Braxton,” 184 Stevens v. Henderson, committee on appeals decree, 185-86 Stevenson, James, letter to, 79 Stiles, Capt., 342 Stille, Mr., 240 Story, William, seeks pay increase, 456 Sugar: price, 351; mentioned, 186, 333 Sullivan, John: letters to, 264, 267; ☆ seeks reinforcements, 91; sent money, 264, 267; Indian expedition, 504-5; mentioned, 198, 492 Summary, Historical and Political (William Douglass), 375 Sumner, Job, Continental commission, 309 Superintending committee; see Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments) Supplies; see Arms and ammunition; Clothier general’s department; Clothing; Committee of commerce; Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments); Continental Army; Continental Navy; Powder; Quartermaster general’s department; Washington, George Surinam, 330 Swan, Henry Keis, Frederick Frelinghuysen, 78 Sweden, 119, 156 Swift, Mr., 86 Swope, Michael, appeals for reimbursement, 426 Symonds, Thomas, 475 Tallmadge, Benjamin, 240 Tardiveau, Barthelemi, 15 Taxation: in New York, 90, 100; in Connecticut, 443; frequent levies recommended, 504; mentioned, 96, 139, 237, 380, 461, 508 Tayler, John, 210 Tayloe, John, death, 370, 388 Tea, 104, 333 Telfair, Edward: elected to Congress, xvii, 298; mentioned, 296, 347 Temple, Richard Grenville-Temple, earl, 371 Temple, Robert, 109 Tents, 6 Tetepachksit (Delaware chief), 536 Therese (French vessel), 4 Thompson, Ebenezer, 29 Thompson, John, 536 Thompson, William: dispute with Thomas McKean, 4-5, 318; exchange authorized, 502; mentioned, 507 Thomson, Charles: letters from, 95, 219, 376, 468; notes, 242, 378; *on Pennsylvania’s dispute with Congress, 95-96, 219-22; secret journals, 227; accused of losing congressional documents, 376; criticized by Henry Laurens, 524; criticized by Richard Henry Lee, 550; mentioned, 15, 87, 110, 139, 142, 251, 260, 265, 268, 269, 296, 303, 322, 362, 368, 388, 421, 438, 473, 478, 487, 513, 521, 545 Thomson, John, flour quota set, 431 Thomson, Mr. (messenger), 340 Thornton, John, 33, 242 “Tiberius Gracchus” (Timothy Matlack pseudonym): attacks William Duer, 167; men tioned, 120, 384 Tilghman, Matthew: attacked by Samuel Chase, 520; mentioned, 540


[Page 628]
594 Index Winthrop, John, letter to, 24 Winthrop, John (1638-1707), 375 Witherspoon, John: attends Congress, xix, 268, 336, 386, 490; elected to Congress, xix; leaves Congress, 110, 315, 358; peace terms committee, 227; mentioned, 87, 98, 141, 205, 245, 252, 317, 433, 524 Wood, Joseph, elected to Congress, xvii Wyandot Indians, 544 Wynkoop, Henry: attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi Wynkoop, Jacobus: letter to, 433; compensated for Lakes command, 433 Wyoming Valley: raided, 304; mentioned, 446 Wythe, George, 422 York, Pa., 348 Young, Moses: relations with William Henry Drayton, 327; mentioned, 242, 284, 285, 290, 291, 294, 311, 358, 475, 478, 496 Young, Thomas, 552 Zantzinger, Mr., 134 Zedwitz, Herman, 271 Zeisberger, David, 536


[Page 629]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd* Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield* Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts Historical Society Jack P. Greene Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen* Editor o/'The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Constitution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia University George C. Rogers, Jr. Caroline McKissick Dial Professor of American History, University of South Carolina •Deceased. ■jir U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE: 1985—0—448-797 595
