Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 11, October 1, 1778 to January 31, 1779
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_11/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 5]
th th & October 1, 1778—January 31, 1779 Paul H. Smith, Editor Gerard W. Gawalt, Associate Editor With the assistance of Ronald M. Gephart and Eugene R. Sheridan LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON 1985


[Page 6]
This volume is printed on permanent/durable paper. Library of Congress Cataloging in Publication Data (Revised for volume 11) Main entry under title: Letters of delegates to Congress, 1774-1789. Includes bibliographical references and indexes. Supt. of Docs, no.: LC 1.2:L56 1. United States. Continental Congress—History— Sources—Collected works. I. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931— JK1033.L47 973.3’12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set) LSB 0-8444-0454-3 (v. 11) For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, D.C. 20402


[Page 7]
VJl S" Editorial Method and Apparatus In its treatment of documents this edition of delegate letters strives to achieve a middle ground between facsimile reproduction and thor ough modernization. The original spelling and grammar are allowed to stand except where editorial changes or insertions are required to make the text intelligible. For example, when a badly misspelled word is misleading, the correct spelling is inserted in roman type in brackets after the word. Moreover, words omitted through oversight have been supplied at appropriate places in italic type in brackets. Obvious slips of the pen and inadvertent repetitions are usually silently corrected. Capitalization and punctuation have been standard ized according to certain conventions. Each sentence begins with a capital letter, as do all proper and geographic names as well as days of the week and months of the year. Doubtful cases have been resolved in favor of modern usage; otherwise the usage of the original texts has been followed. Generally, abbreviations, contractions, and monetary signs are preserved as they appear in manuscript except when they are ambiguous or misleading. On the other hand, the thorn and the tilde are consistently expanded. “Ye” always appears as “The,” for instance, and "recvd” as “received.” Likewise, “pr.” and tailed p’s are always expanded to “per,” “pre,” or “pro,” as the case demands. Finally, superscript letters are always lowered to the line. Gaps in the text are indicated by ellipses in brackets for missing words and by blank spaces in brackets for missing numbers. Conjec tural readings are supplied in roman type in brackets, and editorial insertions in italic type in brackets. Material canceled in manuscript but restored to the printed text is included in italic type in angle brackets (“square parentheses”). Marginalia in letters are treated as postscripts if not obviously keyed to the body of the document, and postscripts which appear without explicit designation are supplied with a P.S. in brackets. Documents are arranged chronologically, with more than one document of the same date arranged alphabetically according to writer. Documents dated only by the month or by the year are placed at the end of the respective month or year. Place-and- date lines always appear on the same line with the salutation regard less of their position in the manuscript. A descriptive note at the foot of each entry provides abbreviations indicating the nature and location of the document when it was copied for this project, except for privately owned manuscripts whose ownership is explained. The descriptive note also contains informa tion on the document’s authorship if explanation is necessary, and iii


[Page 8]
iv Editorial Method and Apparatus endorsements or addresses are quoted when they contain more than routine information. Other editorial practicesemployed in this work are explained in the sections on editorial apparatus which follow. TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [...],[....] One or two words missing and not conjecturable. [.. .J 1, [. . . .J 1 More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. [ ] Number or part of a number missing or illegible. [ J 1 Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub ¬ joined footnote. [roman] Conjectural reading for missing or illegible mat ¬ ter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. [italic] Editorial insertion in the text. [italic) Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the descriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed documents) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manu scripts printed in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 12th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1980). CSmH Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. Ct Connecticut State Library, Hartford CtHi Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford CtY Yale University, New Haven, Conn. DLC Library of Congress DLC (ESR) Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection DNA National Archives and Records Service


[Page 14]
Acknowledgments To the Library of Congress, the Congress of the United States, and the Ford Foundation this edition owes its existence. It is fitting, therefore, that we take this opportunity to acknowledge the foresight of the Library’s administration in planning a timely and comprehen sive observance of the American Revolution Bicentennial, of the Congress in funding a Bicentennial Office in the Library, and of the Ford Foundation in making a generous grant in support of this project as a scholarly contribution to the celebration of the Bicen tennial era. It is with the most profound gratitude that the editors acknowledge their appreciation to all those who bore responsibility for the decisions that made possible these contributions. Our appre ciation is also extended to the innumerable persons who have con tributed to enriching the holdings of the Library of Congress to make it the premier institution for conducting research on the American Revolution. The photocopies of the more than twenty-one thousand documents that have been collected for this project have been assembled through the cooperation of several hundred institutions and private individ uals devoted to preserving the documentary record upon which the history and traditions of the American people rest, and it is to their work that a documentary publication of this nature should ulti mately be dedicated. Unfortunately, the many individual contributors to this collecting effort cannot be adequately recognized, but for permission to print documents appearing in the present volume we are especially grateful to the following institutions: the American Antiquarian Society, the American Philosophical Society, Archives du ministfere des affaires etrang^res (Paris), Archives nationales (Paris), Archivo General de Indias (Seville), Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale (Firenze, Italy), Boston Public Library, Charleston Library Society, Society of the Cincinnati, William L. Clements Library, Columbia University, Connecticut Historical Society, Connecticut State Library, Danvers Historical Society, Dartmouth College, Daugh ters of the American Revolution, Historical Society of Delaware, Harvard University, Haverford College, Henry E. Huntington Library, Illinois State Historical Library, Independence National Historical Park, Maine Historical Society, Marietta College, Mary land Hall of Records, Maryland Historical Society, Massachusetts Archives Division, Massachusetts Historical Society, Moravian Church Northern Province Archives, Pierpont Morgan Library, x


[Page 15]
Acknowledgments xi Morristown National Historical Park, National Archives and Rec ords Service, New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, New Hampshire Historical Society, New-York His torical Society, New York Public Library, New York State Libraiy, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Univer sity of North Carolina, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Com mission, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, Rhode Island State Archives, Rosenbach Foundation, Rutgers Uni versity, Saint Mary of the Lake Seminary, Sotheby Parke Bernet Inc., South Carolina Historical Society, University of South Carolina, Tioga Point Museum, Virginia Historical Society, University of Vir ginia, Western Reserve Historical Society, and Yale University. And in addition, we express our thanks and appreciation to the following persons: Mr. Sol Feinstone, Mr. Herbert E. Klingelhofer, Mr. Roy C. Kulp, Mrs. Elsie O. and Mr. Philip D. Sang, and Capt. J. G. M. Stone. This work has benefited not only from Edmund C. Burnett s path finding eight-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of several other documentary publications with a common focus on the revolutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a pleasure to give special thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madison, and George Washington. Finally we owe thanks to the historians who served on the Advisory Committee on the Li brary’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division


[Page 16]
October 2 October 3 October 5 October 6 October 8 October 12 October 13 October 14 October 15 October 16 October 17 Chronology of Congress October 1, 1778-January 31, 1779 Extends embargo to January 31, 1779; requests states to seize provisions to prevent engrossing and speculation. Informs Casimir Pulaski “that it is the duty of every military officer in the service of these states, to yield obedience’’ to the laws of the states. Conducts examination of William Carmichael on the activities of Silas Deane in France. Invites Dr. Richard Price to become a citizen and move to the United States to assist “in regulating their finances.” Lifts limitations on the price of silver and gold. Adopts resolves to suppress “theatrical entertain ments, horse racing, gaming, and such other diver sions as are productive of idleness, [and] dissipa tion.” Orders Washington to take measures for frontier defense. Receives documents from Silas Deane and sched ules continuation of inquiry into charges made against him. Receives intelligence of the distribution of a “Manifesto and Proclamation” from the British peace commissioners. Orders seizure of persons attempting to distribute “manifestoes” of the British commissioners; orders removal of the Convention Army to Charlottes ville, Va. Commends comte d’Estaing for his attempts to as sist the forces of the United States. xii


[Page 17]
Chronology of October 21 October 22 October 26 October 27 October 29 October 30 October 31 November 2 November 3 November 4 November 7 November 10 November 11 November 12 Congress xiii Orders arrest of British commissary of prisoners in Philadelphia; declares opposition to “partial and parole exchanges” of prisoners of war in favor of “a general exchange”; commends the marquis de Lafayette and declares thanks to the king of France. Assigns Horatio Gates to command of the eastern department; adopts instructions for the American minister to France and a “Plan of an Attack upon Quebec.” Appoints a committee to prepare a publication on “matters relating to” negotiations with the British peace commissioners. Responds to the Governor of Havana for his in troduction of Juan de Miralles, unofficial Spanish agent to the United States. Reorganizes the Board of War. Adopts a “Manifesto” vowing to take “exemplary vengeance” against future acts of enemy barbarity. Rejects proposal from the Spanish Governor of New Orleans for an attack on West Florida. Authorizes an attack on East Florida. Appoints a comptroller, auditor, treasurer, and commissioners of accounts for the reorganized treasury office. Orders printing of the Franco-American treaties; resolves to emit additional $10,000,000 in Con tinental currency. Orders December 30 set apart as “a day of gen eral thanksgiving”; reaches compromise in dispute over provisioning prisoners of war. Augments plans for an expedition against East Florida. Exempts embargoed flour purchased in Virginia for the French navy. Denies John Connolly’s plea to be treated as a prisoner of war because of parole violations.


[Page 19]
Chronology of Congress xv December 16 Resolves to contract the supply of Continental currency, to accept presidential expenses as a pub lic charge, and to ask the states to raise $15,000,000 in taxes; confirms Gen. Arthur St. Clair’s court- martial acquittal. December 18 Directs Washington to attend Congress in keeping with his suggestion for “a personal conference.” December 22 Hears Silas Deane “read his written information” concerning his agency in Europe. December 23 Continues Silas Deane hearing; continues hearing into McKean-Thompson dispute. December 24 Receives General Washington; continues hearing into McKean-Thompson dispute; accepts General Thompson’s “apology.” December 25 Observes Christmas. December 26 Adopts loan office regulations for exchanging Continental bills. December 29 Adopts Gerard’s proposal for protecting American- grown masts; appoints three additional Continen tal Brigadiers. December 31 Continues Silas Deane hearing; adopts additional fiscal resolves. January 1 Defers planned Franco-American attack on Canada. January 2 Adopts additional fiscal resolves to curb deprecia tion. January 5 Receives Gdrard’s protest against Thomas Paine’s published letters concerning supplies from France. January 6 Conducts inquiry into Gerard’s charges against Thomas Paine. January 7 Adopts Gerard’s charges against Thomas Paine; dismisses Paine from his position as secretary to the Committee for Foreign Affairs. January 8 Receives Henry Laurens’ admission that he had informed Thomas Paine of Congress’ confidential proceedings against him.


[Page 20]
xvi Chronology of Congress January 9 Orders Henry Laurens to submit written state ment of his “suspicion of fraudulent proceedings” by Robert Morris. January 11 Receives Henry Laurens’ charges against Robert Morris. January 12 Disavows charges published by Thomas Paine concerning supplies received from France. January 14 Resolves to reassure France that the United States “will not conclude either truce or peace . . . with out [her] formal consent.” January 15 Receives Francis Lewis’ statement on Henry Laurens’ charges against Robert Morris. January 19 Hears Henry Laurens’ explanation concerning his charges against Robert Morris. January 20 Appoints committee to conduct foreign affairs inquiry. January 21 Appoints committee to "examine into principles of the powers of the . . . Committee on Appeals” and the refusal of Pennsylvania to honor the com mittee’s decree in the case of the Active. January 22 Resolves to request Virginia, North Carolina, and the comte d’Estaing to provide assistance for Georgia and South Carolina. January 23 Adopts resolves to improve recruitment of Con tinental troops and to augment the authority of the commander in chief. January 26 Appoints committee to investigate Pennsylvania’s charges against Gen. Benedict Arnold, Continental commander of Philadelphia. January 28 Debates Gerard’s contention that Congress should compensate France for aid rendered by d’Estaing to the southern states, in accordance with article four of the treaty of alliance. January 30 Approves General Washington’s request for leave to return to camp.


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Jesse Root Elected: October 21, 1778 Attended: December 15, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Roger Sherman Elected: October 11, 1777; October 21, 1778 Attended: October 1 to December 16, 1778 Joseph Spencer Elected: January 7, 1779 Did not attend January 1779 Oliver Wolcott Elected: October 11, 1777 Did not attend October 1778 DELAWARE John Dickinson Elected: January 18, 1779 Did not attend January 1779 Thomas McKean Elected: December 17, 1777; January 18, 1779 Attended intermittently October 12, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Caesar Rodney Elected: December 17, 1777 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Nicholas Van Dyke Elected: December 17, 1777; January 18, 1779 Attended: November 24 to ? 1778 GEORGIA Joseph Clay Elected: February 26, 1778 Did not attend Congress Lyman Hall Elected: February 26, 1778 Did not attend in 1778-79 Edward Langworthy Elected: February 26, 1778 Attended: October 1, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Edward Telfair Elected: February 26, 1778 Attended: October 1 to November 14? 1778 George Walton Elected: February 26, 1778 Did not attend in 1778-79


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix John Walton Elected: February 26, 1778 Attended: October 1 to November 14? 1778 Joseph Wood Elected: February 26, 1778 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 MARYLAND William Carmichael Elected: November 13, 1778 Attended: November 19, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Charles Carroll of Carrollton Elected: December 5, 1777 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Samuel Chase Elected: December 5, 1777 Attended: October 1-8, 1778 James Forbes Elected: December 22, 1777; November 13, 1778 Attended: October 1-2? 1778 John Henry Elected: December 22, 1777; November 13, 1778 Attended: October 1, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Elected: November 13, 1778 Did not attend November 1778 to January 1779 William Paca Elected: November 13, 1778 Attended: November 19 to December 12? 1778; January 2?—31, 1779 George Plater Elected: December 5, 1777; November 13, 1778 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Thomas Stone Elected: December 5, 1777 Attended: October 1-8, 1778 MASSACHUSETTS Samuel Adams Elected: December 4, 1777; October 8, 1778 Attended: October 1, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Francis Dana Elected: December 4, 1777; October 8, 1778 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779


[Page 24]
XX List of Delegates to Congress Timothy Edwards Elected: October 8, 1778 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Elbridge Gerry Elected: December 4, 1777; October 8, 1778 Attended: October 1, 1778, to January 31, 1779 John Hancock Elected: December 4, 1777; October 8, 1778 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Samuel Holten Elected: February 20, 1778; October 8, 1778 Attended: October 1, 1778, to January 31, 1779 James Lovell Elected: December 4, 1777; Octobers, 1778 Attended: October 1, 1778, to January 31, 1779 Robert Treat Paine Elected: December 4, 1777 Did not attend in 1778-79 NEW HAMPSHIRE Josiah Bartlett Elected: August 14, 1778 Attended: October 1 to November 3, 1778 George Frost Elected: August 18, 1778 Attended: November 25, 1778 to January 31, 1779 John Wentworth Elected: August 18, 1778 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 William Whipple Elected: August 18, 1778 Attended: November 5, 1778, to January 31, 1779 NEW JERSEY Elias Boudinot Elected: November 20, 1777 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Abraham Clark Elected: November 20, 1777 Did not attend October 1778 to January 1779 Elias Day ton Elected: December 12, 1778 Did not attend Congress


[Page 30]
xxvi Illustrations the venture was unsuccessful and he was recalled in 1794. Illness un fortunately delayed his return to America, and Carmichael died in 1795 at Madrid, where he was buried. Engraving by Albert Rosenthal, Gratz Collection, Historical So ciety of Pennsylvania. Carlisle Commissioners’ “Manifesto and Proclamation,” 61 October 3, 1778 By late summer, Britain’s 1778 peace initiative had been rejected by Congress and the personal efforts of the commissioners to meet privately or through secret agents with American leaders had been exposed and discredited. In a final, futile effort to reach a sympa thetic audience, the Earl of Carlisle, Sir Henry Clinton, and Richard Eden issued a “Manifesto and Proclamation” addressed not only to Congress and state leaders but also directly to “the free inhabitants of the said Colonies, of every rank and denomination.” Learning that the document would be distributed throughout America under flags of truce, however, Congress retaliated by declaring that persons cap tured in the act of distributing it were not entitled to protection from a “flag” and would be taken into custody because the manifesto was “seditious” and designed to “stir up dissentions, animosities and re bellion.” Accordingly the states were asked to seize all persons dis covered “engaged in the prosecution of such nefarious purposes,” and the document was printed in the newspapers “to convince the good people of these states of the insidious designs of the said commission ers.” The effort was also held up to ridicule by William Henry Dray ton in a public letter printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on October 29, and Congress issued a proclamation of its own on October 30 cataloging the “barbarity” and “wanton destruction” practiced by the enemy. Conceding failure, the commissioners boarded ship at New York on November 27 for their return to England. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. Lafayette 112 Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, marquis de Lafay ette, is the best known of the foreign officers who served in the Con tinental Army during the American Revolution. Commissioned a major general by Congress on July 31, 1777, Lafayette distinguished himself in the field on a number of occasions and sustained wounds at the battle of Brandywine. Although but twenty years of age when he entered the American service, he quickly gained the confidence of his troops and the friendship of the commander in chief, and he was held in high esteem throughout the war by a number of delegates to Congress. He was fiercely loyal to Washington and a determined enemy to critics of the general such as Thomas Conway. He was


[Page 31]
Illustrations xxvii selected by Congress in 1778 to command an “irruption” into Canada, but when he discovered the inadequacy of the preparations that were being made for it he advised its abandonment and in the process won the admiration of several observers for the maturity of his judgment and his restraint in the pursuit of personal advancement. Disap pointed at the collapse of the Canadian adventure, Lafayette returned to France in 1779 as an advocate of the Franco-American alliance and worked to stifle any disillusionment with the American cause that might have been stimulated by returning French officers who had failed in personal efforts to enter the Continental service. Following his return to America in 1780, Lafayette was assigned command of the Continental forces mobilized to check the invasion of Virginia by the Earl of Cornwallis the following spring, and he participated in a num ber of engagements leading to the victory at Yorktown in October 1781. Although he enjoyed a long and distinguished career after re turning to France following the American Revolution, surviving the great upheavals that shook France from the Revolution in 1789 to the Revolution of 1830, he remained for Americans the enduring symbol of the Franco-American alliance. To this symbolism his American con temporaries paid special tribute during his triumphal tour of the United States in 1824, thirteen years before his death. Painting by Charles Willson Peale, 1779. Washington-Custis-Lee Collection, Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va. Congress’ “Manifesto,” October 30, 1778 149 Congress’ “Manifesto” of October 30, 1778, had its origin in a committee appointed in January 1778 that was charged with pre paring “a manifesto on the injurious treatment our prisoners and faithful citizens receive from the enemy.” The work languished, however, until August, when Congress received a remonstrance ol the 7th and a “declaration” of the 26th from the British peace commissioners concerning treatment of the prisoners of the Conven tion Army. And it was not brought to fruition until after Congress decided on an appropriate response to the Carlisle Commissioners October 3 “Manifesto and Proclamation” directed to the American people. The result was a rehearsal of the “wanton destruction practiced by British forces “in their vain attempt to subjugate the unconquerable spirit of freedom” in the United States and a pledge to take “exemplary vengeance” against America’s enemies if they “persist in their present career of barbarity.” Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. Charles Thomson’s Secret Journal, October 31, 1778 211 Despite the significance of the subject, only a few tantalizing references in the delegates’ correspondence testify to Congress


[Page 32]
xxviii Illustrations interest in the Floridas during the autumn of 1778. On November 2 Congress authorized the commander of the southern military depart ment to proceed in his proposed plan for an expedition against East Florida, even though on October 31 Congress had quietly rejected a proposal from the Spanish governor of New Orleans for an attack on West Florida. As the latter resolution concerned a sensitive issue that Congress wished not to have published, however, it was not entered on the regular journal of Congress but was relegated instead by Secretary Thomson to an entry in his “secret” journal. Apologizing for their inability to mount an expedition against West Florida "at this time,” the delegates simply resolved to thank Governor Bernardo de Galvez for “his spirited & disinterested conduct towards these states” and declared that it was their hope that notwithstanding other priorities the states would soon be able to “operate effectually in that quarter.” National Archives and Records Service. Resolves on “Arrangement” of the Army, November 24, 1778 261 “Arranging” the Continental Army was one of the staples of Congress’ work during 1778. The year had opened with the army encamped at Valley Forge facing a provisions and morale crisis, which led Congress to dispatch a committee to camp to confer with Washington on proposals to improve military conditions. The "com mittee at camp” and its successor “committee of arrangement” inves tigated a multitude of problems during their visits to Valley Forge, and in the aftermath the committees submitted many recommenda tions for congressional action. By autumn, major proposals for "arranging” the army had been adopted, but a number of problems concerning officer seniority, and particularly the equitable treatment of those who had been prisoners of war, remained to be acted upon. On November 24 Congress adopted a series of resolves establishing rules and regulations for settling most of the remaining issues, and copies of these were transmitted to the commander in chief on the 26th. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. John Jay 323 Jay, a New York lawyer educated at King’s College and son-in-law of New Jersey governor William Livingston, was elected to the First Continental Congress in 1774, and he continued in Congress in 1775- 76. Jay drafted Congress’ 1774 Address to the People of Great Britain and a 1775 Petition to the King that was rejected by the delegates, apparently because it was too conciliatory. After serving in the Provincial Congresses and Provincial Convention of New York in 1776-77, he was elected chief justice of the New York Supreme Court


[Page 33]
Illustrations xxix when the new state government was organized in 1777, but he was sent back to Congress with a special appointment to represent the state in its dispute over the Vermont lands in 1778. Only three days after Jay’s arrival, Henry Laurens stunned the delegates with his sudden resignation as president because of their refusal to take action against Silas Deane, and the following day Jay was elected to succeed him. He served as president of Congress until September 1779, when he was elected minister plenipotentiary to Spain, and he was appointed a commissioner to negotiate peace with Britain in 1781. Jay’s role in the negotiations at Paris in 1782 was marked by his conspicuous distrust of British and French officials, and he was clearly more comfortable working with the suspicious John Adams than the less skeptical Benjamin Franklin. Upon his return to America, he served as secretary of foreign affairs in 1784-90. A force ful advocate of the new federal Constitution, Jay wrote five of the Federalist essays to promote its ratification, and he was appointed the first chief justice of the United States Supreme Court by Washington in 1789. Despite his judicial position, Jay was also appointed special envoy in 1794 to negotiate a dispute with Great Britain, contributing to a highly controversial treaty bearing his name that was nearly rejected by the Senate. He returned to the service of his state in 1795 when he resigned from the Supreme Court to accept the governorship of New York, which he held 1795-1801. In retirement Jay continued to sponsor various public causes, particularly as an antislavery advo cate and as president of the American Bible Society. He died in 1829 at the age of 83. Painting by Charles Willson Peale. Maryland Historical Society. Richard Hutson Hutson, a Charleston, South Carolina, lawyer-planter, was the son of a Congregational minister and had been educated at the College of New Jersey at Princeton. He served with the militia during the British attack on Charleston in 1776 and was a member of the South Carolina Assembly during 1776-78. Elected in 1778, at the age of 30, by South Carolina to Congress, Hutson served nearly a year while Congress was convened at York and at Philadelphia, during which time he became a signer of the Articles of Confederation. As a member of the Committee of Commerce he participated in negotia tions with Theveneau de Francy over Caron de Beaumarchais’ contract for supplies imported from France. And in early 1779 he and James Duane were appointed to confer with the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, on an agreement concerning French pro visions purchases to limit the depreciation of the Continental dollai caused by French bills of exchange, an assignment that was doubtless made because of his work on the Board of Treasury. Upon his return


[Page 34]
XXX Illustrations to South Carolina, he was returned to the state assembly four addi tional terms, and he was selected lieutenant governor of South Caro lina in 1782. Hutson supported ratification of the federal Constitu tion as a delegate to the South Carolina ratifying convention in 1788, and he was a delegate to the state constitutional convention in 1790. He died in 1795 at the age of 47. Engraving by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Library of Congress (LC-USZ62-54683). Thomas Paine 429 Paine is probably best known to Americans as the leading pam phleteer of the American Revolution, the author of Common Sense and the Crisis letters. He was appointed by Congress secretary to the Committee for Foreign Affairs in April 1777, and it was in that capacity that he was thrust into the limelight in January 1779 when he was accused of publishing information contained in the commit tee’s confidential diplomatic correspondence. On the one hand, he had challenged Silas Deane’s defense against charges of corruption leveled by Arthur Lee, and on the other he had claimed that the French government had provided supplies to America while still at peace with Britain in 1776-77. Under pressure brought by Conrad Alexandre Gerard, who obtained an official denial of these charges from Congress, Paine resigned his position, and in the maneuvering that followed, some of Paine’s allies, such as Henry Laurens, found their positions embarrassingly compromised. Paine subsequently remained in the public eye as die contributor of several newspaper essays denouncing Deane and his supporters, and he briefly enlisted his pen in the service of Gerard to promote Franco-American good will. But Paine was too volatile to continue under the restraints sought by Gerard and soon declined French employment. He con tinued to live precariously in America until 1787, when he returned to his birthplace, England. It was there that he again plunged him self in the cause of revolution after the fall of the Bastille in 1789. His Rights of Man was a powerful defense of the early progress of the French Revolution, but die excesses of the Terror and the attack on him by Edmund Burke soon deprived him of many of his former admirers in the United States. Publication of his deistic tract The Age of Reason in 1794 scandalized even more Americans, and after he returned to the United States in 1802, his last seven years were marked by declining health, poverty, and ostracism. Painting by John Wesley Jarvis, ca. 1806-7. National Gallery of Art, Washington (Gift of Marian B. Maurice, 1950).


[Page 43]
October 1, 1778 7 to me. I observe with due Attention all you write in this Letter respectg. the Publick remittances for your relief, but you must be better informed in many things relative to the Publick Business than you are, before you can understand why I wish Consignments to be made you in preference to your drawing on Europe, for I am still of the same Opinion & it would take up more time than I can spare to inform you of all the Causes that conspired to prevent such Consignments from being made but they are such as induced me in Novr. last to draw up a Plan for establishing a Board of Commis sioners to carry on the Publick Commerce. 5 This 1 left with Congress & have ever since refused to have any thing to do with it myself 8c the consequence is that nothing is done at all as the Plan met with some opposition, the Consideration of it was postponed from time to time 8c no determination has been had thereon to this day. Your Draft on me in favor. Madm. Thomas for 1249 46/90ths Dollars was duely paid. The other parts of your Letter of 20th April are I think answered by what I have already wrote therefore proceed to the next which is dated the 6th May 8c proposes a plan for making our Loan Office Certificates negotiable in foreign Countries. In their present Form this is not practicable 8c as there is only one Certificate for each Sum 8c that payable to the Bearer you will be sensible the exportation of them would be attended with as much risque as Merchandize, it may probably surprize when I tell you, that foreseeing the advantages which would result to Commerce 8c to this Country from such Certifi cates as you mention, I proposed them above a Year ago in Congress when the Plan met a most Violent Opposition 8c was finally rejected, 6 therefore that Scheme will not do at present altho I believe it might be brought to bear some little time hence as the Sentiments of Certain Gentn. on these Subjects seem to be a good deal changed. Messr. Conyngham, Nesbitt 8c Co. 8c I have a good many Concerns together but I do not encline to form any more General Connection or Partnerships, neither is it necessary, for if I can but once get the Command of my time I have in every other respect the means of doing as much business as I chuse. The Six Bales of Linnens you consign’d to Messr Hooe 8c Harrisons they sold 8c have Accounted with me for our half the Net Proceeds. The other half they say are to Account with you for. Your Letters of 10th 8c 18th May only require to be acknowledged 8c to tell you that I forwarded the Letters to your Friends 8c sent word to your Mother that I was not only ready to pay the 1600 Dolls, you ordered but also to Supply her with any Money she might want 8c I have already answered what relates to Loan Office Certificates. Your Original Letter of the 2d June never arrived 8c no doubt you have been advsed by Mr Duncan of his Misfortune in being taken. I was very sorry for your Loss in that Vessell 8c Cargo.


[Page 44]
8 October 1, 1778 Mrs. Morris was vexed at her disappointment in the loss of the Sugar, Coffee and Limes for Amount whereof I credit you Lrs. 218.9.6 agreable to the Invoice with thanks for your Attention. I observe also that one of Mr. Grays Cases of Wine was on Board this Vessell & is lost but where are the other two Cases, I hear nothing of them. 1 mentioned to the Members of the Committee for Foreign Affairs your desire of returning to this Place & observe you have now men tioned it yourself. I think they have no right to object & I will try to procure you an order or remittance for the Ballance of your ac count. Your favr. of the 24th June is Accompanied with the Accounts relative to the Brigt. Retaliation all of which I have entered in my Books without examining them minutely, this however shall be done when I can find leisure for it 8c if any remarks should hereafter appear necessary you must expect to hear them as also to Correct Errors of any we discovered as to remittances I shall write of them by & by. If the Underwriters on the Brigt. Industry do not pay that loss on receipt of the Papers I forwarded there is no use in making Insurance, but I think they must have paid it long since 8c I count on our half as so much in your hands before this time. Mr. Braxton insists on the propriety of his Claim on you for the Double of Conyng- hams Bill but you must settle it yourselves being very disagreable for me to interfere. The Possessors of Money in the West Indias are become too sensible of the Value of it to expect any good bargains can be made in that way at this time of day therefore you must not expect it. I have always desired the Goods you sent on our joint Account to be sold off as fast as good prices could be obtained 8c be lieve this is chiefly complied with. You request me to give you an an swer about the Musquetts you agreed for on the Publick Account 8c I have long expected the Committee had done this 8c having with drawn myself from those Committees I do not like to interfere. My private Opinion is that you should have taken 8c sent them along as the Transaction was known to them from the first 8c never con tradicted. I think they were bound in honour to fulfill your engage ments. Your Letter of 6th July mentions the Applications of Mr. Limozin 8c Mr. Cathalan for remittances, you need not remit any thing for our Houses Share as I have ordered Mr. Ross to pay them 8c make no doubt he has long since done so. Nothing more can I say about the Musquetts except urging the Committee again which shall be done. The Goods you consigned Mr. Crosby arrived safe, he has been here 8c says he is to Account with me for half-the Net Proceeds when sold I desired him to make the most of them soon as he could. It was out of my power to assist him with Loan Office Certificates not having yet compleated your order to myself for that sort of Paper. Your favr. of 1st Augt. advises the Arrivel of 68 Bales of Blankets from Havre de Grace they are on Account of W.M. 8c


[Page 45]
October 1, 1778 9 Co[mpan]y being the remains of an old order. You shall have Credit for the Freight & Charges on them & I hope the whole Balla, due you will be paid before long for your Complaints on this Subject are very painfull to me. I fancy you will not find it so difficult to Ship these Bales to me as you seen to imagine, as they contain Blankets that are greatly wanted. I shall be very impatient to receive them & entertain hopes that you will meet Virginia Boats or other fast Sail ing Vessells to receive more or less of the Bales until the whole are dispatched. But the Triplicate of your favr. of the 19th Augt. which is the latest I have received seems to confirm your Apprehensions of not meeting with Opportunitys to remit me these Goods. I hope however that your endeavours to send them will not be wanting as it would be a great disappointment not to receive them this Winter. Having now gone through your Letters 8c made such reply thereto as at this time appears necessary, I shall proceed to such other things as may occurr. When I had wrote thus farr, I discovered that the Boat by which this was intended to go had gone down 8c I had only time to Scribble over a few Lines of Apology which I sent after her 8c hope they have got on board 8c this must go by Captn. James Robertson in the Sloop William which I have bought in Connection with Messr. Co. Nesbitt 8c Co[mpan]y 8c we conclude to send her to Martinique consigned to you 8c Mr. H [ayfield] Conyngham that is the one third part to him 8c my %rds to you. We bought this Vessell as she lay in Egg Harbour with 48 hogsheads Tobacco on Board 8c have sent down 12 hogs heads more to fill her. Captn Robertson goes down to Morrow 8c we expect the Vessell will be quite ready by the time he gets down so that he may proceed on the Voyage immediately. Mr. Nesbitt will write the Instructions which will be that you are to make the best Sale you possibly can of the Cargo supply what may be necessary for Charges 8c expences, pay Captn. Robertson Fifty Pounds, Ship 500 Bushells of Salt on board for the Owners Account 8c then Mr. Conyngham is to receive their one third of the Ballance 8c you are to Credit me for two thirds. Mr. Nesbitt will I suppose order his Money to be Invested in goods to come back by this Vessell but my Intention is that you Credit W.M. 8c Co[mpan]y for my two thirds of the Bal lance 8c that you Ship back in this Sloop about one fourth part of the Bales of Blankets you have received from Mr. Limozin if so many of them still remain with you when this Vessell is there but should you have Shipped those Goods 8c any others have since come to your hands for my Account or for Acct of W.M. 8c Co[mpanly you may Ship of such to the Value of £1000 Sterling or there abouts if so much there be, or if the Powder from St. Eustatia should be sent to you 8c remains with you Ship a Quantity of that; but if you have sent away all the Blankets 8c have not any other Goods of mine or the


[Page 46]
10 October 1, 1778 Houses then I must request you to Invest half the Ballance you are to receive from this Sloops present Cargo in .Molasses, Rum, Sugar & Coffee assorting it as you judge best & Ship it back by this Sloop consigned to me on Acct. & risque of Thos. Willing & myself. In that Case the other half will remain towards discharging the Ballance due you from Willing, Morris & Coy. & as that Ballance is entirely owing by the House I have Shipped this adventure on Acct, of T.W. & my self & shall make up other consignments in the same way & for the same purpose but then we must have something sent back in the Vessells to make up their Voyages unless the Blankets or other Goods of ours from Europe remain in your hands in that case the risque of those will be sufficient. I must entreat that Captn. Robertson may have good Dispatch for Wages & expcnces are very extravagant Sc a little delay ruins a Voyage. The Balla, of your Martinique Acct, stands on W.M. & Coy’s Books at Lrs. 78,095.13.8 in your favr. & on my Books at Lrs. 1594.10.4 against you which leaves Lrs. 76,501.3.4, of this Mr. Sami. Bealle should & I suppose has remitted Livrs. 15,100 being what you charged to our Account for Expences on the Powder & which must be made good out of that Concern, this will leave Livrs. 61,401.3.4 against this will come half the Insurance on the Brigt. Industry which certainly must be recovered by Mr. Delap & I hope also you will have to Credit me again for Lrs. 2794 charged in your Acct as my part of outstanding Debts due to the Owners of Brigt. Retaliation the principal part of which I find was owing by Mr. Prejent & I can not help thinking You have been somewhat to blame in suffering W.M. & Coy. to be so basely treated by that Gentn. You knew he had half of our Ship her Cargo & freight in his hands. You knew he was ordered to pay you the whole & I really think it was your Duty to have insisted on the payment whilst he had the Money instead of suffering him to fit out privateers with it 8c the more so as it was entirely owing to your recommendation that we trusted him which we did reluctantly at the time but depended on you to Insist on the payment. If you had done this you would have had little reason to write me in so pressing a Stile for remittances. I mention this affair that you may recollect the reasons of our being in your Debt, that it is in some degree unexpected 8c entirely your own fault. I do not however plead this as a reason why you should not be paid nor in excuse for delay of payment as you may suppose when you recollect that I sent the Schooner Hope for your address for the purpose of discharging part of this Debt out of her Cargo but she was unluckily taken. I also assigned you a further payment out of my half of the Retaliations last Cargo but she unluckily fell to Leeward 8c went into Cape Francois. There are Accidents I could neither foresee nor prevent but my Intentions are evidenced by the outsetts 8c from thence you


[Page 47]
October 1, 1778 11 may gather that it is not necessary to be so pressing with me about remittances—indeed if I had been Master of my Time I would long since have had Money in your hands instead of being indebted but I hope to turn the Scale before long. The Brigt. Retaliation met with as bad a Market at Cape Francois as she would have done at Mar tinique Tobacco being only Lrs. 55 to Lrs. 65, & part of the Cargo remained unsold at last Accounts I had from thence. Mr. Ceronio on whom Captn. Ord valued Shipped back some Molasses, Taffia, Sugar & Coffee to the Amot. of what he judged would be coming from the Cargo of Tobacco when sold. The Vessells expences were very high there—She had a quick passage hither & I sold her Cargo for good prices but have not time to enclose the Accounts indeed it cannot now be done for want of the Tare of some Coffee Barrells. After some delay occasioned here on the Publick applying for the Brigt. to go after some Ships that came into our Bay—We hove her down loaded her with Tobacco & she is is gone for Port L’Orient in France under the Command of Captn. Thos. Bell as Captn. Ord desired to stay on Shoar a while. She is well manned with 30 Men & I have ordered her directly back here with a Valuable & suitable Cargo on Account of the Owners & if she gets safe back a fine Voyage must be made. She is addressed to Messr. Gourlade & Moylan & the Value of this Tobacco ordered back in Goods. You shall have all Accounts relative to this Brigt. by some future Opportunity after I have time to adjust & make them out. I shall also send you an Ac count of the Loan Office Certificates & State of your Acct. Currt. which I cannot attempt to do at this time & indeed this Letter is spun out to such a Length that I think it time to close it. Were it not for the Embargo I would Ship you a Quantity of Flour as this Article is both scarce & dear however if any alteration takes place that will enable me to do it consistantly I shall not fail to embrace the Oc casion. Should the Goods Mr. Nesbitt & myself have ordered back in the Sloop not be sufficient to fill her perhaps you may encline to Ship by her on your own Account or more Salt may be added. I hope soon to address you again &: remain, Dear Sir, Your Affect. Friend & Obed, hble Servant, Robt Morris. P.S. I beg you will send the Blankets quick as possible & by good Conveyance. RC (DLC: Bingham Papers). In the hand of John Swanwick and signed by Morris. 1 For references to these letters, which Morris wrote from his home at Manheim during a six-month leave of absence from Congress, see these Letters, 9:567n.2, 651n.4. 2 The evidence for determining just when Morris’ congressional career ended is ambiguous. He voted with the Pennsylvania delegates on a roll call vote of October 16, but he is not listed in votes recorded on October 21 and 29. He was, however, named to committees appointed on October 23 and 24. and in a November 3


[Page 48]
12 October 1, 1778 letter to Jean Holker he complained that “every moment of my time is employ’d between Congress Committees, and assembly & private business." Although he was later appointed as Congress’ Superintendent of Finance arid Agent of Marine in 1781, his career as a delegate came to an end officially when he was not included with the new slate of delegates elected by the Pennsylvania Assembly on November 20, 1778. See JCC, 12:1019, 1036, 1059, 1076, 1160-61. For additional information on Morris’ private commercial activities, to which he yearned to devote greater attention at this juncture in his career, see Clarence L. Ver Steeg, Robert Morris, Revolutionary Financier (1954; reprint ed.. New York: Octagon Books, 1972), pp. 28-36. 3 For Morris’ and Bingham's involvement in the privateering ventures of Cotiney de Prejent, see these Letters, 6:651-52. ‘ For a discussion of the congressional fiscal measures that had made “Loan Office Certificates bearing Interest payable in Bills” such an attractive investment, see E. James Ferguson, The Power of the Purse (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 36-38. " For an intriguing reference to Morris’ little-known proposal reorganizing the Committee of Commerce, see these Letters, 8:687n.7. 6 Perhaps Morris is referring to proposals he made while serving on a committee which, on June 11, 1777, had submitted a fiscal report that included proposals for improving the negotiability of United States obligations in Europe. See ibid 7:142n.3; and JCC, 8:453-57. Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson $i r > Philada. Octr. 1st. 1778 1 I delivered your last letters which came by Post, to Mr. Whiteside that he might try what could be done with Salt, and I desired him to tell you how much I disapproved of Speculating in that Article. I dislike it because it tends to raise or keep up the price of so neces sary an Article & I disapproved of it at this time because I think it an Ill judged Speculation. I hope you may not have bought any and wish you to Countermand Your orders immediately. 2 Messrs. Purviances have a Prize Ship on their hands that will carry as it is said 600 hogsheads tobo. I beg you will ask them their lowest price for her, tell them I will buy her if they will sell her reasonably but on no other terms will I have any thing to Say to her. I can now buy such Ships in Boston for about £2000 that Money. I beg you to examine this Ship and give me soon as possible your full & Candid opinion of her &: the price they ask for her, which will much oblige, Dr Sir, Your Obedt hble Servt, Robt Morris. 3 RC (CSmH: Emmet Collection). 1 Another document illustrating the extent of Morris’ commercial operations, which frequently originated in his conduct of public business and acquaintance with congressional colleagues, is a power of attorney assigned to him by John Banister this date. “Whereas a scheme of Commerce is meditated,” the instrument declared, “between Robert Morris, Silas Deane, James Wilson, William Duer, John Banister Esquires & others, and the Necessity of the said John Banister’s Affairs requiring his Departure from this Place [Philadelphia] before the said Scheme of


[Page 50]
14 October 2, 1778 Henry Laurens to Baron von Steuben Sir. Philadelphia 2d October 1778. You will find inclosed an Act of Congress of the 25th Ulto. for appointing Mr. John Ternant Lieutt. Colonel in the service of the United States &: Inspector of the Troops in South Carolina &: Georgia to which I beg leave to refer. 1 I have the honor to be With very great Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your most obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NHi: Steuben Papers). 1 See Laurens to Steuben, September 17, 1778, note 3. Henry Laurens to John Sullivan Sir 2nd October [1778] Since my last of the 13th Ulto. I have been honored with your several favors of the 18th, 23d and 24th. 1 The first is committed to the Board of Treasury, and the last to the Board of War—a con siderable sum of money was lately transmitted to the Deputy Pay master within your circle, which I presume has reached his hands before this time and removed the inconveniencies complained of. 2 Congress have appointed the 5th Instant for taking under con sideration the state of Cloathing for the whole Army. We are in formed by the Board of War that there are more than sufficient quantities for the ensuing Winters demand. I will not doubt but that effectual Measures will be taken, an immediate and proper distribution. 3 Inclosed Sir you will receive two Acts of Congress of the 30th Ulto. 4 1. for accepting the resignations of Lieut. Sami. Arnold and Ensign Elias Blanchard. 2. for authorizing you to accept Resignations of such Officers under your Command as you shall judge proper. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 For the disposition of Sullivan’s letters to Laurens of September 18, 23, and 25 (not 24), which are in PCC, item 160, fols. 185-94, see JCC, 12:963, 969-70. 2 See Laurens to Ebenezer Hancock, September 20, 1778. 3 See Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., October 6, 1778, note. ‘JCC, 12:969.


[Page 56]
20 October 5, 1778 Excellency’s favor of the 31st August—this has been a week in the hands of a Committee & remains unreported therefore I am without subject for reply. 1 My present duty is to forward two Acts of Congress viz. 2 1. Of the 2nd Instant for continuing the present Embargo on Provision until the last day of January 1779 and for divers other purposes therein mentioned. 2. An Act of this date for exchanging with Continental Currency such local Bills of Credit as have been received in the Loan Office of each State respectively. 3 These will be found within the present Cover. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 President Lowndes’ August 31 letter to Laurens, in which he had sought clari fication of a 1776 congressional resolution pertaining to the authority of state officials to appoint Continental officers in the several states, is in PCC, item 72, fols. 465-68. For the disposition of this issue, which was referred to committee on September 29 and resolved on November 17, see Laurens to Benjamin Lincoln, November 24, 1778, note 3. 2 See JCC, 12:976-77, 982-83. Laurens transmitted these two resolves of Congress to the remaining states (except Georgia, for which see note 3 below) in letters dated October 7, 1778. PCC, item 13, 2:98-102. 3 Laurens sent a copy of this resolve to Georgia enclosed in an October 4 letter to Gov. John Houstoun explaining Congress’ October 2 extension of the embargo on provisions. PCC, item 13, 2:96-97. Richard Henry Lee to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 5th 1778 I thank you for your obliging letter by Dr. Johnson. 1 That gentle man has been pleased to promise that he will call for an answer, should he not, this letter must find its way by the safest hand I can meet with. There can be nothing in nature more clear than that large Magazines of bread provision at least, are indispensable in the East; and every nerve is, and has for some time been straining to accomplish this purpose. Distance and the want of safe means for water conveyance, are considerable obstructions; but a far greater than these are a pernicious set of Miscreants called Engrossers, who by the redundance of money, have sprung up in multitudes like Mushrooms in heat and moisture, and they in the midst of plenty are creating an artificial scarcity which threatens much mischief. We have sent such recommendations to the different States, as if adopted, will I hope occasion these mercenary Wretches to suffer in the way that will hurt them most. I hope the various measures we have taken, will prove, tho slow, effectual in the end. Some considerations


[Page 57]
October 5, 1778 21 induce me to think that the enemy will not attempt Boston, notwith standing the Object is so tempting under its present circumstances. For, if success presents advantages and great ones too, failure is most certain ruin. In fact more may be lost than can possibly be gained. Gen. Clintons Army is the only hope of Canada, Nova Scotia, Flor idas, West Indies, and perhaps I may safely add, very much of G. Britain & Ireland. Should Burgoynes fate be Clintons the four former possessions are infallibly lost, and the two latter shaken to their foundations. Revenge must therefore be postponed to safety, and keeping what they have must precede the recovery of what they have lost. We hear pretty directly, that Dominica is already in the possession of our Ally, and that Jamaica and St Kitts are trembling for fear. Admiral Keppel too, it seems, has fled from the fleet of France. These things do not admit a much longer stay here. However we ought in wisdom, to be completely guarded against every attempt, and every one of us, in his Station should be contriving to that end. My brother Arthur will be happy to hear from you, for I know he considers your Victories as contributing more essentially than any thing else to place us on the ground of security and honor upon which we now stand. I am, with sincere esteem and affection, dear Sir your obliged friend, Richard Henry Lee RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Gates’ September 23 letter to Lee is in the Lee Papers, PPAmP. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Philadelphia October 5, 1778 A few days past, since the last post left us, Mr. Harvey presented me your favor of August of 30th, 1 to which this is an answer; and which I shall direct to Williamsburg upon a supposition that the Assembly has called you there by the time the letter can reach that place. The hand bill you have seen was certainly written by Mauduit, and circulated under the auspices of administration. 2 Twas intended to feel the national pulse, and to prepare its mind for the reception of events, which are now become unavoidable. I agree with you Sir that the fishery is a most important point nor will the limits of Canada be with less difficulty settled in those negotiations which precede a peace. The arrival of Adm. Byrons Squadron has given to our enemies a temporary superiority in those Seas. The sending him here was more necessary than it can be called bold. But the fleet of Great Britain is, by this detachment, rendered inferior to that of France in the Channel of England. My brother informs me from


[Page 58]
22 October 5, 1778 Paris July 4 that an engagement is every day expected between the two fleets. Later accounts say it has happened and that the English fleet was beaten. Our information from the West Indies says that Dominica is fallen, and that Jamaica and St. Kitts are in Jeopardy. I believe our enemies would willingly change their war of conquest into a war of revenge, but revenge must be postponed to safety; and I think they will rather endeavor to save what remains, than endeavor to get back what they have lost, or to gratify their malignity put Canada, Nova Scotia, the West Indies, and even G. Britain and Ireland in danger. But wisdom points to precaution, and they may attempt Boston as some think, in order to destroy the french Fleet. If they do and fail in the attempt, they will be defenceless in every part of the world by the destruction of the only army on which they can hang their hopes. I have a very high opinion of the republican principles and of the ability of Mr. Mazzei, and I think that if Mr. Maddison were sent to Genoa with him for Secretary we might have a good chance to succeed in borrowing there one of the millions, five of which are absolutely necessary to sustain, and restore our falling currency. 3 To cultivate a good understanding with the nations in the south of Europe is undoubtedly wise policy, and may produce the most profitable consequences. These affairs will come presently under the consideration of Congress, when I shall not forget the useful pos session of Mr. Mazzei. Mr. Izard is the Commissioner for Tuscany, my brother William is appointed both for Vienna and Berlin. He has been sometime at the former Court, but the latter refuses to receive a Minister from us or to acknowledge yet our Independance, altho he did by his Minister most unequivocally promise my brother he would do so, as soon as France should set the example. Since this, he has quarreled with the Emperor about the Bavarian succession, and wanting the aid of Hanover, Hesse, Brunswic 8cc. he chooses to be well with England. The Emperor is not a little puzzled in the same way and for the same reasons. Tis a matter, not of the greatest moment to us at present, since the war between the two Giants will swallow up in their respective vortices the lesser Tyrants and thus prevent him of England from bringing German Auxiliaries to distress our Alliance. There is nothing that threatens so much injury to our cause at present as the evil operations of Engrossers. If something decisive is not quickly done by the Legislatures to stop the progress of Engrossing, and to make these Miscreants deliver up their ill gotten collections, the American Army must disband, and the fleet of our Allies remain in Boston Harbor. 4 I know the root of this evil is in the redundance of money, but until the latter can be reduced some measures are indispensable, to be taken with the Engrossers. You will see the expedients devised by us. A more radical cure will follow shortly, in a proposition of Finance now under consideration. I am


[Page 59]
October 5, 1778 23 so greatly pressed with business that I cannot now write to Mr. Mazzei and must beg the favor of you to make this apology for me. [Be so k]ind as remember me affectionately to Mr. Wythe & Colo. [.. . i]f he is with you. I am affectionately yours, Richard Henry Lee P.S. Colo. Baylor, with a Corps of 60 light Dragoons, was lately surprised in the Jerseys, between Hackensack and the North River— Himself made prisoner, and his party chiefly put to the Bayonet, it is said, in cold blood. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:210-11. 2 This “hand bill,’’ which Jefferson had stated was "published in our papers as certified by your brother [i.e., Arthur Lee],” had appeared in John Dunlap’s Penn sylvania Packet on August 22, 1778, described as "a handbill, written by Mr. Mauduit, under the direction of Lord North, and circulated through England by order of Administration.” Interest in the document derived from the fact that Israel Mauduit, a longtime ministerial defender of British rights in America and former colonial agent for Massachusetts, had asserted in it: “We have no possible chance of making peace with her [America], but by . . . giving her perfect inde pendence.” It had been published in London in March 1778. See Henry Laurens to Washington, July 31, 1778, note 12. 3 In his August 30 letter to Lee, Jefferson had suggested that his friend Philip Mazzei might be “usefully emploied” with William Lee in Europe. "His connec tions,” Jefferson asserted, “in Tuscany are good, his acquaintance with capital men there, in Rome, and Naples great. He also resided some years in Constantinople where he contracted a knolege of the customs of the country, the mode of doing business there and of some respectable characters which might perhaps render him more able to be useful to us than many others.” Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:211. 4 For the Virginia legislature’s June 1779 bill on “Engrossing,” see ibid., pp. 561-66. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia October the 5th 1778 I hope the measures you have taken will be effectual to the purpose of reenlisting the Army because it is an object of great importance; and I readily admit the propriety of first trying those methods which promise fewest ill consequences. Danger will only arise from pressing such too far, and urging the experiment too long. I very much fear Sir, that the knowledge of depreciation has reached the most unin formed, and therefore, that every evil which can, will happen to us from this cause. But I am not without hope that such measures will be adopted as may, before it is too late, restore our currencey to its proper value. 1 It is indeed no easy matter to judge of the designs of the enemy. They have created to themselves a great choice of difficulties. I


[Page 69]
October 6, 1778 33 abilities to oppose them with success. 1 I value most what our great Politicians value least. Congress are at present a Government of Men. It would astonish you to think how all affairs proceed upon the interested Principle: Members prostituting their votes in ex pectation of mutual assistance upon favorite Points. I am appre hensive that in geting free from oppression in one quarter, we are likely to establish it in another; by avoiding one set of Plunderers we are certain to fall into the Clutches of a still more dangerous set. I am sorry our good Friend Harvey is about to leave Congress; he is a valuable man in times like the present, a man of great virtue and boldness of Spirit. If the Land office should be established, put him at the head of it; his abilities and honesty will be highly necessary in that Employment. The motions of the Enemy are very uncertain; there is an expedition going forward on the part of General Clin ton, but to what object is merely conjecture, perhaps to Boston- New England and the French Fleet are powerful inducements. All Circumstances considered, I believe they are going to guard the remaining parts of their Dominion. In the mean time they will destroy everything they possibly can, and I should not wonder if Philadelphia 2 itself was reduced to ashes before their departure. As yet Spain have taken no part to our advantage, indeed Arthur Lee still remains at Paris. The Court of Berlin have refused William Lee the Commissioner of Congress to that quarter: he is now gone to Vienna, 3 the most accomplished Metropolis in the world. We are plagued to death with quarrels and recriminations relative to our Commissioners abroad; these men will involve the Continent in perdition. It is absolutely necessary that Dean should be sent over to Europe for the most valuable purpose in the world, but some Gentlemen are determined to ruin an innocent Character, notwithstanding he alone has the great merit of concluding that valuable Treaty with the Minister of France. Tell MacLurg and President Maddison they are both s in not answering my Letters. The next I write you will be in a different stile; this only by way of preface. I must beg to trouble you with my best respects to Mr. Wythe. I am dear sir, your obdt humble servant, C. Griffin RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). 1 Despite his disenchantment with its proceedings and his departure from Con gress about two weeks later, Griffin returned before the end of the year to begin another term that continued until he was appointed by Congress to its newly created Court of Appeals in the spring of 1780. Furthermore, after serving seven years in that capacity he was reelected to Congress by the Virginia Assembly in October 1787 and served the following year as the last president of Congress. DAB. 2 Griffin’s incongruous reference to Philadelphia in this context suggests a simple slip, for at this moment many Americans were anticipating the British evacuation of New York.


[Page 70]
34 October 6, 1778 3 For information on William Lee’s reception in Vienna, where he met a similar rejection, see Karl A. Roider, Jr., “William Lee, Our .First Envoy in Vienna," Virginia Magazine of History and Biography 86 (April 1978): 163-68. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe 6th October [1778] I have lately had the honor of receiving and presenting to Con gress many of your Letters, but I have nothing in Command respect ing you except the inclosed Resolutions of the 25th of September, directing you to repair immediately to General Washington’s Head Quarters and Major General Lincoln to take the Command in the Southern Department. 1 I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: “Major General Howe, Charlestown, by Dugan to Baltimore, there to be deliver’d Colo. Ternant.” See JCC, 12:951. For additional information on Howe’s removal from the southern command, and a brief analysis of his Continental career in the South see Cornelius Harnett’s letters to Richard Caswell, September 26, note 3, and Novem ber 24, 1778; and Alan D. Watson et al., Harnett, Hooper ir Howe: Revolutionary Leaders of the Lower Cape Fear (Wilmington, N.C.: Lower Cape Fear Historical Society, 1979), pp. 80-85. Henry Laurens to William Livingston 6th October [1778] I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency on the 1st Instant. Inclosed is a Resolve of Congress requesting Your Excellency to obtain information of the Enemys’ treatment of the late Lieutenant Colonel Baylor and his Party who were cut off in New Jersey. 1 It has been represented that the unhappy Colonel, several of his Officers, and many of his Troops were Bayonetted in cold blood, should this be proved, I apprehend suitable retaliation will immediately follow a refusal of satisfaction. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Endorsed: “by Colonel Beatty.” 1 George Baylor’s small regiment had been surprised the night of September 27-28 at Old Tappan, N.J., west of the Hudson opposite Dobb’s Ferry. The en gagement. virtually eliminated the unit as a fighting force, and, as Washington reported, "appears to have been attended with every circumstance of cruelty.” The information Congress solicited was collected by Livingston, Gen. William Alex ander, and Dr. David Griffith, the surgeon who had attended Baylor’s wounded, and referred to the Committee of Intelligence on October 26. The committee


[Page 71]
October 6, 1778 35 thereupon prepared extracts of Alexander’s and Griffith’s letters for publication, with a number of affidavits collected from witnesses to the affair, which were printed in the October 29 issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet. See JCC, 12:987, 1062; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:14; Livingston, Papers (Prince), 2:468-70; and PCC, item 53, fols. 103-34, item 68, fols. 413-16, and item 162, fols. 539-40. For another aspect of Congress’ reaction to the Baylor "massacre,” see Laurens to John Beatty, October 9, 1778. Unlike most of the material Congress released for publication, the documents sent to Dunlap at this time survive in PCC, and some of the notations on them shed additional light on the conduct of Congress’ publicity activities. Preparation of the extracts for publication was clearly the work of Richard Henry Lee and William Henry Drayton, and Secretary Thomson’s note to the printer covering this material reads: “After the whole insert published by order of Congress. Chas. Thomson Secry. Please to send me the papers back when you have done with them and also Col. Hartley’s letter which you printed some time ago. I pray you not to neglect sending me back the originals immediately, otherwise I shall not send you any more originals.” PCC, item 53, fols. 133-34. Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes Dear Sir 6th- October [1778] I beg leave to refer to my last private of the 26th. Ulto by Millet. This will be delivered by Lieut. Colonel Ternant who is ordered by Congress to Act as Inspector of the Troops of the United States in South Carolina and Georgia. This Gentleman has served as a Volun teer in the grand Army with the highest reputation. South Carolina and Georgia will in Mr. Ternant receive the acquisition of an ex cellent Officer, and will in turn experience in him a valuable Citizen —his Conduct and manners will speak more in his favor than I can express. I shall do myself the honor of inclosing with this several Papers of Intelligence which with the information Your Excellency will re ceive from Mr Ternant and such additions as no doubt will be made by my Colleagues will put Your Excellency in possession of all our present knowledge of public Affairs. In a Letter which I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the Sth Instant as President of Congress is contained a late Act for continuing the present Em bargo, and for preventing engrossing Provision. I shall not trouble you Sir with my opinions on the several branches of this Act but barely remark that when the power of Congress to lay an Embargo was made a question and the voices of each Member called upon— there appeared fourteen in the negative, twelve affirmative—six States affirmative, five negative. 1 Of these six affirmatives, there were three States represented by Units. I am persuaded my Countrymen will Act on this great occasion as shall appear to be for the general good of these United States. If I may offer my sentiments Congress is not


[Page 82]
46 October 10, 1778 search at different times & particularly this Morning as the fleeting & pressing moments which I dare to borrow from public attentions have permitted me to make, remain undiscovered, although I am sure they are safe in a wrong class. I recollect however & shall never forget a new obligation which in one of them Your Excellency was pleased to lay on me by a very kind notice of my Sons behavior at Rhode Island 8c that you had returned the Gold which I sent to Head Quarters by Jones 2 8c also the Letters of Governor Johnstone, Mr. Oswald 8c Mr Manning. 3 In the present circumstances of Great Britain, rendered deplorable by the waste of another Campaign on this Continent, by the loss of Dominique in the West Indies 8c of a great Marine battle at her own door, it is exceedingly difficult to determine what will be her next step, although I do not think it is, to see the only measures re maining for her salvation. With respect to South Carolina, I can not yet treat the Idea of an attack as altogether chimerical. I am well warranted to say the British Administration held that State 8c Georgia in reserve, for a stroke of necessity which might at any time be made with Success 8c they well know the immense value of those States 8c great things may be done by drawing their forces to one point—they may have indeed stayed a day too late. Be that as it will, I have fully advertised my Countrymen, 8c if the alarm shall prove to have been unnecessarily sounded, their intermediate exertions towards a defence will do them no real injury. Congress have ordered the proceedings of the Court Martial on Major Genl. St. Clair to be printed, 4 8c have appointed Friday the 16th for considering 8c determining on those of the Court on Major Genl. Lee. I have nothing further to offer at present Sir, but the repeated assurances of being with the highest sense of Respect 8c Obligation, Your Excellency’s Most obedient 8c Most humble servant, Henry Laurens. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Laurens to Washington, October 9, 1778, note I. 2 See Laurens’ second letter to Washington of August 28, 1778, note 2. ’ See Laurens’ letters to Washington, June 18, and to George Johnstone, June 14, 1778, note 3. ‘ JCC, 12:989-90. Marine Committee to John Beatty Sir October 10th 1778 The Committee are informed that it has been the practice among your Deputys in the Eastern States to Exchange Prisoners made by the French Fleet without proper Authority.


[Page 83]
October 11, 1778 47 It is the desire of the Committee that you will give strict Orders forbiding this practice on Any Account unless when Ordered by the Admiral or Minister of France. 1 I am sir, Your hble servant, John Brown secy LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Marine Committee also wrote this day to the Eastern Navy Board en closing funds for the schooners Loyalty and Swan. See Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:13. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir, Philadelphia Octob 11. 1778 In the inclosed News paper you will see certain Queries, calculated to impress on the Minds of the People the Idea of Dr Lee’s having held a criminal Correspondence with a Person known to be at the same Time in the Service and under the Direction of the British Ministry. 1 I hope it will not be in the Power of this Querist to do essential Injury to so eminent a Patriot; who took the earliest and most decisive Part in opposition to the Measures of the British Court, and whose invariable Attachment to the Liberties of our Country, never was, and I think cannot be justly suspected. Yet it may be necessary to guard against it; for I plainly tho silently saw when I was last in Boston a malevolent Disposition towards Dr Lee, in a certain Gentleman, who, till he is better known, will have a great Influence in the Massachusetts State. The Instance you may recollect, as you were knowing to it in the Time of it. I then supposed it to proceed from his having strongly attachd himself, and for a Length of Time to a Circle of Men; and imbibd their Prejudices, who are far remote from the political Connections of Dr Lee, and who differ widely from them in the Adoption of publick Measures regarding either Politicks or Morals. You may remember that some time ago in a letter I informed you, I should have much to say to you about Mr D, 2 of whom I had long formed my opinion, and had not seen Reason to alter it. I have hitherto said Nothing to you about him; because I knew it would lead me to Subjects of great Delicacy, which by being exposd to the Enemy as they would if my Letters should fall into their hands, might disgrace or otherwise be prejudicial to our publick Affairs. This Caution prevents my communicating to you many things on which I wish to unburthen my Mind. Mr D was originally taken up by a secret Committee of Congress appointed to procure from France the necessary Supplys for carrying on the war: By them he was sent to that Country in the Character of a mere Merchant. About that Time another Committee was appointed


[Page 93]
October 14, 1778 57 France & other Parts of Europe, who has so often 8c so seasonably developd the secret Intrigues & Practices of wicked Men, and who at this Time stands high in the Esteem 8c Confidence of the Congress, 8c when it is considered in Addition to this, that there are too many disaffected 8c insidious Men still lurking among us, it is by no Means a strange thing to hear it insinuated by an anonimous Writer, that Dr. Lee also is chargeable with a criminal Correspon dence with the Enemy, without even the Shaddow of Reason. You may publish this if you think proper. I receivd your favor of Sept. 30th. 3 It contains very interesting Matter which shall have my Attention at a more leisure Hour than the present. In the mean time Adieu my Fd. S. A. RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). 1 See Adams to Warren, October 11, 1778. 2 Adams may have been referring to John Dalrymple’s Memoirs of Great Britain and Ireland, 3 vols. (Edinburgh: W. Strahan and T. Cadell, 1771-78), particularly the French documents relating to the overthrow of James II in volume two. 3 Warren’s September 30 letter to Adams is in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:47-51. Marine Committee to John Beatty Sir October 14th. 1778 The Minister Plenipotentiary of France having informed Congress that a Negotiation for the Exchange of the respective Prisoners of his most Christian Majesty and the King of Great Britain being begun and near the term of its conclusion it becomes important to accelerate this settlement that the King of France’s Prisoners be immediately removed to the places where the Exchanges are actually to be made. Therefore we now direct that without delay you will take effectual measures for collecting all Prisoners to the King of France that may be on this side of Hudsons River, at, or as near to Elizabeth town in the State of New Jersey as may be proper for their Safety; and also those Prisoners that are on the other side of said River, at New London in the state of Connecticut, at both which places they are to be safely kept until orders for their disposal are given by the Minister of France or the Count D’Estaing. 1. It is our desire that you produce the same number of Prisoners to the King of France that has been delivered to you or your deputys re placing those by an equal number of Prisoners of the same Class belonging to the United States, those only excepted of his most Christian Majestys Prisoners which his Excellency the vice Admiral commanding his Squadron, or the Minister of France should have formally and gratiously released. You must keep perfect and distinct


[Page 95]
October 15, 1778 59 Shall have to pay large Sums to the States who claim the vacant Lands to Supply their Quotas o£ the Troops. Perhaps if the Assembly of Connecticut Should Resolve to make grants to their own Troops, and those raised by the States of Rhode Island, New Jersey, Delaware and Maryland in the Lands South of Lake Erie and west of the Lands in Controversy with Pennsylvania, Free of any purchase money or Quit rents to the Government of Connecticut, it might be Satisfactory to those States, and be no damage to the State of Con necticut. A Tract of Thirty Miles East and West across the State would be Sufficient for the purpose, and that being Settled under good regulations would enhance the value of the rest; These could not be claimed as Crown Lands, both the Fee and Jurisdiction having been Granted to the Governor & Company of Connecticut. 4 We are Sir with great respect, Your Excellency’s most obedt & most hble Servts. Roger Sherman Oliver Ellsworth FC (CtY: Sherman Papers). In the hand of Roger Sherman. Tr (DLC: Force Collection). ’Trumbull’s letter is in Trumbull Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:274—76. 3 See Henry Laurens to Trumbull, October 16, 1778, note 2. 3 Nominations for the major treasury posts were not actually made until October 31, when Trumbull’s son, Jonathan, was nominated for comptroller. Three days later he was elected to that position. JCC, 1085-86, 1096. 4 Remainder of letter taken from the Tr. Samuel Holten’s Diary [October 15, 1778] 15. Thursday. A Manifesto or Proclamation from the Comrs. of the British King appeared in the paper of this day offering a Genl. Pardon, but I believe there is but few people here want their pardon. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 For further information on the October 3 "Manifesto” of the Carlisle Com missioners that was printed in the October 15 issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet, see Samuel Adams to Timothy Matlack, October 16, 1778. James Lovell to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Octo. 15th. 1778. Hond & Dear Sir, Your favor to me of the 5th 1 by Brown found me in bed, under most severe symptoms of a nervous fever. I had enjoined it upon myself not to visit my family, till the Accounts of my dear, injured,


[Page 105]
October 17, 1778 69 RC (NNPM: Signers of the Articles Collection). Addressed: "To Comfort Sands Esqr. Auditor of the State of New York.” 1 Comfort Sands (1748-1834), a New York merchant and member of the New York assembly, became a major supplier of the Continental Army by the end of the war. See Clarence L. Ver Steeg, Robert Morris, Revolutionary Financier (1954; reprint ed., New York: Octagon Books, 1972), pp. 142-45. 2 Duer remained at Congress at least until November 16, the last date he is recorded as voting. The Board of War report dated December 20, 1778, that is printed in the journals showing Duer in attendance at that time is actually one of December 20, 1777. See JCC, 9:1047, 12:1135, 1238. Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler Sir 17th October [1778] I had Yesterday the honor of presenting to Congress your favor of the 6th Instant, on the 12th Instant I delivered to the House the proceedings of a Court Martial to which you allude. 1 Be assured Sir, if a determination by Congress on those proceed ings happens before the expiration of my time in the Office of Presi dent, you shall be immediately informed. I have but a moment for serving the present opportunity. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). X JCC, 12:1001, 1018. Schuyler’s October 6 letter requesting a prompt review of the proceedings of his recently completed court-martial is in PCC, item 153, 3:356-58. Not until December 3, however, did Congress take up his case, at which time it confirmed the sentence, "acquitting Major General Schuyler, with the high est honor, of the charges exhibited against him.” JCC, 12:1186. Marine Committee to Paul Loyall and James Maxwell Gentlemen October 17 th. 1778 We have determined to resume the building of One of the Frigates that are on the stocks at Gosport, and now direct that you will im mediately proceed to build that One of the said frigates which at this time is most forward—the work done towards the other you will secure, so as to prevent damage from the weather. To enable you to go on with this business we Send you by the bearer hereof Mr. James White 20,000 Dollars agreeable to his receipt enclosed, which we doubt not you will manage with the greatest (Economy and give great attention and dispatch to the business committed to your care. 1 You will inform us from time to time of your proceedings &, We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants


[Page 106]
70 October 17, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ‘Congress had approved this payment to its marine agents in Virginia, Loyall and Maxwell, on September 9. JCC, 12:892-93. John Mathews to Thomas Bee My Dear Bee, Philadelphia Octr. 17th 1778. I am set down with a heavy & aching heart to write to you. To you I can communicate my sentiments without reserve, as I am sure you will never betray that confidence I repose in you. I will now speak more freely to you than I have yet done. They are the dictates of an honest heart that means well, 8c is deeply impressed with the most poignant grief in contemplating the ruin that impends over this un happy country. Since I have come into C I have viewed the progress of its business with a curious, & a watchful eye. I have for some time past thought this body by no means competent to do the great public business intrusted to them, I am now thoroughly con vinced of the Justice of this observation. I do not think it would be prudent to trust my reasons to paper, I will reserve them untill we meet. Do not think me actuated by an over jealous disposition. In deed I am not. I have refrained from saying this much, untill I was satisfyed there was no room left whereon to hang a doubt. A change of Men, or measures, must be speedily effected, or we are lost. It is a melancholy truth, 8c as I think it high time it was known, I must tell you that the American cause never stood so near the pinnacle of destruction as it at this day does, 8c is daily approaching nearer to its downfall. Whence arises this dangerous alarm? I may be asked. From men in whom you repose an implicit confidence, 8c who are not worthy of it. These are serious matters, 8c require no less serious con sideration. They are meant to operate so far in your mind as to pro duce something for the benefit of that virtuous cause in which you took so early 8c decided a part, and the same noble Patriotism which first fired your bosom to step forth in its support, will, I make not the least doubt again engage your exertions of mind, to devise some means for conducting it to a final 8c happy Issue. I would wish to see one State at least in the Union have fortitude and honesty enough to instruct their Delegates to remonstrate in pointed 8: severe terms, against the abuse, 8c waste of time that Daily is committed in that body. The great public concerns are left to shift for themselves, whilst almost our whole time is ingroced by the private interests of indi viduals. Alas! C is not what it has been. Your own good sence will at once dictate to you that this must be, inter nos, It is a deli cate affair, 8c ought to be handled with extream tenderness, for if these things were once to get abroad, the consequences, you must at


[Page 108]
72 October 18, 1778 16th and referred to the Committee of Intelligence for publication, is in PCC, item 162, fols. 527-29. "By all the intelligence I have been-able to Collect,” Alexander had reported, “a grand Embarkation will immediately take place at New York, they give out it is for South Carolina, some say it is for Boston, but from the Season and a Variety of Other Circumstances I Conclude it is for the West Indies.” 2 See Laurens to Joseph Reed, this date. Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de Cambray Sir. 1 Philadelphia, 18th October 1778 I have barely time to acknowledge the receipt of your favor of 24th September, 2 to assure you your Letter which came inclosed in it shall be carefully sent forward, of my friendship for you on all occasions admitting my interposition with propriety, and that I have the honor to be with great Regard, Sir, Your obedient & most humble Servant, Henry Laurens. [P.S.] Gen McIntosh will communicate the News of the day. RC (Biblioteca Nazionale Centrale, Firenze, Italy). 1 Louis-Antoine-Jean-Baptiste, chevalier de Cambray-Digny (1751-1822), was appointed lieutenant colonel of engineers in June 1778 and sent to Fort Pitt where his engineering and artillery talents were needed by Gen. Lachlan McIntosh. Cambray’s qualifications and former military service were reviewed at length in a June 13, 1778, Board of War report that recommended him for a Continental commission. JCC, 11:604-5. 2 Cambray’s letter to Laurens, which bears the dateline “Fort Pitt. 24th Septr. 1778,” is in the William Gilmore Simms Collection deposit, MHi. Just two days after Laurens wrote this letter Congress reassigned Cambray to South Carolina "for the purpose of putting the town and harbour of Charleston in the most respectable posture of defence.” JCC, 12:1032. Laurens informed Cambray of this reassignment in a brief letter of October 24. PCC, item 13, 2:133. Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry Sir 18th October [1778] I had the honor of writing to Your Excellency the 16th Instant by Colonel Wood. 1 Congress having received further intelligence from New York of the Enemy’s design to make an Attack upon South Carolina, and that an embarkation of Troops for that purpose had actually com menced, have directed me to request Your Excellency to forward with all possible Expedition the 1,000 Men requested to be sent for the aid of that State 2 in an Act of Congress of the 25th Ulto. which I had the honor of transmitting in my Letter to Your Excellency of


[Page 109]
October 18, 1778 78 the 26th, 3 but as nothing I can say can have equal efficacy with the Act of Congress passed on this occasion the 17th Instant I shall here inclose the said Act and beg leave to recommend its contents to Your Excellency’s attention. 4 I Am with great Respect & Esteem Sir &c. P.S. I am directed to assure Your Excellency that Money for pay ment of the troops will be remitted in a few days. 5 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., October 16, 1778, note 3. 3 At this point an asterisk was inserted to key the following note at the foot of the page: “meaning South Carolina and Georgia." * See Laurens to Richard Caswell, September 26, 1778, note 2. * For this resolution requesting reinforcements from North Carolina and Virginia for the defense of South Carolina and Georgia, the number of which was hereby raised to 6,000 from the 4,000 previously requested, see JCC, 12:102L 5 Laurens also wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Gov. Richard Caswell of North Carolina. Fogg Collection, MeHi. Henry Laurens to John Houstoun Sir 18th October [1778] I beg leave to refer Your Excellency to my late letters of the 13th and 16th Instant sent to Governor Caswell by an Express Messenger with a request to the Governor to be forwarded immediately to Charlestown. 1 Congress having received recent repeated intelligence of the design of the Enemy to attack Charlestown or some part of South Carolina have directed me to request the Governors of Virginia and North Carolina to forward with all expedition the troops requested for the aid of South Carolina and Georgia in their Act of the 25th Ulto. and also an additional number of two thousand from North Carolina as Your Excellency will be more particularly informed by the Inclosed Act of the 17th Instant. One of the British Commissioners’ Manifesto flags of Truce in tended for this River, 2 having on board three Packets supposed to be intended for Delaware, Pennsylvania and Congress was by a violent wind driven a few days ago on the Jersey shore and wrecked, the Commander of the flag Vessel said to be a Lieutenant of a British 50 Gun ship, a Midshipman and eight or ten Seamen escaped with their lives, these were seized and sent prisoners to Philadelphia, and were yesterday committed to the New Goal—tomorrow I shall enquire more particularly into the history of their errand, there is among the Seamen a person who was formerly a skillful Pilot on


[Page 113]
October 19, 1778 77 Tr (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Letter Books). 1 Not found. 2 Congress approved the verdicts of the courts-martial of Gens. Philip Schuyler and Arthur St. Clair on December 4 and 16, 1778, respectively. JCC, 12:1186, 1225-26. See also these Letters, 7:417. Samuel Holten’s Diary [October 19-20, 1778] 19. Monday. Congress received accounts from Lord Sterling that the enemy were prepairing for a grand movement from New York, but where is uncertain. 1 I wrote to Capt. Batchelder. 2 20. Tuesday. Genl. Lincoln &: his aid dined with us. 3 I wrote to Mrs. Holten (No. 25). 4 MS (MDaAr). 1 Gen. William Alexander’s October 17 letter to President Laurens, which was read in Congress on the 19th, is in PCC, item 162, fols. 531-32. JCC, 12:1023. 2 Not found. s Gen. Benjamin Lincoln had stopped in Philadelphia for a short visit en route to South Carolina where he was to assume the command of the southern depart ment to which he had been appointed on September 25. The following note in serted by Moses Young in President Laurens’ letterbook under the date October 19 involves an item of official business pertaining to Lincoln’s new appointment. "Delivered General Lincoln himself two Acts of Congress viz. one of the 12th Inst, strictly enjoining all Officers in the Army of the United States to see that the good and wholsome Laws provided for the preservation of Morals among the Soldiers be duly observed. Another of the 1 Sth directing the D. Paymr. Genl, in the State of Georgia to pay into the hands of the Deputy Commissary, Quarter Master & Clothier General such sums of Money as they may require upon obtaining a Warrant for that purpose from the Commanding Officer in the Southern Depart ment.” PCC, item 13, 2:118. ‘Not found. Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother, Philadelphia Octr. 19. 1778 Monsieur the Marquis de la Fayette having done me the honor to take a letter for you, I am happy in the opportunity of bringing two men acquainted with each other whom I greatly love. All good men in these United States esteem the Marquis for his brave and generous attachment to the cause of America, and for the services he has here performed as a General in our Army. It is impossible that a person of such worth should not feel the obligation of returning to offer service to his country when engaged in war. Yet the Marquis still continues a Major General in the Army of the United States, and


[Page 115]
October 20, 1778 79 from Mr. Lewis for the delivery of the Cannon brought by Capt. Borritz in to No Carolina to the States of Virginia and No Carolina each to pay for what they receive agreeable to the Contracts in tobacco. These Resolutions of Congress and the Commercial Com mittee I Shall send down by tomorrow’s Post and hope the States will immediately deliver the Tobacco and thereby Save demurrage. Thus far is all the intelligence that occurs to me as necessary to be given you at this time. If any thing further offers I Shall write you again by this Post. The time is now near at hand when I Shall be relieved from my Seat in Congress, but you may See in our news Papers that our fellow Citizens are determined not to leave me master of my own time, and as I cannot by our Constitution Serve longer in Congress they have Elected me a Burgess for this City in the general assembly. This However will not claim quite So much of my time as the Congress did. Should your wants of money for the fleet extend to Such Sums as you may conceive will exceed your de posits here to an inconvenient degree, you will doubtless desire Monsr Gerard to apply to Congress for that advance untill you can at convenience replace it, which I mention just to remind you of what in Such case may be necessary. I Shall be happy to hear of your finishing your business at Boston & still more to see you return here, being Dr. Sir, Your’s &Ca. R.M. Tr (DLC: Holker Papers). Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My Dear Betsy Philadelphia Octob 20th—78 A few days ago Mr Brown, a publick Messenger carried a Letter from me to you, which I hope you will receive before this reaches you. I feel a Pleasure when I sit down to write to you and omit no opportunity. My Boston Friends tell me with great Sollicitude that I have Enemies there. I thank them for their Concern for me, and tell them I knew it before. The Man who acts an honest Part in publick Life, must often counteract the Passions, Inclinations or Humours of weak and wicked Men and this must create him Ene mies. I am therefore not disappointed or mortified. I flatter my self that no virtuous Man who knows me will or can be my Enemy; because I think he can have no Suspicion of my Integrity. But they say my Enemies “are plotting against me.” Neither does this dis compose me, for what else can I expect from such kind of Men. If they mean to make me uneasy they miss their Aim; for I am happy and it is not in their Power to disturb my Peace. They add, The


[Page 122]
86 October 20, 1778 coldly to their friends, for believing the relation now too well at tested, of your conduct to those unhappy men who capitulated at Fort Washington. At length conviction came, though slow, yet full. To mention the instances in which you broke faith with the public and with indi viduals, would be to write the history of your three campaigns, with all the attirais of proclamations and protections. But it would be for the honour of human nature to bury this history in oblivion. It is sufficient for the present to observe, that we became fully convinced you were no longer to be trusted. Honest men, after they have been defrauded, acquire that whole some suspicion which others inherit. The only difference indeed is, that the former reason from facts, the latter from feelings. Of conse quence mutual diffidence took place to the greatest degree; and it is perhaps as laughable a circumstance as any of the others that you made at this time, and under such auspices your conciliatory propo sitions, which of all things required the greatest confidence. But to return. It was predicted by every discerning man, that the troops of the convention would be used against us the instant they were out of our power. Your former conduct justified the inference, and consider ing the many infractions you made in it from the very commence ment of the treaty, Congress had good right to have declared the stipulations on their part void. Principles, however, of national honour induced the determination of that Body strictly to comply with the convention. Luckily for America General Burgoyne, by declaring in a letter to Congress that they had broken it, gave an additional ground, known and acknowledged among nations, for suspending it until a ratification from the court of Great-Britain. It is observable, that even then the suspension was carried by a very small majority, although every Member present was convinced you did not mean to pay the least regard to it. They reasoned (but with what force it becomes not me to determine) that it was better to convince the world by one more experiment of your want of integ rity. Luckily however, they were overruled; and you have daily given additional proofs of the wisdom of that cautionary measure. On the requisition by yourself and others, Commissioners, &c. dated at New-York, the 26th August, 2 the following doubts arise: 1st. Why was it not made sooner, since clearly the Commissioners had as much power to ratify it before, and their King was as much in need of his troops. 2d. By what authority did the Commissioners intermeddle in a business by no means in contemplation at the time of their appoint ment, and (as will be shewn hereafter) clearly out of their power,


[Page 123]
October 20, 1778 87 especially when you the proper person was on the spot, and only made one of them. I am informed that the solution given in Congress at the time was, that the Commissioners had received a ratification of the convention, together with orders to make an application of that kind, with a view to two objects: 1st. If possible to obtain the prisoners, and then declare the con vention void by reason of the suspension, and of their want of authority. 2d. At least to lead Congress into some kind of treaty or corre spondence with them on the subject, and thereby indirectly into an acknowledgment of an authority in the Commissioners to treat with us as subjects of Great-Britain. This is confirmed substantially by your letter; for it cannot be supposed that your Ministers have less pride or wisdom than hereto fore. If therefore their Commissioners had been possessed of suffi cient authority, they would hardly have sent you that express and recent authority you mention to have received since the date of their requisition. It is worthy of observation that this date is the 26th of August, and Your authority the twelfth of June, between which is an interval of eleven weeks. It is evident that Your Ministers in the critical situation of their country, would give this paper every pos sible dispatch. Six weeks or seven, at farthest, were sufficient to transmit it from Whitehall to New-York. Hence it is evident, not only that you had received that paper before the date of the requisi tion, but also that it was on that ground the requisition was made. 3 What right had the Commissioners to interfere in it? They were appointed for the single purpose of persuading us to become subjects to the King, being a kind of missionaries to propagate monarchy in foreign parts, 4 and what connection this has with a military conven tion, no man can discover. They had no authority to speak to Con gress on national grounds. They were not Ambassadors, Ministers Plenipotentiary, nor any thing of that kind. They were not appointed by letters of credence but by commission under the great seal, not from the mere motive of the Prince, but by Act of Parliament. In short, the whole mission was on domestick principles; when there fore the people of America refused to become subjects to the King of England, their authority, if any they had, ceased, nor could they possibly have had authority to the purpose they pretended. It was given them neither by their commission, nor by the act on which that commission was grounded, nor could it possibly have been in con templation when that act was passed; and your letter shews demon stratively, not only that they had not any such authority, but that your King and his Ministers did not think they had. But what kind of authority is your’s? Why it seems you have sent a


[Page 130]
94 October 20, 1778 it may well have been written before the latter. Boutell’s text is reprinted here simply because the two documents reflect parallel concerns. “The affair of our currency is to be considered in Congress today. What will be done to restore and support its credit is uncertain. We can’t lessen the quantity much while the army is kept up. I trust the fullest assurance ought and will be given for redeeming it in due time and for exchanging gold and silver for what shall be out standing at the period fixed for its redemption at the expressed value. The whole that has been emitted is a little more than 60,000,000 dollars. I think a period of about 14 or 15 years should be fixed for sinking the whole. That taxes for about 6 million dollars per annum for 4 years, 5 million dollars for five years and four million dollars per annum for the residue of the period should be imme diately laid to be collected as a sinking fund with liberty for each State to raise more than their annual quota and be allowed 6 per cent interest for the time they may anticipate the payment. That each of the States that have not called in their Bills do it immediately and refrain from further emissions and tax themselves for current expenses. Besides liberty may be given for the people to bring in as many of the Bills as they please into loan offices, with assurance that the whole that is brought in shall be burnt. That all unnecessary expenses be retrenched and the best economy introduced. That the future expense of the war be defrayed as far as may be by taxes and the residue by emissions—and if the war ceases this year, which I think not improbable, our finances may soon be put on a good footing. Provision ought to be made in the meantime by each State to prevent injustice to creditors and salary men.” Lewis Henry Boutell, Life of Roger Sherman (Chicago: A.C. McClurg and Co., 1896), pp. 106-7. John Henry to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir In Congress Oct. the 21st. 1778. I have this moment received from the president of Congress, the inclosed Copy of a Confession of a pilot on board the Flag Ship that was cast away on the Jersey Shore. 1 I gave you yesterday the best intelligence we have respecting the motions of the Enemy. I believe we may rest assured that Boston is the object of their destination. I shall continue to give you the earliest account we have. I am Sir with great respect your most obedt. and hble. Servt. J. Henry RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 This “Confession” of Abraham Whiltbank, who reported that when he left New York on October 8 several hundred loyalist refugees there were “associating” for a descent on Delaware or Maryland, is in Md. Archives, 21:220-21. In response to Henry’s warning, the Maryland Council enclosed copies of it with a circular letter of October 25, 1778, which was sent with an appropriate warning to the lieutenants of the Maryland counties on the Eastern Shore. Ibid., p. 224. Henry’s enclosure is actually an extract of the document President Laurens had received, a copy of which, bearing the following endorsement in Laurens’ hand, is in the Laurens Papers, no. 18, ScHi. “Abram Wilbanks’ information respecting the proceedings of the Enemy at New York. 20th October 1778.


[Page 137]
October 23, 1778 101 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Addressed: “His Excellency Richard Caswell Esqr., Governor and Commandr. o£ North Carolina. Favoured by the Honorable Major Genl. Lincoln.” 1 Penn may be referring to the North Carolina delegates’ September 29, 1778, letter to Governor Caswell. 2 See JCC, 12:950. Henry Laurens to William Alexander My Lord Philadelphia, 23d October 1778. I had the honor of writing to you the 18th Inst. & since of pre senting to Congress Your Lordship’s Letter of the 17th. Last Night I received another of the 20th subjoined to Copy of one of the 19th to General Washington. 1 These shall be laid before Congress at their meeting the present Morning. Continued intelligence of the Enemy’s movements will be received with pleasure by the House. I have the honor to be, With very great Respect, & Regard, Sir, Your Lordship’s Most obedient & most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (NHi: Miscellaneous MSS, Laurens). 1 JCC, 12:1023, 1056. Alexander’s October 17 and 20 letters to Laurens are in PCC, item 162, fols. -531-38. Henry Laurens to Peter Colt Sir 23 October 1778 I had the honor of writing to you the 12th Instant by Dodd. Within the present inclosure you will receive an Act of Congress of the 20th Instant for granting you for the purposes set forth in your Letter of the 25th Ulto. One hundred and ninety thousand Dollars. 1 You will also find inclosed the three Warrants for that sum particu larized in the Act and at foot hereof. I have the honor to be &c. A Warrant on Nathl. Appleton Esqr. Commissioner of the Loan Office Boston 70,000 One on John Lawrence Esqr. Treasurer of the State of Connecticut, for 100,000 Another on John Laurence Esqr. Commissioner of the Loan Office of Connect. 20,000 190,000 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 'See Laurens’ October 12 letter to Colt and JCC, 12:1030-31.


[Page 140]
104 October 24, 1778 William Henry Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners Philadelphia, October 24, 1778. To the Earl of Carlisle, Sir henry clinton, and william eden, Esq; Your Excellencies Proclamation and Manifesto of the 3d of Oc tober, is the subject of my present amusement. 1 -You were commis sioned for the sole purpose of amusing the Americans, and it must be confessed, even by your greatest enemies, that you have acted your parts in a masterly manner: The American nation are not a little obliged to your Excellencies for the diversion you have afforded them. This very entertaining Manifesto of yours, is addressed to the Members of Congress, the Members of the General Assemblies or Conventions of the several States in the union, and to all others, free inhabitants of those States; and therefore it naturally follows, that I may with propriety address myself to your Excellencies in return. I would not for the world omit shewing “a just regard to the characters you bear.” You are pleased to say, that ‘‘having amply and repeatedly made known to Congress, and having also proclaimed to the inhabitants of North-America in general, the benevolent overtures of Great Britain towards a union and coalition with her Colonies, you do not think it consistent, either with the duty you owe to your country, or with a just regard to the characters you bear, to persist in holding out offers, which in your estimation required only to be known to be most gratefully accepted.” I must confess to your Excellencies, that I think this sentence is full of dignity and elegance; it corresponds “with the duty you owe to your country and with a just regard to the characters you bear.” It was not possible for me to conceive,, that while you were laying down this idea, that you were resolved “to persist in holding out offers” to Congress and the inhabitants of North-America, which they had treated with the most sovereign contempt. But in a moment, your manifesto convinced me, it was drawn up for the very purpose which it reprobated in the most pointed terms. Your Excellencies are happy in being possessed of a facility in reconciling to yourselves, ideas, which to the rest of the world appear utterly irreconcileable. Great poets are not confined by rules; and your Excellencies shew us, that great politicians are equally exempted. You “again declare” to Congress those offers which they have re peatedly rejected as absolutely inadmissable. Could your Excellen cies flatter yourselves, that because you persisted in renewing your offers, that therefore Congress would accept them! It is true, some gallants have wooed in this manner with success, the fair being too


[Page 141]
October 24, 1778 105 gentle to resist such importunities; but the materials you are at work upon, are rather of a firmer nature. Look through the proceedings of Congress, and say whether you have found an instance of their re ceding from a declared determination. On the contrary, those pro ceedings must have convinced you, that for you “to persist” in re newing your offers, is to shew the world, that you are resolved to throw away your time. I shall say nothing with respect to the offers you repeat to Congress, nor to your assertion that Congress were not authorized to reject your offers, or to refer you to foreign treaties, which though real, you are pleased now to call “pretended.” Enough has been said on those subjects in several letters to your Excellencies; 2 nor do I think it consistent with a just regard to the character I bear, now to persist in repeating those arguments which fully pointed out the insidious nature of those offers, and the falsity of those as sertions. But, as to your invitation to the General Assemblies sep arately, I must say it would be too dangerous an expedient for them to trust to, even were they disposed to relinquish their independence. And, as to your invitation to the free inhabitants individually, this is yet more exceptionable than the last. It is not by such very partial negociations, that a people are to force Britain to yield them im portant national advantages. And this must be obvious to every man, because during the whole course of this dispute, Britain has never been disposed to yield a single point, but when she lay under the edge of the sword of America. If then the combined wisdom and power of America is but adequate to the talk of forcing Great Britain to yield important national advantages to America, can your Excellencies really think, the General Assemblies separately, and the people individually, are so simple, as to be manifestoed by your Excellencies into a belief, that they can procure the same advantages by a disunion of counsel and of force 1 “It has not been,” you say, “nor is it your wish to seek the objects which you are commissioned to pursue, by fomenting popular divi sions and partial cabals.” “But it is both your wish and your duty,” you add, “to encourage and support any men or bodies of men in their return of loyalty to your Sovereign.” Now if this is not a dec laration of your wish to foment popular divisions and partial cabals, I know not what can be; and if your Manifesto was not sent abroad for those purposes, I am at a loss to conceive for what purposes it was issued. You declare, you “think such conduct would be ill suited to the generous nature of the offers made, and unbecoming the dig nity of the King and the State which makes them,” but you do not scruple, at the same instant, to act diametrically contrary to your declaration “amply made known.” By your conduct you clearly ad vise us to place no confidence in what you say, and yet you go on proclaiming.


[Page 145]
October 24, 1778 109 threatens highly, when he thinks he has power in his hands to make his threats good, and comes thereafter to cajole with soft promises of good treatment, when that power is gone; one must divest him self of common sense, if he believe that that man’s mind is really changed for the better, and does not ascribe the change of his man ner of treating with us, to the change of his fortune.” Such were the sentiments of the people of England upon King James’s declaration: They are my sentiments upon the present of fers of Great Britain; and I believe your Excellencies are convinced, they are the sentiments upon the same subject, of that part of the inhabitants of America, who have broken the force of Britain, and are able to maintain the independence of their country. Judge then of the contempt with which we receive your threats, that if we persist in our independence, the question with you is, “how far Great-Britain may by every means in her power destroy” America. Such a declaration on your part, does no honor to your masters, to your nation, or to yourselves. It is an outrage upon humanity. It is a proof of a narrow and base mind. But your Excellencies will do well to foresee, that in case your threat shall be begun to be carried into execution, that then it will be a question with us, how far we shall hold General Burgoyne’s army responsible for the effects of your fury. I warn you, that as you burn our towns, so shall I urge to deci mate your legions. I say thus much, rather to shew you that we have the means of retaliation in our hands, than because I apprehend you will drive us into such a measure. You have all along endeavoured to bully us; an old custom is not easily laid aside, and therefore you continue to threaten. God has raised us to independence, and we rest assured that Britain cannot deprive us of it. You have tried the art of persuasion, and Governor Johnstone has attempted the art of corruption, to induce us to relinquish our independence. Your arts have failed, your force has failed, and we are not yet, and I trust never shall be quite so mad as to compliment Great-Britain with our obedience. W.H.D. 3 MS not found; reprinted from the Pennsylvania Packet; or the General Advertiser, October 29, 1778. 1 The British peace commissioners’ October 3 “Manifesto and Proclamation,” in which they appealed to the people and state legislatures of the United States to accept British peace terms, had been printed in the October 15 issue of the Pennsyl vania Packet. For the commissioners’ own explanation of its provenance, see their October 15 letter to Lord George Germain in Davies, Documents of the American Revolution, 15:218-19. 2 See Drayton to the Carlisle Commissioners, June 17, July 3, and September 4, 1778. • For a discussion of the newspaper letters Drayton wrote to the British peace commissioners using his initials as a pseudonym, see Drayton to the Carlisle Com missioners, June 17, 1778, note 1.


[Page 146]
110 October 24, 1778 Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 24. 1778 A fleet from New York Consisting of 16 Ships of the line & up wards of 100 Transports sailed a few days [ago] with Troops & heavy Cannon on bord, their destination is at present a Secret. Congress are much Alarmed fearing they may intend for the Southward (Chas. Town) which has induced them to Call upon No. Carolina for a greater body of men than I suppose can be raised in time to prevent the Enemy’s Designs. Your Excellency will perceive it to be the de sire of Congress that you should put yourself at the head of the Troops from your State & should you be inclined to do so, have given you the rank & pay See of a Major Genl, in the Continental Army. Genl. Howe is ordered to head quarters, and Genl. Lincoln an Officer of great Military merit is Appointed to the Command in the Southern Department. I hope Your Excellency has long since received the 400,000 Dollars for Bounty pay fee of the last levies. 150,000 more will in a few days be sent to Mr. Wm. Blount 1 for the use of the Troops to be sent to So. Carolina where One Million more will be sent for the expense of this Expedition. Genl. Washington apprehensive that the enemy may intend an Attack upon Boston, has Ordered on Genl. Gates to the eastward with a large detachment from the main Army. Should the Enemy Appear on that Coast, I suppose all New England will be in Motion. Some among us think this fleet has sailed either for Europe or the W India Islands. Whether N York & R Island will be evacu ated by the Enemy this fall, seems at present very doubtful. The Newspapers inclosed will give you an Opportunity of forming a Conjecture of the Enemy’s designs, you will find the last Speech and Dying words of the British Commissioners, with the Comments upon it by Common Sense. 2 I beg Your excellency will not take amiss, by Once more reminding you of the Necessity of sending on as soon as possible The State Account against the Continent. The Charge against No. Carolina in the Treasury Books is 1,075,543 29/90 dollars, when Other States which have had ten times the money expended in them do not stand Chargable with more than 500,000 Dollars. And this entirely Owing to their having a Military Chest established within them fe con stantly supplied out of the Treasury of the Continent, exclusive of Commissaries, Quarter Masters fee who never Called upon the State for Money. 27. Octr. Since writing the Above & meeting with no Opportunity of sending it forward but by Post, I have Inclosed a paper of this date. It is now believed the Enemy really intend to Evacuate N York.


[Page 147]
October 24, 1778 111 I have not had the pleasure of a line from Your Excellency since my return. I am with the Greatest respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obed 8c very huml. Servt. Cornl. Harnett [P.S.] We have procured 10,000 Dolls, to Carry into Execution the Resolve of Our Legislature of the 30 April relative to Supplying Our Troops with Necessaries. 3 RC (Nc-Ar: Governors’ Papers). 1 This day President Laurens wrote the following brief letter to Blount. “Dep. Paymr. Genl. State of North Carolina.” “Within the present inclosure will be found an Act of Congress of the 20th Instant for lodging in your hands the sum of One hundred and fifty thousand Dollars for the pay & subsistence of the Levies recom mended to be sent from that State to Charlestown for the defence of the States of South Carolina and Georgia.” See PCC, item 13, 2:130; and JCC, 12:1026-27. 2 The reply of “Common Sense” (i.e., Thomas Paine) to the British peace com missioners’ October 3 manifesto appeared in this day’s Pennsylvania Packet. 3 Congress had agreed to advance this money to North Carolina on October 5. JCC, 12:981. Samuel Holten’s Diary [October 24, 1778] 24. Saturday. Genl. Lincoln sit out from this city to take the com mand of the Southern Army. 1 I met a Come, at 5 o’Clock. MS (MDaAr). 1 According to Holten’s two preceding diary entries, Gen. Benjamin Lincoln had “dined with us” on October 22 and 23. Henry Laurens to Benjamin Harrison, Jr. Sir 24th October [1778] Your favor of the 14th of August last I had the honor of receiving and presenting to Congress on the 25th of that Month, with the Account which came inclosed in it. 1 Under the present Cover will be found an Act of Congress of the 20th Instant 2 directing the Board of War to transmit to you One hundred thousand Dollars for the purpose of paying the Arrears due to the Continental troops in Virginia, and the Militia of that State called into service last year, and for other purposes therein men tioned. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Benjamin Harrison Junr. Esquire, Dep. Paymr. Genl., Virginia, by General Lincoln.” 1 JCC, 11:835-36.


[Page 148]
112 October 24, 1778 Marie-Joseph-Paul-Yves-Roch-Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette


[Page 154]
118 October 25, 1778 in America too late to influence Congress’ decision to make such an appointment. "The Truth is,” he had explained, “in my humble Opinion, our System is wrong in many Particulars. I. In having three Commissioners at this Court. One in the Character of Envoy is enough. At present each of the Three is considered in the Character of a Public Minister; a Minister Plenipotentiary, which lays him under an absolute Necessity of living up to this Character. Whereas one alone would be obliged to no greater Expence, and would be quite sufficient for all the Business of a Public Minister. 2. In Leaving the Salaries of these Ministers at an Uncertainty. You will never be able to obtain a satisfactory Account, of the public Monies, while this System continues. It is a Temptation to live at too great an Expence, and Gentlemen will feel an Aversion to demanding a rigorous Account. 3. In blending the Business of a public Minister with that of a Commercial Agent. The Businesses of various departments, are by this means so blended and the public and private Expences so confounded with each other, that I am sure no Satisfaction can ever be given to the Public, of the disposition of their Interests and I am very confident that Jealousies and Suspicions will hereafter arise against the Characters of Gentle men, who may perhaps have Acted with perfect Integrity and the fairest Intentions for the public Good. "My Idea is this, seperate the Offices of Public Ministers from those of commer cial Agents. . . . Recall, or send to some other Court, all the Public Ministers but one, at this Court. Determine with Precision, the Sum that shall be allowed to the remaining one, for his Expences and for his Salary, i.e. for his Time, Risque, Trouble &c., and when this is done see that he receives no more than his allowance. "The Inconveniences arising from the Multiplicity of Ministers and the Compli cations of Businesses are infinite.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 4:107-8. 3 That is, John Sullivan. * Adams had also written the following brief letter introducing Lafayette to friends in Boston the preceding day. As he endorsed his draft of it “to Mr. P & C,” Samuel probably sent copies of the letter to his regular correspondents Samuel Cooper and John Pitts. "The Marquis De la Fayette does me the Honor of taking the Care of this Letter. His disinterested Friendship to Mankind, his particular Attachment to our Country and his Zeal, Activity and Bravery in its Service are so well known to you that I flatter my self I cannot gratify you more than by introducing him to your Acquaintance.” Samuel Adams Papers, NN. Henry Laurens to William Alexander My Lord, Philadelphia, 25th October 1778. Your favor of the 21st was brought to me late last Evening, the bearer of it expresses some anxiety to return without delay, & as I shall not have an opportunity for laying it before Congress till to morrow ten oClock I think it best to indulge him. 1 When Congress lay their commands on me Your Lordship shall be informed—in the mean time I cannot refrain from expression my admiration of the Liberality & obedience, displayed in the conduct of those persons who had captured Mrs. Yards Merchandize, by their gentle surrender of them. 2 I have the honor to be, With great Respect &: Esteem, My Lord, Your Lordship’s, Obedient & most humble servt. Henry Laurens, President of Congress.


[Page 157]
October 25, 1778 121 down a Rule we may be blamed for departing from it, if any other Persons should conceive themselves affected by the Alteration. There will be Time to hear from you again before Publication, so that if our Idea is wrong you can set us right. The Case of the eldest Lieutenant (when a Captain has taken the Captain Liutenancy) having the Rank of Capt. Lieutenant appears so reasonable that we shall recommend it 8c have no Doubt it will be adopted. I was in Hopes that Mentges’s 8c Murray’s Promotion had been got over, after being stirrd while we were with you 8c seemingly submitted to by all except Mr. Lenox who resigned 8c came away. But since it is otherwise I wish you would converse with his Excelly. upon the Sub ject. I well remember that conceiving Mentgez to have got extrava gant Promotion I had conceived a Design of raising up some of the Captains whom he had displaced, but the General represents that upon the Formation of the new Army in 1776 there was no fixed Rule of Promotion 8c that any Retrospect so as to deprive an Officer of Rank actually given him at that Time (however, improperly) would unsettle the whole Line of the Continent 8c introduce endless Con fusion, I gave up my Sentiments 8c concluded it must be submitted to as an Evil. However if it can be rectified with the Generals Concur rence, by submitting the Claim to a Board of Officers I am sure the Committee will concur in any Alteration, but if it cannot be had without real 8c essential Injury to the Service, I trust the Gentlemen have more Virtue, 8c good Sense than to insist upon it. The Case of the Gentlemen who by the Fortune of War have become Prisoners 8c now wish to serve again is one in which the In terests of Humanity 8c Justice are deeply interested 8c I must frankly acknowledge that I do not see how we can exclude them without a manifest Violation of the plainest Rules of Honour 8c Gratitude. There are many of them who having no Title to enter into any particular Regiment must be admitted somewhere in the Line, or you tell them in the same Instt., that they shall come in, but there is no Place for them, which amounts to telling them they shall not come in at all. If you put them upon the Regiments other than the 1st, 2d, 3d 8c 5th, & 7th, they will complain of it as an Act of Injustice. It would be cruel to say these Officers have not fought 8: suffered equally with those who have not been captured—they turn’d out as early in the Cause, if not more so, 8c now to discard them utterly, appears to me so great a Hardship that I know not how to think of it much more consent to it, 8c I hope the Gentlemen who are affected so much by it, will on this Occasion apply the Golden Rule—change Places for a Moment 8c think how they would like to be thus re warded for a faithful 8c honourable Discharge of their Duty. We have recommended the Arrangement to Congress on this Principle previ-


[Page 162]
126 October 26, 1778 Establishment. Besides this I considered myself in some Degree as an Advocate for the Army. I loved them from an Acquaintance with some Individuals and for the Sufferings which as a Body they had bravely and patiently endured; and therefore I could not but suffer when I found them taking Steps which In my Opinion cannot do them Honor and which incapacitated me from urging as I otherwise should have done every Redress in our Power to their Grievances. But what chiefly affected me was that this Meeting of Delegates from Brigades in a Mixture of civil and military Capacity carries with it the Air of deeper Design than I believe is in the Bosoms of those who were immediately concerned. It was by Proceedures such as these that the good Fairfax made Way for a crafty Cromwell and that he dis missed a tedious Wrangling Parliament and established a military Despotism. It is a melancholy Evil that when once Faction takes Possession of the human Heart men are hurried into Extremes which make considerate People tremble. I will not do your Army the In justice even to permit a Thought that they wish to get Rid of their General. But Sir their and your and our Enemies do not want the Confidence to say so and indeed to say they can prove it and to at tempt that Proof from the Manner of proving (Agitating as they term it); the Petition in Question. Certainly could such Ideas be inculcated it would answer th[eir] Views. It would also answer their Views to instill into the Army a Distrust of Congress and therefore I doubt not but the Enemies of both are assiduous in this Business. I find also the British commissioners are so barefaced as to hold out the Bait of Promotion in the Royal Army to such as will fall in with their De signs and doubtless a peculiar Portion of their Bounty will be dis posed to those who shall sow the seeds of Dissention in an Army which as they cannot conquer it is their only Resource to divide. Thinking on this Subject as I do it did and does appear to me my Duty as a good Citizen thoroughly to discountenance every Measure of this Kind particularly when it is ushered as the first Mention of this Affair was to me by an Observation that the Army had it in their Power to do themselves Justice. It makes me unhappy to learn that such Discourse prevails. I am certain those who use it have no Design but they should consider that it affords Matter for the Design of others to work upon. It has not made any serious Impression I believe on the Mind of those whose opinions have real Weight because it is considered as one of those light Expressions which flow from the Luxuriance of Imagination. Little do those who say such things know the Difficulties of subsisting an Army. The Marquis will hand you a Plan &ca on which I shall say Noth ing because I have already had a great Deal of Trouble with it and he can say more than I could write in a Week and you know more of the Subject than all of us. 3


[Page 163]
October 26, 1778 127 We have no News. Let me then tell you what has the Merit of Truth if not the Charms of Novelty. That I am Dear General, very sincerely yours, Gouv Morris [P.S.] General Lee’s Affair hangs by the Eye Lids. We spent one Day upon it without even touching on the Merits. The Debate was in what Manner to proceed to a Decission. Some contended for the Pro priety of resolving simply to approve or disapprove of the Sentence. Others for entering into the Consideration of the Charges and the Evidence on them separately without however making an Entry on the Minutes. A third for doing this and making the Entries. This as the most systematic Method I supported for truly I know not how to determine in the Lump. Granting him guilty of all the Charges it is too light a Punishment. And if he is not guilty in the Opinion of Congress of any one there would be an Injustice in not declaring their Opinion. Conway hath again applied for a Certificate of his good Services and I have again opposed the Grant of it. His Letter lies on the Table. 4 Again my Friend Adieu. Pray Excuse me to Generals Greene and Schuyler for not Writing by this Opportunity. Upon my Honor I have so many Things to do that I am much distrait. Tell Genl. Schuyler however that I shall build if possible the Decission of his Business on that of Genl. Lee. You must contrive some means of quartering your Cavalry at a Dis tance from the Army. It seems to me all the poor Horses should be turned into good Pastures. Could not some Expedition be carried on agt. the Indians. Suppose for Instance Count Pulaski were sent to charge [. . .] them. It might indeed cost him his Night Cap. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Washington’s October 4 letter to Morris, in which he acknowledged a Septem ber 8 letter from Morris (which has not been found), is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:21-23. 2 The most recent efforts of the Committee of Arrangement to settle the rank of officers had soured morale and produced four protest memorials, which were pre pared at meetings of officers held on September 9 and 12 and dated September 13, 1778. These memorials, differing only in the signatures affixed to them, were forwarded to Congress in a September 22 letter from Cols. William Davies, Daniel Morgan, and Otho Williams. Among the grievances specifically cited, the officers seemed especially concerned over the exclusion of supernumerary officers through recently proposed rearrangements in the Continental battalions, the failure of Con gress to adopt a half-pay plan, and continued neglect of their clothing and medical care. The fact that Congress did not take up the memorials until October 20—at which time they were ordered “To lie on the table, until Congress have fully considered and determined on the report of the committee of arrangement”—is explained by the fact that they were apparently mislaid for a time before they were presented to President Laurens. The details of this misadventure are not known, but some of the circumstances involved in the delay can be seen in Laurens’ endorsement of


[Page 164]
128 October 26, 1778 the covering letter: “Cols. Morgan, Williams and Davies. Camp 22 Septr 1778. D[elivere]d me with other Papers by Mr. Griffin as from Mr. Harvie who had left them in his hands. In Cong. 19 Octob 1778.” See PCC, item 41, 7:191-205; JCC, 12:1025-26; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:22-23. Additional informa tion on the officers’ protest is also contained in the record of their September 9 and 12 meetings (signed “Dan. Morgan, Prest., Otho H. Williams, clerk”), preserved in the Gilmore Papers, MdHi, and in Maj. John Taylor’s October 9, 1778, letter to Gen. William Woodford, in the Peter Force Collection, DLC. 3 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Washington, October 27, 1778. ‘See JCC, 12:1020. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia October 27th 1778 In Reading the Several letters & other Publications of the Brittish Commisrs, you will observe that they are Constantly Endeavouring to make people on both Sides the water, Believe, That Congress Have Exceeded their powers in Rejecting their (the Commisionrs) offers of Reconcilliation Sc Entering into an Alliance with France; and that in both of these instances The Congress had acted Contrary to the Sentiments of their Constituents. Whither they are really De ceived by the Tory accounts they Receive from the Several States, Or whither they mean to Deceive others, I am not Certain; But of this I am Certain, that So long as Brittain has the Smallest hope Remaining of these States Submitting again to her Domination, She will never Recognize our Independance & Consequently the war must Continue. It is therefore our interest to Convince Brittain & Every Body else, that the French Alliance and the Rejection of the Brittish Commisrs offers of Reconcilliation are universally approved of by these States: For this purpose I Should think it would be proper for the legis latures of the Several States in this union (as of their own motion without the advice of Congress) to pass Resolves Signifying their Approbation of those measures: And in order effectually to Cut off All their pretences for applying to individual States or persons, To Resolve that the Congress of the united States are Solely vested with power on our part for Contracting foreign Alliances, for making &: Conducting war & for Restoring peace, and that They & They only have full power for making peace with Brittain on the principles of our absolute Independance & not other wise; and that these States Repose Entire Confidence in them for those purposes. If the Several States would carefully Draw up & unanimously pass Such Resolves, publish them to the world in the public newspapers and Send attested Copies to their Delegates in Congress to be made use of as occasion might Require, I am persuaded that it would effec tually cut off all the hopes our Enemies may Still Entertain of their


[Page 174]
138 October 27, 1778 respective quotas of 4,800,000 Dollars annually for four Years clear of all deduc tions, to commence on the first day of January 1780, as a sinking Fund for the Interest of Money to be borrowed as aforesaid. ‘‘5. That the sum of be Taken for Postage of Letters at the Post Office, and the produce of the Revenue thereof be applied in aid of the Sinking Fund until the final payment of the Continental Debt. "On the above Positions the following Estimates are stated. First of January 1779. Circulating Medium 100,000,000 Dolls. To first of January 1780 Current Expences 20,000,000 Total Debt by Emissions of Paper 120,000,000 1st January 1780 Taken in on Loan Office Certificates 80,000,000 Quota of the States on Sinking Fund —Revenue of Post Office in aid 8,000,000 Remaining Circulating Medium 88,000,000 32,000,000 To be re-issued from the Loan Office to prevent further Emissions 50,000,000 Total sinking by Notes destroyed 38,000,000 120,000,000 1st. Jany. 1780 Debt by Loan Office Certificates issued and to be issued 80,000,000 Yearly Interest 4,800,000 84,800,000 Sinking Fund for Interest 4,800,000 Total Debt on Interest Circulating Medium remaining Total Debt Loan and Sinking Fund continued as above to reduce it "6. And Whereas it is also requisite that proper Funds should be established for the payment of Debts already contracted in Europe, or which it may hereafter become necessary to Contract on Account of these United States. "Resolved, That it be recommended to the several States to lay a Duty of 2 per Cent on all Goods, Wares and Merchandizes which may be imported into any of them, to be paid in Specie by the Importer and to remain as a Fund unappropri ated in each State, subjected to the requisitions of Congress from time to time, for the payment of Debts contracted in Europe according to their Quotas of such Debts respectively. And if any of the States in this Union shall not be able from such Duty to raise such respective Quota, that the State or States so failing, provide some further means of Payment, in Specie or be answerable to such State or States in the Union, as shall be able to advance the same, for the principal sum and Interest thereon at six per Cent from the time of advancing such sum. “7. Resolved, That it will be necessary to negotiate as soon as possible a Loan of £ Sterling on the above Fund; part of the said sum to be applied towards discharging the Public Debt already contracted in Europe and the over plus to remain subject to future orders of Congress. "8. That it be recommended to the several States to give encouragement to Trade by establishing Offices for Insurance, or in any other manner, as they may think proper. "9. That the States be charged with the Sums paid them and their Quotas respectively, and Credited for all advances to the United States; the Accounts to be adjusted and Interest charged on the Balance at six per Cent from the 1st day of January 1779; and that it be declared to the several States that they do not advance any Monies for the Account of the United States after the 5th day of November next.


[Page 176]
140 October 28, 1778 Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams In Committee for foreign Affairs Sir, Philada. Octr. 28th, 1778. While we officially communicate to you the inclosed Resolve, 1 the Foundation of which you can not remain a Stranger to, we must entreat you to be assiduous in sending, to those Commissioners who have left France and gone to the Courts for which they were respec tively appointed, all the American Intelligence, which you have greater opportunity than they to receive from hence, particularly to Mr. Izard &: Mr. Wm. Lee. We do not often send more than one Set of gazettes by one Opportunity, and we hear of several vessels which have miscarried. Congress must & will speedily determine upon the general Arrange ment of their foreign Affairs. This is become, so far as relates to you, peculiarly necessary upon a new Commission being sent to Dr. Franklin. In the mean Time we hope you will exercise your whole extensive Abilities on the Subject of our Finances. 2 The Doctor will communicate to you our Situation in that Regard. To the Gazettes and to Conversation with the Marqs. Dela Fayette we must refer you for what relates to our Enemies; and close with our most cordial Wishes to your Happiness, Sir, Your affectionate Friends, Richard Henry Lee James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell and Lee. 1 For Congress’ October 22 resolve directing the representatives of the United States at the various courts in Europe to cultivate "harmony and good understand ing” among themselves, see JCC, 12:1053-54. 2 Congress did not appoint Adams to another post until after he returned to the United States in August 1779. The following month he was appointed “minister plenipotentiary for negotiating a treaty of peace and a treaty of commerce with Great Britain.” JCC, 15:1113. The “subject of our finances” was detailed in a separate instruction that was sent to Franklin, for which see the next entry. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin In Committee for foreign Affairs Honorable Sir, Philada. Octr. 28th, 1778. As the Marqs. Dela Fayette will deliver this, we refer you to his Conversation in addition to the Gazettes for an Account of the Move ments of the Enemy. He will doubtless gain some further Knowl edge of them before he leaves Boston than what we are now pos-


[Page 182]
146 October 29, 1778 Congress appointed a committee "to investigate the truth of this information” and ordered President Laurens to write to the Massachusetts Council for assistance. See JCC, 12:1033, J065; and Laurens’ letters to John Beatty, October 22, and to the Massachusetts Council, October 29, 1778. 3 This day Laurens also wrote the following letter to “Captain Josiah Stoddard of the Light Dragoons at Camp,” for which see JCC, 12:1066-67; and PCC, item 13, 2:138. “I had the honor of presenting Your Letter of the 20th Instant to Congress, in answer to which I am directed to transmit an Act of Congress of the 27th Instant for granting a compensation to Officers of the Light Dragoons for the extraordinary expence of their equipment, which Act you will receive under this Cover.” Henry Laurens to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia, 29th October 1778. I had the honor of writing to you the 16th Inst by Brown. 1 Congress having been repeatedly informed that Officers of the Convention Troops had contrary to their Orders been permitted to go within the Enemy’s lines in order to Negotiate parol Exchanges, or barely on parol, & that such indulgences had been obtained by Gold, have directed me to request the Honorable the Council of Massachusets will be pleased to cause an inquiry to be made respect ing such irregular proceedings. Lord Balcarras one of the said Convention was a few days ago actually in New York attempting a Parol Exchange & it has been said, that he paid one thousand Guineas for a Permit. This however true or groundless is alarming. Inclosed herein Your Honor will receive an Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, authorizing the present Address. 2 I am with the highest Esteem & Respect, Honorable sir, Your most obedient & most humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Addressed: "The Honorable Jeremiah Powell Esquire, President of Council, Massachusets’ Bay.” 1 See Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., October 16, 1778, note 3. 2 See preceding entry, note 2. Henry Laurens to the Chevalier de Tousard Sir. Philadelphia 29th October [1778] I have the honor of transmitting within this Cover an Act of Con gress of the 27th Instant for promoting you to the Rank of Lieu tenant Colonel in the American Army by Brevet & for granting you a Pension of thirty Dollars per Month during your life in acknowl edgement of your Merit 8c in consideration of your misfortune in the


[Page 183]
October 29, 1778 147 loss of a Right Arm in the late Action at Rhode Island—the display of your Courage 8c Gallantry upon that occasion has gained you the highest applause 8c insured immortal honor to your Name. 1 Annexed to the Act you will receive the Brevet. I intreat you Sir, accept my best wishes 8c be assured that my Esteem 8c Regard for you do not bear exact date with the affair at Rhode Island; Your Martial Spirit, your military talents, your serv ices in the American Army, were known to me long before that event. I shall ever speak of them with pleasure 8c be one of your admirers. In these sentiments I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient 8c most humble servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. 2 RC (PHi: Tousard-Stocker Collection). LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). RC damaged; missing words supplied from LB. Addressed: "Lieutenant Colonel Touzard, Providence.” 1 Anne-Louis, chevalier de Tousard (1749-1817), had come to America with the controversial Philippe Du Coudray in 1777, and was one of the few of his followers who remained in America and obtained a Continental commission after Coudray’s death. JCC, 8:606, 705, 9:877, 902-3. Congress was moved to grant Tousard this mark of recognition upon the recommendation of the marquis de Lafayette, for which see Lafayette, Letters (Idzerda), 2:197-98; and JCC, 12:1068. 3 At the foot of this document the following note, in the hand of Benjamin Franklin, appears: “Being well-acquainted with the Hand of Mr. President Laurens, I do hereby certify that this letter is all of his hand-writing, and therefore an authentic Paper. Given at Passy, this 21st Day of February 1779. B. Franklin, Plenipotentiary from the Congress to the Court of France.” Richard Henry Lee to John Adams My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Octr. 29 1778 I am exceedingly happy to hear of your safe arrival, and I hope agreeable accommodations at Paris. At first, I doubt not, the splendid gaity of a magnificent Court, accorded not so well with the tem perate manners of a sober Republican. But use reconciles most things. It may soon happen that you be desired to visit Holland, where I believe they yet retain much of that simplicity of manners which first raised that people to greatness. Our finances want the support of a Loan in Europe. 81,500,000 of dollars with increasing demands as depreciation advances with emission, cannot be cured by the slow working of Taxes. The latter is, I believe, deeply gone into by all the States. I have seen your letter to our common friend Mr. S. Adams, and do most thoroughly accord with you in sentiments. 1 The battle of Monmouth in June last, and the subsequent arrival of Count d’Estaing has kept our enemies in pretty close quarters this Cam-


[Page 185]
October 30, 1778 149 By the CONGRESS of the United States of A M E R I C A. i MANIFESTO. T HESE United Scares, having been driven to hoftilicies by the oppreflive and tyrannous nieafures of Greac-Bricain ; ha ving been compelled to commit the effential rights of man to thedecifion of arms; and having been at length forced to fhake off a yoke which had grown too burthenfome to bear, they declared them- felves free and independent- Confiding in the juftice of their caufe ; confiding in Him who difpofes of human events, although weak and unprovided, they fet the power of their enemies at de fiance. In this confidence they have continued, through the various fortune of three bloody campaigns, unawed by the power, uniubdued by the barbarity of their foes. Their virtuous citizens have born without repining, the lot’s of many things which make life defircable. Their brave troops have patiently endured the hardships and dangers of a fituation, fruitful in both beyond former example. The Congrefs, confidering themfelves bound to love their enemies, as children of that Being who is equally the Father of all; and defirous, fince they could not pre vent, at leaft to alleviate the calamities of war, have ftudied to fparc thole who were in arms againft them, and to lighten the chains of captivity. The condud of thole ferving under the King of Great-Bt itain hath, with fome few exceptions, been diametrically oppofite. They have laid wafte the open country, burned the defencelefs villages, and butchered the citizens of America. Their prifons have been th flaughfer-houfes of her Gldiers, their (hips of herfeamen, and the fc- vereft injuries have been aggravated by the grofleft infult. Foiled in their vain attempt to fubjugate the unconquerable fpirit of freedom, they have meanly availed the Reprefentauves of America with bribes, with deceit and the fervility of adulation. They have made a mock of humanity, by the wanton deftruc- tton of men: They have made a mock ot religion, by impious appeals to God whilft in the violation of his facred commands : They have made a mock even of reafon it- felf, by endeavouring to prove, that the liberty and happinefs ot America could fafe- ly be entcufted to theft who have fold their own, unawed bv the fenfe of virtue or of fhame. Treated .with the contempt which fuch conduct deferved, they have applied to in dividuals : They have lolicited them to Freak the bonds of allegiance, and imbrue their fouls with the blackeft of crimes : But fearing that none could be found through thefe United States, equal to the wickednefs of their purpofe, to influence weak minds they have threatened more wide devaftation. While the fhadow of hope remained, that our enemies could be taught by our ex ample to refpeft thofe laws which are held facred among civilized nations, and to comply with the didates of a religion which they pretend in common w ith us to be lieve and to revere, they have been left to the influence of that religion, and that ex ample. But fince their ino rrigible dilpofitions cannot be touched by kindnefs and compaffion. it becomes ^ur duty by other means to vindicate the rights of humanity. We therefore, the Congrcls ot the United States of America, DO folemly declare and prot laim, 1 hat if our enemies pre fume to execute their threats, or perfift in their prefent career ofbsrharity, we will take fuch exemplary vengeance asfhall deter others from a like conduit. We appeal to that God w ho fearcheth ihe hearts of men for the rectitude of our intentions. And in his holy prefence we oechre. That as we are not moved by any light and hxfty fuggeftions of angcror revenge, L through every poflible change ot fortune we will adhere tothis our determination. 4 - } I I DONE in Congrefs, by unanimous coif ent, tbe Thirtieth day of OSober, One Tboufand Seven Hundred and Seventy-eight. HENRY LAURENS, President. j ^tte/l. CHARLES THOMSON, Secretary, 1 Congress’ “Manifesto,” October 30, 1778


[Page 186]
150 October 30, 1778 LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 Lafayette had been charged with delivering Benjamin Franklin his instructions as Congress’ newly appointed minister plenipotentiary to France, as well as a “Plan of An Attack Upon Quebec,” upon which the two men were to confer. Concerned that no one had been empowered to act in Franklin’s place in the event of his illness or death, Lafayette had inquired, in his October 26 letter to Laurens, about Congress’ “intentions upon any unforeseen event.” See JCC, 12:1048, 1052; and Lafayette, Letters (Idzerda), 2:196. 2 For Congress’ action on Lafayette’s recommendation that a number of his sub ordinate officers be promoted, see JCC, 12:1068-69; and Laurens to Casimir Pulaski, October 28, 1778, note 3. For Lafayette’s response to Congress’ denial of his recom mendations concerning the three officers named here, which inspired Laurens to reassure him that Congress’ decision reflected no decline in their esteem for him, see Lafayette, Letters (Idzerda), 2:197-98. Henry Laurens to William Palfrey Sir 30th October [1778] Your favor of the 20th I had the honor of receiving and presenting to Congress the day before Yesterday—the Treasury Board informed Congress that One Million Dollars had been lately remitted, and would soon reach your hands, and have delivered me a Report recommending that a Warrant issue for half a Million which will be passed this Morning and the Money will, I trust be sent forward without delay. 1 You will receive inclosed herein an Act of Congress of the 28th Instant for regulating the Pay and subsistence of Lieutenant Colonel de Vrigney. 2 I am, With great Respect and Esteem &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 12:1014, 1070, 1078. Palfrey’s letter is not in PCC. ‘JCC, 12:1071. Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir 30th October [1778] Since my last Letter under the 25th by Van Court I have had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s favors of the 22nd and 23d. 1 Your Excellency will find Inclosed herewith Copy of a Letter which I have written to Major General Gates in Answer to Lord Balcarres’ application and also two Acts of Congress. 1. of the 26th Instant directing Count Pulaski’s Legion and all the Cavalry at and near Trenton to repair to Sussex Court House and


[Page 196]
160 November 1, 1778 Virginia Delegates to George Bryan Sir, Copy. Philadelphia, Novr. 1st. 1778. The Subject of the enclosed Letter we conceive demands your serious Attention; and we flatter ourselves that we need not suggest to you the Propriety of taking some immediate Step, in Conjunction with the Governor of Virginia, to restore the Harmony of the States of Virginia & Pennsylvania, or at least to prevent the Consequences likely to ensue from this Occasion. We hope that all Disputes of this Nature may be amicably settled by you & the Governor of Virginia, and that it will be unnecessary to trouble Congress upon this Subject. With this View we shall write to the Governor of Virginia, 1 giving him an Account of the Information we have received, and of our Proceedings thereon. We have the Honor to be &c, Sign’d, Meriwether Smith Richd. Henry Lee Tr (MH-H: bms Am 1649.5). In the hand of Meriwether Smith. Addressed: “His Excellency George Brian, Vice-President of the Council, Pennsylvania.” 1 For this communication to "the Governor of Viriginia” and "the enclosed Letter” mentioned above, see Meriwether Smith to Patrick Henry, November 4, 1778, note 1. Richard Henry Lee to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia Novemr. 2nd, 1778. I am no Stranger to the great merit of your late worthy son Mr. Commissary General Trumbull, and my endeavours have not been wanting to procure for his family that justice which is eminently due to him. As Chairman of the Committee to whom your letter and the Memorial of Mr. Hoskins were committed, 1 I have made a Report which appeared to the Committee well fitted to do justice to the Representatives of Col. Trumbull and to produce as speedy a settle ment of this business, as the nature of the thing will admit of. A short day is fixed for determining on this Report—and from the reasonableness of it I conclude it will be agreed to. My family affairs calling me immediately away, I set out for Virginia tomorrow but there are not wanting many worthy gentlemen who will press the Report to a speedy determination. I am with great respect & esteem, Sir, Your Most Obedt. & very humble Servt, Richard H. Lee Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 For Governor Trumbull’s October 6 letter to Congress and William Hoskins’


[Page 200]
164 November 3, 1778 Enemy will divide a force already unable to keep the open field, or that they will forego their present possessions for the purpose of making an attempt on one much less important to them. To do the first would be to make a certain sacrifice of a part of their army, and to do the latter would be egregious folly. In short Sir, I believe it will end in mere smoke. We have here the very disagreeable news that Col. Baylor’s Regiment of Light Horse was surprised near Hackensack, forty of them put to the sword and the most taken. The Col. himself and most of his offi cers are supposed to be among the slain. In a Northern paper which I received yesterday from some persons who I believe have a charge of money for our State and Georgia, mentions our engagement between Admiral Keppel, and the Brest fleet, in which the latter had the advantage, but both were obliged to put back to refit. Nothing else of any importance is stirring here.” N. C. State Records, 13:244-45. The “various packages” mentioned in the first paragraph undoubtedly contained copies of the British peace commissioners’ October 3 manifesto. The "resolutions” on South Carolina mentioned in the third paragraph were those passed by Congress on September 25, 1778. JCC, 12:949-51. Henry Laurens to Casimir Pulaski Sir 3d November [1778] I had yesterday the honor of presenting to Congress your Letter of the 27th October. 1 Had the Gentleman who alarm’d you with an history of Complaints delivered my sentiments in terms which I meant to convey them to him you would have felt no chagrin but rather satisfaction on that account; a detail of particulars at this time would be unnecessary and troublesome. Numerous complaints it is true have been heard from various Persons, of irregular and improper conduct of the Legion, but none since that which took its rise in Germantown have been laid before Congress, therefore such do not amount to a charge. I laboured to explain to the Gentleman abovementiond that neither Congress nor any of its Members as far as I had learnt, im puted blame or censure to Count Pulaski, and that from the regard I had for him it made me unhappy to hear that he was censured any where for the disorderly behavior of his Men, or the unwarrantable menaces of any of his Officers, and I must impute that Gentleman’s deficiency in the information which he gave, to his imperfect under standing in the English Tongue, altho in justice to myself I must observe I took some pains to impress upon his Mind the high sense I entertained of Count Pulaski’s Merits. Your Letter abovementiond lies before the Board of War, where I presume this of the 26th respecting Monsieur Molion now before me will be transmitted; 2 when a Report from that Board comes before the House, you will be further informed. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13).


[Page 207]
November 5, 1778 171 the Governor of this State subject to the Perusal of the Virginia Dele gates at Congress. Col. Campbell complains of the Conduct of some Officers belonging to the State of Pennsylvania, which disturbs the Peace of that Part of the State in which he resides and is likely to produce b[l]oody Effects. I doubt not but that he has given you particular Information of all the Proceedings. On the Receipt of the Letter, (Col. Rd. H. Lee being here,) we thought it best to send it to the Vice-President of the Council, & wrote the inclosed Letter to him. 2 Not having received any Answer thereto, I have only to refer you to it, & hope that you will be able speedily to put an End to those Disputes. I have the honor to be, Sir, Yr. most obedt. Servt. Meriwether Smith RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Col. Campbell’s letter has not been found, but a reference to it by the Pennsyl vania Council identifies it as “from John Campbell, Esquire, an agent of Virginia, at Pittsburg, dated the 16th of October past.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:79. The issue raised by Campbell was the long-standing controversy over the western Pennsyl vania-Virginia boundary. This renewal of the dispute led to the appointment of commissioners by the two states who met the following August at Baltimore, where agreement was finally reached on the extension of “Mason’s and Dixon’s line due west five degrees of longitude, to be computed from the river Delaware.” For infor mation on this settlement of the Pennsylvania-Virginia boundary, see Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:77-78. 2 See Virginia Delegates to George Bryan, November 1, 1778. Committee of Congress to John Connolly Thursday 12 o’clock. [November 5? 1778] The committee appointed to take into consideration the applica tion of Lieutenant Colonel Connolly, request that gentleman will inform them of his reasons for not producing and pleading his com mission, at the time he was first taken, and for a considerable time afterwards. 1 MS not found; reprinted from PMHB, 13 (July 1889): 158-59. The text of this letter is taken from Connolly’s “narrative” of his captivity, which covered the period October 1775 to October 1780. Although the letter is undated, the committee apparently wrote it sometime after Connolly had written to Congress on October 12 but before Congress adopted a lengthy resolution concerning his case on Novem ber 12, 1778. Although it is dated only “Thursday 12 o’clock,” Connolly’s “narra tive” suggests that this query was sent to him after the committee’s study of his case was well under way and after he had “a personal audience” with the com-


[Page 208]
172 November 5, 1778 mittee. Therefore November 5, rather than one of the Thursdays falling in Octo ber, has been suggested as the most likely date of its composition. 1 Connolly, who had been an American prisoner since his capture in October 1775, had been free on parole briefly in August 1778 after Congress returned to Philadelphia from York, Pa. Thus when Commissary of Prisoners John Beatty notified him that he was to be returned to confinement he sought to avoid reim prisonment and appealed to Congress to be granted regular prisoner-of-war status so that his exchange could be negotiated. Connolly’s “application” was referred to a committee consisting of William Duer, Henry Marchant, and John Witherspoon, who had previously been appointed to take into consideration a number of prisoner issues raised by Beatty. According to Connolly’s own account of his rela tions with the committee, he demanded and was granted a “personal audience . . . in order to know wherefore I was refused to be exchanged.” Of this “audience” he gave the following account: “For once I was gratified, and brought before a com mittee, where having briefly recapitulated my causes of complaint, the chairman [doubtless William Duer] replied to the following purport: "That it had been for some time past his opinion, which he had not scrupled to communicate to Congress, that I should be kept in close custody, until Sir John Johnson was delivered up to them, who, he asserted, had broken his sacred parole given to General Scuyler, and joined the enemy; since which time he had been committing ravages upon the northern frontiers, with a body of light troops and Indians, as he supposed I intended to do. “To this I answered, that a parole or honorary obligation, I presumed, was of modern date, calculated to alleviate the horrors of war; that no Gentleman could be answerable for any but himself; that I had been admitted to my parole above a year ago, when my conduct was irreproachable, and that I was again, without the least cause on my part, thrown into prison, and there continued for another year; that much had been said about the infraction of my parole, which I utterly denied to have been the case. “To this they replied, I certainly had not adhered to the spirit of it, for that I had spoken against their proceedings, and had frequently attempted to turn them into ridicule. . . . "The final objection they made to my exchange, turned upon the impropriety of my being considered as a prisoner of war. They said, I had not been taken at the head of any armed troops, but privately making my way through the country; and one of them asserted, I might be considered as amenable to law martial, as a spy; but at the same time he observed, there was no intention of treating me as such. “The committee at length promised to consider and report my case to Congress, and as my health was so exceedingly and visibly impaired, gave me an intimation, that if I were not exchanged, I should be enlarged on parole. I was then re-con ducted to prison.” The note from the committee printed here, Connolly went on to explain, "was sent me a few days after the above hearing from the committee.” In response to the committee’s query into his reasons “for not producing and pleading his commission,” Connolly replied that Congress had known of his com mission since 1775, because it was among the papers that were taken from him at the time of his capture. The committee apparently conceded the force of this ex planation, for the reference to Connolly’s failure to “produce or plead any com mission under the King of Great Britain” contained in the committee’s lengthy report to Congress was deleted when it was entered on the journals on November 12. See ]CC, 12:1126. For this report, and a number of documents and references related to this entire episode, see JCC, 12:909, 927-28, 949, 995, 1102-3, 1109, 1125-29; PCC, item 42, 2:52-55; item 78, 5:201-2, 213-20, 229-32, 241-42, 14:247-50; item 142, 2:159-60;


[Page 209]
November 5, 1778 173 item 152, 6:427-28, 435-38; and "A Narrative of the Transactions, Imprisonment and Sufferings of John Connolly . . PMHB, 13 (July 1889): 154-64. See also these Letters, 2:228, 241-43, 424, 455, 10:540. Committee of Congress to Thomas Johnson Sir Philadelphia 5th Novr. 1778. Upon a Representation from the General, the Commissary General and the Quarter Master General relating to the Distresses of the Army for Provisions and the Certainty of being obliged to leave the present Seat of the War in Quest of them unless effectual Measures be taken to supply the Want Congress have been induced to adopt the extraor dinary Measure of appointing us a Committee to take such Steps as we shall think proper. 1 We have to assure your Excellency that it is utterly impracticable to maintain the Army without the Assistance of every separate state and even then there is but too much Reason to believe that the People as well as the Army will suffer for want of Bread before the next Harvest especially if the Exportation or Monopoly of Provisions prevails. At present we have to intreat that the whole Authority of your State may be exerted to procure Vessels for the Shipping of Flour to the Eastward. It is certainly unnecessary to add that as much Secrecy should be observed as is consistent with the Nature of the Business. With the highest Respect, we are, Your Ex cellency’s most obedient, & humble Servants, 2 Gouv Morris Nath. Scudder Wm. Whipple RC (MdAA: Red Books). Written by Gouverneur Morris and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. 1 This committee was appointed to respond to an appeal from Generals Wash ington and Nathanael Greene for transporting flour by sea from the Chesapeake to New England to supply the army in the eastern department. See ]CC, 12:1102, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:174-77. Greene’s October 27 letter to Wash ington, a copy of which the latter enclosed with his October 29 letter to Congress, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 For the appointment of these delegates a few days later to a second committee which was directed “to superintend” the commissary and quartermaster depart ments “for the public service,” see Committee of Congress to the States, first letter, November 11, 1778. Henry Laurens to William Alexander My Lord 5th November [1778] I have had the honor in due course of receiving and presenting to


[Page 214]
178 November 5, 1778 From General Washington’s letter this minute read it appears that the enemy intend to evacuate New York soon, 3 a very large number of the Troops having gone on board Transports. 4 The Delegates from No. Carolina intend to write to your Excel lency soon, an official letter, they only wait the determination of Congress relative to a matter of a public nature, which I expect will be in a day or two. 5 I have the honor to be with great respect, Your Excellencys Mo. ob. Servt. John Penn RC (NjR: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1972). Tr (Nc-Ar). RC incomplete; missing part supplied from Tr. ’See JCC, 12:1101. 2 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris, May 14, 1778, note 2. 2 Remainder of text taken from Tr. ‘See JCC, 12:1102; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:190-91. 6 Penn is undoubtedly referring to the plan for an expedition against East Florida that Gen. Robert Howe proposed in a letter Congress read on November 2 and that the delegates approved the same day. See JCC, 12:1091; Cornelius Harnett to Caswell, November 10, note 1; and Henry Laurens to Caswell, November 14, 1778, note 2. William Duer to William Alexander My dear Lord, Phila. Novr. 6th. 1778 Mr. Sami. Curson Junr. Son of Mr. Curson whom you must have known in New York has desired me to request your Permission to meet his Brother in Law Mr. Seton upon the Lines in Case the Enemy will permit him to come out. This Young Gentleman, Since the Commencement of the War, has been settled at St. Eustatius from which Place he has sent very Con siderable Supplies of Arms, Ammunition &ca. to Congress, and has manifested an Unequivocal Attachment to our Cause. 1 His long Ab sence from his near Relations and his Apprehension that some of them may quit New York with the Enemy, before he has an Oppor tunity of seeing, or Enquiring particularly after them, makes his [him] Anxious for this Interview. You will therefore gratify an amiable Young Gentleman, and oblige a Friend in complying with this Request—which I suppose will not be inconsistent with your Line of Duty. As I have resigned my Seat in Congress, and Expect daily a Notifi cation on the Part of the State of the new Delegation, I shall as soon it is received measure my Steps homewards, and on my Way spend three or four Weeks with my Friends in New Jersey. 2 I know it will give you pleasure to find that by the taking of Dominica from the French the most Considerable Part of my Fortune wh. was in great


[Page 218]
182 November 6, 1778 request that Orders may be given for the releasment of the said Vessel as the provisions are exceedingly wanted for the use of the Army and Navy at the Eastward. 1 There is also a vessel at Baltimore a Sloop called the Swan under the Care of our agent afsd. which we have Ordered to be laded with flour from the Public Stores Sc for which we request you will grant permission. 2 We have the Honor to be, Your Excellencys obedt servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 For the Maryland council’s response to this request, which on November 16 directed Benjamin Nicholson, the judge of the Maryland Court of Admiralty, to delay the sale of the Friendship until it could review the proceedings of the case, see Md. Archives, 21:239. 3 The Marine Committee also wrote the following letter this day to William Smith: "We have received your Letter of the 31st ultimo in consequence of which we have this day wrote to the Governor & Council of your State on the subject of the seizure of the Sloop Friendship, which we expect will procure her releasement, but least that should fail we shall lay your Letter with a state of the affair before Congress and get their determination thereon. “We have wrote for permission to lade the Swan and doubt not the same will be granted.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:24. Samuel Holten’s Diary [November 7, 1778] 1 7. Saturday. I received a number of Resolutions from our Court, one appointg. me a delegate from our State & some instructions, &c. 2 The weather is warm. MS (MDaAr). 1 Holten’s entries for the two preceding days contain the following information: “Thursday. Genl. Whipple came to board with us—& Mr. Kean dind with us. Friday. The delegates from the Massa. Bay dined with the president.” 3 On October 8 the Massachusetts General Court had elected Holten, Samuel Adams, Francis Dana, Timothy Edwards, Elbridge Gerry, John Hancock, and James Lovell delegates to Congress. The council then directed that at least four delegates must attend Congress at all times but specified that any three of them could act on behalf of the state. Massachusetts Council Records, October 8 and 15, 1778, DLC(ESR). Henry Laurens to William Alexander 7th November [1778] I troubled your Lordship with a few lines the 5th Instant by Mr. Jackson.


[Page 226]
190 November 9, 1778 RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 It seems clear that “your favor of the 7th of October” is actually Warren’s letter to Adams of October 25, which contains a postscript of the 27th. Not only has no October 7 letter been found, but Warren enclosed his resignation from the Eastern Navy Board, the subject of this paragraph, with his October 25-27 letter. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:59-62. For Adams’ successful effort to deter Warren from following through on his resignation, see Adams to Warren, October 20, 1778, note 3. 2 In the letter of resignation he had enclosed for Adams’ perusal, Warren had explained that he could now account for “a considerable part of the deficiencies” still outstanding from his unsettled paymaster general accounts. Col. Loammi Baldwin, Warren explained, “has paid into my hands 576 dollars which after long Enquiry he has been Able to Account for no other way than by his receiving it from my office by mistake.” Acting on a request from Warren, Congress subse quently directed the transfer of this sum to the accounts of the navy board of the eastern department. See JCC, 13:63, 72: and Warren-Adams Letters, 2:62-63. Henry Laurens to George Bryan Sir 9th November [1778] Inclosed with this I have the honor of transmitting you an Act of Congress of the 7th Instant for laying before the Supreme Executive Council of the State of Pennsylvania a Letter of David Franks dated the 18th of October last, and the minutes of the proceedings of Con gress thereon, together with the said Letter and Minutes. 1 I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 See JCC, 12:1110-11; and Laurens to Washington, October 22, 1778, note 4. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 9th 1778 We have been favoured with yours of the 19th & 28th Ultimo the latter of which containing many important matters we shall take time fully to deliberate upon and will make it the subject of a future Letter. 1 Your reasons for leaving the Ranger at Portsmouth meets our intire approbation. We have already expressed our wishes for the Speedy equipment of all our vessels, and we doubt not your best exertions will be used for that purpose—if they can be got ready to sail in time the force will be greater than any we have yet been able to send out, and we have Sanguine expectations that something may be done of conse quence to make up for the bad success that hath hitherto attended our Navy. To enable you to go on with the business we now Send


[Page 227]
November 9, 1778 191 by the bearer hereof Mr. Jesse Brown 150,000 Dollars which we hope will be sufficient for some time. 2 You will give us timely information when more Money will be required which shall be supplied, having the fullest confidence that the business of your department will be conducted with the greatest (Economy. Pray inform the Marquise Delafayette that he is at Liberty to take such Gentlemen with him on board the frigate in which he is to take his passage to France as he may think proper, &: if agreeable to him particularly Lt. Colonel Duplessis who is desirous of taking a passage with him. We shall shortly write to you again and in the mean time are with great regard, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s October 28 letter to the Marine Committee, which discusses the readiness of Continental ships, the purchase of slops, the exchange of naval prison ers, and the need for funds, is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. For the committee’s “future Letter” responding to these issues see the Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, November 16, 1778. 2 Congress had made this appropriation on October 31. JCC, 12:1085. Daniel Roberdeau to Nathaniel Owings Kind Sir, Philada. Novr. 9th 1778 I have been unwearied in my Endeavours to serve your Interest and that of the other Gentlemen concerned with me, as was my duty, and could I do more, I should not beg[r]udge my labour, as I should not doubt it’s issuing in an ample reward to us all. You may yet depend on my utmost exertions, but be assured without the cooperation of both yourself and Mr. Cockey, one of you to be constantly at the Works, 1 until they are fairly put a going, and in the necessary sup plies of Provisions &c way without a vigorous cooperation of you both in so arduous a business, I plainly foresee they will come to noth ing, or the profits which would arise with ceconomy will be absorbed with Expence. I believe it is the loss of many thousands that Mr. Bedwell did not accept my first offer and superintend the building of the first furnace, but by every account he is now acting with great deligence, but he must be kept in his sphere and one of the Owners, at least, constantly employed in procuring live Stock, Wiskey, Flour &c fee &c and in seeing them transported, otherwise it is too obvious to need any argument to prove it that his being employed in any other way than in the Business more immediately committed to him, would be ruinous to our Scheme. A second furnace (a blast furnace) is building, or built by this time and [whether] it will not be ruined thro ignorance, as the first was, I cannot say, as Mr. Bedwell does not pretend to understand working one of that Construction, besides if


[Page 236]
200 November 10, 1778 P. S. I beg my Compliments to Mr. Jonathan Trumbull Junr. The Treasury I am told have informed him of his appointment to the Comptrollership, unanimously elected—Salary 4000 Dollars per Annum. 3 RC (CtHi: Trumbull Papers). 1 Trumbull’s October 5 letter to Laurens, as well as one of the sixth on the subject of Joseph Trumbull’s accounts, the principal topic of Laurens’ present letter, is in Trumbull, Papers (MHS Colls.), 2:273-74, 279-82. The original of the latter is in PCC, item 66, 1:414-17. 2 A reference to General Sullivan’s abortive expedition against Newport, in which both John Laurens and John Trumbull had played a part. 3 JCC, 12:1096. Committee of Congress to the States In Committee of Congress Sir Philadelphia 11th November 1778 The great & increasing Difficulties in the Quarter Masters 8c Com missary Generals Departments have induced Congress to adopt the Resolution of which we have the Honor to enclose you a Copy. 1 Among the measures immediately necessary for placing these matters on a proper Foundation is the acquiring of a knowledge of the proper Resources of these States. The Articles of consumption which we would most particularly be informed of are Flour, Wheat, Rye, Bar ley, Oats, Corn 8c Rice, Beef, Pork, Working Oxen 8c Horses, Cyder 8c Vinegar. The ignorance 8c the interests of Mankind, oppose so strongly our wishes in this respect, that after every Effort & every prudent precaution, our Information will perhaps be of far less im portance than could be wished. It is however our Duty to aim at it and we have no reason to doubt your Excellency’s Concurrence in the Steps necessary to attain what we have in view, especially when it is considered how readily your own good Sence will dictate the imprac ticability of continuing the war, at least of continuing it to advantage, while we remain Supremely ignorant of the supplies our Country is capable of affording. We have to entreat that your Excellency from your knowledge of the Productions of the several parts of your State, would appoint some proper persons in whose Industry 8c Secresy you can confide to make proper Lists through the Districts you shall severally allott to them of the Quantity 8c number of such of the Articles above named as are produced in it which may probably be over 8c above the necessary consumption of the Inhabitants, and also as nearly as possible the Quantity 8cc which they consume over and above their own production or of what they do not produce. We hope that these lists may be transmitted to us with all imaginable speed


[Page 237]
November 11, 1778 201 to the end that proper arrangements may immediately be made for the ensueing Campaign. Upon transmitting an Account of the Ex penses which may accrue in this Business, they shall immediately be paid. You will perceive Sir that every precaution should be taken to prevent this Object from transpiring, least as on many former Oc casions the Devoted Adherents of Lucre should make a gain of the Publick Distresses. We are respectfully Your Excellency’s Most Obedient 8c Humble Servts. Nathl. Scudder Gouv. Morris Wm. Whipple RC (MdAA: Red Books). In a clerical hand, and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. This text is taken from the circular letter the committee addressed to Maryland governor Thomas Johnson. 1 See JCC, 12:1114-15. This committee was appointed on November 10 in re sponse to a November 6 letter from Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene (which has not been found). Declaring that “speedy and vigorous measures” were necessary “to regulate the commissary’s and quarter master’s departments,” Con gress thereupon appointed Gouverneur Morris, Nathaniel Scudder, and William Whipple to “be a committee to superintend” the two departments and directed “that they, or any two of them, be empowered to take such steps relating to the same as they shall think most [advantageous] for the public service.” Although it was not considered one of the standing committees of Congress, this committee continued to function as overseer of the commissary and quartermaster departments until November 25, 1779, when these duties were transferred to the Board of War. JCC, 15:1312. Because Morris, Scudder, and Whipple had also been appointed on November 5 to a committee with similar responsibilities (in response to a letter from Washington and an earlier one from Greene), it seems probable that they did not attempt to distinguish under which appointment they acted when subsequently performing their various duties. For the work of the committee to which they were first appointed, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Johnson, November 5, 1778. Committee of Congress to the States In Committee of Congress Sir Circular Philadelphia 11th November 1778 The dangerous Practices of Engrossers have increased so rapidly with the Publick distresses, and have so accumulated them, that every Friend to this Country or even to Humanity, cannot but wish to see some Remedy to an Evil, which threatens the Existence not only of the several States but of the poorer part of the Individuals which compose them. We are fully sensible that this disease should be touched with a cautious 8c with a Delicate hand, but at the same time, we confide in the wisdom of your Legislature for this Delicacy 8: Caution. We do not pretend to mark out the means which they should


[Page 238]
202 November 11, 1778 adopt but the Confidence reposed in us by Congress, demands that we should at least Hint, what in our Idea may conduce to this valuable purpose. The Articles necessary for the Consumption of the Army, are easily designated, And we trust there will not be much difficulty in distinguishing between the Dealer in or Manufacturer of those Articles & the Engrosser or as he would call himself the Speculator. These two Objects being accomplished, it surely cannot be deemed inconsistent either with Policy or Justice, that he should be Obliged to part with them to the Public. The Process necessary for this pur pose, must depend on the civil Institutions which may have been respectively adopted, but it should be as short and as simple as is consistent with the constitution of the State. One thing more is neces sary to complete the System, namely the price. If this is such as to leave the Speculator his Profit, nothing more is operated by the Law, than merely to sanctify his unrighteous Gains. If the price be fixed by Law, the Efforts now making to render our Money valuable (and which we doubt not your Legislature will assist by heavy Taxes) will only tend to realise what he hath already accumulated. Perhaps the power Lodged somewhere, to fix the market price monthly by the name of assize, and a deduction from it of about twenty per Cent on Commodities in the Hands of Engrossers, would be most effectual. This However & every thing Else we have mentioned, is submitted to your wiser Consideration. We have the Honor to be, Your Excellency’s most Obt 8c Humble servants Nathl. Scudder Gouvr Morris Wm. Whipple RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. This text is taken from the circular letter the committee addressed to New Hampshire President Meshech Weare. Committee of Congress to the States In Committee of Congress Sir Circular Philadelphia 11th November 1778 Permit us to call your attention for a moment, to the Detection Sc punishment of a Crime against the Public. Persons in Office under the Continent have, as we are informed, used the monies entrusted to them, in the engrossing of articles upon the public. 1 This seething of the Kid in its mothers milk, calls for the most exemplary punish ment. We pray, that you will urge the Legislature of your State, to pass Laws for the prosecution 8c punishment of Offenders of this kind in future, and that in the Interim, your Excellency will cause,


[Page 239]
November 11, 1778 203 any who may in your State be guilty o£ the like Crimes, to be secured for trial, in safe & Close custody. We are respectfully, Your Excellency’s most Obt. & Humble servants, Nathl. Scudder Gouv Morris Wm. Whipple RC (OMC: Slack Collection). In a clerical hand, and signed by Morris, Scudder, and Whipple. This text is taken from the circular letter the committee addressed to Delaware Governor Caesar Rodney. 1 For evidence that this letter was written in response to testimony provided by Delaware Chief Justice William Killen, see Henry Laurens to Caesar Rodney, November 1, 1778, note 5. Committee of Congress to Certain States In Committee of Congress Sir. Philadelphia 11th November 1778 Among the many Objects which occupy Your mind, permit us to call your Attention for a moment to one of the first magnitude. In the States of New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia, 1 the Distillery of Spirits from Grain hath become a very considerable & growing Manufacture. Amid the prejudices which it is natural to suppose the Parties concerned have raised, and the Arguments which may be adduced in it’s favor, let us be permitted to mention some objections. The Effect of it in a moral point of view is certainly deserving of the first attention. Drunkenness, at all times a Crime and in this Case almost Self Murder is not discouraged by bringing the means of it home to every Mans own Door. And certainly there is the Best Authority to say that no Laws can diminish the Vice when the temptation is increased; to lead the People therefore into it or wink at their being led, is to say the least not very meritorious. An addi tional Weight is given to every Argument of this Kind, when it is considered that Malt Spirits of all others most effectually enervate both the mind & Body, rendering the unhappy Patient not only a stupid & useless but also wicked &: for the most part a Dangerous Member of Society. But as no Political considerations should or in deed can influence a good Government to become inattentive to the Health & the Morals of it’s Citizens, so we cannot doubt but that your Legislature will be most feelingly alive, when not only the Health & the Morals, but the Liberty, nay the Existence of the Society depend, upon the total prohibition of a practice at all times Danger ous, but at present fatal. The scarcity which already begins to be felt may, for ought we know, become in the course of Providence a Devouring famine. Pes-


[Page 256]
220 November 16, 1778 I request you Sir, to be assured of my good wishes for your health and complete success, And that I Am, With particular Respect and Esteem, Sir, Your Most Obedient and Most Humble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 For Congress' directive to Laurens and the enclosed “three acts of Congress,” see JCC, 12:1091, 1116-18, 1120-21, 1131. 2 JCC, 12:1120. 3 This day Laurens also paid his colleague William Henry Drayton $1,500, in return for which Drayton executed the following receipt. "Philadelphia, November 16, 1778. Received of His Excellency Henry Laurens the sum of Fifteen hundred dollars money belonging to the State of South Carolina & for which I promise to be accountable. Wm. Hy. Drayton.” South Caroliniana, P4003, ScU. No additional information has been found to clarify the purpose of this transaction. Henry Laurens to the States Sir Philadelphia 16th November 1778 On the 7th Instant I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency by Messenger Owen, and on the 11th of presenting to Congress your Letter dated the 8th. 1 My present duty is to transmit two Copies of the undermention’d Acts of Congress viz. 2 An Act of the 26th August 1776 for establishing a Provision for Soldiers and Seamen maimed or disabled in the service of the United States—to which is subjoined a supplementary Act of the 25th Sep tember 1778 for the benefit of maimed and disabled Volunteers in the service of the States, antecedent to the date of the first abovemen tion’d Act. An Act of the 26th September for organizing the Public Treasury, and for providing an House for the several Offices of Treasury. 17th. You will likewise receive an Act of Congress for holding a gen eral Thanksgiving throughout these States on Wednesday the 30th December next 3 —and three Copies of the Treaty of Amity and Com merce and of Alliance eventual and defensive between his Most Christian Majesty and these United States for the information and use of the State of Delaware. 4 18th. Your Excellency’s favor of the 15th this Morning presented to Congress afforded the House much satisfaction. 5 You Sir, & the privy Council have done your part. Congress confide on the General As sembly to Co-operate with you for the benefit of the Union par ticularly by acceding to the articles of Confederation. The State of Jersey have Resolved to Ratify, we trust that Maryland & Delaware will not much longer be delinquents.


[Page 257]
November 16, 1778 221 I have the honor to be, with very great Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress. RC (IHi). In the hand of Moses Young, with second postscript and signature by Laurens. The text printed here, which contains a unique postscript of the 18th, was directed to President Caesar Rodney of Delaware. Laurens’ letters to the re maining states contain only minor variations (PCC, item 13, 2:167-83), except for the letter to Patrick Henry printed separately above. 1 Caesar Rodney’s November 8 letter to Laurens is in PCC, item 70, fols. 679-82. 2 See JCC, 5:702-5, 12:953-54, 956-61. "For Congress’ November 17 Thanksgiving Day resolution, see JCC, 12:1138-39. ‘ For the printing of the Franco-American treaties, and the opposition of the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, to their publication at this time, see Roger Sherman to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., November 24, 1778, note 1. “ Rodney’s letter, which announced that he had just called the Delaware Assem bly to convene in special session in accordance with Congress’ recent request, is actually dated the 13th. See PCC, item 70, fols. 683-86; and Laurens to Rodney, November 7, 1778, note. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 16th. 1778 Our last of the 9th instant acknowledged the receipt of yours of the 28th Ultimo which we have since duely considered. We shall now repeat what we have been pressing for in our late Letters vizt. your greatest exertions in preparing the Continental Armed Vessels now in the Ports of your department for Sea, being well convinced that you will do every thing in your power for the speedy Accomplishmt. of that desireable business. In future you will please to observe that when Continental Vessels arrive in your Ports they are again to be fitted with all expedition for the sea, and you are to transmit to this Committee weekly an Account of their Num ber, Situation and the time you think they will be ready to sail. With regard to the Vessels that are now fitting out at your ports, and also with regard to those Vessels that may hereafter arrive, when they are fitted for the sea you will send them out to cruize against our enemies either collectively or Singly as you shall judge proper, useing your discretion as to the time for which their Cruizes shall continue, and your- best judgment in directing the commanders to such places and on such stations as you shall think will be for the general benefit of the United States, and to Annoy and distress the enemy. At present we consider it an Object of importance to destroy the in famous Goodrich 1 who has much infested our Coast, Cruizing with a squadron of 4, 5, or 6 armed Vessels from 16 Guns downwards from Egg harbour to Cape Fear in North Carolina, therefore you will please to Order A Sufficient force to range the said Coast to remove


[Page 258]
222 November 16, 1778 that nusence, Observing generally that the vessels are not to remain too long on any station least the enemy should get intelligence and send A superior force against them. By a Vessel arrived here lately in 17 Days from Bermuda we learn that four Vessels of Goodriches Squadron were carreening at that place when she sailed. Congress have established Pursers in the Navy to all ships not under 16 Guns, also an abatement on Slops delivered to Seamen who will enter for twelve Months, and provision in the distribu tion of Prize Money for the Carpenters & Gunners Mates who have been heretofore neglected. We shall send the Resolves by the next Opporty. 2 We have desired the Commissary General of Prisoners to give strict orders to his deputy at Boston to be attentive to the retaining 8c exchanging of Marine Prisoners under the direction of your Board, which we hope will be sufficient to remove the inconveniences you have pointed out. 3 We request that all further attempts to get out the ship Trumbull may be laid aside for the present unless some very favourable opportunity should speedily offer. We have lately been informed of the Capture of the Schooner Pigot at Rhode Island mounting Eight 12pdr. Cannon and wish you to purchase her Guns for Continental use. In a late letter from Captain Landais he mentions his not having received the Subsistance Money of 514 Dollars allowed him by Resolve of Congress of the 25th July 1777. You will please to pay him that Subsistance from the date of his Commission which is the 9th of May 1778 he being in Actual service since that time and consequently intitled to re ceive it. Captain Landais recommends the use of Powder proofs on board our Ships, we request you will write by the first opportunity to France for 3 doz of them. You will please to inform Captain Hinman that the Papers relative to Captain Thompsons trial are copying and shall shortly be sent forward to your Board. By Mr. Brown an Express who carried our letter of the 9th instant we sent you 150,000 Dollars and shall shortly remit you a further supply for the use of your Department. We are, Gentlemen, Your hble Servants P.S. It is our desire that the Ship Ranger be sent out under the command of Lieutenant Simpson. We have determined that an abatement of 50 per Ct. shall be made on the first cost of Slops delivered to Seamen who will enter for twelve’months but you will take care to order them to be distributed properly so as that the Seamen shall not leave the Vessels in debt. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).


[Page 264]
228 November 19, 1778 and after a satisfactory apology from Thompson had been received, did Congress finally dispose of the troublesome dispute. It is clear that the Thompson-McKean feud also involved a good deal more than met the eye, for the two men had been on bad terms for some time. Congress had become increasingly sensitive to cases that raised the issue of the subordination of military to civil authority, and the delegates were apprehensive that aspersions cast on their conduct of prisoner-of-war exchanges would lend comfort to the enemy. Thus it seems probable that Thompson’s conduct was seen as something of a test case, and that some delegates who were sympathetic to his grievances nevertheless felt obliged to chastise him. For the principal sources relating to this case, see JCC, 12:1146-48, 1150-52, 1161, 1164, 1199-1200, 1227, 1239, 1249-55; and Charles Thom son’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, November 23, December 7 and 23, 1778. For a number of other issues forming the background of this dispute, see these Letters, 9:86-87; McKean to Nathanael Greene, June 9, 1778, note 1; Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, August 18, 1778, note 12; Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 280-82; William T. Read, Life and Correspondence of George Read (Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co., 1870), pp. 119-35, 313-14; and Robert L. Brunhouse, The Counter-Revolution in Pennsylvania (Harrisburg: Pennsylvania Historical Com mission, 1942), pp. 63-64. The controversy has been ably analyzed by Gail S. Rowe, Thomas McKean, the Shaping of an American Republicanism (Boulder: Colorado Associated University Press, 1978), pp. 147—52. See also Thomas McKean to the Public, December 30, 1778, and February 1, 1779. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 19 th 1778 Annexed are extracts of Letters of yesterdays date from the Honble the Sr. Gerard minister of France to Congress, which have been re ferred to this Committee with directions to comply with the requests therein contained. 1 You will please to order the Captain of the frigate in which the Marquis Delafayette is to take his passage to france to afford Convoy to the Vessel in which the French Prisoners are to embark as far as requested by the Minister and also to accommodate the Chevalier De Remondis Captain of the Ceaser with a passage in the said Frigate to France particularly recommending him to be treated with all kind ness & respect, We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 On November 18 Congress had directed the Marine Committee to comply with a request from Gerard for “passage on board one of the continental frigates for the Chevalier de Raymondis, captain of the Casar." JCC, 12:1140. Samuel Holten’s Diary [November 20-21, 17781 20. Friday. Congress spent part of the day in a Come, of the whole, on finances.


[Page 265]
November 20, 1778 229 21. Saturday. Congress spent part of the day on finances. The Honl. Mr. Ellsworths dind with us. MS (MDaAr). Henry Laurens to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 20th Novem 1778 I felt myself doubly honoured by your favor of the 14th Inst. 1 from the confidence of General Washington in the free communication of his sentiments & in the coincidence of his Ideas with my own, upon a question, on the wise decision of which the Inheritance, possibly the establishment, of the freedom & Independance of these States, seems to depend. The respect Sir, which I owe you, demands an im mediate reply, & yet the variety of avocations in which I am engaged, do not afford me moments for arranging or expressing my thoughts suitably to the importance of the subject; I am nevertheless encour aged to proceed without hesitation from a conviction, that, were I to deliver my opinions at full length I should be obliged to borrow Your Excellency’s words, which I have the honor of assuring you Sir, are in more than one Instance repetitions of my own, & that in every other, one excepted, our sentiments on this momentous discussion exactly accord. I believe & upon good grounds, the scheme for an expedition into Canada in concert with the Arms of France originated in the breast of Marquis delafayette, encouraged probably by conferences with Count d’Estaing & I also believe it to be the offspring of the purest motives so far as respects that origin, but this is not sufficient to en gage my concurrence in a measure big with eventual mischiefs. As deeply as my very limited time & faculties had suffered me to penetrate, I had often contemplated our delicate connexion with France 8c although it is painful to talk of ones own foresight, had viewed 8c foretold fifteen Months ago the humiliating state to which our embrio Independence would be reduced, by courting from that Nation the loan of more Money than should be actually necessary for the support of the Army 8c of our unfortunate Navy. I was one of the six unsuccessful opponents to the resolution for borrowing Money from France for paying the Interest of our loan Office Certificates 2 -we have in this single article plunged the Union into a vast amount of debt, 8c from neglecting to exert our very small abilities or even to shew a leading disposition to cancel any part of the former demand against us, our Bills for that Interest are now floating in imminent danger of dishonor 8c disgrace. Fully persuaded of the value of National honor I anxiously wished to support our own


[Page 266]
230 November 20, 1778 by a propriety & consistency of conduct & I dreaded the consequences of subjecting our happiness to the disposal of a powerful Creditor, who might upon very specious grounds, interpret National honor to our destruction—I warned by friends against the danger of Mortgag ing these States to foreign powers. Every Million of Livres you bor row implies a pledge of your Lands, & it is optional on your Creditor to be repaid at the Bank of England with an exorbitant Praemium, or to collect the Money due to him in any of your Ports & accord ing to his own mode whenever National Interest shall require the support of pretended National honor—hence Your Excellency will perceive what were my feelings, when the propositions for subduing Canada by the aid of a French Fleet 8c Army were first broached to me. I demurred exceedingly to the Marquis’s scheme 8c expressed some doubts of the concurrence of Congress, this was going as far as I dared consistently with my Office or considering him as a Gentleman of equal honor 8c tenacity I trusted the issue of his application to the sagacity of Congress, the business was referred to a Committee who conferred with the Marquis, their Report was framed agreeable to his wishes, but the House very prudently determined to consult the Commander in Chief previously to a final determination, 3 and al though Your Excellency’s observations are Committed, 1 am much mistaken if every Member in Congress is not decided on his opinion in favor of them. If the prosecution of so extensive a project is from the present state of our Army 8c funds impracticable on our part, it becomes altogether unnecessary to discuss the point in a political view, 8c I trust the Marquis will be satisfied with such reasonings in apology for our desisting from the pursuit of his favorite enterprize as our circumstances will dictate. The immense debts which we are involved in abroad 8c at home demand the most serious attention 8c call for an exertion of the col lected wisdom of all these States in order to secure what we have saved from the Ravages of the Enemy. I am very short sighted, if there is at this time any encouragement for attempting distant conquests. I have been uniformly averse from every proposition which tended to dissipate our strength 8c to accumulate our debts. Events have confirmed my opinion, 8c at this Instant taking in view all circumstances I have doubts of the policy 8c more of the success of the pending expedition against East Florida. Congress will probably recommend to the States to raise a Tax of near 20 Million the ensuing Year, this I hope will have a good effect, by returning many of us to first Principles from which we have been too long wandering. This almost intolerable burthen will rouse 8c animate our fellow Citizens. They will probably send Men of abilities to investigate Causes, to enquire into expenditures 8c to call delin quents for unaccounted Millions to severe reckonings, they will do


[Page 267]
November 20, 1778 231 what they have hitherto shamefully neglected, pass necessary Laws for this purpose. This heavy Tax & the prospect of increasing imposi tions will shew our constituents the necessity for consolidating our strength, as well as the impropriety & danger of new expensive Mili tary enterprizes. Virtue & Patriotism were the Motto of our Banners when we entered this Contest, where is virtue, where is Patriotism now? when almost every Man has turned his thoughts & attention to gain 8c pleasures, practicing every artifice of Change Alley or Jona than’s 4 —when Men of abilities disgracefully neglect the important duties for which they were sent to Congress, tempted by the pitiful Fees of practicing Attornies—when Members of that Body artfully start apoint, succeed, & then avail themselves of the secrets of the House, commence monopolizers & accumulate the public debt for their private emoluments; I believe many such tricks have been acted. The particular instance which I allude to cost these States a large Sum of Money without putting the Criminal to the expence of a blush. When Men in almost every important public department are actually concerned in Commerce incompatible with the strict duties of their respective Offices, when the most egregious delinquents meet with support in Congress 8c escape examination—I am tired & fear tiring you Sir with this horrible half finished picture. I will therefore leave it but not before I add that the United States of America are in most deplorable circumstances, that the acquisition of a foreign Minister has fixed the Eyes of Europe upon them, that their weak nesses & their wickednesses are no longer hidden, that the States re spectively are much to blame, & that without speedy reformation their shame 8c ruin collectively will follow. The disaster of Admiral Byron’s Fleet 8c the successful departure of Count d’Estaing’s are events much in our favor, that is to say, if we are pleased to make a wise improvement of them but from experi ence fearing the contrary I am almost tempted to wish they had not happened. These fortunate circumstances will lull us to sleep again, 8c while our Ally is gaining honor, aggrandizement & the highest national advantages we shall be sinking into a State little better than tributary 8c dependent—be this as it may, the World will ever honor by acknowledging the virtues of the Man who from my inmost Soul I believe keeps us at this Moment from crumbling. I have the honor to be With the most sincere Respect 8c Esteem, Dear Sir Your much obliged, 8c obedient humble Servant, Henry Laurens. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See Laurens to Washington, November 18, 1778, note 2. 2 See JCC, 8:725; and these Letters, 7:616-17. ’ See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Washington, October 27, 1778. ‘ Undoubtedly a reference to Jonathan’s coffeehouse standing in Change Alley,


[Page 271]
November 21, 1778 235 I have had more than one conference with the Board of War re specting your Rank. The Board are of opinion that there is no Rank incidental to the Office, and therefore declined the insertion of Rank in a Commission. I have instanced the Commission of your Prede cessor, to this I have been answered that there had been some man agement in that case unknown to Congress, and altogether improper. This opinion seems to be supported by referring to all the Deputy Quarter Masters in the other Departments, none of whom, as far as my knowledge extends have Rank in the Army as of right annex’d to the Office, altho’ they are generally complimented with the title of Lieutenant Colonels. In the late Arrangement of the Quarter Mas ters’ Department, not a Commission has been issued from my Office, and I observe that the Commander in Chief directs to my Neighbour, commonly call’d Colonel Mitchell, “John Mitchell Esqr. Deputy Quarter Master General.” You will naturally ask, have Congress established no Rule in this Case? This shall be my inquiry, and if I discover that you are entitled to Rank, by Rule or established prece dent, you may depend upon receiving a proper Commission by the next Messenger to Charlestown. In the meantime I will endeavour to prevail on my Honorable Colleagues to move Congress for an appointment in your favor of Quarter Master General of the Southern Department. There appears at present an absurdity in the term of Deputy, when compared with the Appointment of Major General Greene, 8c his power of appointing all his Deputies, from whom you receive no instructions, nor are you in any respect accountable to him under an appointment descending directly from Congress. I will not trouble you Sir, with further reasonings on this subject, you will perceive my inclination from what I have already said to obtain for you all that of right appertains to your Office. I know that heretofore Commissions have been shamefully prostituted, and I am informed that former Deputy Quarter Masters in several instances from favor itism and other vicious sources derived Rank; if this be true, I am too well acquainted with your Principles Sir, to suppose you would wish me to follow such examples—the Army cried aloud against them, and the last Arrangement was intended to prohibit and abolish the practice. I have the honor to be, With Regard, Sir, Your Obedient & Humble Servant P.S. Upon further investigation I find that the Officers under General Mifflin as Quarter Master General were entitled to Rank, & Colo. Mitchell informs me that none of the Deputies of Major Genl. Greene in the present Establishment have Commissions. As Commis sions have from necessity been lodg’d in the hands of Governors, Presidents of States and General Officers 8c no returns made of the disposition of such Commissions, it has been hitherto impossible for


[Page 283]
November 23, 1778 247 Mr MK call gen T a low dirty fellow. Afterwards Gen T asked Mr MK if he was a gentleman. Col William Bradford 18 sworn, says He was upstairs in his room when the dispute began, upon some person coming & telling him there was like to be a quarrel in the coffee room, he immediately went down. The first words he heard were, Mr MK said to gen T. I am your superior. Gen T said, You my superior, I’ll let you know you are not my superior. Mr MK said to gen T you are a rascal, gen T said you are a damned rascal. Quest, by Mr MK. Are you sure I called gen T. a rascal, pray recollect. A. Yes, I am certain of it. He said to gen T. You are a rascal And I was astonished at it. 19 The witnesses being examined brigr. genl Thompson addressed Congress & said If any expressions were used by him respecting the exchange which might give offence, he hoped the situation of his Mind & the circumstances attending his captivity would be taken into consideration and allowances made and that they will not be imputed to an intention of insulting Congrss for whose honour 8c dignity he has the highest respect. He begs the patience and favourable attention of Congress, while he states a few facts relative to himself. In the beginning of the year 1776 he was sent into Canada. While there Genl Sullivan being informed that a large body of troops were sent into that province judged it proper to attack them in detail, and for that purpose sent him with a body of Men to attack a party at trois Rivieres. That in Obedience to his Orders he marched 8c made the attack. The enemy were more numerous than was ex pected. He had the misfortune not to succeeed and to be taken prisoner. But even his enemies acknowledged he had done his duty 8c behaved gallantly, that he was taken in the field with his sword in his hand. That while he was on board a prison ship in the harbour of Quebec Gen Sullivan 8c gen Lord Stirling were capti vated on Long Island and quickly exchanged. 20 That though he did not mean to depreciate the merits of those generals, he hoped he should not be deemed presumptuous when he thought himself not behind them in the discharge of his duty. That though by this his feelings were wounded he quietly submitted to the pleasure of Congress. That after this being permitted to return home on parole, he waited with patience until Congress should have it in their power to exchange him and give him an Opportunity of again entering into the service of his country. That after this genl Lee was captivated and after a time ex changed. 21 The reputation of that officer and the expectation Amer-


[Page 287]
November 24, 1778 251 The villainous Monopolizers (or as they call themselves speculators) have raised the price of Flour to 20 dollars here but measures are taken to check this villainy. I wish they may prove efficacious. Please to tell Mrs. W. I have not time to write this post nor shall I find time very often unless she can. Your neglected Friend, Wm. Whipple. Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 See Josiah Bartlett to Langdon, October 27, 1778, note 2. a Not found. Cornelius Harnett to Richard Caswell Dear Sir Philadelphia Novr 24. 1778 The President, before any of the Members could be Supplied with the printed Treaties with France, sent them on to the Governors of the Several States; I take the liberty, (fearing some Accident may have prevented your receiving them) to Inclose one to Your Excellency. These Treaties ought to have been thrown out to the public im mediately, but Congress out of their great wisdom thought Other wise. This business was done after the return of the No. Carolina Delegates, Mr. Burke & myself stayed & sat in Congress as long as we were Authorized by the State to give a Vote. Your Excellency must also have been informed by Mr. Blount when the requisition was made for 500,000 Dollars, No Delegate of No. Carolina was or could be present with propriety. We have however patched up this business; 400,000 Dol. have been sent on to Accomplish the first business, and 150,000 to Mr. Blount exclusive of the Other Sum, towards forwarding the Southern Expe dition. The President has no doubt informed you of the Views of Congress Should The Enemy not think proper to make an attack on Chas. Town. 1 I am not at present at liberty to Communicate it, as the injunction of Secrecy is not yet taken off. I should imagine Your Excellency would have Influence sufficient to induce the late Levies, to March forward this winter & that as early as possible with Some Volunteers from the Militia. I am one of those Old Politicians who had much rather See my Neighbours house on fire than my Own, but at the same time would lend every Assistance in my Power to quench the flame. St. Augustine during the Continuance of this war (from Her Scituation) will constantly have it in her power, not only to dis tress our poor ■frontier State Georgia, by land, but to embarrass and Almost ruin the trade of the four Southern States by their Privateers. Genl. Lincoln whom I had not the Pleasure to See, will Communicate to you the Views of Congress, & I hope he may Inform them, of what may be expected from Our State, after Consulting with you.


[Page 288]
252 November 24, 1778 Genl. Howe is Ordered to head Quarters. The little ridiculous matters he has been concerned in, in So. Carolina with regard to a female, has induced the Delegates of Georgia & So. Carolina to desire his recall. Congress Complied with their request but do not intend to enter into the private Amours of their Generals. I hope our friend (should the war Continue) will have an Opportunity of displaying his abilities (which Congress Acknowledge) in the field of Mars as well as of Venus. 2 I have mentioned Several times to Your Excellency my desire of remaining at home. I am too old to be sent here. It behooves the State to send Men of much greater Abilities than myself. I am now not many years from 60. The Other States have fallen upon a method of keeping some of their Delegates here, who have served from the beginning—Viz. Massachusetts, N York, Virginia &c. But Should the States think proper to Change their Delegates they ought at least to send forward the first men, (I mean as to their Abilities) in the State. N. York has invariably pursued this Plan & have profited by it. I would not be thought to derogate from the Gentlemen who are with me, I have experienced on every Occasion, their Good Sense, their Honesty & Integrity of heart. But by Changing Your Members often you must of Course know as I am Convinced every Man of Sense must, that it will take a young man of Genius, Ability & Ap plication, three Months at least to make himself well acquainted with the business of Congress—And after he has Accomplished it, in a few months, another is Appointed, who has the same process to go through before he can be made useful to his State, let his Abilities be ever so great & uncommon. I have taken the liberty to give your Excellency my Opinion on this Great Subject with an intention never more to return in the Character my Country has been pleased to honor me with, unless I am forced into it. This letter has been written with a Violent pain in my Stomach, which I suppose a Symtom of the Gout (my Old Companion); I have neither time or Inclination to Correct either the Diction or Grammar. It is intended for yourself. If I have in my incoherent manner, thrown out any hint that may Strike you & be useful to my Country I shall be happy indeed. I send the last papers, & expect Mr. Burke or Mr. Hill every hour to relieve me. I have the Honor to be with great respect, Your Excel- lencys, Most Obed fc very hu Servt. Cornl. Harnett RC (PPIn). This letter is incorrectly dated November 28, 1778, in N.C. State Rec ords, 13:304-6; and Burnett, Letters, 3:511-12. 1 Congress had approved an expedition against East Florida on November 2 on the condition that it was to be carried out if the British did not attack South Carolina or Georgia. See Harnett to Caswell, November 10, note 1; and Henry Laurens to Caswell, November 14, 1778. * See Henry Laurens to Robert Howe, October 6, 1778.


[Page 289]
November 24, 1778 253 Henry Laurens to Benjamin Lincoln Sir. Philadelphia 24th November 1778. I have already written to you by this conveyance. under the 16th, since which I have had the honor of receiving & presenting to Con gress your favors of the 7th & 9th which are committed to the Board of Treasury for consideration & Report. 1 The injuries which you received by the fall from your carriage, I had heard of in much more alarming terms than your own account, I am rejoiced to learn, you were so well recovered as to be able to prose cute your journey. I am in hopes the mild Climate of South Carolina will restore your strength. Capt Barry having made some extraordinary demands on Congress, for allowance of a Table & a Secretary, which the House have not determined upon, is detained here. I believe Capt Barry to be a brave & active Seaman, but I am told by Gentlemen of the Marine Commit tee that the intended service is not pleasing to him, ’tis possible therefore he may wish to avoid it, & besides, you will find old Com manders in the two southern States who will be much mortified should he actually proceed & take the Command of them, conse quences will arise which will be disagreeable to you &: which may prove detrimental to the service. I have suggested these sentiments to the Marine Committee, the determination of Congress will probably be known to morrow. 2 Inclosed with this be pleased to receive an Act of Congress of the 17th Inst, for subjecting the Troops raised in the State of South Carolina to the same regulations as the other forces of the United States are under except in Cases governed by contrary stipulations; for explaining a Resolve of the 16th September 1776 respecting the appointment of Officers on the general Staff & for appointing Capt Ed. Hyrne dep. adjutt. gen. & Stephen Drayton Esqr dep. Q.M. gen. in the sothern department. 3 I have the honor to be with great Regard Sir Your obedient & most humble servt, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (NN: Henry W. and Albert A. Berg Collection). 1 JCC, 12:1148-49. These letters, which were read in Congress on November 20, are in PCC, item 158, fols. 167-73. 1 On December 2, 1778, “Congress took into consideration a report from the Marine Committee respecting Captain Barry, and after debate. Ordered, That it be re-committed.” JCC, 12:1184. The journals contain no further reference to this matter; but see Marine Committee to John Barry, November 20, 1778. “This "Act of Congress” was adopted in response to an August 31, 1778, letter from Pres. Rawlins Lowndes of South Carolina requesting clarification of his authority to appoint Continental officers. Citing a 1776 congressional resolution which declared "that the appointment of all officers, and filling up vacancies, (except general officers) be left to the governments of the several states,” Lowndes


[Page 290]
254 November 24, 1778 had protested the authority of Gen. Robert Howe, commander of the Southern Department, to appoint deputy adjutants and quartermasters in that department, believing that the resolution applied to the appointment of staff as well as regi mental officers, and not just to the latter as Howe claimed. Declaring against Lowndes, however. Congress resolved that he “be informed, that the resolution of Congress of 16 September, 1776, relative to appointments, extends only to the appointment of regimental officers, and not to officers on the general staff.” See JCC, 12:1137-38; and Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, October 5, 1778. Since this case had originated. General Lincoln had replaced Howe in the southern com mand. To notify Edmund Hyrne of his appointment, Laurens wrote the following brief letter to him on November 21. "I have the honor of inclosing under Cover with this, an Act of Congress of the 17th Instant for appointing you Deputy Adjutant general in the Southern Department, together with a Commission which I have issued in conformity with that Act.” PCC, item 13, 2:186. For Drayton’s appointment as deputy quartermaster, see Laurens to Stephen Drayton, November 21, 1778. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen November 24 1778 Since our last of the 19th we are favoured with yours of the 5th instant '-we are pleased to find you have settled Colo. Langdons Account and paid him the balance. We observe you have contracted for building two of the Packet Boats we ordered which we think will be sufficient for the present as every thing is so extravagantly dear. If you have not already agreed for building a third One we desire it may not be done. The Bill you have drawn upon us in favour of Colo. Langdon when it Appears shall be duely honored & paid. The enclosed Resolves of the 26th August 1776 will inform you what provision Congress have made for Officers & Seamen disabled in their service. We are now forming a New system of Rules & Regu lations for the Navy and would be glad you would send us any re marks that you may think will Assist in that work. Application has been lately made to us for pay and Prize Money by Mr. Hill who it appears has served with a good deal of Merit as a volunteer on board the Ship Ranger. 2 We think when he Acted as an officer where there was a vacancy he ought to receive the Same pay as the Officer in whose station he acted, and we request you will ascertain that matter and pay him accordingly. With regard to his prize Money we cannot order him more than a Common share, but are of opinion if he did act in a vacancy that the Officers of the class should allow him the Share of the officer whose place he filled. We request you will forward us an exact List of all the Commis sioned Officers in your department with the dates of their Commis sions and how they are now employed. We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants


[Page 293]
November 24, 1778 257 absolutely require this action. But I know that my remarks would have postponed it if, through haste and even before the final resolution of Congress, three copies had not been sent to three states as early as day before yesterday. In the circum stance, I did not think I ought to insist and to run the risk of raising doubts about the certainty of the King’s ratification.” Gerard, Despatches (Meng & Baisnee), 59:253. 2 The New Jersey delegates signed the ratification of the Articles of Confederation on November 26. See JCC, 12:1161, 1164. • Not found. William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir, ' Philadelphia 24d 1 Nov 1778 I need not acquaint you that the State of New Hampshire has not been represented since the commencement of this month as Col. Bartlett will inform you. He left Congress the day before I arrived, which was the 4th inst. Since my arrival New Jersey has acceeded to the confederacy &: it’s dayly expected Maryland & Delaware will fol low the example. The Confederacy then being compleat, less than two delegates will not be a representation even ’tho one should be em powered by the State for that purpose. The Spirit of Monopolizing under the name of Speculating rages with great violence through the United States the consequence of which must prove fatal unless the interposition of the Legislatures of the several States can check its fury. The plan of finance now under consideration of Congress will have a good effect when compleated, but that as well as many other important matters are exceedingly retarded for want of a full representation. Only nine States have been represented since my arrival ’till within three days, there are now Eleven States barely represented, this tardiness in the States or their Delegates, besides retarding the most important Business makes it exceeding fatiguing to those that do attend. I have the Honour to transmit you the Treaty of Alliance &c See between His most Christian Majesty and the United States of America. No intelligence has been received since Col. Bartletts departure we are still in suspence about the Enemies intentions at New York ’tho it is most generally believed they will evacuate that place. I have The Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem & Re spect, Sir, Your Most Obt Humle Sert, Wm. Whipple RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 Whipple originally wrote “22d” or "23d” and then superimposed a 4.


[Page 297]
November 28, 1778 261 In 1’i Jr'v I NOVEMBER 24, 1778. ONGRESS took into confideration the Report of the Committee of Arrangement, and thereupon came to the following refolutions. WHEREAS the fettlement of rank in the army of the United States has been attend ed with much difficulty and delay, inafmuch as no general principles have been adopted and uniformly purfued j Resolved, therefore, That upon any difpute of rank the following rules Ihall hereafter be obferved: 1. For determining rank in the continental line between all Colonels and inferior officers of diffe rent States, bctweealike officers of infantry and thofe of horfe and artillery, appointed under the authority of Congrefs by virtue of a refolve of the i6th of September, 1776, or by virtue of any fubfequent resolution prior to the firft of January, 1777, all fuch officers ihall be deemed to have their commiflions dated on the day laft mentioned, and tneir relative rank, with refped to each other in the continental line of the army, Ihall be determined by their rank prior to the 16th day of Septem ber, 1776. This rule Ihall not be confidered to affedt the rank of theline within any State, or within the corps of artillery, horfe, or among the fixteen additional battalions, where the rank hath been fettled j but Ihall be the rule to determine the relative rank within the particular line of artillery, fa far as the rank remains unfettled. 2. In the fecond inftance, preference Ihall be given to commiflions in the new levies and flying camp. 3. In determining rank between continental officers, in other relpedts equal, proper refpedt (hall be had to their commiffions in the militia, where they have ferved in the continental army for the fpace of one month. 4. All Colonels and inferior officers, appointed to vacancies fince the 5th day of January, 1777, Ihall take rank from the right of fucceflion to fuch vacancies. 5. In all cafes where the rank between, the officers of different States is equal, or between an officer of State troops and 09c of cavalry, artillery, or of the additional battalions, the precedence is to be determined by lot. 6. All officers who have been prifoners with the enemy, being appointed by their State, and again enter into the fervice, Ihall do if agreeably to the above rule i that is to fay, all of the rank of Captains, and under, Ihall entedptp thej^kv^jmsat to which they/otmcrly belonged, and if fuch regiment is diffolved or otherwife reduce^ wacy Ihall beintmtito the firft vacancy in any regiment of the State in their proper rank, aft% ^he officers belonging to fuch regiment^ave been provided for. 7. The rules of rank* above' laid’'dowrr^’twaljf officers .of different States, are to govern between officers of the fame State, except in cafekwhere t^e State may have laid down a different rule, or al ready fettled their rank. V *'* •* ' * - *s , ' 8. A reCgnation^^Uwtt’MteMy claim of benefit from former rarijgknder a new appointment. Whereas, froihrwttrteffiion or the eftablilhment and other caufea/ many valuable officers have been and may be omitted in the new arrangement, as being fupernumerary, who, from their conduit and fervices, are intitled to the honourable notice of Congrefs, and to a fuitable provifion, until they can return to civil life with advantage. Resolved, therefore, That Congrefs gratefully acknowledge the faithful fervices of fuch officers, and that all fupernumerary officers be-intitled to one year’s pay of their commiflions refpec- tively, to be computed from the time fuch officers had leave of abfencc from the Commander in Chief on this account. And Congrefs do earneftly recommend to the feveral States to which fuch officers belong, to make fuch farther provifion for them as their refpedhvc circumftanccs and merits intitle them to. Whereas it will be for the benefit of the fervice, that fome rule for promotions be eftablilhed : Therefore, Resolved, That it be recommended to the feveral States, to provide that in all future promotions officers rife regimentally to the rank of Captain, and thence in the line of the State to the rank of Colonel, except in cales where a preference may be given on account of diftin- guiflied merit. * Resolved, That all officers who have been in the fervice, and, having been prifoners with the enemy, now are or hereafter may be exchanged, or otherwife releafed, Ihall, if appointed by the authority of the State, be intitled, in cafe of vacancy, to enter into the fervice of their refpedive State, in fuch rank as they would have had if they had never been captured; provided always that every fuch officer do, within one month after his exchange or releafe, fignify, to the authority of the State to which he belongs, his releafe, and his defire to enter again into the military fervice. Resolved, That every officer fo releafed, and giving notice as aforefaid, Ihall, until entry into adual fervice, be allowed half pay of the commiflion, to which, by the foregoing refolve, he ftands intitled j provided always, that in cafe of his receiving any civil office of profit, fuch half pay (hall thencefortn ceafe. Resolved, That no brevets be for the future granted, except to officers in the line, or in cafe of very eminent fervices. Resolved, That Pay-Mafters, not being of the rank of Captains, Quarter-Mafters and Adjutants, be intitled to receive Twenty Dollari per month, fubfiftence money, in lieu of rations. Resolved, That all officers and perfons employed on the Staff Ihall receive, for fubfiftence money, One-Third of a Dollar for each extra ration heretofore allowed them. Resolved, That Adjutants, Pay-Mafters and Quarter-Mafters, taken from the line, be again admitted into the rank they would have been intitled to, had they continued in the line. And fitch Adjutants, Pay-Mafters and Quarter-Mafters, not taken from tne line, may be admiffable into the line in luch fubaltcrn ranks, as, by a figned certificate from the field officers of their relpedtive corps, they thall be deemed competent to. fnm CHARLES THOMSON, Sicrmry. f J i * Resolves on “Arrangement” of the Army, November 24, 1778


[Page 299]
November 28, 1778 263 Channel is deep enough to receive the other three, & I am no longer in doubt that there has been a second engagement—particulars we shall learn by & by. Had the Palm been given to Britain we should have heard of it in high terms from Mr. Rivington, but I remark the News writers in the Garrison are extremely costive in European In telligence—we cannot believe that they are ignorant of so important an event as this in question at the period of two Calendar Months. Your Lordship will receive herewith two of Dunlaps Advertisers & will do me the honor to believe that I am with very great Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Lordship’s Obedient & Most Humble servt. Henry Laurens. RC (IMunS). Henry Laurens to George Washington Sir. 28th November [1778] After writing to Your Excellency Yesterday Morning, I had the honor of presenting to Congress Your Excellency’s Letters of the 20th and 21st. 1 The latter was sent to the Board of War where the Papers respecting the Inspectorship are said to be lying. The former produced an Act for disbanding Bedel’s Regiment, which with an Act of the same date the 27th for allowing additional Pay to the Officers of Warners, and other Officers in like circumstances, will be trans mitted within the present Cover, 2 and also Copy of a Letter from Colonel Hartley to Congress dated Sunbury the 20th November 1778. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). 1 JCC, 12:1165-66. These letters are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:287-88, 305-7, and PCC, item 152, 6:523-33. 2 For these “Acts,” see JCC, 12:1165-67. Massachusetts Delegates to Jeremiah Powell Sir, Philadelphia Novr 28th 1778 We have the Honor of acknowledging the Receipt of your Favour of the 5th Instant, mentioning the Sum which the General Assembly have been pleased to grant to each of their Delegates, as Part of their allowance for their Services & Expences at Congress the ensuing Year, & desiring Us “to notify You seasonably whether We accept the Trust, or not;” in Answer to which We beg Leave to refer You to our several Letters herewith transmitted. 1


[Page 302]
266 November 29, 1778 bier’s Letter & my answer, spoken of in my Official Letter of this date, ’tis highly probable both will soon be published, at present these Copies are intended for Your Lordship’s private information & no further. I intreat you Sir to pardon the liberty I have taken on the present occasion & believe me to be with very great respect & Esteem, Your Lordship’s Obliged & obedient humble servant, Henry Laurens RC (NNPM). William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 29th Novr 1778 I was in great hopes I shod have heard from you & some other of my Friends, before this, but every snip I have receiv’d from N. Hamp shire since my arrival here, is a very short letter from Mrs. W. & a line from Mr. Langdon telling me he was in so great a hurry he could not add. Since the receipt of those, two posts have arriv’d by which no body have thot it worth their while to write me a line. However I flatter my self I sh[ould] hear often from you when your retirement to winter Quarters will afford you opportunities of writing. I have the pleasure to hear by Mr. Frost (who arriv’d three days ago) that you were well abot the 7th inst. He also tells me you talk’d of writing by him, this circumstance leads me to hope to morrows post will bring me a letter from you. I wish I had any thing new to give you but as our intelligence comes chiefly from the Eastward you have it first. However I inclose you the latest News paper which will give you Ocular demonstration of their Barrenness. You will also find inclos’d The Treaties of Al liance &c between France & the United States. I dare say you will agree with me in opinion that these Treaties are concluded on terms much more favorable to America than we have any reason to expect, considering our circumstances. I wish to know the sentiments of People respecting them especially of those who have been esteem’d Enimies to the Revolution. The post goes out the day after tomorrow; if any thing new shod arrive before that time I shall give it you. As I have but few minutes to spare from public business I am obliged to improve such intervals as I can ketch to write to my Friends. Your Most affecte Bror. W.W. Novr. 30th 11 at night. No post yet ariv’d. I suppose the weather has detain’d him. RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers).


[Page 303]
November 30, 1778 267 William Henry Drayton to Henry Laurens Dr Sir. Monday [November 30, 1778] I am entirely of opinion that there is not only much more villany in the transaction of our public affairs than we can fathom but more than we have any idea of. This Spanish Cargo discovers new wheels which have been running to private advantage under the guidance of public Agents. What can be done! I am glad De Francy is so sensible of the merit of your offer. 1 You will Pardon me when I tell you, that when you made it, I felt what your Son would have felt, had he heard you make it. It was an action worthy of you, greatly advantageous to the Public, 8c honourable to your Constituents. You took the lead in a Patriotic conduct—but there are none who are able or have the virtue to follow it. I can only admire & applaud; Being with great respect, Dr. Sir, Your most affectionate, humble Sevt. Wm H Drayton. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). Endorsed by Henry Laurens: "Mr. Drayton on Beaumarchais’ affair &c, 30 Novr 1778, which clearly shews that Mr. Drayton had not been tempted, until after my resignation of the Presidency—the 9 December.” 1 Th^veneau de Francy, Caron de Beaumarchais’ business agent, was in Philadel phia seeking remittances from Congress to help pay for the military supplies his employer had shipped to America. Although Francy had written to Congress on November 28 asking for the consignment of two or three thousand hogsheads of tobacco for this purpose, his letter made no mention of the mysterious “Spanish Cargo” referred to by Drayton, who was a member of the committee to which Francy’s letter had been referred on the 28th. See JCC, 12:1168; and PCC, item 78, 9:209-11. It is not known what "offer” Laurens made to Francy. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir Philadelphia 30th Nov 1778 I have not receiv’d a line from New Hampshire since my arrival here. Mr. Frost who arrived the 25th inst. Brot with him an act im- powering one Delegate to represent the State. Had it been sent some time before the State would not have been so long unrepresented and his coming render’d the Act less necessary. 1 I wish to be informed what number of the journals of Congress have been sent to the state & whether any indexs have been sent to the first Volume. The Treaties of Alliance 8cc with France are printed. I sent one Book to the President last week, 8c shall send one to you by the first convenient opportunity. 2 Nothing material has happen’d since your departure. The business of finance goes on very slowly; however some of the principle Ques tions have pass’d the Committee of the whole which leeds me to hope we shall make a considerable progress in this important business in a


[Page 311]
December 2, 1778 275 James Duane to George Clinton Sir, Philad. 2d Decem’r 1778. I deliver’d Congress the Depositions your Excellency charged me with, respecting the Breach of the Convention of Saraghtoga by that part of Genl. Burgoine’s army which was permitted to return into Canada. It is the desire of Congress that this perfidious pro- ceedure may be exposed in the fullest Light, and they, therefore, request that your Excellency will endeavour to procure further Evi dence, and, if possible, one of General Carlton’s proclamations or orders requiring those Troops to join their respective Corpses. 1 One thousand Dollars in Specie are now delivered to Mr. Bancker for the purpose of making the necessary discoveries, to be employd in such manner as your Excellency shall be pleased to direct; when it is expended you will be pleased to remit the account to the Treas ury board that you may be properly discharged. I did not think it necessary to send the Cont. money directed to be paid into your Hands, for the above purpose. It therefore, waits your disposal in the Treasury. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect Sir Your Excellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:391-92. 1 Congress directed a committee of three—Duane, Gouverneur Morris, and Wil liam Carmichael—on November 30 to collect “evidence relative to the infractions made by the enemy on the convention of Saratoga.” JCC, 12:1175. For Clinton’s efforts to comply with Duane’s request for additional evidence of British infractions of the convention, see Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:365-08, 392, 420-23. Samuel Holten’s Diary [December 2, 1778] 2. Wednesday. Congress sit in the Eveng. Mr. Temple from Boston dind with us. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 John Temple, a suspected British agent, had arrived in Philadelphia the pre vious day. For information on the background and purpose of Temple’s visit to Philadelphia, see Samuel Adams to James Bowdoin, September 3, note 2, and December 19, 1778, note 2. Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry Sir 2nd December [1778] I had the honor of addressing Your Excellency under the 16th


[Page 313]
December 2, 1778 277 continuance of mutual Amity between the United States and those People. 1 Divers considerations have prevented hitherto Congress from en tering upon that of the proceedings of the General Court Martial in your case, but it is to be taken up tonight, and I am going imme diately after this Letter is finished to attend the House for that purpose. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Addressed: "Major General Schuyler for the Commission ers of Indn. Affairs, Albany, by Patrick Maher.” 1 See JCC, 12:1136, 1177-78. Schuyler’s letters to Laurens of October 30 and November 2, and a number of enclosures pertaining to relations with the Oneidas and other friendly tribes, are in PCC, item 153, 3:364-89. Henry Laurens to the States Sir Philadelphia 2nd December 1778 By Messenger Dodd under the 16th Ultimo 1 had the honor of writing to Your Excellency, since which I received & presented to Congress your Letter of the 30th of October. 1 My present duty is to transmit two Acts of Congress which will be found within this inclosure viz. 2 1. Six Copies of the 24 Ultimo for arranging the Army. 2. Six Copies of An Act of the 30th for obtaining Forage for the Army of these United States. I have the honor to be, With great Esteem &: Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & most humble servt. 3 Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). In the hand of Moses Young and signed by Laurens. Addressed: "His Excellency William Greene Esquire, Governor of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations.” 1 For the receipt of William Greene’s October 30 letter to Congress, see JCC, 12:1136. In transmitting the two acts enclosed herein, Laurens drafted a separate letter to each of the states. Consequently each contains either an acknowledgment of the last letter received since his November 16 circular letter to the states or the simple statement that no letter had been received since that date. See PCC, item 13, 2:196-202. 2 JCC, 12:1154-60, 1177. 3 In the letter sent to Pennsylvania this day, which was addressed to Joseph Reed, Laurens added a paragraph congratulating Reed on his recent election as president of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania. See PCC, item 13, 2:199; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:632-34.


[Page 317]
December 3, 1778 281 MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 34). In a clerical hand and signed by Drayton, Ells worth, and Henry. 1 The case of Charles Jencks, a ship captain from Rhode Island, versus Jonathan Payson, a shipowner from Portsmouth, N.H., had been referred to the Committee on Appeals by Congress on October 20, 1778. See JCC, 12:1024; and N.H. State Papers, 8:452, 771. Samuel Holten’s Diary [December 3, 1778] 3. Thursday. Congress sit in the evening & confirmed the sentence of the Court Martial upon Genl. Schuyler & acquited him of the charges brot. against him. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 See Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler, December 4, 1778. Henry Laurens to Silas Deane Sir 3d December [1778] 10 o’Clock On Tuesday I received and presented your Letter of the 30th Ultimo to Congress and received direction to intimate to you that the House, having resolved to take into consideration as on this evening the state of their foreign Affairs such branches as you have been particularly concerned in, would in due course become subjects of deliberation without any, avoidable or unnecessary, delay. 1 I should have given you this information Yesterday had not the very long Sessions of Congress morning and evening together with very full employment in Public business in the interval rendered it impracticable. I have the honor to be &c. LB (DNA: PCC, item 13). Endorsed: “By M. Young.” 'JCC, 12:1181. Copies of Deane’s November 30 letter are in PCC, item 103, fol. 163; and Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888): 63. Henrv Laurens to William Heath Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3d December 1778. Last Night I had the honor of receiving your favor of the 19th Ulto. accompanied by many Papers respecting the Convention Troops which shall be laid before Congress this Morning. 1 Inclosed with this you will receive an Act of Congress of the 24th November for further arranging the Army &: a News Paper of the present day. 2


[Page 318]
282 December 3, 1778 I have the honor to be, With very great Respect & Regard, Sir, Your Obedient & Most humble Servant, Henry Laurens, President of Congress RC (MHi: Heath Papers). 1 JCC, 12:1185. Heath’s November 19 letter transmitting “the most accurate Return & state of the Troops of the Convention that I can obtain” is in PCC, item 157, fols. 240-43. 2 This day Laurens also wrote the following letter to “Major General Gates, Commanding Officer, Eastern Depart. Boston, by Patrick Maher.” Not having any of your favors unanswered, and no particular Commands from Congress I have only to transmit an Act of the 24th November for further arranging the Army, and five Copies, to which I shall add a Newspaper of the day.” PCC, item 13, 2:203. Francis Lewis to George Clinton Dear Sir, Phila. 3d Decemr. 1778 I had the honor of writing to you yesterday in conjunction with my Collegues. 1 Congress has since received from Lord Sterling, Com manding at Eliza. Town, a State of the British Army, together with their late embarkations of which the inclosed is a Copy. 2 Should any part of that Army be destined against Charles Town So. Caro lina, Congress hath a month past ordered 1000 Militia from Virginia, 3000 from North Carolina, together with the Continental Troops in that Quarter to rendevous at Charles Town, and in case the Enemy do not attempt that place, our Troops are to proceed against St. Augustine under the Command of General Lincoln. I cannot help thinking that Lord Sterling’s Return relative to the Enemies force in the vicinity of Nw York somewhat exaggerated, as I have been lately informed by a person from Staten Island that there is very few troops at present on that Island, and that the Enemy do not intend to leave Nw York this Winter. Mr. Jay is not yet arrived; and this morning the proceedings of the Court Marshall upon Genl Schuyler is to be reviewed by Congress. 3 When anything material happens in this Quarter, I shall take the earlest opportunity to inform you. I have the honor to be, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient, Humble Servant, Fras Lewis RC (PPRF). 1 Lewis was referring to the New York Delegates’ December 1 letter to Clinton. 2 This may be a reference to a private letter from Gen. William Alexander to Henry Laurens, who acknowledged receipt of letters from Alexander of November 29 and December 1 but apparently did not formally submit them to Congress. See Laurens to Alexander, December 5, 1778, note 1. •See Henry Laurens to Philip Schuyler, December 4, 1778.


[Page 320]
284 December 4, 1778 Right of Civility & Gratitude to you, which an unbounded Portion of public Business will probably make me, as heretofore, neglect, with out some accidental Stimulus, like the present, occuring. On the Spur, then, of this Occasion I most affectionately salute you &: your lovely Family. I will not be forgotten by my former charm ing Pupils, even if they are married. I retain a most pleasing Memory of them & their exemplary manners. Mrs. Bromfield must excuse me if remembring also her many enviable Qualities, I retain one visible Anecdote of her. She told her Daughter so lately as two years ago to “hold up her Head.” Well might the little Emblem of Up rightness show a rosey Streak of Wonder. And now, Sir, finding my Brain relieved, by this little Exertion of Fancy, from the State into which it had been beaten by the Pros & Cons in a Discussion upon Finance, I think I can venture again upon the disagreeable Subject for a moment or two. While we are plodding here to reduce the Quantity of circulating Medium, cannot Associations be formed to discountenance one great Source of De preciation which operates more strongly than even Quantity. I mean the speculating Spirit which is devouring us in geometrical Propor tions. Taxation is doubtless our first object here and will most readily be received by all the People. Loan is another, if not the second to be pursued; but then, Quere, foreign or domestic? How shall Monies now received in Loan be paid? As those received in 1776? Every Genius on the Continent with a Turn to Finance should throw his mite in to the Delegates of his particular State while that important Matter is in agitation. I parted with your Brother Thomas this morning Deer. 5th. Your son probably will sail before his Uncle. But doubtless one or other of them decide this matter to you by Letter. I have only therefore to add renewed assurances of Regard as your affectionate obliged humble Servant. James Lovell MS not found; reprinted from "Letters of Lovell and Adams,” Transactions of the Colonial Society of Massachusetts 6 (1899—1900): 77—78. 1 Henry Bromfield (1727-1820), a prominent Boston merchant. 2 Henry Bromfield (1751-1837), who subsequently pursued a successful mercantile career and moved to Gloucestershire in England. Ibid., p. 77n.2. Charles Thomson’s and Henry Laurens’ Notes on Proceedings in Congress Deer. 4 [1778]. 1 The president communicated to Congress another 2 unsigned note from the Minister of France, relative to a plan he had proposed for


[Page 342]
306 December 8, 1778 2 See Henry Laurens to Rawlins Lowndes, December 7, 1778, note 3. 2 See Henry Laurens to Washington, this date, note 1. ' For this March 16, 1778, action by Congress, see these Letters, 9:313n.2. Roger Sherman to William Williams Dear Sir Philadelphia Deer. 8th. 1778 I received your favor of the 24th of last month and am much obliged to you for the useful information Contained in it. I have disposed of the letter agreeable to Your request, after having well perused it. We have no important News here either foreign or domestic. We have had accounts from France as late as about the middle of Sepr. The Brest Fleet that Sailed in quest of Admiral Kepple, not meeting with him is returned into Port. Kepple also remains in Port with his Fleet. We have not heard from Count De Estaing Since he Sailed from Boston. I wonder how it happened that Mr. Trumbull did not receive the Letter from the Treasury Board Notifying to him his appointment to the office of Comptroller of the Treasury. I Saw it Sealed up & directed to him. The Board will write again this week. 1 The Committee have not reported a Second time on the late Com missary’s Affairs. The present regulation is that the Commissary Gen eral of purchases Appoints all the Deputies and Assistants & displaces them at pleasure—and is allowed half per cent for all monies that are expended in that business. The mode of paying Commissions for purchases in that or any other department is generally Supposed to have a tendency to enhance prices, and will probably be altered. Congress has not finished the plan of Finance. I wish I had the Gov ernor’s Sentiments on the Subject. I hope public Faith will be pre served, that the Bills will be drawn in by taxes gradually at about the value they were issued so that justice may be done to the people at large—That the lenders on loan office certificates will receive an Equivalent in value to the money lent. I dont imagine that a Foreign loan will be beneficial further than to answer our engagements abroad, until we can make remittance in Country produce. What we owe & pay Interest for among our selves does not impoverish the States taken collectively—and our own re sources I think would be Sufficient if properly applied with good economy. Enclosed are the resolutions respecting the Arrangement of the Army. You mistook my proposal to the govr [abojut compound Interest. I did not propose to borrow Money on fthojse terms. It was only a computation of the present Rvalue] of the Bills of Credit in case they were redeemable in ptwelnty Years, and considered only as notes for money without Interest. The longest period that it is proposed to


[Page 343]
December 8, 1778 307 borrow money for, is 3 years on Simple Interest, & payable in cur rency—but the Bills are to be redeemed by taxes within Such a term of time as it can be done without being too burthensome to the peo ple. I should not wish to take any out of circulation by loan were it not to make room for further emissions. If we could disband our army we could easily redeem our Bills. I am very respectfully, Your humble Servant, Roger Sherman RC (MHi: S.A. Green Papers). Addressed: “To The Honorable William Williams Esqr. at Lebanon in Connecticut.” 1 Neither letter from the Board of Treasury to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr., has been found. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia 8th Dec 1778. This acknowledges the receipt of your favor of the 16th. It gives me pleasure to hear you have passed a Proscriptive Act. 1 I should be glad to be favored with a copy of it, also of all other proceedings of the Court—but I suppose according to custom I am to be kept in profound ignorance of all public proceedings, though I think, in my present situation, I ought to be particularly informed of every trans action. Count d’Estaing’s proclamation will undoubtedly have a good effect. 2 A packet is arrived from France but brings nothing of im portance. She has had a long passage—left Nantz in September—the latest date by her from Paris is 31st August. Agreeable to your desire I enclose you the latest papers, by which you will find some of the great servants of America have got into a dispute. You remember the old saying—the greatest R calls R first. 3 I am very much mistaken if this adage is not verified in this instance. Adieu, Your friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 An act prohibiting the return of selected loyalists had been passed by the New Hampshire Assembly, of which John Langdon was the speaker. N.H. State Papers, 8:796, 803, 808, 810-14. 2 That is, the comte d’Estaing’s Address to the Inhabitants of Canada, which had been read in Congress on December 5. JCC, 12:1190. 8 Perhaps “Rascal” or “Rogue.” Whipple was referring to the participants in the intensifying Deane-Lee dispute.


[Page 344]
308 December 8, 1778 William Whipple to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia 8th Deer. 1778 I had the Honour of receiving your favor of the 6th Ulto with its inclosures, ’tho it did not come to hand till the 1st of this month. Your Letter to the President has been laid before Congress and is refer’d, with the depositions to the Treasury Board. 1 My best endeavors shall be used for the accomplishment of Your wish in that Business. I was informed by Col. Ethan Allen (who left this City a few days ago) of the proceedings of the Green Mountain People; that Gentle man promises to use his influence to prevent any farther trouble to New Hampshire from that Quarter. Whether his influence is sufficient to effect the purpose is a matter I can not undertake to decide upon, but by the appearence of so small a Majority in favor of his proposi tion, I should suppose it at least doubtful. I am rather inclined to think that nothing will effectually settle the dispute but New Hamp shires opposing her claim to that of New-York; even if she should afterwards (supposing the decision to be in favor of New Hampshire) agree that the grant on the west side of the River should be a seperate State, because in that case New Hampshire would have it in her power to settle the line to her satisfaction, and perhaps avoid some disagreable disputes that may otherwise arise. Mr. Wheelock has been here with a memorial to Congress from those people who withdrew themselves from the Windsor Assembly. After giving it to the President, he met with some discouragements and made application to withdraw it, but I understand was refused by the President. This Memorial has been read in Congress & filed, I shall endeavour to transmit a copy of it by next post, I dont know but Mr. Wheelock is still in this City. I have not had the Pleasure of seeing him; from some perticular circumstances 1 am led to sup pose he avoided me, his reasons for so doing I am unacquainted with. 2 A Packet is lately arrived from France but has Brot nothing new having had a long passage, the latest dates by her is 31st Augt. Intelligence is just received that the Enemy are gone up Hudsons River with fifty transports, their intentions by this Manoeuvre at present rests intirely on conjecture, perhaps it may be a feint to cover their retreat, this however is only a conjecture of [my] own and without any real foundation. I wish I may soon have the pleasure of congratulating you on so desirable an event. I have the Honour to be, with the highest sentiments of Respect, Sir, Your Most obt Sc very Huml Servt, Wm. Whipple RC (Nh-Ar: Weare Papers). 1 Weare’s November 6, 1778, letter to President Laurens transmitting three


[Page 345]
December 9, 1778 309 requests for compensation for lost or burned continental money was read in Con gress on December 2 and referred to the Board of Treasury. Congress accepted the board’s negative report on these and several similar memorials on March 9, 1779. See JCC, 12:1182-83, 13:299-300; and PCC, item 64, fols. 59-65. 2 John Wheelock apparently tried to avoid Whipple because Wheelock was in Philadelphia representing a group headed by Joseph Marsh, who insisted on a union between the western towns of New Hampshire and the self-proclaimed state of Vermont. Wheelock had delivered an October 23 letter to Congress from Marsh, written in behalf of the delegates to Vermont’s Windsor Convention, who denied Ethan Allen’s right to renounce the union of river towns or to represent the New Hampshire Grants at Congress and argued that the New Hampshire Grants on both sides of the Connecticut River were ‘‘on the same footing, and ought never to be divided.” PCC, item 49, fols. 167-69. See also Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, November 30, 1778, note 3. Samuel Adams to James Warren Deer. 9. [1778] The foregoing I had laid aside, & probably should never have forwarded it to you, had not an extraordinary Peice appeared in the last Saturday’s paper signd S. Dean, in which he avows himself to be the Author of the Queries I sent you a few Weeks ago. 1 I believe you will find the Plausibility of this Performance, which I shall in close, to be answerable to a Character I have given you in the Letter above. He “had the Honor to be the Commercial and political Agent of America in Europe.’’ He might have said more justly that he had the Honor of being employd by the secret Committee of Commerce as their Agent, and by the secret Committee of Correspondence as their Intelligencer. Mr. A Lee he says “having by a wanton Display of his Errand, given great 8c just Cause of Disgust to the Court of Spain, returnd.” I will relate to you certain Matters which may explain, if that Court was disgusted with him as Mr. D asserts, how it came to pass Soon after the Secret Committee was appointed, which if I remember rightly was about three years ago, they wrote a Letter to Mr. Lee then in England, requesting a political Cor respondence with him, and desiring he would give them the best Intelligence he could, and pledging to him their Confidence. 2 Mr. Lee being thus honord, in Mr. Dean’s Sense, as a political Agent of America, and having the solemn Assurance of Confidence and Secrecy, with his usual fidelity 8c as became him in that Character, proceeded with unsuspecting Frankness to open to the Committee what he thought as well as what he knew of Men and and Measures. There was at that time in England a Mr. Carmichael, who is lately arrivd in America 8c since appointed a Delegate in Congress for the State of Maryland. Mr. Lee had a good Opinion of this young Gentleman; and he being at that time about to return hither by


[Page 357]
December 9, 1778 321 We have unfortunately consumed much Time for some Days past on a Matter of Privilege consequent upon a Charge exhibited against General Thompson for great Abuse given to Congress in General, & personally to the Honble Mr. McKean on Account of the prefer ence shewn to Mr. McKinly in his Exchange for Governor Franklin; and after all it remains yet undecided. What shall I say as to the great Business of our Finances? I cannot yet determine that I have learned any Thing concerning them, much indeed I have unlearned; for although an amazing Deal of Time has been spent on this important Subject; tho one Hy pothesis has been piled upon another like Pelion on Ossa; tho Scheme has been tacked to Scheme, and System succeeded System, while the speculative Genius & playful Fancies of some of our Brethren have again & again in Amendments 8c a variety of Sub stitutes exhausted themselves; 8c finally, when all their pretty wise drawn Plans were crumbled away in the handling, have often in common Consent assisted to sweep away the rubbish, and begin de novo; I say tho we have ranged in this Way the boundless Facts of Finance 8c with great Labor 8c Diligence too, I have for my own Part obtained no more than to determine what will not do for the Support of our public Credit 8c the prevention of a general De preciation. When I shall be happy enough to determine what will do Heaven only knows—my Enthusiasm only remains. Our foreign affairs are in a most deplorable Situation; Mr. Car michael having taken his Seat in Congress I suppose there is an End to Interrogation with him. Mr. Dean has never yet been heard in Congress since you left us, except an Evening or two ago, when he was before us only a few Minutes to receive Orders from the Chair to deliver in all he had to say in Writing as soon as he thought prop er; 1 and in the mean Time that, if he had any Thing very urgent to communicate, he might be heard the Evening following; which then he rather declined, 8c in fine has not asked—how soon we shall have his written Narration I know not; When it comes I expect it will be interwoven with all those curious Criminations, which, notwith standing he never even hinted them to Congress, either in his verbal Narration or in any of his subsequent Letters, he has within this few Days in a very extraordinary Manner thrown out to the World through the Channel of a News Paper, which I doubt not you have received. Thus far I had written in the Morning. I am this Moment come out of Congress, where an extraordinary Event has taken Place—it is this, that President Lawrans has resigned his Seat 8c to morrow is assigned for a new Election. The Causes of this Occurrence will no


[Page 358]
322 December 9, 1778 Doubt be given to you by your Brother; Time will not admit of my doing it. The Enemy have a few Days since made a Movement in Force up Hudson’s River. I judge their Object to have been an Interuption of the Convention Troops—in this however they have been disappointed as they were advanced so far as to be out of their Reach—it is said they landed near King’s Ferry, burnt a few huts, & returned. I expect to set out for home some Time tomorrow, 2 and to return in about a Fortnight—shall be glad of a Line from you by the first convenient Conveyance. I have the Honor to present my most respectfull Complements to your Lady, Family & Connections, & am. Dear Sir, with Esteem & Sincerity, your Obedt. Hble Servt. Nath. Scudder RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 1 See JCC, 12: 1200-1201. ’Scudder's departure is confirmed by his fellow New Jersey delegate, John Fell, who noted in his diary for December 11: “Coll Scudder gone home, State of New Jersey not Represented.” John Fell Diary, DLC. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 10th Dec’r, 1778. Mr. President Laurens, who has been in the Chair 13 months yesterday resigned, sated with honor, and worn down with fatigue. A respect as to the Confederacy had an influence on this measure. You remember this grand instrument of our federal union restrains the same member from serving more than a year at one time. A great majority of Congress immediately determined that one of the New York Delegates should succeed in the Chair. We held up General Schuyler, which seemed to be very agreeable. On account of his absence, Mr. Jay was prevailed on to take the chair with a resolu tion on his part to resign in favor of General Schuyler as soon as he attends. 1 I hope we shall be able to contrive the means of his execut ing the particular commission with which he is intrusted. 2 On this subject we have not yet conferred any further than to learn to my utter astonishment that he is not possessed of the Maps and papers reported by a Committee of Convention to justify our claims. I en treat your Excellency to forward one of the Maps and a copy of the minutes of the Committee, or rather of their state of the territorial claim of New York. All the States except Maryland and Delaware have actually signed the Confederacy. New Jersey without waiting for our offer. I fear it will cost me a jaunt to Maryland to prevail on that State to accede; as I am spoken of as one of a Committee for that purpose. 3 Disen-


[Page 360]
324 December 10, 1778 gaged as we are from any obligation to New Jersey we propose to hold out the grant of the bounty lands to Maryland. The want of ability to gratify their soldiery is a capital if not the material objection. I write in a hurry after the fatigues of the day. I write in confi dence because I have not time to weigh what I write. Your Excel lency I wish to see what passes on every important event. I am with respectful compliments to Mrs. Clinton, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s truly affectionate and most obedient servant, Jas. Duane Tr (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). 1 For further information on the delegates’ expectation that Philip Schuyler would be elected president of Congress, see James Lovell to Horatio Gates, Novem ber 3; John Jay to Schuyler, December 8, 1778; Duane to Schuyler, January 3, 1779; and Meng, Gerard Dispatches, p. 425. 2 New York had charged John Jay with the special mission of securing a favorable settlement of the Vermont controversy. See New York Delegates to George Clinton, December 1, 1778. 3 There is no evidence in the journals that a special committee to solicit Mary land’s ratification of the articles of confederation was appointed at this time. John Fell’s Diary Deer. 10th [1778] Thursday. Honble John Jay Esqr was Elected President in the Room of Mr. Laurens Resign’d. For Mr Jay 8 States, Mr Laurens 4. Vir ginia not Represented. 1 Dined with Mr Laurens. MS (DLC). In the hand of John Fell. This 116 page MS, endorsed "Journal Kept by Judge John Fell—while Member of Congress for the State of New Jersey, 1778,” is a clean copy that Fell obviously penned sometime after November 30, 1779, the date of his last entry, apparently from notes or a rough draft of it. No other version of the diary is known to have survived, however. It has been edited by Donald W. Whisenhunt, Delegate from New Jersey: The Journal of John Fell (Port Washing ton, N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1973), who has also appended a section of "Brief Biographies” of persons mentioned in it for the convenience of those desiring to consult it as a single unit. 1 The division on the motion to elect Jay president was not recorded in the jour nals. See JCC, 12:1206. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10 Dec’r 1778. Many unavoidable Delays prevented my arrival here till Sunday evening last.


[Page 361]
December 10, 1778 325 Yesterday Mr. Laurens resigned the Chair, & this morning Con gress were pleased to appoint me to succeed him. This Circumstance was unexpected. Let your public Letters be public ones. I mean that public & private matters should not be mixed in the same Letters. Commodore Wynkoop’s memorial has been presented &: com mitted. You shall have the earliest Intelligence of its Fate. 1 I have heard, tho not from authority, that the Enemy have quitted the River without having accomplished any thing of Importance. God Grant it may be true. We have no Intelligence worth communi cating. The Season for bringing on the affair of Vermont is not yet ar rived, nor can I divine what will be the Issue of it. I can only say that my Endeavors shall not be wanting to bring it to a Termination satisfactory to New York. Be pleased to present my best Respects to Mrs. Clinton Sc believe that I am very sincerely your Friend & serv’t, John Jay. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:360. 1 Jacobus Wynkoop was seeking compensation for his service as commander of the American flotilla on Lake Champlain in 1776. His September 29, 1778, memorial and an affidavit from Gen. Philip Schuyler, under whose authority he had served, are in PCC, item 41, 10:355-59. On May 4, 1779, Congress adopted the recommen dation of the Marine Committee, to whom his memorial was referred, that Wyn koop “be paid sixty dollars per month during the time he was in actual service.” See JCC, 12:1207, 14:544; and these Letters, 3:204n.7, 620-21. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Arthur Lee My dear Brother Philadelphia Deer. 10th 1778 After having been absent since the beginning of June, I arrived here the 7. of Novr. our bro’r having [left] it a fortnight before. 1 I was astonished to find that S. Deane had made so great progress in the Art of intriguing, as to have formed here a very dangerous party who think it necessary to their designs, to remove all the old friends of Liberty and Independance, for which purpose every Lie their in vention can furnish, is circulated with the Air of certainty, and the blackest colorings given to Actions in themselves indifferent or acci dental. This party is composed of the Tories, all those who have rob’d the public, are now doing it, and those who wish to do it, with many others, whose design, I fear, is of a much more alarming nature, and a few who wish to succeed to Offices abroad. All these together form a very powerfull body. Having prepared the minds of the people, by a number of understrappers, who have been circulating their insinu ations and falshoods thro’ the Country with great industry; they opened the attack on the 5th inst. with the peice in Dunlaps Paper, 2


[Page 363]
December 10, 1778 327 2 See Francis Lightfoot Lee to the Public, December 7, 1778, note 1. 3 See Henry Laurens to Silas Deane, December 3, 1778. 4 Perhaps Conrad Alexandre Gerard. 3 William Lee. 6 William Carmichael. 7 William Duer. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Deer. 10th. 1778 It was not possible for me to acknowledge your favor of Novr. 29th 1 by the same post wch. gave me pleasure of knowing that you & your lovely family were well. Nor will I now particularly notice the subjects you hinted to me. I will rather give you a few Entries of our Journals, and an anecdote of our friend Adams to enable you to read the Prints wth. a proper comprehension of the plotting spirit of some of the chaps who are scribbling therein, and of the serpen tine, malicious and elusive course which others have been contriving for themselves since you left us. Temple came to this City about 10 days ago bringing Letters of high Recommendation both to Congress & to the Delegates of Massa chusetts. His Letters were from the Council of our State, Govr. Trum bull, Genl. Washington, Govr. Livingston and the first whigs indis putably of Boston. Mr. Adams conducted Mr. Temple from his Lodgings to the President’s to introduce the Delivery of the men tioned Letters. This single call at the Door of the man’s Lodging is termed to the public “so frequent in exchange of Visits,” and prob ably by the very tall Wisacre who was for constituting a semblance of the french Lieutenancy of police to fall in with, pimp upon and otherwise entrap all visiting strangers, even so far as to write ficti tious Letters and intercept the Answers. But I drop this pitiful subject only remarking that the hint 2 in the prints is a good answer to our recommendatory Letters, for there was nothing public or private which Mr. T ought not rather to have communicated by Letter than by a visit. I must give you my Key to his whole Proceed ings. It is in the Cry of the Preacher “Vanity of Vanities, all is Vanity.” 1778 Novr. 30. On Motion Resolved That Congress meet on Wednesday Evening at 6 o Clock to consider the proceedings of the Courts martial on the Tryals of Majr. Genl. Lee, Majr. Genl. Schuyler & Major Genl. St. Clair. Deer 1st. fg 7 A Letter of Novr. 30th from Silas Deane Esq was read, whereupon, Resolved That, after Tomorrow, Congress will meet two Hours at least each Evening beginning at 6 oClock,


[Page 364]
328 December 10, 1778 Saturday Evenings excepted, until the present State of our for eign affairs be fully considered. Deer. 5. A letter of the 4th from Silas Deane Esqr. was read. Ordered that Monday Evening be assigned for hearing Mr. Deane & that he be notified to attend. Deer. 7th. Resolved that Silas Deane Esqr. report to Congress in Writing as soon as may be his Agency of their affairs in Europe together with any Information which he may judge proper. That Mr. Deane be informed that if he hath any Thing to com municate to Congress in the Interim, of immediate Importance, he shall be heard Tomorrow Eveng at 6 oC[lock.] He published on the 5th notwithstanding our Resolve of the 1st upon his Letter of Novr. 30th. It is true he dates Novr. blank to give his Peice the air of precedency but if he had really appealed to the Public why write to us on the 30th. He had made himself a Culprit before our Bar by refusing to answer any Interrogatories “tending to criminate himself.” He was the cause of after dating. I need add no more to you; therefore conclude, your humble Serv ant affectionately, Js. Lovell. RC (PPAmP: Lee Papers). 1 Richard Henry Lee’s November 29 letter to Lovell has not been found, but for a letter that Lee wrote to William Whipple on the same day and that discusses several major congressional concerns, see Whipple to Lee, November 8, 1778, note; and Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:453-55. 2 The article, entitled “A Hint," to which Lovell is alluding, appeared in the Pennsylvania Packet, December 8, 1778. For further information on Samuel Adams' relations with John Temple, see Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, December 13, to James Bowdoin, December 19, to John Winthrop, December 21, and to Samuel Cooper and to Charles Chauncey, December 25, 1778. Gouverneur Morris to George Clinton Sir, Phila. 10th Dec’r 1778. I have the Pleasure to inform your Excellency that the hon’le John Jay Esqr. is elevated to the Chair of Congress, which as well from your Friendship for him, as for Reasons of public Importance will, I am confident, be agreable to you. The weight of his personal Character contributed as much to his Election as the Respect for the State which hath done and suffered so much or the Regard for its Delegates which is not inconsiderable. The Public will I am confident experience many good consequences from the Exchange. I am respectfully Your Excel lency’s most obedient & humble Servant. Gouv. Morris. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:360-61.


[Page 366]
330 December 11, 1778 I am now reliev’d from all duties of that multiplicity of business to which you allude; I had never any ambition to sit in the Chair of Congress & when I had sat one complete Year in it, I urged the House to make a better choice for filling it. The unanimous voice of the Members then present requesting me to continue, added to another circumstance, overbalanced my determination to retire & rendred it necessary that I should bear a little while longer a painful pre eminence; but the conduct of the House under the overbearing in fluence of a few Members who act in my opinion an excellent part for the benefit of our Enemies, obliged me to resign on the 9th Inst. I must have been void of all feeling for the honor & dignity of the United States of America as well as for my own if I had not shewn such resentment for the Insults offered to the former, 8c there were no other means in my power but resignation. I shall read to Capt Hubbard the reasons which were assigned by me, previous to the final Act 8c if after a few days consideration it shall not appear to be improper I will do myself the honor of sending you a Copy. With respect to our Paper medium, I can not say we have not labored at the business of mending its Credit, but our labours have hitherto been totally ineffectual. The causes are to me too visible 8c yet I must acknowledge we have amongst us some very sensible faith ful friends; but while these have been at hard pumping to free the Ship, it would seem as if others had been equally industrious in making new leaks, for it is certain there is more Water in the hold now than there was when you left her, 8c I have my fears that our circumstances will not mend until we suffer some violent convulsion 8c rouse the slumbering States. It is with deep grief 8c concern that I assure you Sir, our case is deplorable, 8c demands the immediate attention of every honest 8c faithful friend to our Independence. You will see in the inclosed papers the contempt 8c disgrace brought upon your Representatives by the unnecessary 8c insulting publications of Mr. Deane abetted by Men who pretend to have at heart the honor 8c Interests of the Public. Congress have by neglecting to shew a proper resentment pleaded guilty, the Eyes of Europe are upon us, I need not say to you what the consequences will be unless there shall be an immediate wise interposition. I am with great Respect 8c Esteem, Sir, Your obedient 8c most humble Servant, Henry Laurens RC (Sol Feinstone, Washington Crossing, Pa., 1979). Addressed: "The Honorable Sami. Huntington Esquire, Norwich.”


[Page 369]
December 13, 1778 333 formed that Clinton & his Armament have returned back without being able to effect any Thing except burning a House or two at Kings Ferry. The General conjectures that Clinton was misinformed of the Strength of the Highland Forts. Our army are moving into Winter Quarters. Yrs. [.. .], W Paca RC (PHi: Etting Collection). 1 For Congress’ adoption on December 11 of “a new form of a commission to officers in the army of the United States,” see JCC, 12:1211-12. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy. Philadelphia Deer 13, 1778. Captn. Johnson will deliver you this Letter, which incloses a Pub lication in the last Tuesdays Paper. You will easily guess which of the Massachusetts Delegates it is intended for. 1 The Design of it is to represent Mr Temple as a British Emissary and that Delegate as listening to his Proposals of Accommodation with Great Britain, and thus to beget a Suspicion of him in the Mind of the Minister of France, with whom he has the Honor of being on friendly Terms. That Delegate has been so used to the low Arts of Tories in his own Country, as to have learnd long ago to treat them, wherever he sees them, with ineffable Contempt. He does not think it worth his while to satisfy the Curiosity of the Writer, but he can assure his Friends, that he had never called on Mr T but once 2 and that was to show him the way to Mr President Laurens’s House, to whom he had Let ters to deliver, one of which was from the Council of Massachusetts Bay. As a Delegate from that State, he could do no less than shew such a Piece of Civility to Mr T, and he is determind, notwithstand ing the apparently friendly Hint, to treat him as he thinks proper. Indeed he has been told by a real Friend, that there are Persons in Pay to watch his Words and Actions. He thankd his Friend, and told him that such kind of Intimations were not new to him. It might be well or ill grounded, & he was perfectly indifferent about it. He had a private Conversation a few Days ago with Monsieur , 3 in which the Subject of the Hint beforementiond was brought up. That {Minister) Personage was pleasd to say, that he well knew the Character of the Delegate before his Arrival in America, and that there was no Reason to doubt of his Attachment to the jovnt Interest of France & America—that he had sufficient Proofs of it to prevent any ill Impressions being made on his own Mind; with other Ex pressions of Friendship & Confidence. Between our selves, I can not say I am not embarrassd with Mr Ts Arrival here; He is highly rec ommended, and I believe him to be an honest American. But the


[Page 379]
December 15, 1778 348 Olmsted, contending in the arena of the United States Supreme Court, finally gained the fruits of his appellate victory of December 1778. For additional information on this celebrated case, see Henry J. Bourguignon, The First Federal Court: The Federal Appellate Prize Court of the American Revo lution, 1775-1787, Memoirs of the American Philosophical Society, 122 (Philadel phia, 1977), chap. 3; and Gerard W. Gawalt, ed., The Journal of Gideon Olmsted (Washington: Library of Congress, 1978). See also Committee of Congress to Joseph Reed, January 26 and 28, 1779; and JCC, 12:1168, 13:86-92, 134-37, 183, 252-53, 270-71,281-86. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir (private) Philad. 15th Deer. 1778 I wrote your Excellency a few days ago a hasty Scrawl which I in tended to Convey by a Man who was going to Albany but who broke his promise to call for my Dispatch—it will be forwarded with this. 1 1 have receivd & returnd a Visit from Monsr. Gerard the French Minister. He is by Birth a German but bred to Business at Paris where he has passed thro’ the several Offices till he arrivd at that of Secretary of the Council & the present Character of Minister at our Court. He is plain & respectful in his address: attentive to Business, 8c carries the Air of Candour in all he says 8c does. Nothing passes which may re spect his Court that he does not observe with critical Vigilance. This is what I learn from others: My own Observation will in due time furnish your Excellency with other Anecdotes if any remarkable Occur. You will see by our papers a ridiculous Squabble between Deane 8c the Lees. It may amuse a Leisure Hour. Our late honorable President was exceedingly wounded that Deane was not called to Account by Congress 8c resignd. I was not present: But from what I can dis cover his Zeal transported him a little Too far. Congress ought certainly to be careful how they attempt to stop the Channell of Communication in a free Country, it may give Rise to dangerous suspicions: if their Conduct is irreprehensible they can suffer no diminution of Dignity: If exceptionable it is right it should be known. Misrepresentation is only to be guarded against 8c Con demned. I do not see how our Dispute with the revolted Counties can be taken up to advantage without the Maps 8c Report of the Com mittee: which ought in my opinion to be forwarded by the first Opportunity. 1 think of nothing material to add. I am with the utmost Respect, Dear Sir, Your Excelly most obedt 8c very hl Servant, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). 1 See Duane to Clinton, December 10, 1778.


[Page 380]
344 December 15, 1778 John Jay to Henry Laurens Sir. Philadelphia 15th Deer. 1778 1 As the enclosed Resolution of Congress expresses the high Sense which the Representatives of the United States entertain of the Man ner in which you presided in their great Council, it gives me par ticular Pleasure to have the Honor of transmitting it to You And the more so, as 1 have Reason to believe it declares the Sentiments not only of Congress but of their Constituents. 2 I have the Honor to be, Sir, with great Respect & Esteem Your most obedt & hble Servt, John Jay RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 21). 1 This letter, the document actually received, is clearly dated December 15, al though in Jay's presidential letterbook it is dated December 18 and appears in the middle of a series of letters of that date. See PCC, item 14, 1:4. 2 JCC, 12:1221. For Laurens’ explanation of the maneuvering in Congress that preceded the adoption of this seemingly routine December 15 resolution, see his December 16 letter to Rawlins Lowndes below. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee My dear Bror. 1 Philadelphia Deer. 15. 1778 I do not wonder at your disgust at the wickedness & folly of man kind. I have so much of the same feelings, that I am sure, there can be no condition in Life more unhappy, than to be engaged in the managemt. of public affairs, with honest intentions. But hard as the lot is it must be borne at least till things have got into a tolerable way. We have had nothing from the party since my last; only that Mr. Wm. Lee’s name is in the list of Aidermen, in the Calender for 1778. 2 I expect an attack in this days paper, upon S. Deane, by Com mon Sense. 3 He knows a good deal of the transactions, & if in earnest, can do a great deal of good. Congress has yet done nothing in finance or foreign affairs. I fear there is a design in some that nothing shall be done, that things may get into such disorder, as to make the people wish for the old Governmt. Congress has no power, & every Villain whome they want to call to account, insults them. The inclosed Letter from Mr. Laurence, will give you an Account of his resignation & his reasons. 4 He is really an honest Man, & I hope will do a great deal of Good. Jay is President. We have Accounts from N. York, that 30,000 ton of Shipping is order’d to be taken up for Governt. service, and an Embargo laid on all Vessels. This looks like a move. Maryland still refuses to con federate, & is going to publish a declaration of their rights & greiv-


[Page 381]
December 15, 1778 345 ancies, in a very high 8c violent tone, it is said. I am well informed, that the tories have the upper hand in that Assembly. A striking in stance of it, is the tories of Kent County, petitioned to be excused from taking the oath of allegiance as there was still danger of being conquer’d by G. B. and it was negatived by a small majority. So bare faced have they grown. Love to Chantilly 8c Stratford. Compts. to friends. Yrs. afftly. F. L. Lee RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 Although Edmund C. Burnett designated Arthur Lee as the recipient of this letter, it was written to Richard Henry. Cf. note 4 below; and Burnett, Letters, 3:536. 2 The fact that William Lee was still listed as an Aiderman for Aidgate for 1778 in the Annual Register had been noted in an anti-Lee letter that was printed in the December 12 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet over the pseudonym “Observator.” For evidence that this subject continued to stimulate controversy during succeed ing weeks, primarily because of the widely held belief, expressed in the sixth article of the Articles of Confederation, that no United States officeholder should accept “any present, emolument, office or title, of any kind whatever, from any king, prince or foreign state,” see Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888): 101, 128, 140-43. 3 The reply of Thomas Paine (“Common Sense”) to Deane’s address “To the Free and Virtuous Citizens of America” appeared in the December 15 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. See Thomas Paine, The Complete Writings of Thomas Paine, ed. Philip S. Foner, 2 vols. (New York: Citadel Press, 1945), 2:97-108. For Paine’s plunge into the Deane-Lee controversy, particularly in regard to the potentially adverse impact of his writings on Franco-American relations, see David Freeman Hawke, Paine (New York: Harper & Row, 1974), pp. 85-93; and Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee, January 5, 1779, note 1. Paine’s participation in this debate was of special significance because of his position as secretary to the Com mittee for Foreign Affairs. 4 Laurens’ letter has not been found, but Richard Henry’s December 26 reply to it, reviewing at length the substance of Silas Deane’s charges against the Lees, is in Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:462-67. For Richard Henry’s public reply to Deane, which was printed in the January 1, 1779, Virginia Gazette (Purdie) and the January 19 Pennsylvania Packet, see ibid., pp. 457-62. See also ibid., 1:373—76, 2:1—26, for other documents penned by Richard Henry during his leave at Chantilly at this time (one of which is misdated January 3, 1778, instead of 1779) on the subject of "Deane’s execrable libel.” James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General 15 Deer. 1778 Though it is only to avow to you to continuance of my most sincere Regard I will not omit this very sudden opportunity by Doctr. Craigie of taking up my Pen at you, according to the prevailing fashion of this City. I am only able to give you the reading of Dunlap’s Papers through Mr. Hancock as I am stinted to a small Number. From that reading


[Page 383]
December 15, 1778 347 William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 15th Deer. 1778 Since my last I have been favored with Yours of the 15th Ulto. Want of time only prevented my acknowledging the receipt of it per last post. I hope my not writing so often as I wish, will [not] prevent Your writing as often as possible. I find my old correspondants have mostly forgot me. Mr. Martin has favor’d me with a letter for which I am much obliged to him, & my professed Friend the Col. 1 has Honoured me with two very short ones about three lines each, these are all I have receivd from Portsmouth since my arrival, except Yours & what I have receivd from Mrs W however I shall keep regular accots. and endeavour to discharge my Epistolary Debts with the greatest punctuality. By every accot from York the movements of the Enemy indicate preparations for a removal but no authentic intelligence of their intentions has been receiv’d, indeed the season is so far advanced that it cannot be expected they will go off ’till to wards the Spring. I have no doubt of their taking their departure then. Our Army are going into winter Quarters & at the same time every preparation making for the next Campaign. The Currency is the greatest difficulty with us. C have been hammering upon a plan of finance ever since I have been here. It is now nearly wrought into form, I hope one week more will fit it to be sent to the several States where it must be finished, this I hope will at least check the growing evil, part of the plan is taxation which I imagine will amount to 15 or 18,000,000 & perhaps a much larger sum taken out of cir culation by other methods, however this must not be made public at present as the plan is not compleat and may undergo some altera tions. Very large quantities of counterfit money is now circulating, which will make it necessary to call in such of the Emissions as have been most adulterated. We have had no late accots from Europe but have not the least reason to think but matters are going on well there and Count D’Estaing I hope is working good for us in the West Indies. I hope another Campaign will put us in possession of Canada 8c Nova Scocia, or rather we shall compel Britain to quit those places, 8c then no doubt they will be added to the Confederacy. The post ought to have come in to day but I suppose he has been stoped by the weather. I shall be obliged to you for a copy of Your Proscription Act or any other acts that may pass from time to time. Was any notice taken of the recommendation of Congress to make Laws to enable them to call their servants to account? If this is not done I hope it will be soon. I also hope the executive authority will keep a watchful Eye on the Servants of the public especialy those who handle the public money. Many of those Rascals deserve hanging. Please to present my


[Page 387]
December 16, 1778 351 by which Act Mr Thomson was pleased to think himself injured. He afterwards insulted Congress by an Apologetic Letter, denying that he had called them Rascals, but acknowledging the application of the term Rascal to the Honorable Mr McKean, wantonly adds Villain, and twice repeats that he had said that Gentleman was a Rascal and a Villain, this Letter stands recorded at full length on the Journal, Thomson is voted to be guilty of a breach of Privilege, and there the subject rests. He is in favor with a party who seem determined to support him at the expence of the honor of Congress. Mr. Deane’s mischievous publication alarmed me, the House would take no other notice of it, but such as Mr Deane has very improperly display’d to the World in the light of concession. Failing in my at tempt to arouse Congress to the vindication of their honor, I felt for my own, and Resolved to descend from the Chair to the floor where I could be of the most real service to my Country. The Act of Resignation must speak for itself. I felt it to be right, and therefore I believed it to be so, but the party of Deanites were pleased to catch at the concluding sentence, which I would not for any consideration have omitted, because I was persuaded good consequences would follow the strong reproof, and perhaps continue at least a fortnight. A friend of mine unsolicited moved the House on the 10th Insant for thanks to the late President. He was jockey’d by “the manner in which business is transacted here” and this repeated daily until Yes terday, when I in modest terms demanded a testimonial of my Con duct, intimating the honor and interests of Congress and the States were as nearly concerned as my own. If I had merited censure I would kiss the Rod, but I could no longer bear to be kept in a state of implied censure, that I held my Act of Resignation to be the best Act of my Life, that if any Gentleman had taken offence at the con cluding words, I had to say in Apology, that I did not mean to give the occasion &c &c the particulars of which shall be laid before Your Excellency by the next or some early opportunity. I then retired from the House, and after some debate it was resolved without a division “That the thanks of this House be given to the Honorable Henry Laurens Esquire, late President, for his conduct in the Chair and in the execution of Public Business.” This comprehends an ac knowledgment of propriety of conduct within doors and without, and an approbation of the late Presidents “sundry reasons as it is en tered on the Journal, for resigning. From this brief sketch Your Excellency will be further impressed with a knowledge of “the man ner in which Business is transacted here” and see that my repeated complaints have been well grounded. I hope my Countrymen will approve of my conduct. Now I am releas’d from the Chair, my attention shall be bent to the investigation of the Secret and Com mercial Committees Accounts, and to such other Business as comes


[Page 388]
352 December 16, 1778 within the compass of my abilities forsaking all thoughts of my private Affairs for some time longer. Mr Deane, notwithstanding his groundless assertions that the Ears of Congress were shut against him, and that he had prepared to return to France and such stuff, is not ready now, at the end of twelve days with his Narrative, and ’tis not impossible that Common Sense has thrown him twelve days further back. I intreat Your Excellency will not believe that I have any improper attachment to the Lees. I am a little of opinion that upon the whole information we shall see an explication of an old proverb, although I am persuaded we shall not "come by our Right.” I am distress’d for want of time to inform Your- Excellency more minutely on this and other subjects of importance. I would wish that until I shall be enabled to do so, there may be no publication of what I have now the honor of transmitting. I am, With the highest Respect & Esteem &c. H.L. 3 LB (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 1 See Laurens’ Speech to Congress, December 9, 1778. 2 At this point an asterisk was inserted to key the following note at the foot of this page of the LB: “See appendix No 1 relative to Gen Thomson.” This item is not among the enclosures listed at the end of this letter, for which see the following note. • The following list of “Papers inclosed with this” appears at the end of this letter: “Resignation of the President of Congress. “Duplicate of the Letter the 7th Inst. “Copy of a Letter from His Excellency J. Jay Esq President of Congress. “5 Newspapers from the 5th Instant.” Charles Thomson to Charles Lee Dear Sir, Deer 16. 1778. I had the honour of your two letters requesting a copy of the pro ceedings of Congress relative to your trial. I shall always deem myself happy in an opportunity of serving you. But if you desire anything more than the resolution confirming the sentence I should be much obliged if you would take the trouble to apply to Congress that I may not incur censure. 1 I am Sir, Your obedt. humble Servt. Cha. Thomson. MS not found: reprinted from Lee Papers (NYHS Colls.), 6 (1873): 275. 1 For Lee’s December 17 letter to President Jay requesting the minutes of pro ceedings relative to Congress’ confirmation of the sentence of his court-martial, "from which I shall be able to Judge on what principle I have been condemn’d, for at present I am utterly in the dark on this head,” see ibid.; and PCC, item 158, fol. 129.


[Page 395]
December 19, 1778 359 December 25 “that Congress has unanimously adopted my advice.” See Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 406-7, 409-11, 414, 419-20, 429, 432, 444; Elizabeth Kite, "Conrad Alexandre Gerard, Minister to America from Louis XVI of France,” Records of the American Catholic Historical Society 33 (March 1922): 75-91; and John Fell’s Diary, January 14, 1779, note 1. The maneuvering that preceded Temple’s departure from Philadelphia was more complex, however, than Gerard’s explanations suggest. On the one hand, public pressure was applied indirectly to delegates such as Adams through the press. And on the other, one Edward Leger, a somewhat mysterious and impecunious former naval lieutenant, who had previously received aid in Paris from Benjamin Franklin, delivered a now missing "paper of information” directly to Congress on December 14 to prod the delegates to action. Although its substance is not known, it achieved the desired result when Congress immediately appointed a committee consisting of William Henry Drayton, James Duane, and Thomas McKean to confer with the president of Pennsylvania, Joseph Reed, for the purpose of “detecting and securing persons of suspicious characters in Philadelphia.” See PCC, item 102, 4:57-58; and JCC, 12:1216. Subsequently, McKean and Drayton proceeded to meet with Reed and the Pennsylvania Council’s vice-president and secretary, George Bryan and Timothy Matlack, in the company of Temple, the result of which was explained by Reed in the following letter to the Massachusetts Council. Although its date is uncertain, Reed’s file copy of it was endorsed “1779, January 2d.” “The very great Respect which I have, both in a publick & private Character, for the Hon. Board at which you preside, as well as Veneration for the State to whose Services & Sufferings America is so much indebted, have induced me to address you by the Hands of the Hon. Mr. Temple, & to state some Particulars, which may elucidate the Conduct pursued by Persons in Authy here with Respect to that Gentleman. As his Views of Business seemed wholly directed to the Hon. Congress, I had only the Favour of a Visit from him, & not being within to receive it, had no Communication of the very honourable Testimonials which he had brought from his native State. The Suspicions & Rumors which circulated very freely for some Time, occasioned a very general Caution & Diffidence, but, I believe, attended with no Act of disrespect; & in this Train Matters would probably have continued with out any public Notice of Mr. Temple on the Part of the State. But, on the 14th Inst., a Committee of Congress communicated to me, as President of the State, the enclosed Resolve, stating at the same time that Mr. Temple was considered by that honourable Body as an Object of that Resolve, & requesting me to cooperate with them to carry it into effect. “In order that it might be done with the greatest Attention to Mr. Temple’s Feelings, I sent the Secretary of the Council to wait on him & request his Company at my own House, on the Evening of the 18th. There, two of the Committee, The Hon. Mr. Drayton & Mr. McKean also attended, Mr. Duane declining being pres ent—The Vice President of this State & Secretary being also present: the Gentlemen from Congress entered into a very free Conference with Mr. Temple with respect to his remaing so long in England, the Circumstances of his Return to this Country, & his Visit to this City; which terminated in an Intimation on their Part that the public Interests would be but advanced by shortening his Residence at the seat of Congress.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:138-39. In the face of such pressures, which were exerted from many directions, Temple apparently left the city for Boston on December 20 and after several months in Massachusetts returned to England in May 1779. Despite the failure of his mission, many American leaders continued to esteem him, and he remained in the good graces of high British officials, who in 1785 appointed him as the first British consul general in New York. See Lewis Einstein, Divided Loyalties: Americans in England during the War of Independence (Boston: Houghton Mifflin Co., 1933), chap. 3. See also Adams to Bowdoin, September 3, to Elizabeth Adams, December 13, and to John Winthrop, December 21, 1778.


[Page 396]
360 December 19, 1778 John Fell’s Diary Deer 19th. [1778] Saturday. Genl Lee to be furnish’d with all the Proceedings from the Reccords relating to his tryal; Motion to conferr with G1 Wash ington on ways and means to reduce the Expences of the Army, referrd to a Committee of 5. vizt. Laurens, Duane, Geary, Ellsworth, & Smith. 1 Dined with General De Portaile. MS (DLC). 1 This committee, which has been designated the Committee of Conference, was appointed this day in response to Washington’s suggestion that “a personal confer ence” with Congress might be useful for planning the 1779 campaign and reaching solutions to several problems confronting the army. See John Jay to Washington, December 18, 1778, note 2. Arriving in Philadelphia the evening of the 22d, Wash ington was officially received by Congress on December 24 and remained in Phila delphia until February 2 conferring with the committee. A number of letters to Washington from the committee and its chairman James Duane, plus an extract from the minutes of one of their conferences, are printed below under the dates January 9, 10, 11, 24, 25, 28, and 31, 1779. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philadelphia 19th Dec’r 1778. It would give me Pleasure if the Business of Congress did not engross so much of my Time, as that I might daily devote an Hour or two to my Friends. Unfortunately however for me, and I may add for the Public, so it is, that altho the greater Part of our Time is spent in Council, our Dispatch is not proportionate to the Exigency of our affairs, and we experience the Inconvenience of those Delays which invariably attend the Deliberations of public assemblies, as semblies in which men do not always speake to inform themselves or others. I am happy, however, to inform you that the principal object of my appointment will probably be obtained and I have some Reason to flatter myself that New York will be the better for my coming here. Time however is necessary to prepare for the Introduction of the Business. To precipitate might be to ruin it, and tho I am extremely desirous of returning as soon as possible, my Inclinations shall yield to the public good. The maps & Papers relative to our Boundaries, which if I remem ber right, are in the Hands of Mr. R. Yates, together with Copies of all such Letters to Congress &c. as respect Vermont, ought to be sent us without Delay by some trusty messenger. 1 I wish to appear with our whole Strength. My Respects to Mrs. Clinton. I am, dear Sir, your Friend & Serv’t, John Jay.


[Page 397]
December 20, 1778 361 Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:405-6. 1 Jay continued to remain frustrated at Clinton’s inability to comply with this request. “I have not yet been able to find the Papers & Maps respecting the Boundaries of this State,” Clinton explained in a letter of February 9, 1779. "I fear they were destroyed at Kingston.” Ibid., p. 555. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 20th, 1778 On our arrival here which was on the 9th of this month, we found the City much engaged by a publication which you will find en closed, and in which Mr Dean has made some very home accusations. We found it had occasioned some little ferment in Congress, and that Mr. Laurens resigned the chair, because they would not take notice of it, as an affront to their dignity, we thought it but prudent to decline going in for a few days until this little fracas was over, leaving those to decide on punctilios who had been best acquainted with personal Characters. On our going into Congress we found them engaged principally on finance and that they had spent time in maturing something which we totally disapprove. I will endeavour to give you the general outlines as perfectly as they are yet come to our knowledge. Two Emissions are to be called out of circulation viz. 20th May 1777, 11th April 1778—on pretence of their being much counter feited, they are by Authority of Congress to be called in by the 1st of June next and not afterwards to be redeemed. They are to be replaced to the proprietors by Loan certificates or New Bills. 1 Our objections are, that Congress by its own authority can not prevent the currency of money which our Laws [made] a legal tender, because that implies a power to suspend or repeal our Laws. That the time is too short for our people so dispersed as they are and so circumstanced as not to be able to receive notice in time sufficient to enable them to bring in their money, that it is not in the power of Congress to declare any Emission of money irredeemable at any certain time, because it implies a power to destroy at pleasure the security which the people have in all the property vested in paper money, that all that should be done is to deny its currency, and leave to the States to enact Laws and fix the times of their operation for that purpose. We were however overruled, and we find that our Country will be subjected to the payment of a heavy debt—borrowed at an exchange of ten for one—and which we must discharge at par, with six percent interest. This debt too is incurred to commercial Individuals, who alone have money to lend, and who have acquired it, by engrossing and extortion. Thus shall we realise fortunes for Individuals, and subject our Country to a debt, which were it not for loans, a little


[Page 398]
362 December 20, 1778 industry would pay off, but which Loans make heavier than if all we have borrowed, had been gold & silver. I believe this michief is inevitable, and having long since foreseen it; I always was averse to giving the powers of borrowing and emiting to Congress by the Con federation, a power, which I am persuaded will always be used for purposes partial, and unjust, and either to serve particular States, or Individuals to the prejudice of the whole community. Besides what I have mentioned, a Vote is passed for raising by Tax fifteen millions of dollars 2 —a sum which I am persuaded is not equal to our abilities; but this simple and unexceptionable mode for sinking the excess of paper Currency is not so much favored in Congress as the intricate, injurious and ineffectual mode of Loans—and the reason is obvious enough—Loans give advantage to the States who have furnished supplies at extravagant prices, and therefore abound with money, by giving them an opportunity of lending at a high interest when money is depreciated two for one, to be paid here after when it will be restored to its original value. As you will see Mr. Harnett, I will not be more particular at present, he can give you a just idea of our expenses. Mr. Hill and myself have paid one Bill for the first two days we were in Town amounting to Forty pounds, and the prices were extravagant, I as sure you the Articles were few and moderate. The City is a scene of gaiety and Dissipation, public assemblies every fortnight and pri vate Balls every night, in all such business as this we propose that Mr. Penn shall represent the whole state. We will give you our thoughts on some things to be laid before the Assembly in a separate letter. 3 Mr. Hill desires me to present his compliments to you. He will write to you a private letter by the next opportunity. I am Dr. Sir with sincere regard and esteem your Obdt. Servt. Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar: Governor’s Letter Books). 1 See John Fell’s Diary, December 16, 1778. 2 JCC, 12:1223. 8 See North Carolina Delegates to Caswell, December 22, 1778. John Fell’s Diary [December 20, 17781 20th. Sunday. Commercial Committee met at Mr. Laurens, agreed to meet tomorrow morning at 9. oClock to choose a Secretary. MS (DLC).


[Page 400]
364 December 21, 1778 The Tories appeard to be the most acute Politicians, as in my Opinion, I am sorry to say it, they too often are. Thus Mr T has had the Misfortune to be spoken ill of both by the Friends and Enemies of the Publick. A very grievous Misfortune, when the People scrutinize and decide upon Chraracters with Candor & Moderation, which per haps does not take Place at all Times in any Country. I have shown Mr. Temple the most substantial Acts of Friendship in my Power; yet I must own to you I have been somewhat embar- rassd. A Delegate of the Massachusetts Bay who has been heard to say that “Jealousy is the best Security of publick Liberty,” has been called upon in a publick News Paper “to be cautious of too frequently exchanging Visits with J T Esqr who is suspected to be a Spy” &c. I have no Reason to think it was a friendly Caution; but rather that it was designd to bring an odious Suspicion on the Delegate himself. But though he feels a Contempt of such Kind of Publications, he has learnd that it is Wisdom to receive Instruction even from an Enemy. I have said that Jealousy is the best Security of publick Liberty. I have expressd my Fears that America is too unsuspecting long to preserve Republican Liberty. I do not suspect Mr Temple; but I have been under the Necessity of violating my own Inclination to pay every kind of Respect due to that Gentleman, or risque the consistent Character which a Delegate of that State ought to support in the Opinion of Congress, of the Minister of France and the People of America. I have converst with that Minister on this Occasion; and I have Reason to think we concur in opinion, that however pure the Views & Intentions of any Gentleman may be, yet if a Suspicion generally prevails that he is secretly employed by the British Court his continuing to reside near the Congress may make improper Im pressions on the Minds of our Friends abroad. Mr Temple left this City yesterday. I congratulate you my dear Sir on our Countrys having thus far sustaind the glorious Conflict. Our Independence, I think, is secured. Whether America shall long preserve her Freedom or not, will de pend on her Virtue. I cannot conclude this tedious Epistle without expressing an ardent wish for the full recovery of your Health and bespeaking another & another of your Favors. I am, with most respectful Compliments to your Lady & Family, your very affectionate Friend & humble Servt, S.A. FC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 John Winthrop’s November 9 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, NN.


[Page 401]
December 21, 1778 365 John Fell’s Diary [December 21, 1778] 21st. Monday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Present, Smith, Lewis, Searle & my Self chose Mr Lawrence Chairman & Major Moses Young Secretary. Congress 11AM, great debates about calling in the Money so soon, ought not to be till money can be ready to be Exchanged for it. Commercial Committee to setle Mr Sami Cursons acct. 1 Mr Root Balloted, for the Board of Warr. 2 This day came to Lodge at the house of Mrs Gibbon in Spruce Street. MS (DLC). 1 Documents relating to Samuel Curson’s accounts were transmitted to the Com mittee of Commerce on December 14 and 18. JCC, 12:1215, 1229. “Jesse Root was elected to replace Roger Sherman on the Board of War on December 22, according to the journals. JCC, 12:1241. The printed journal entry for the 21st erroneously incorporates a Board of War report dated “20th December, 1778,” that was actually adopted on December 20, 1777. See JCC, 9:1047-48, 12:1238. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 21st Dec. 1778 Your favor of the 25th Novr came to hand a few days ago. Mr. Temple has been some time in this City—many concurrent circum stances in that gentleman’s history have tended to cause Suspicions of him in jealous minds, both in and out of Congress. I must own I have no suspicion of him but still I think neither he nor his friends have acted with that prudence which is dictated by good policy. I have been obliged to exercise what I think they have been deficient in, which has prevented my paying that attention to Mr T which my inclination strongly required or which my duty would have de manded, had the letter from the Council to the President of Con gress, in commendation of that gentleman passed through my hands. A neglect of this kind may save a person in my Situation from some difficulties, but cannot fail of touching the feelings of a person of any sensibility, and he that is incapable of feeling (as I have had oc casion heretofore to observe) is not deserving of the public confidence. I feel with you the distresses occasioned by the amazing deprecia tion of the paper currency, but flatter myself some relief is at hand— a plan for remedying this evil, is nearly completed and I hope it will have its desired effect. Part of the plan will be to call in about 40,000,000 dollars of the circulating medium—the mode of doing this you will soon be informed of, together with other particulars. I shall do every thing in my power to get the Naval department


[Page 404]
3G8 December 22, 1778 of any Mode of supporting a Family in this Country, is desireous of returning to his Friends and Connexions. There is no Law I believe to prevent his leaving the State, but the impossibility of obtaining a direct passage to Great Britain from any other place than New-York, has induced him to pay his respects to you, and to solicit a passport to that City, from whence he will be enabled to sail directly for Eng land. A passage round by the West Indies would be extremely dis agreeable and inconvenient as he intends to take his Daughter with him. 1 I can see no impropriety in granting this Gentlemans request. The intelligence any individual can communicate in our Situation will be of little Consequence to the Enemy; But if you are the least appre hensive of Danger on that Score, Mr. Ragg I believe will readily sub scribe any parole you may think proper to direct. If Sir upon inquiry you should not see cause for detaining him, it would give me great pleasure and Satisfaction to have him supplied with such papers as may enable him and his Daughter to pass on to New-York unmolested. Your attention, Sir, to this Letter will be very obliging to him who has the Honor to be with the highest personal respect and Esteem your most obdt. and very hble. Servt. John Henry Junr. RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 For the Maryland Council’s March 31, 1779, order granting Andrew Ragg per mission “to go with his Daughter into the City of New York in order to get a Passage from thence to Gr Britain,” see Md. Archives, 21:333. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee My dear Bror. Phila, Deer. 22d. 1778 Publications still continue in abundance to blacken the Lees & make Deane the greatest Man in the World. The cry is in their favor, no one has dared to enter the lists with them but Common Sense, who tho he has said a great deal of truth, &: much to the purpose, was as far as I can understand very little regarded, it having been artfully put about that he was hired, & the poor fellow got a beating from An Officer, it is said for having wrote the peice. He unfortunately made some mistakes, which are taken notice of by his Answeror Plain Truth, & throws a discredit upon the rest. 1 It is really a shame, that when so many things can be alledged against this man, that the public shou’d be so abused, because Congress will not go thro’ the business. They have done nothing yet, in the mean time he continues to insult them. After having long pester’d the Congress by Letters to hear him, in justification of himself, never hinting that he has any discovery to make, urging the necessity he was under of going immediately to


[Page 408]
December 23, 1778 372 John Fell’s Diary [December 23, 1778] 23d Wednesday. Mr Deane attending this morning, did not go to Committee, Genl Washington Visited Congress; At 6 P M Genl Thompson with two witnesses were Examin’d at the Barr. NB Genl Lee & Lt Coll Laurens fought a Duel. 2 MS (DLC). 1 General Washington’s visit to Congress this day was apparently an informal one; his formal presentation to Congress occurred the next day. JCC, 12:1250. His arrival in Philadelphia was also noted by Samuel Holten, whose diary entry for this day reads: “Congress Sit from 9 ’till 3 & from 6 ’till 9. G. W. arrive!, here last eveng.” MDaAr. 2 John Laurens challenged and shot Gen. Charles Lee in a duel because, as he explained to Alexander Hamilton, he believed Lee “had spoken of General Wash ington in the grossest and most opprobrious terms of personal abuse.” See Alex ander Hamilton, The Papers of Alexander Hamilton, ed. Harold C. Syrett et al., 26 vols. (New York: Columbia University Press, 1961-81), 1:602-4. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir Philadela Decemr. 23d. 1778. The Necessity of making some inquiry on the Subjects contained in your Letter of the 10th Decemr and the Reference of the Resolutions of the General Assembly to the Marine Committee, upon which no Report has yet been made, has deprived us of the Honour of answer ing your Letter,so soon as we intended. 1 The Expedition against Florida, always was, and still is, in our opinion a dangerous and ruinous project, attended with a certain considerable Loss and Expense, without the smallest Hope of Success or advantage; And altho’ Congress have not re-considered or in any way countermanded their former orders and recommendations; yet we think it not improper privately and in Confidence to inform you, that there does not appear to us any hope of Success in prosecuting this Expedition. 2 The re-enforcement that we have reason to expect have been sent into that Country from the City of New York; the Distance and Nature of the Country through which the Troops are to pass, before they reach St. Augustine, the place of Action, joined to the Resistance they will probably meet with in Georgia, and the length of the Block ade (three Months at least) which it is said will be absolutely necessary to reduce the Garrison, fortify us in the opinion we have formed. By this we do not mean to throw impediments in the way to stop the Expedition, but simply to express our own apprehensions of the Ex-


[Page 410]
374 December 23, 1778 I made mention to you in my last. It is that he has been concerned in counterfieting Money—such a low mean villanous Assertion cou’d have been only formed by one of the same Caracter—but it serves to shew that the most virtuous & upright of us cannot at all Times escape the Tongue of Slander & Calumny. He has resigned his Seat in Congress, so has Harvey—& succeeded by General Nelson & Mr. Fleming, the latter I am unacquainted with, the former you have seen & know. I lament that we shall not have our Friend Banister with us more—but to let you into a Secret, he proposes soon to change his State & become a married Man—he says it is con trary to his Religion to live any longer single. This severe Weather makes me think & fear that we shall have a trying Jorney to Philadelphia—we propose to set out as soon after the Middle of the Month as the Weather will permit—& had ordered a Vessel to attend, which did attend to take our Bed, heavy Baggage &c to the Head of Elk—but to this the Frost says no—the narrow Waters are all congealed & renders the Scheme abortive—therefore we must take the Chance of procuring a Bed as we can when we get to the City—another Disappointment which sits heavily upon me, & equally affects you is, we proposed to send up some Hams, Beef, Wine &c.” Gouverneur Morris Papers, NNC. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress [December 23, 1778] 1 John Donaldson 2 being sworn saith that, That on a certain Evg when there was a Disturbance between Gen. Thompson & Mr. Mc Kean, at the Coffee House in this City Dep[onen]t was there. That he observed Gen Thomson come into the Coffee House & go into a Box with Judge Atlee, Mr McKean 8c Mr Evans, that his Attention was drawn to the Box by Gen Thompsons speaking in a higher tone than usual & he thereupon went to the Corner of the Box. That the first thing he heard was Gen Thompsons accusing Mr McKean with using him rascally 8c behaving to him as a Scoundrel—that Gen Thompson then complained of Mr McKeans having sent a Summons for him at Carlisle 8c charging him with harbouring Deserters 8cc. 8c further that it was owing to him 8c some other such Rascals that he was reduced to his present melancholy Situation of being obliged to quit his Family. That Mr McKean excused his conduct as to the affair of Mr McKinley & the Exchange—that he had formerly had a friendship for the Gen. but found him to be a dirty Fellow, a Bully 8c he thinks a Scoundrel or some Word of that Import. That Gen Thompson after Mr McKean had called him a dirty Fellow asked him if he dare be a Gent, to which Mr M Kean replied that he was his Superior, which Gen Thompson denied. That as the Gen went away from the Box Mr McKean raised himself from his seat 8c said to the Gen. I will make your Heart ache for this, to which the Gen answered God Damn you if you do I will make your Bones ache. That he heard Mr McKean when speaking of the Exchange of Govr Franklin for McKinley say he had acted accord ing to his Directions. That the Conversations abt. the Summons at


[Page 419]
December 25, 1778 383 the entire Congress with their own support, so that it could be decided how to make these propositions to the Court of Spain. That is as far as we have been able to advance up to now; we shall see what comes of it; certainly I shall not lose sight of this important objective. The French Minister promised me that he would write to his Court in order to find out whether the King our Sire will support it. If His Majesty approves, his minister to the French Court can begin to confer with the ministers whom these states have in Paris, who ordinarily do nothing more than listen, inform the Congress, and await its instructions. “As the territory of the interior of Luisiana or Illinois is most important to the members of Congress from the province of Virginia, because it borders on that state and because a majority of the investors in the company mentioned above are settled in Virginia, it is likely that the representatives from Virginia will regard with disfavour the separation of those lands and anything which may lead to the ruin of that company and the plans it has made. Therefore, if His Majesty is pleased to resolve that to take possession of that territory is in his Royal interest, it ought to be negotiated immediately and definitively with the Congress, without giving time for those investors and the rest of the Virginians to comprehend it, for they can cavil and introduce dissension among the members of Congress to thwart that negotiation.” Indiferente General, Legajo 1606, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (Aileen Moore Topping translation, DLC). Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee My dear Bror. Phila. Deer. 25th. 1778 The day on which my last Letter was wrote, Mr. Deane produced to Congress his written narrative of his transactions 8c accusations. 1 The first the most pompous bloated thing that ever was on paper. The only charges against Doctr. Lee are that he is suspicious, jealous, affrontive to every body he has any business with, & very disgusting to the whole french Nation, by his hatred for them, which he dis covers by all his words 8c actions. Mr. W. Lee is mean, 8c goes shares with the Agents he appointed. The whole is most grossly abusive of both of them. The Party sucked it in, as nectar 8c Ambrosia; 8c say he has acquitted himself most honorably. They whisper about that as they are very moderate, 8c wou’d not injure any body unheard, they think the best way is to recall them that they justify themselves. This in fact, under the appearance of moderation, is the thing they are working for. They have of their Party ready immediately to fill all the places; 8c then every thing being in their own hands, we shall have fine work, with the trade which the Continent must carry on for our large advances in Europe. Altho Deane had two Colieages, the word We, is never used in his Narrative, I did everything. I procured all the supplies, bro’t about the Alliance, procured D’Estaings fleet, conducted them to America, discover’d the designs of the Enemy 8c baffled them, in short, I have establish’d the Liberty 8c independance of America; whose safety 8c happiness now depends upon my vigi lance. You are sufficiently acquainted with human nature, to know


[Page 422]
386 December 28, 1778 2 This day Samuel Holten recorded in his diary: “Monday. Great free mason day. Congress adjourned in the morning. I dined with Mr de France & my Colleagues, &c. &c. &c.” MDaAr. Daniel Roberdeau to Elisha Hinman Dear Sir, Philada. Deer. 28th, 1778 I thank you for your favor of the 11th and for the very little I have enjoyed of your worthy friend Mr. Mumford’s acquaintance. I am very sensible of your merit and shall not be wanting in my commendations. Present my respectful Salutations to Mrs. Hinman and I accept with thanks your and her Congratulations on my late marriage. 1 Mrs. Roberdeau joins me in respects to you both. I am, Dr. Sir, Yr. most ob. hum. Serv, Dani. Roberdeau. RC (DNDAR). 1 Roberdeau had been married to Jane Milligan of Philadelphia on December 2. For the death of his first wife, Mary Bostwick Roberdeau, in February 1777, see these Letters, 6:550. John Fell’s Diary [December 29, 1778] 29. Tuesday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. 11 AM Congress. This morning waited on General Washington, about the Exchange of Lashier 8c Brower, his answer that he had allready demanded them of Sr Henry Clinton. 1 A Request from the French Minister to Prevent the Carrying Masts from New Hampshire and the Masachusets Bay to St. Domingo for fear of falling in to the hands of the Enemy. 2 Motion for 2 Brigr Generals for North Carolina 1 for Philadelphia 8c 1 for So Carolina. Finance. MS (DLC). 1 Washington had written to Sir Henry Clinton on December 26 protesting the harsh treatment of Abraham Brower and John Lozier, members of Maj. John Goetshius’ battalion of New Jersey militia, who were accused by the British of murdering loyalist Capt. John Richards while he was visiting his family in Bergen, N.J., on January 29, 1777. Brower and Lozier denied the charge and asserted they had killed Richards in self-defense while trying to capture him. Clinton replied on January 23, 1779, that he still considered them bandits, but in response to Washington’s request he was ordering their exchange. See Washington, Writings, (Fitzpatrick), 13:454, 14:69; and Documents Relating to the Revolutionary History of the State of New Jersey, 2d ser. 2:32, 47-48, 134. Clinton’s letter is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 2 See John Jay to the Massachusetts Council, this date.


[Page 429]
December 31, 1778 393 10,000 Negroes— very great quantities of Merchandize—150 to 200 Sail of Ships & other Vessels for transporting the provision & Negroes—Warlike Stores &c. We have no fleet to retake the place—if we call foreign aid, it will be ineffectual—because four fifty Gun Ships & sea frigates within will bid defiance to the whole fleet of France. Georgia will fall immediately or may be over run by the Troops from St. Augustine & 500 Indians. MS (DSoC). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “Notes from whence I remonstrated to Congress on the danger to which So Carolina & Georgia were exposed in December 1778—which I had often done at former periods.” 1 As Laurens’ endorsement indicates, these notes consist of the points he raised in Congress to remind the delegates of the vulnerability of South Carolina and Georgia to British invasion—something that had been a source of concern to him since at least September 1778. Although the notes cannot be assigned a more specific date, Laurens probably did not compose them until after his resignation as president of Congress on December 9. For a related document written after Con gress learned of the invasion of Georgia, see Laurens’ Notes on a Georgia Cam paign, January 20, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Proposed Resolve on Silas Deane [post December 31, 1778] 1 That his having been engaged in private Commercial Trade while he was acting in a Public Character in France his further & more exten sive engagements of the same nature since his arrival in America & at a time when he was strenuously endeavouring to impress upon Congress a belief of the utility of & even necessity for his return to Europe in a Public Character do not entitle him to that approbation which he wishes to infer from the past silence of this House, that his conduct in these respects particularly, is highly reprehensible, altogether in consistent with his professions of disinterestedness in the Public service 8c contradictory to his declaration that from the “Moment he engaged in the foreign affairs of Congress he put everything private out of the question.” MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 It is not known for what purpose Laurens drafted this proposed resolve, but it seems likely that he was responding to two specific passages contained in the “narrative” Silas Deane read in Congress on December 22, 23, and 31, 1778. These passages read as follows: (1) “It is now three years since my engaging in the foreign affairs of Congress . . ., but from the moment I engaged I put everything private out of the question.” Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, ed. Edw'ard D.


[Page 430]
394 January 1, 1779 Ingraham (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-Six Society, 1855), p. 58. And (2) “Not to have merited the approbation of Congress, situated as I have been, neces sarily must be to deserve their severest censures.” Ibid., p. 74. Although no evidence has been found to indicate precisely when Laurens wrote it, the document has been placed here so that it may be studied in the context of the reading of Deane’s “narrative,” which was completed this day. John Fell’s Diary Januy 1st 1779. Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letters from G Gates to G Washington and answers relating the Canada Expidition. Letter from the Governor of Connecticut to their Delegates relating to the better allowance to Officers referrd to a Committee of 3 vizt. Mr Smith, Mr Root & Mr Atley. 1 Letter from Israil Ward 2 of the State of New York, relating to his house being burnt by the Enemy, Referrd to a Committee of 3. vizt. Draton, Burk, & Fell. Finance. President requested to invite Genl Washington to Dine. At 6 P M Commercial Committee. MS(DLC). 1 For further information on the Connecticut officers’ petition, see Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, January 4, 1779, note 2. 2 That is, Stephen Ward. See John Jay to Stephen Ward, January 15, 1779. Daniel Roberdeau to Joseph Reed Sir, Congress, Jany 1st, 1779. The proceedings of Congress respecting the Honble Chief Justice McKean and General Thomson are ordered to be made out imme diately, and shall be furnish to The Honble The Council, agreeable to their desire, signified in a Letter from you to the Delegates of this state of yesterday’s date, with which they are just now honored. 1 I am, with the Compts of the season, Sir, Yr most ob. & very hum. ser., Daniel Roberdeau 2 MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:187. 1 Although the council’s December 31 letter requesting a copy of Congress’ pro ceedings on the McKean-Thompson dispute has not been found, its order of the same date requesting the delegates to transmit this evidence, "so far as Consistent with their duty to Congress they are [at] liberty to make the same known," is in Pa. Council Minutes, 11:653. See also Thomas McKean to the Public, December 30, 1778, note 1. 2 Another matter of concern to the Pennsylvania Council during this period was the attendance of its delegates to Congress. A December 31 letter from the council to its absent delegates (apparently intended for John Armstrong, Sr., Edward


[Page 431]
January 3, 1779 395 Biddle, William Clingan, and William Shippen, Sr.), which was designed to ensure that the state would maintain at least three delegates in attendance at all times, is in Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:134. See also ibid., p. 158; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:649. John Fell’s Diary [January 2, 1779] 2d. Saturday. 9 oClock. Do [Commercial Committee]. 11AM Con gress, Letter from Mr McDonald of Salem County, 1 complaining of not being Paid for sundry goods taken per officers, Referrd to a Committee of 3. vizt. Roberdeau, Root & Fell, Answered Wards Letter, Mr Hopkinsons Sallery Voted 3500 Dolls. Preamble to the Finance Bill agreed to be Printed. Dined with the So Carolina Delegates. City Tavern. MS (DLC). 1 That is, John Donnell, to whom Congress eventually awarded $1434 76/90 for clothing he supplied to the army in November 1777. See ]CC, 13:16, 305, 14:699. Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 2, 1779] 2. Saturday Congress sit ’till after 4 o’Clock. The Delegates of South Carolina, invited the Congress &: Genl. Washington to dine with them at the city Tavern. Financing Published. MS (MDaAr). Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear Sir J an Y $ ~?9 I embrace the opportunity which now offers of writing a few Lines to you. In my last I told you I had many things to say particularly concerning A L & S D Esqrs. 1 If I could have the Pleasure of sitting with you by a fire Side, I would more freely open my Mind to you than I chuse to do upon Paper, considering the Risque of its falling into wrong hands. One of these gentlemen, as I was informd in the year 74 by some who were well acquainted with him, was of a dubious political Character, and was appointed a Delegate in Congress by a Majority of only one of the Electors; it being thought that his own Vote turnd it in his favor. In 75 he was again elected; and he very


[Page 432]
396 January 3, 1779 early attachd himself to Men of different Sentiments from those which most if not all your Delegates brought with them from your Country & strenuously maintaind. This Difference of Sentiment was said to arise from local Attachments, but in Reality they arose from different Principles &: Views. What Mr Ds political Principles were if he had any I never could learn. His Views always appeard to me commercial & interrested. Whether I was mistaken or not Time perhaps will soon discover. He was very little known in America till the year 75, if at all in Europe. The other took an early, decided and active Part in Support of our great Cause. In London he had a great Share in the open opposition made to the Tyranny of the British Court & their Measures respect ing America. There he turnd his Attention from the Practice of Physick to which he had been regularly educated in Edinburgh, to the Study of the Law. This he did by the Advice of some of the most able Advocates for the Liberties of America, from the opinion they had conceivd of his promising Usefulness to that Cause in that Way. He answered their Prospects. He constantly aided your Agent the late Mr De Berdt 2 to whom his Knowledge of Affairs rendered his Serv ices essential. That his Pen was employd for America in General, his Junius Americanus abundantly testifies; and that, and his other Pub lications witness his Attachments to Massachusetts Bay & South Caro lina in particular. His private Letters to his Friends were written with that Freedom as well as Zeal, which would have exposd him to the Risque even of his Life from the Resentment of an unprincipled & nefarious Court, if any of them by Accident or Design had fallen into their Hands. This I know to be true. I must conclude at present with giving it to you as my fix’d Opinion, founded on particular observations, that there is a joynt Combination of political & com mercial Men to exclude all vigilant Patriots from publick Councils & Employments knowing that Vigilance & unimpeachd, unsuspected Fidelity will be an effectual Bar to the carrying such politico com mercial Plans into Execution. 3 I will write to you again by the first good Opportunity. In the mean time I am with perfect Esteem, Yr affectionate Friend FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 That is, Arthur Lee and Silas Deane. For Adams’ "last” see Adams to Cooper, December 25,1778. 2 Dennys DeBerdt (1695-1770), the Massachusetts General Court’s agent in Lon don. 1765-1770. 2 Unbeknownst to Adams, Samuel Cooper had already been secretly retained by the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, to defend French interests in the public prints and private parlors of Boston. Gerard reported in a January 17. 1779, letter to the comte de Vergennes that Cooper had been retained for "200 livres Sterling” annually to plead French causes. Cooper apparently camrht Gerard’s attention after coming to the defense of the comte d’Estaing, with whom Cooper


[Page 433]
January 3, 1779 397 had become friendly when the French fleet put into Boston for repairs following its encounter with a storm off Rhode Island in August 1778. In approaching Cooper, Gerard had been able to use Joseph de Valnais, the recently appointed French consul in Boston. See Charles W. Akers, The Divine Politician: Samuel Cooper and the American Revolution in Boston (Boston: Northeastern University Press, 1982), pp. 265-303; William Stinchcombe, The American Revolution and the French Alliance (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1969), pp. 66-67, 118-24. The irony of Adams’ relation with Cooper at this time is underscored in the following passage from Stinchcombe’s study summarizing Gerard’s purposes in employing Cooper to promote French policies in New England: “Although Gerard did not admit it, he hired Cooper in an effort to diminish the influence of Samuel Adams in his home state.” Ibid., p. 122. For Cooper’s considerable skills as a propa gandist, see also John C. Buchanan, "The Justice of America’s Cause: Revolutionary Rhetoric in the Sermons of Samuel Cooper,” New England Quarterly 50 (March 1977): 101-24. James Duane to George Clinton Sir, Philad. 3d Jany. 1779. I have now the honor to acknowledge the receipt of your Excel lency’s favor to me, and to the Delegates collectively. 1 The letter with the enclosures were delivered to the President, as we consider the sub ject of the revolt from our state particularly within his province; he being delegated for the express purpose. I cannot but think he will be at a loss for the maps whenever he finds an opportunity to take it up: your Excellency’s remarks ought certainly to hasten a determina tion: for a more favorable conjuncture than the present is hardly to be expected. Mr. Jay has not yet held any conference with his col leagues on this interesting business: but intends soon to form a reso lution, and prepare the way for its successful reception. 2 With respect to your favor to me individually it is only necessary to observe that any assurance for the faithful application of the Specie remitted to you by Congress must be totally Superfluous. 3 When I joined Congress I found they had for some time been engaged in the business of Finance, but had made an inconsiderable progress. As Chairman of the Treasury I was officially called to an active part. It was not till yesterday that Congress agreed on a plan for funding the money emitted in Bills of Credit; a copy will be transmitted to your Excellency by the President; to give conveyance to which I have ventured to detain the express two days. If the dif ferent legislatures heartily support the arrangement proposed by Con gress, I flatter myself the public credit will be restored: for sufficient and known funds being once established for sinking the debt in a reasonable period, the good sense as well as monied interest of America will be on the side of government. The danger lies not in the past; but the future increase of paper money, should the war unhappily be protracted. To prevent such increase it is proposed to


[Page 441]
January 3, 1779 405 I look for good Reasons. Give my Compliments to Mrs Schuyler, wish her a great many happy years, And tell her that knowing her prejudices on this Subject & how much she wishes you to retire, I must insist on excluding her from our Councils, untill I can be personally heard. I know from Experience I can convince her Judgement. General Arnold is mending. He is engagd to a Miss Peggy Ship ping one of the finest & most agreeable Ladies in this City. His Leg resembles Uncle Toby’s Groin. I heard two Ladies of our Acquaint ance in deep debate about this same wounded Leg. They were as much perplexed as the Widow Wadman. 3 In the mean time it is the only obstacle to the Lover’s Happiness. Duer is still here. He has taken up the Pen for Deane against the Employers of Payne (Com mon Sense). You know them all. Lady Kitty in the mean time must have Patience. He confesses his marriage with her is soon to be cele brated. The Devil take Payne say I. Congress you will see by the publications give free Scope to the Press. I hope they will no longer be chargd with Congressional Pride. General Washington has been here ten days by order of Congress. He seems impatient to return to the Army: but the Business for which he was sent to be advised with, will detain him a few days longer. My friend Taylor writes me that you are at Saraghtoga & expresses Pain for your safety. Rashness is a folly you ought not to be chargd with, especially when it may extend to a numerous Family. Put your Family in Security & go to Business. The times are pressing 8c require Vigilance & Wisdom—you can’t be spared. Farewell. Accept the com- plimfents] of the Season to you & yours; & Believe me Sans Ceremony your affect 8c Obedt sert. Jas Duane RC (NN: Schuyler Papers). 1 Neither letter has been found. 2 For Schuyler’s determination to resign his continental commission, see John Jay to Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 1. 8 The perplexity of the Widow Wadman with Uncle Toby's groin injury is re counted at length in vols. 7-9 of Laurence Sterne’s Tristram Shandy. William Floyd to George Clinton Sr. Philadelphia January 3d. 1779. On Account of the many Difficulties and Disappointments which I met with in Crossing the North River, I did not arrive here untill the 1st Instant. The next day I attended Congress, 1 and after the usual Business of the Morning, which is the Reading of Publick Letters and Receiving Reports from the Several Committees, At one


[Page 448]
412 January 4, 1779 Your letter, and the Petition of the Officers in the Connecticut Line to our Assembly have been laid before Congress, and referred to a Committee who have not yet made their report, 2 possibly the Assembly will not think it proper to proceed any further on that subject, than to make some reasonable provision for the support of their families, in the manner already proposed, until they hear further from Congress on that head, which we hope will be in a few days. Indeed the Officers and Soldiers in the Army seem to be, in many respects, on the same footing with our Salarymen, orphans, widows, &c. and hope some measures may soon be taken, which will operate to the administering justice to the whole, as near as these calamitous times will possibly admit of. A Foreign Loan is in contemplation, but how soon it may be effected is at present uncertain. By the best information we can obtain, the several, or most of the States, in the Union, have taken measures to fund their own bills, and have paid, and are now paying, in, the several taxes apportioned to them the last year, and all seem inclined to tax as high as possible. You enquire, Sir, why the Articles of Confederation are not con cluded. We have only to answer that the States of Maryland and Delaware have not yet acceded, and we are waiting with impatience for their union, and as the Articles drawn comprehend the Thirteen States jointly, it is at least a doubt whether the assent already gained from eleven States is not founded on the joint consent of the whole thirteen, and unless the remaining two join, the whole is void, and will make it necessary to send back to each State for their approba tion, if no more than eleven States unite in the Confederation, which would take up much time, beside the inconvenience, which might attend, therefore are still waiting, in hopes of the compliance of the other two. As to what is done in consequence of the Circular Letters sent out by the Committee to superintend the Commissary’s and Quarter Master’s Department, are not able to acquaint you, as the Committee have not made report, therefore must refer to Mr. Sherman, who is one of that Committee, 3 for information on that head. The unhappy situation of our western frontiers, as well as those of New-York, are truly melancholy, and demand the greatest attention, both as respects the present inhabitants, former settlers, and the supplies derived from them. The Board of War have reported an addition to Colo. Hartley’s Regiment, who is a w’orthy, spirited, and attentive Officer, and now on the frontier part at Wyoming: 4 we hope further additions will be made for their defence. General Washington is now in Town, on the request of Congress, and a Committee appointed to confer with him on the subject of any new, or future operations, and hope something to effect will soon be done.


[Page 451]
January 4, 1779 415 William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 4th Jany. 1779 By the means of bad Roads, bad weather, or some other cause, there is now three Mails due from the Eastward, the last letters I received from N. Hampshire were dated in Novr. It is said the weather is colder here than has been for many Years past, I therefore conclude you have had a severe winter hitherto. Perhaps it may be owing to the severity of the season that we have no intelligence from Europe. By the last authentic intelligence from New-York they were intirely out of flour, & have but very little Rice, they have advice of the sailing of a fleet from Cork in Octor., which they are apprehensive are intercepted as none of them are yet arrived, we are also informed that 20 sail of outward bound Transports were lately drove ashore by the Ice most of which it’s said will be lost. As you may have a curiosity to know how much paper money is in Circulation I inclose you a particular accot of all that has been Emitted by Congress. Perhaps it may not be proper to make it very public. I shall rely on your discretion to make such use of it as pru dence may dictate. If it should be propagated that a larger sum has been Emitted you will have it in your power to contradict such a re port. You will also find inclosed an accot. of the perticular Emissions & Denominations that have been discovered here to have been Coun terfeited, these I think have been advertised & perticularly discribd. A plan of finance which has been a long time under consideration, is at last compleated, and I hope it will have the desired effect, it cer tainly will have an immediate favorable operation if the States will exercise their powers to further the views of Congress, I shall transmit you a copy of this plan by next post. I hope you will secure a tenant for the farm at Kittery as soon as possible, if it should be let alone till the spring you will be put to great difficulty, even if you should be able to get one at any rate. Let me hear how you go on with your business at Dartmouth &: if you want any information that I can collect this way respecting Mills &c 8cc. I wish to have a copy of the Acts passed the last Session, which you mentioned in Your last. Remember me with affection to Your Mrs. W Adieu, Yours very affectionately, WW RC (MH-H: Sturgis Papers).


[Page 452]
416 January 5, 1779 John Fell’s Diary [January 5, 1779] 5th Tuesday. Do [Commercial Committee] 9 oClock. P M Dined wth Genl Washington. Congress, Lieut. Coll Fluerys Letter Read & debated. Letter from Genl Schuyler with his Resignation to confer with Genl Washington on the subject carried in the negative. 1 Pro portion of the Taxes of Each State New Hampshire Masachusets Rhode Island Connecticut New York New Jersey Pennsylvania Delaware Maryland Virginia No Carolina So Carolina Georgia Dollars 500,000 2,000,000 300,000 1,700,000 800,000 800,000 1,900,000 150,000 1,560,000 2,400,000 1,090,000 1,800,000 15,000,000 NB Georgia being invaded Pays no part of this Tax MS (DLC). 'For Philip Schuyler’s resignation, see John Jay to Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 1. William Floyd to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia, Jan. 5th. 1779. I do myself the pleasure to enclose this day’s paper to you, con taining the ultimatum of Congress on the affair of Finance, and a publication from Common Sense with what other little news we have here. The publications of Mr. Dean, and Mr. Paine, makes a great talk in this place, and I am afraid will throw Congress and the people at large into violent parties. I am told that the late President declined his seat as president because Congress would not take up Mr. Dean’s publication in a way which he thought proper. In ballotting for a new President, they came in favor of Mr. Jay, who is now our President. There is nothing yet done with respect to the Vermont business,


[Page 453]
January 5, 1779 417 not owing to any neglect of our members; but that it was not possible to bring on that, or any other matter of importance, while the grand business of Finance was under consideration. Now that is over, I expect we Shall Soon take it up, and I obtain Something decisive from Congress on the Subject. In conversation yesterday, I mentioned the affair to Mr. Drayton who fully agreed with me that the consequences of their holding their independence would be a means of producing fifty new States, therefore must by no means be allowed. From, Sr., your most obedt. Servt. Wm. Floyd Tr (MH-H: Sparks Manuscripts). Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 5, 1779] Tuesday. Genl. Washington invited congress to dine with him at the city tavern & we dined with him accordingly. I wrote to Capt. Batch elder & Mrs. Holten, (No. 36.). 1 A snow storm. MS (MDaAr). 1 Neither letter has been found. Henry Laurens to John Sullivan Dear Sir, Philadelphia 5th [any 1779 Although I have but a few minutes allowed me for writing by this Messenger Brown I cannot suffer him to pass without acknowledging & thanking you for your favor of the 15th Ulto. 1 Yesterday I received your public address under the Ulto. inclosing the proceedings of a Court Martial in the cases of Crossing & his coadjutors. 2 These I deliver’d to the present President 8c they were read in Congress. I had the honor of resigning the Chair on the 9th December for reasons which then appeared to me to be good 8c which subsequent circum stances have proved to be so. Love of order 8c an high respect for a great Representative, restrains my pen from an explanation at present. 1 am reduced to a private station but do not mean to turn my back on Congress immediately. Therefore Sir, I shall endeavour to merit a continuance of your correspondence by contributing the best offerings on my part. Inclosed with this you will receive this days Packet with a con-


[Page 454]
418 January 5, 1779 tinuation of Common sense, & a plan calculatd by Congress for lessen ing the quantity of Paper Circulation & appreciating the Value of the remainder. Time will prove its efficacy. (Economy, Taxation & Open Ports would be infallible. I have the honor to be, with the highest Esteem & Regard, Sir, Your obedient & Most humble Servt. Henry Laurens RC (DLC: Force Collection). 1 General Sullivan’s December 15 letter to Laurens, in which he reported the departure from Rhode Island of Admiral Byron and a British fleet, is in Sullivan, Papers (Hammond), 2:462. ’See John Fell’s Diary, January 4, 1779, note 1. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee Dear Brot. Phila. Jan. 5. 1779 The uncertainty of the Post last week prevented me from writing, & now from the uncertainty of this Letters reaching you before you leave home, I am at a loss what to say. Common Sense has attacked Mr Deane something in his own way, but I think has not made the best use of the materials in his hands. 1 However it appears he has stung the Gentn., for he has had the im pudence to complain to Congress, of his being abused by Payne in his official character; 2 in consequence of which we have had some warm debates, not much to Mr. Deane’s advantage. The impudence & vil lainy of this man are beyond expression; & it much increases my bad opinion of mankind, & the unfavorable prospect of our affairs, to find him so warmly supported. It appears to me at present that he will be continued in the public service, with an approbation of what he had done, but you will probably have time to be present at the shame full decision. Your peice is in the hands of Mr. Adams for his opin ion; 3 tho I am inclined to delay it till you come, as the public is likely to be intertained in the mean time. Finance is finished. 15 millions dollars raised by tax, this year, 6 millions yearly for 16 years as a sinking fund. The two last large emissions, amounting to 40 odd Millions, which are supposed most counterfeited, are called in by the 1st June, & more money given in Exchange. I fear the plan will not sufficiently check the rapid depreciation which has lately taken place. The money has allmost ceased to be current in the Eastern States. Altho we have regularly the report of the day, yet there is very little of consequence to be depended on, tho I beleive it is certain the Enemys Shiping at N. York has suffered much by the late bad weather. It is said today, that there is a fleet of Merchantmen in the mouth of this River convoyed by a French line of battle Ship, & a Dutch M[an of] War.


[Page 456]
420 January 6, 1779 England, was liberated or made his Escape & went over to France, from Paris he went to Dunkirk on the Encouragement of Mr. Dean & enterd Surgeon on board the Revenge Sloop, built by Order of a Come, of Congress authorizd thereto 8c at the Continental Expense, and till lately supposd to have ever since remaind Continental Property, but now so invelopd in political Commercial Mystery as that it cannot be ascertaind whether she is ownd by the United States or private Persons, or whether she is the property partly of publick 8c private. I will tell you more of this Matter when the Mystery shall be unraveld if it ever is; in the mean time remember my dear Sir what I said in my last of commercial Combinations. In the latter End of 75 one of the Characters 1 in my last was left out of the Delegation of the Colony he had represented, and a Number of his Friends gave him a sort of Certificate or Letter of Recommendation, as they had before done to one of your Delegates, 2 which led me to think it was their Opinion he needed a Prop in his own Country. Soon after, the Congress appointed a secret Committee of Commerce, with a View of procuring from abroad the necessary Articles for carrying on the War. They also appointed a secret Com mittee of Correspondence. Their Business was to form political Connections abroad, 8c to feel the pulsations of foreign Powers and particularly France. The first of these Committees engaged Mr 3 to go to that Kingdom for the purpose of their Commission 8c the Corresponding Come, took the Advantage of his intended Residence there to facilitate the salutary Purpose of their Appointment. At the same Time they wrote a Letter to Mr 4 then in England from whom the Congress had before receivd the most accurate Intelligence, requesting a Correspondence with him 8c pledging Secrecy & Confi dence. Mr 5 arrvd in France in June 76. Thus you see we had an Intelligencer to let us know what was doing or meditating against us in England; and a political Commercial Agent who was to inform us what was doing or could be done for us in France. The one had before settled a Correspondence 8c formd Connections in several parts of the Continent of Europe 8c particularly France; the other was a perfect Stranger in every Nation in Europe, but bearing Letters to considerable Men there. The one was altogether the political Man, the other had to do with Commerce as well as politicks. The one by his Address obtaind in England such Assurances as satisfied him that France would afford such Aid to America as she could consistently, the other was better skilid in the commercial Part of his Agency than the political. The one in London in the Months of March and April discoverd that he might successfully & actually did treat with a Mer chant in France of no Capital but a favorite at Court for a Supply to the Value of £200,000 sterling—the other arrivd in the Month of June following, found him out 8c was somehow concernd in forwarding the


[Page 457]
January 6, 1779 421 Supplys thus contracted for. I dare say you are apt to draw this Con clusion that the one was the political Negotiator in this Instance & the other the Commercial Agent only—yet, will you believe it, it is positively affirmd that the one did every thing &: the other Nothing. I will explain it to you in my next. FC (NN: Adams Papers). In the hand of Samuel Adams. 1 That is, Silas Deane. 2 For the testimonial letter given to Massachusetts delegate Thomas Cushing in January 1776, see these Letters, 3:106n.2. • Deane. ‘ Arthur Lee. 5 Deane. Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany 6 1779 In your last you ask me, “How Matters have stood since the Recall.” 1 1 will answer this Question at another Time when I shall have more Leisure; and at present only say, that Mr D arrivd here, I think, in July and in August he was admitted into the House, or, to use his own Phrase, had an Audience, in which, with as much Vanity as I ever saw in a Man of Sense, he appeard to assume to himself almost the whole Merit of all the Services that had been renderd, at least by Americans in France; as if he would have it to be believd, that one of his Colleagues had done but little if any thing, the other worse than Nothing, himself every thing. And with equal Spleen & ill Nature, he would even go out of the Path of Decency and Propriety to draw in Invectives and diminish the Character of the two Mr Lees and Mr Izzard. In short his Publication which you have seen is a Specimen of his Narrative. I have before given you my Opinion of that Performance; and shall not trouble you further upon that, any further than just to observe, that his insinuating that Mr W L remains still an Aiderman of the City of London merely because his Name is inserted in that List in the Kallendar of 78, discovers something more than Childishness and Folly. His Design seems to be at once to prejudice the Reputation of that gentleman in the Minds of his Countrymen, and to hold up the Appearance of glaring Impropriety of Conduct in Congress, in appointing an Aiderman of London an American Commissioner; and that this was done through the undue Influence of family Connection, for he take[s] particular Care to tell his Readers, that the two Brothers in Europe have two Brothers in Congress, which cannot be denied. Neither can it be denied, that they are a Family, who have been as early, as uniform, as persevering and perhaps as able American Patriots as any in the United States. Mr A


[Page 466]
430 January 7, 1779 MS (NNC: Morris Papers). Written by Gouverneur Morris, and endorsed by him: “Speech made in Congress ab: Mr. Payne—taken Down atterwd. from Memory to obviate MisRepresentation.” When this document was printed in his Life of Gouverneur Morris . . ., 3 vols. (Boston: Gray & Bowen, 1832), 1:200-204, Jared Sparks omitted two passages from the text (noted below), and introduced punctua tion and verbal changes which he apparently thought improved Morris’ prose. Edmund C. Burnett reprinted this document from Sparks. Burnett, Letters, 4:12-15. 1 It seems clear that Gouverneur Morris delivered this speech on January 7 during the second day of debate on the motion to dismiss Thomas Paine as secre tary of the Committee for Foreign Affairs. Although Morris did not date his manu script, he does refer in these notes to “the debates, both of yesterday and this morning.” As “yesterday” was doubtless January 6, the day debate on Paine’s dis missal began, Morris was therefore speaking on the afternoon of the seventh. See JCC, 13:30-36; and John Jay to Gerard, January 10, 1779, note. 2 For these “several motions,” see JCC, 13:31-34. 3 Remainder of paragraph omitted by Sparks. 4 Remainder of sentence omitted by Sparks. Robert Morris to the Public Philada Jany. 7th. 1779. I was not a little Surprized to find my Character attacked by a Publication in Mr Dunlaps paper of the 5th Inst, altho a little pre pared to expect by a paragraph from the same Hand in the paper of the 31st Deer, last that something or other would be said to my Dis advantage. 1 The author of these writings Stiles his performance an address to the Public on Mr. Deanes affair—why the author quitted Mr. Deane to bring me on the Stage is immaterial and as I do not mean to enter the lists with him, I shall Content myself with stating simply the Facts he has alluded to. I do not Conceive that the State I live in, have any right or Inclination to enquire into, what Mercantile Connections I have had, or now have, with Mr Deane or with any other person whatever. If Mr. Deane had any Commerce that was incon sistant with his Public Station he must Answer for it. But As I did not by becoming a Delegate for the State of Pensylva., relinquish my right of forming Mercantile Connections, I was unquestionably at Liberty to form such with Mr. Deane. My how Giving the Account this Author desires, is not to gratify him, or resign the right I contend for, but purely to remove the force of his insinuation on that Subject and to do this effectually I will candidly relate all the Commercial Con cerns I have had with Mr Deane. The first was a Concern in a Brigt and Cargo fitted out by Mr Delap of Bourdeaux for this Country one third on his own Acct, one third on Mr. Deanes & the other third on W[illing] M[orris] & Co[mpany]s Acct. This Vessell was taken & Mr Delap charged Willing Morris &: Co (whose Monies he had in hand) for their share. 2 The second, was in a Valuable Ship & Cargo fitted for America by


[Page 468]
432 January 7, 1779 to Congress and on the 28th Novr. informed them of my leave of absence obtaind to Settle the affairs of the late House of Willing Morris & Compy as well as my own & as some leisure time might Occur I offered in full Congress to take with me the Books of the secret Committee which were then unemployd. The Offer was accepted by general Consent, tho no resolution was entered, it being unnecessary. The day I left Congress 1 was appointed on a Committee to repair to Head Quarters from whence 1 did not return to Manheim untill the 15 Deer, at which time the Books were not arrived nor did they reach me untill the latter end of that Month. In the beginning of Feby 1778 I was informed that .some matters to my prejudice had been insinuated by a Member in Congress respect ing these Books whereupon I wrote a letter dated the 8th that month to the Commercial Committee who then had the Direction of them complaining of the injury and offering to return them and received an Answer dated the 21st, containing the following Clause “We laid this letter (meaning mine) before Congress who desired us to inform you that they wou’d have you still keep the Books in your possession and settle them as soon as you could.” Accordingly I retained them & untill they were redilivered employd on them the little leizure which remained from my private avocations & the many interruptions occa sioned by public business which pursued me in my retirement & many times obliged me to Visit York Town each visit taking up from four to six days. In the beginning of June I went to Camp at Valley Forge & remained there untill the evacuation of this City, after a Weeks stay here I returned to Manheim to bring down my Family &: Effects. I was again in Philada the 4th day of July the Anniversary of our Glorious Independance & in the course of a Week or Ten days my Effects & with them the Books in Question came down and remained unopened untill I delivered them to the Clerk of the Commercial Committee which I think was in that Month July. Thus it appears that instead of having these Books to Work in, from Octr 1777 to Septr 1778, it was in my power to do so only from the latter end of Deer, to the first of June; And instead of returning them in the same or nearly the same unsettled State they were received, these Books will shew that I Settled a Number of Accounts the Entries being made with my own hand in the Waste Book. They were afterwards Journalized & Posted by my Clerks, untill the Ledger was so full that there was not room to open any More Accounts in it. I sent to Lancaster to procure paper of the same Size to be sewed into that Book that I might go on but none suitable for the purpose could be obtained & I was obliged to shut these Books at that time. Mr. T. Ms. papers were Seized on his Death in France by the Kings Officers according to the Custom in that Country they were afterwards delivered to & kept by the American Commissioners untill orders shoud appear from America. I applyed


[Page 469]
January 7, 1779 433 to Congress for an order to have them delivered to my Agent; tho’ at that time ignorant of the State of his Accts. I pledged myself to Congress tho’ no ways bound to do so, that I would pay any balance that might be due, from him to the Public. These Books & Papers I have not yet reed, nor do I know whether the order for them has reached my agent’s Hands but the House at Nantz who under his Direction transacted all the commercial business of Mr. T. Morris have rendered clear Accounts of those Concerns to the Commercial Com mittee. His Accounts have, since I delivered up the Books, been rendered by the House that transacted the Public business under his Superintendance. There is no embarrassment in them that I know of and instead of his being a Debtor the Balance is in favour of that House Lrs. 50380.2.9 or about £ Sterlg which they stopped from Monies of W. M. & Cos in their hands & have empowered me to receive the same from Congress. By this manner of mentioning that, the Amount of Expenditures on the Committee’s Book is considerably above Two Millions of Dollars, some People may be led to immagine that I stand Accountable for that Sum. The Fact is thus. The Books are Kept by double Entry and the Treasury having Credit for all the Monies drawn from it, by the Committee, those who received are charged &: Accountable for what they did receive, many Gentn from New Hampshire to Georgia entered into Contracts on which they reed parts of this Money for which they have accounted or are to Account and in the like manner is my late House or myself to Acct for all Monies by them or me re ceived. Twice I have settled W. M. & Cos Accounts with the Secret Committee and the Entries thereof are in their Books the last was closed in May 1778 a balance being thus due to my House. There are it is true many Articles yet to be Settled. I have made out In best State of them in my power and wou’d gladly make a final Settlement if possible, that cannot now be done because some Accts Sales & Accts Currant are not yet received from Europe and many Articles of Goods which are finally to be Articles of these Accounts have been by inev itable Accidents lodged in the West Indias & must be carried to Account in different ways on the Contingency of their safe arrival within the United States. On the best Computation I can make of all the depending Accounts my late House & myself have with the Conti nent the latter are considerably indebted, and I shall either make a Speedy Settlement or if Circumstances continue to put that out of my power I will lay before Congress a full State & Estimate of these dependancies when I doubt not they will do ample [.. .] Justice to my Character. As my determination is not to enter into any Controversy with the Author that has made this unprovoked & unmerited attack I do not think it worth while to take any other Notice of his remarks referred


[Page 470]
434 January 7, 1779 to in the Publication respecting the Government of Pensylvania, than to agree that whenever I aim at the Government or at handling the Public Money, these remarks shall have the full force he intends on my reputation. Out of respect to that Public with which I wish to stand as fair as my real Conduct & Character deserves so far have I been from protracting the Settlement of Public Accounts that I have on all occasions promoted such Settlements and all measures that tended thereto. In Novr 1777 before I left Congress at York Town I drew up a report from the Commercial Committee for Establishing a Board of Commissioners to manage the Public Commerce 8c settle the Accounts, urging that it was Impossible for Members of Congress if ever so well acquainted with business to do that duty 8c attend in Congress, this I urged frequently 8c the report being opposed by some still lies undetermined on in Congress. After joining Congress in Philada I moved that the Old Members of the Secret Committee as most Competent might be reappointed a Committee to finish the Settlement of their Accounts which was agreed, but those members being much engaged one of them that did attend I hired a good accomptant to Work at those Accounts which he did untill discharged by a Member of the New appointed Commercial Committee who I understand have undertaken to finish the Settlement of these Accounts himself. 1 will only add, that it is in my power to prove by papers in my possession, papers 8c records in the Public offices or by living Wit nesses of unquestionable Character every Circumstance 8c Fact that I have laid before the Public. 8 R M [P.S.] Mr. Robert Morris of Philada. presents his Compts to such Printers as may re-Publish the papers Stiled, Common Sense to the Public on Mr. Deanes affairs—and Request’s they will republish there with this address to the Public and he will chearfully pay their drafts on him for the charge of printing. MS (DLC: Morris Papers). In the hand of Robert Morris. This document was printed, with many minor variations, in the January 9, 1779, issue of the Pennsyl vania Packet. Although Morris did not attend Congress after November 1778, the issues discussed in this document and in his January 11 letter to Henry Laurens on the same subject bear so directly on several significant congressional matters that they have been deemed integral to this edition of delegate correspondence. 1 The “Publication in Mr Dunlaps paper” to which Morris is responding was actually a lengthy letter Thomas Paine addressed “to the Public on Mr. Deane’s Affair” which appeared over his pseudonym Common Sense in the December 31 and January 2, 5, 7, and 9 issues of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet. It is more readily accessible in the Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888): 209—39. 2 See these Letters, 4:154-55. 3 Ibid., pp. 656-58. < Ibid., 6:177. “For Morris’ "concerns” with Deane, see also ibid., 7:268-70, and Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 20 (1887): 293-97. • Several of the “papers” referred to by Morris have been printed in this edition


[Page 471]
January 8, 1779 435 of delegate letters. For references to a number of these, pertaining to many of the events and issues discussed here by Morris, see volumes 8, 9, and 10 of these Letters. For Henry Laurens’ efforts to correct the facts Morris here “laid before the Public” and Morris’ response to Laurens’ challenge, see Laurens to Morris, January 10, and Morris to Laurens, January 11, 1779. For Thomas Paine’s reply to Morris, which appeared in the January 12 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet, see the Deane Papers (NYHS Colls.), 21 (1888): 266-72. John Fell’s Diary [January 8, 1779] 8th Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letter read from T. Payne with his Resignation, debates on the subject lasted till past 4 oClock. Dr Weatherspoon went home. 1 Dined with Congress. MS (DLC). 1 John Witherspoon’s departure initiated a very irregular record of attendance at Congress for 1779, which Witherspoon explained in a March 20, 1780, letter to a friend in Scotland. “I have now left Congress, not being able to support the expense of attending it, with the frequent journies to Princeton, and being determined to give particular attention to the revival of the college. Professor Houston, however, our professor of mathematics, is a delegate this year; but he tells me he will cer tainly leave it next November. I mention this circumstance to confirm what I be lieve 1 wrote you formerly, that the members of Congress in general, not only receive no profit from that office, but I believe five out of six of them, if not more, are great losers in their private affairs. This cannot be otherwise; for as none of the delegates are allowed to have any lucrative office whatever, either in their own state or for the United States, though their expenses should be fully borne, their time is taken up, and their own private estates are neglected. At the end of the year 1778, I gave notice to our legislature that they must either not chuse me at all, or leave me at full liberty to attend only when I could conveniently. They chose me however, and I made a good deal of use of that liberty in the year 1779; and this year all the delegates were changed but one, who had only been in one year, and who has not a house to go home to, his estate being in the neighbourhood of New York.” John Witherspoon, The Works of John Witherspoon . . ., 9 vols. (Edinburgh: J. Ogle, 1815), 9:171. Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 8, 1779] Friday. Congress sit ’till 4 o’Clock, & then dined at the city tavern, where they had invited Genl. Washington & a number of other Gentlemen to dine with them. MS (MDaAr).


[Page 472]
436 January 8, 1779 Thomas McKean to Thomas Collins Sir, 1 Philadelphia Jany [8?] 2 1779 From a full expectation that I should have been able to attend the General Assembly in person I have omitted to write to you before; but as I am prevented the satisfaction of being at Dover during this Meeting, owing to a variety of untoward circumstances, I shall tro[uble] you with a few lines. Since I had the honor of writing last to Mr. Speaker of the Assembly the State of New Jersey has ratified the Confederation; and the Senate and Assembly of Maryland have sent to Congress an instru ment called a Declaration, in which they approve of the several articles, provided Congress will add another for the limiting the boundaries of the States claiming to the South Sea or the Mississipi, and thereby allotting all lands, ungranted, surveyed or possessed at the commencement of the present war, for the use of the United States; they have also accompanied this with another instrument, asserting that their Delegates had ample power to make and conclude the Treaty with France which they term wise, just, equal and gener ous, and declare they will preserve inviolate for ever. Virginia has passed a law, alloting lands for the troops of all the States, or of such of them as choose to accept them; and for impowering every inhabi tant of the United States to take up lands in that State upon the same terms with any Citizen of that Commonwealth: this law I have not seen, but had the information from the Honoble. Thomas Adams just arrived from thence; he is one of their Assembly and a Member of Congress. Many evils are foreboded from the Confederation not being ratified, which I shall beg leave to mention; it is said, that it holds up a pros pect to Great Britain of creating disunion and drawing off some of the States, and therefore they may be induced to continue the war another Campaign—that it obstructs the negotiations of our Pleni potentiaries in Europe, in the forming other Alliances—and that it affords a pretext to France, were she so inclined, to conclude a peace with Great Britain without any reference to us, by alledging that she had been deceived in the Treaty; that we had called these States the United States of America, when in reality they had not confederated, nor would confederate. There are many other disadvantages sug gested, such as its being a temptation to the confederated States to commence a war against the others, upon some pretence or other (and such pretences are never wanting) and when conquered to annex them to some other, or sell them for the purpose of discharging public debts &c. Upon the whole I am clearly of opinion, that it is for the interest


[Page 488]
452 January 11, 1779 quent repetitions that the Commercial affairs had been sadly conducted. Some days after the conversation abovementioned, the Books of the Secret Committee being a subject of debate in Congress, Mr Laurens (being then President), begged leave to be heard—he ex pressed his astonishment at the long detention of those Books, which were then in the hands of the Honorable Robt Morris Esquire at Manheim & were wanted or said to be wanted by the Commercial Committee, he said that according to his Ideas of the nature of those Books admitting the Entries had been properly made in the Waste Book he would undertake to Post up the whole in nine days or would forfeit two of his fingers, he added that he wished for the adjustment of the Books & their return the more earnestly because of a circum stance which had come to his knowledge 8c then briefly related, what he had heard from Mr Lewis, as abovementioned. Mr Lewis was then standing in a Window at the left of & nearly touching the President’s Chair—Mr. Laurens turning himself to Mr Lewis added pointing with his left hand, & I have now in my Eye the honorable Gentleman from whom I received the information. Mr. Lewis, after the adjournment of Congress, called on Mr. Laurens & said I am very sorry you mention’d that affair in Congress —why so Sir? said Mr Laurens, you know I told you I would mention it at the first proper opportunity. Justice to all parties required that I should do so. Mr Lewis answer’d, because I had intended to mention it to Mr Morris himself the first proper opportunity. The above writing contains substantially the truth of every article & matter therein referred to. I do not presume to aver the several conversations are related verbatim. 2 MS (DNA: PCC, item 19). Written by Henry Laurens and endorsed by Charles Thomson: "The substance of what Mr Laurens related to Congress on Saturday Jan 9. 1779. reduced to writing by him and laid on the table according to Order Jany 11. 1779.” 1 For the circumstances which led Laurens to submit this statement to Congress, see Laurens’ Notes on His Remarks in Congress, January 9, 1779, Francis Lewis ’ response to this statement, see Lewis to Congress, January 14, Robert Morris to Henry Laurens Sir Philada. Jany. 11th, 1779. I am to acknowledge the Honour of Your Communication of this Morning. 1 1 shall say nothing as to the Propriety of Vindicating your self in the News paper, nor pretend to determine whether there is or is not a better Method.


[Page 489]
January 11, 1779 453 Your own feelings must prompt and your own judgement direct you. For myself I am indifferent what attacks may be made on me. I feel a consciousness of innocence which puts me above every Effort to cast a stain on what, I thank God, hath hitherto been an unblem ished reputation. Since you have enclosed that paper to me I am under the necessity of pointing out some of those instances in which from inadvertancy you have mistated Facts lest a silent Acquiescense shou’d be misconstrued into admission. You will observe that I have not chosen the Press as a Tribunal for the liquidation of Accounts but being charged Publickly by Name, I was under a Necessity of defending myself in my own Name pub lickly. "The one other Fact, you allude to—which if proved must affect my reputation” or rather one other allegation, I never heard untill last Saturday Evening when a Gentleman informed me what passed in Congress on the Subject. I have here to add that no circum stances could have given me greater pleasure than to learn that mat ters which had so long been the groundwork of private Conversation against me, were now to be publickly investigated and I will add, Publickly refuted. I am little solicitous who gave you the information, but am to thank you for the Public communication, and confess my astonish ment that the similar declaration at York Town, if such was made, was not followed by an immediate investigation for I agree with you that if it be true the Public ought to be informed, and I go farther, the offender ought to be punished. Why I have not made an enquirv into that charge is already answered for I could not enquire after things I had not heard and never shou’d expect to be charged with. The reason why I did not call on you was that from my informa tion, you had only drawn wrong conclusions from mistated Facts, and thence taken an opportunity to urge insinuations to my disadvan tage, to which a justification of myself before Members of Congress was unnecessary, and their cordial and unabated Friendship to me convinced me I had done what was right on that occasion. You are mistaken if you suppose I said that I hoped to accomplish the Settlement of the Books in question in about two Months. I did not say so. I agree that you or I or any person that understands Book-Keeping might soon post up the Books had the Entries been regularly made in the waste Book. They were not, but minutes of the Committee were regularly Kept, from which and the letters and Accounts in their possession, those Entries can be made. This is the State of that matter &: this I Stated to Congress while you was in the Chair and Moved a resolution that the Members of that Committee should be directed to finish the Settlement of those Accounts, 2 and when the Honourable


[Page 490]
454 January 11, 1779 R. H. Lee Esqr. declined this task then I asserted that I had no more business to settle the Books than (not any body else, but [)] any Mem ber of that Committee. If there was no decision in Congress on my letter of the 8th Feby., Mr. Lewis & Mr. Ellery must justify them selves for signing and Sending me the answer I have published. 3 I cannot suppose they wou’d have done it without proper Authority therefore am inclined to think they can set you right in that respect. You have much misapprehended what passed in Congress in Septr. 1778. I informed Congress that I had Worked at the Books of the Secret Committee untill the Ledger was filled so that there was no room for opening new Accounts and that I had delivered the Books to the Clerk, of the Commercial Committee. So far from saying, “that I had done all I could in the Books’’ (except on acct, of the Ledger) “and that they were in such Confusion I could make nothing of them and therefore wished to be rid of them.” I deny the Fact. I never entertained such Sentiments and declared quite the reverse. I said the Accounts were in such forwardness that they might easily be settled by the Members of the Secret Committee & therefore moved they might be appointed for that service, this Sir will be well Remem bered by many Members of Congress. What Conversation passed between You &: the Young Gentleman who called for the Books I really do not know. I authorized no such conversation on my part as you mentioned. That Young Gentn. when he recovered from Sickness went to the office to work at the Books, not finding ’em there he came to me. I knew nothing of them, but Mr. Brown informed him you had them, as I did not know your intentions, I told him I supposed you wou’d give them to him when you had done with them. With respect to the reasoning of your Piece I shall at present be Silent, if you are convinced of the justness of it you will abide by it, my own opinions govern me, and as you & I differ I will only tell you at this time, that I beleive your strictest search after deficiencies in the Committees or my Brothers Accounts will not answer your expecta tions, but if any such appear I will chearfully abide the Consequences shou’d Congress determine me to be answerable. When I have re ceived that acquittal which I am confident of and placed in that light which I know myself to deserve, it will be time enough to speak of private Friendships. I have a better opinion of you than to believe you would prostitute that term by a Connexion with me whom you seem to consider as a dishonest Man. 4 I am Sir with proper respect, Your most Obedt. & humble Servant, Robt. Morris P.S. I return your piece herewith. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23).


[Page 491]
January 12, 1779 455 1 See Laurens to Morris, January 10? 1779. 2 See JCC, 12:878-79. ’ Morris’ February 8, 1778, letter has not been found, but see these Letters, 9:118-22, 150-51. 1 For additional information on the subject of Laurens’ charges against Morris for his conduct of Secret Committee business, which became the subject of an extended congressional inquiry pursuant to a resolve of January 19, see Henry Laurens’ Notes, January 9; Laurens’ Statement, January 11; Francis Lewis to Con gress, January 14; Laurens to Congress, January 16, 1779; and JCC, 13:158-60, 163-76. Thomas Burke to James Duane Sir, Philada. January 12 1779 I presume the Object of your letter 1 handed to me in Congress today is to obtain a knowledge of the Resources of the State I repre sent in the Article of Bread. Respecting other States their delegates are more competent, and respecting Virginia in particular a Delegate from her who is one of your Committee 2 is much better able to in form You. The Country I live in produces great abundance of Indian Corn and Wheat. On the Great River the Crop of the former has been very much injured by Freshes; but enough yet remains for their own consumption, and to fatten a great deal of Pork, but far short of the usual quantity. The Western part of the State including a Tract of near two hundred Miles square, and containing near twenty Thou sand fighting men, produces great quantities of excellent Wheat and the last Harvest was very plentiful tho’ not quite so much had been sowed as usual. Except the Militia which has been embodied for the Southern Expedition I know of no particular consumption of this commodity. The quality I suppose may be somewhat injured by the Wevil; but I am persuaded there is much of it still to spare. The Mills have been much damaged by Freshes and Teames are become very scarce: These circumstances may make the transportation and manufacturing difficult, but I believe the desire of gain will surmount all. The stock in that Country are always fed on Indian Corn of which there have been very plentiful Crops the last Year. The Person of the Commissary department has spread among the People, they have been taught to believe that bread is very scarce every where else; and that the Demand for it will be much greater than ever. The Country I am now speaking of is remote from Navi gation ; but I believe a considerable quantity of Flour might be con tracted for at Cross-creek, or Wilmington on Cape-Fear River, which has a good Navigation. I am sir, Your Obedient Servant, Thos. Burke


[Page 493]
January 12, 1779 457 Cury. without any Inconvenience; which in a future day must be redeemed with Gold 8c Silver or its equivalent. Am sensible how averse our people are to emitting money, but when it is considered that the quantity of circulating medium is not increased by this Emission, and only one Species of Money exchanged for another, am led to beleive under this Consideration they will consent to emit such a Sum as they may judge necessary to exchange for Conti. Cury. This being a matter of real Moment to us, wish the Assembly to prosecute some Scheme that will avert the Danger. I must not omit informing you that Col. Clarke has not been promoted agreeable to Instructions given the Delegates by the As sembly. This matter expect will occasion some warmth among Colo. Clarkes Connections (whom I much esteem) and perhaps the As sembly may construe it, into a Violation of the Trust reposed in their Delegates—therefore think it necessary to state the matter as it really was. A few Days past Cols. Sumner & Clarke were nominated to be ballotted for Brigd. for our State, yesterday their Election came on, when Mr Burke 8c myself impressed with a Sense of the Duty we owe to the common Cause, and justly alarmed with the intended Resigna tions of many of our Officers, concluded that we should not be acting the part of candid 8c honest Men, not to remind Congress of our Instructions relative to this matter, and at the same time inform them of the Rank of our Line, and leave it with them to determine the Merits of the several Officers was not the question, but Seniority de termined Congress in favor of Col. Hogan; on our front we implicitly obeyed our Instructions, by nominating and voting for Col. Clarke, this was all we had it in our power to effect, and we rest assured from this State of the matter, we shall stand acquitted by our Country, as we are sensible they would wish us to retain that degree of Candor and Integrity, which ever distinguishes the worthy Character. I have the Honor to be with great Esteem, yr. Excellency’s most Obdt. Sert. Whitmell Hill RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 12th Jan 1779 Your favor of the 7th ulto came to hand only a few days ago. You ask me how I like the Election—the persons elected I can have no objection to, nor can I object to the manner of conducting the busi ness, not being acquainted with one circumstance respecting the matter. 1 I therefore can only say if the business was conducted upon true republican principles I am Satisfied. It gives me pleasure to hear


[Page 499]
January 14, 1779 463 peace &: safety in that Quarter it woud be my firm wish: God who rules over all only knows whether this Happiness is so near. In the present Situation of our Affairs I shoud not dare to hazard all that is dear to me in a Country so exposed at least to alarms and apprehensions. I do not doubt but we shall find some place where we can live in Com fort and affluence when I am done with Congress. Till then I cannot call myself free or independent. Upon this we shall have Leisure to consult when the distresses of our Country are at an End & we per mitted to act without Restraint. At present our best digested Schemes may be disappointed by the Fortune of War. We ought to be thankful that we have less Reason than most of our Acquaintance to be uneasy. Our Lands will rise in Value And (your} our kind Father can & will assist Us: Besides which I have a pro fession which with Gods blessing will without any other Aid support us. We have only then to bear the present moment with fortitude, and to do our Duty. I am oblig’d to the Doctor for his advice: I know it is sated: but 1 don’t love flannel next to my Skin. If I find Occasion however I shall try it—after a pound or two of Bark, I can put up with worse than Flannel. You give me a good hint about my servant. I knew little of him Sc woud freely give £100 to be assurd of His Honesty & yet he can do no one thing well but Shave. That however covers with me a multitude of Defects. You will not have the pleasure of seeing our Brother & Sister till the Spring. I am sorry for it as I am very sure you will like her ex ceedingly & that she will study to deserve it: for she is of a benevolent Temper, polite in her manners, & much prepossesd from your brother’s partiality, in your favour. Our Daughter also [. . .] great Satisfaction & Improvement. Present my dutiful Regards to our parents & affectionate Complemts to every branch of the Family. Kiss & bless for me our dear Children: &: believe me ever—my dearest Polly, Your obedt & faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC (NHi: Duane Papers). John Fell’s Diary [January 14, 1779] 14th Thursday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Debates relating to Monsr Girrards Letter. 1 Letters from Genl Schuyler, relat ing to Indians and restoration to be made to sundry Persons for damage Sustain’d by their forridge 8cc. Letters from Govr Clinton and


[Page 502]
466 January 15, 1779 FC (DNA: PCC, item 29). Written and signed by James Duane. 1 Duane, Samuel Adams, and Meriwether Smith had been appointed on January 12 to report on the practicability of supplying bread for the French fleet as re quested by Conrad Alexandre Gerard. Replying to Duane’s questions this same day. Commissary General of Purchases Jeremiah Wadsworth explained that he could not supply additional flour for the French fleet without “running the risk of depriving the American Army of bread.” The committee then recommended to Congress “that a candid representation of the facts relative to supplying the French squadron under the Command of Count d’Estaing with flour, be made to Sr. Gerard,” a recommendation Congress adopted on January 22. See PCC, item 29, fols. 127-30; and JCC, 13:52, 97-98, 103. See also Duane’s Minutes of a Conference with Gerard, February 3-4, 1779. John Fell’s Diary [January 15, 1779] 15th Fryday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letters from the Governors of Virginia and Maryland, advising of the Scheme agst Augustine being lay’d aside; 1 Report from the Marine Committee to Reverse the Sentance of Capt McNeal. 2 Memorial of Mr De Francy in behalf of Mr Bowmarcha 3 agreed to send him 3000 Hhds. Tobacco, At 6 P M at the Commercial Committee. MS (DLC). 1 See Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry, November 14, 1778, note 2. 2 For the court-martial of Capt. Hector McNeill, see Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, July 24, 1778, note 5. • That is, Caron de Beaumarchais. John Jay to John Beatty Sir Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779 In Obedience to the Order of Congress I transmit to you enclosed a Copy of an Act of the 14th Inst, directing you to supply Captain James Willing, (a Prisoner in New York) with One hundred Pounds New York Currency for his Subsistence 8cca. Scca. 1 I am, Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hbl. Servt. J.J. P.S. Your Letter of the 3rd Inst, has been received 8c referred to a committee. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 13:65. ’Beatty’s January 3 letter to Congress, in which he complained of harassment by Continental officers in New Jersey who refused to honor "the Liberty of Flags” he had issued to effect recently negotiated prisoner exchanges, is in PCC, item 78, 3:233-36. JCC, 13:43.


[Page 503]
January 15, 1779 467 John Jay to George Clinton Sir Philadelphia 15th Jany 1779. Yesterday your Letter To His Excellency General Washington covering several Papers relative to the burning a Barn at Little- Britain by the Convention-Troops was communicated to Congress by a Letter from him. These papers were immediately referred to a Committee, & your Excellency may rely on my taking the earliest opportunity of transmitting to you the final Resolutions of Congress on the Subject. 1 I have the Honor to be, with great Respect & Esteem, your Excel- lencys most Obedient & most Humble Servant. J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 According to the journals, a January 1 letter from Washington to Congress enclosing a December 18 letter to him from Clinton was read and referred to com mittee on January 14. See JCC, 13:63; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:461, 473. Clinton’s letter, which is in Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:401-2, was written in support of the appeal of “Mr. James McDowell of Little Britain, in this State,” for compensation for the burning of his barn by troops of the Convention Army during their recent march to Virginia. Apparently no action was taken on McDowell’s plea, however, for in 1786 he again submitted a memorial to Congress for the loss of his barn, but was advised that “his application ought to be made to the State of which he is a citizen.” JCC, 30:116-17. John Jay to Jean Theveneau de Francy Sir, Philadelphia 15 Jany. 1779 It gives me pleasure to transmit to You a Copy of an Act of Con gress of this day, from which You will perceive the determination of Congress to fulfil on their part the Agreement concluded with You on Behalf of Monsieur De Beaumarchais on the 7th April last. 1 For this purpose they have directed a large Remittance in Tobacco to be provided, and that the purchase of it may be made with greater dis patch, and with less Expence they think it expedient that the whole Transaction be kept a profound Secret. I am Sir, Your most Obed 8e very Hble Servt. J. Jay. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). ’Congress was responding belatedly to Francy’s letters of November 11 and 28, and December 19, 1778, appealing for long-promised remittances in payment for goods shipped to America in 1776-77 by his employer, Caron de Beaumarchais, under the cloak of the firm Roderique Hortalez & Co. This January 15 resolve ordering shipment of 3,000 hogsheads of tobacco for this purpose was adopted in response to Francy’s November 28 recommendation of this course, which had been referred to a committee consisting of Meriwether Smith, William Henry Drayton, and William Ellery. By this measure, Congress hoped to relieve its embarrassment


[Page 504]
468 January 15, 1779 over its inability to fulfill the longstanding obligation that had been re-acknowl edged in May 1778. In addition to endorsing Francy’s appeal for an immediate shipment of tobacco to France, the committee also reported the draft of a letter to Beaumarchais that was simultaneously prepared for the signature of President Jay. See JCC, 12:1123, 1168, 1240, 13:70-71; and PCC, item 14, 1:20-21, item 36, 4:115, and item 78, 9:209-12, 217-20. The committee’s draft letter to Beaumarchais, in the hand of William Henry Drayton, is in RG76, Records Pertaining to the Claims of Pierre Beaumarchais, DNA, rather than in the PCC. As Drayton’s draft letter to Beaumarchais is dated “December 1778,” it seems clear that the committee had decided to meet Francy’s request well before January 15. For Francy’s previous efforts to obtain remittances for Beaumarchais, see Henry Laurens to Francy, July 26; Committee of Commerce to Francy, August 3, 1778; and these Letters, 8:439, 9:222-23, 279-84, 678-79. For Francy’s reports to Beaumarchais on his efforts at this time to obtain settlement of the latter’s accounts, see Beaumarchais, Correspondence (Morton and Spinelli), 4:251-66, 272-76, 297-303. Congress’ response to Francy had been complicated and doubtless delayed because of the intervention of the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, who had suggested, as early as December 2 or 3, that Beaumarchais’ accounts could be settled, at least in part, simply by allowing the French court to apply to his credit a sum equal to the amount owed to the United States by the French navy for provisions supplied d’Estaing’s fleet at Boston. For the delegates’ reaction to this offer by G6rard, see Charles Thomson’s and Henry Laurens’ Notes on Proceedings in Congress, December 4, 1778. John Jay to Thomas Johnson Sir, Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779. Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, a Copy of an Act of Congress, of this day, by which they have resolved for the reasons therein enumerated to lay aside the design of employing the Maryland Gallies on a certain Expedition. 1 I have the honor to be, with great Respect & Esteem, Your Excel lency’s most Obedt. & Hble Servt, John Jay. President RC (MdAA: Red Books). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 JCC, 13:69. For the background of this resolution, see Henry Laurens to Patrick Henry, November 14, note 2; and Maryland Delegates to Johnson, December 23, 1778, note 1. John Jay to the Massachusetts Council Gentlemen, Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779 On the 13th Inst. I had the pleasure of receiving your Letters of the 15th & 18th December last. They were both immediately com municated to Congress, & by their Order referred to Committees. 1 I have the Honor to be, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servant. T Jav


[Page 505]
January 15, 1779 469 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). L JCC, 13:55-56. The council’s December 15 letter "respecting the fortifying the port of Boston” is not in PCC. For its December 18 letter appealing for relief from the hardships caused by the embargo on flour, see PCC, item 65, 1:360-63. For Congress’ February 26 resolve permitting “the executive powers of Maryland, Vir ginia, North Carolina and South Carolina, at their discretion,” to authorize the export of grain or flour to Massachusetts and Rhode Island, see JCC, 13:130, 152, 257. John Jay to Philip Schuyler Dear General, Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779 As the Secretary has neglected to furnish me (as usual) with the dates of your late Letters to Congress, and your Express sets out early in the Morning I must describe them by the Subject-Matter. The one on the Subject of your Resignation still remains under consideration. 1 The one respecting the Request of the Oneidas is referred to a Committee appointed to confer with General Washing ton who are directed, without the further Intervention of Congress to determine & give order relative to it. 2 The Third, which, if I mis take not, states the Embarrassments you have been subjected to by Genl. Gates’ having forbid the Quarter Master to pay certain Notes you gave while in command, is referred to a special Committee who are ordered to report without delay. 3 As the Act of Congress, of which the enclosed is a copy, was intended to accommodate the Resolutions on Finances to the convenience of the Army, I take the Opportunity of transmitting it to You. 4 It may be proper also to inform You that Congress have accepted the Resignations of Coll. Henry Beekman Livingston, & Lieutenant Houghkirk. 5 I have written You two private Letters since my arrival, which, by your silence respecting them, I fear have miscarried 6 —Expect another by the next Express. I have the Honor to be Sir, with great Respect & Esteem, your most obed. & most Hbl. Sevt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 General Schuyler’s December 27 letter asking Congress to accept his resignation from the army is in PCC, item 153, 3:396-400. The delegates had still not taken action on this request, however, when Schuyler’s March 5 letter containing a renewal of it was received on March 18, at which time they declared “that the situation of the army renders it inconvenient to accept his resignation, and there fore Congress cannot comply with his request.” But when Schuyler responded to this rejection with still another renewal of his request. Congress resolved on April 19 to accept it. See JCC, 13:27-28, 332-34, 473; PCC, 153, 3:426-32; and Jay’s two letters to Schuyler of March 21, 1779. Schuyler’s decision at this time to resign his Continental commission was also followed by a decision to resign his seat in Congress. A photostat of his January 12, 1779, letter to “Walter Livingston Esqr., Speaker of the Honorable House of Repre-


[Page 506]
470 January 15, 1779 sentatives,” requesting the New York legislature to appoint another person to the state’s delegation to Congress "in my Stead,” is in the Schuyler Personal Miscella neous Collection, NN. 2 Apparently a reference to a January 5 letter from Schuyler which has not been found. See JCC, 13:63. See also Henry Laurens to Schuyler, December 2, 1778, note; and JCC, 13:332, 363, 411. ’ According to the journals. Congress referred a January 3 letter from Schuyler to a committee consisting of Thomas Burke, Eliphalet Dyer, and John Fell, but the letter has not been found and Congress had taken no action on it before Schuyler’s resignation was accepted in April. See JCC, 13:63, 124, 129. * Probably Congress’ January 12 instructions to paymasters on exchanging Con tinental bills being retired from circulation, for which see Jay to the Continental Paymasters, January 13, 1779. ‘JCC, 13:56, 58. Jay’s letters of this date to Col. Henry Beekman Livingston and Lt. John Hooghkirk acknowledging Congress’ acceptance of their resignations are in PCC, item 14, fols. 14-15. * Only Jay’s December 8, 1778, letter to Schuyler has been found. John Jay to William Shippen, Jr. Sir, Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779 On the 12th Inst I had the pleasure of receiving your favor of the 10th & communicating it to Congress. They have referred it to the Medical Committee. 1 I am, Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servant, J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Shippen’s letter is not in PCC, and there is no mention of it in the journals after it was referred to the Medical Committee. JCC, 13:51. John Jay to Stephen Ward Sir Philadelphia 15th Jany. 1779 Immediately on receiving your Letter of the 6th Deer, last, I com municated it to Congress. 1 A Committee was thereupon appointed to enquire into the Facts mentioned in it, and Mr. Drayton, (One of that Committee) a few days after wrote You a Letter on the Subject, which I sent by Express to Poughkeepsie. I hope you have received it and that You will endeavour to obtain & transmit the necessary Proofs he requires without delay. 2 I am Sir, your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 13:10. Ward’s December 6 letter to Jay is in PCC, item 78, 23:579-83. In it he explained that his house in Westchester County, N.Y., had been destroyed by the order of Gen. William Tryon just two days after the expiration of the grace period specified in the British commissioners’ October 3 “Manifesto” warning of more destructive measures if Americans continued to ignore the peace proposals


[Page 511]
January 16, 1779 475 confront them by the Charter Party, the Bills of Loading, the special indorsed Contract nor the instrument of valuation, but I honestly confess that those jealousies which Mr. Lewis’s information had raised in my mind at York Town are not removed. I have caused diligent search to be made in the Commercial Com mittee’s Office for copy of the Orders to John Brown or Brown and Cornthwaite for chartering and loading the Farmer, and for their letters in answer—for orders to Mr. Buchanan and his answer—for Letters to Thomas Morris 8c to Pliarne, Penet and Company respect ing the consignation and the “advice” of “the proper Account and risque” referred to in the Bills of loading. For the necessary Entries on the Committees Books of the Orders for Chartering, Loading and Insuring the Vessel which ought to have appeared there in manner and stile clear and explicit. The Clerk of the Office informs me that he has spent many hours seeking for these lights and can discover none of them nor any Papers concerning the Farmer excepting those before mentioned which were tyed up in one parcel and appeared to be all the documents relative to that Ship—but that he had not fully examined every Paper in the Office, it is possible therefore they may hereafter be found. Neither can I discover the letter which Mr. Lewis says Mr. Morris sent to Congress informing them of “a rumor spread in Philadelphia that the Ship was taken by the Enemy, but he hoped it was not true, if it was, he had fifty Hogsheads of Tobacco on board on his own Account.” The first extract produced by Mr. Lewis is copy of an entry on the Books that an Order was drawn by the Commercial Committee 16th April 1777 on the Treasury for payment of 14666 % Dollars to the owners of the Ship Farmer for the valuation of that Ship, Chartered and insured by the Committee on public Account, said ship being taken in Chesapeake Bay on the twenty first day of January last by two of the Enemy’s ships of War as appears by the Captains Protest.” The Protest sets forth that the Ship had been captured, but not of her being chartered and insured by the Committee on Public Account; nor does any one of the antecedent documents referred to above, tend to induce a belief that she was. The Committee must therefore have derived their knowledge that the Ship was “chartered and insured on Public Account” from some other sources of informa tion, for I will not suppose they would have drawn the Order for 14666 2^ Dollars, or have suffered the recited entry to be made in their Books but under the influence of some kind of proofs for their guide in the disposal of Public Money—two of the Committee are now present, these Gentlemen may possibly give the House such informa tion on this head, as will remove every doubt and render further investigation unnecessary. 3


[Page 512]
476 January 16, 1779 Sir, I have not been thus minute from any wish or desire to crimi nate Mr. Robert Morris; Congress will remember I declared that my views in mentioning this subject at York Town were to do justice to that Gentleman as well as to the Public—but to return to Mr. Lewis’ Paper. If Mr. Lewis had been satisfied on the 16th of April 1777, four Months before I had the honor of his acquaintance that the Ship Farmer had been bona fide, chartered, insured, and loaded on Public Account, I demand, with what view, or for what good purpose did he. eight or ten Months after that date relate to me that Captain Dashiel had said his Ship “was chartered by Messrs. Willing and Morris’ Clerk, and that the Bills of Loading which the said Captain had signed were filled up shipp’d by Willing and Morris and that the Committee had therefore concluded that the Cargo was not on Public Account.” I quote Mr. Lewis’ words of the 14th Instant delivered on Paper, not those which he really spoke to me at York Town. Did Mr. Lewis give this strange and inconclusive relation in order to convince me that our Commercial transactions, were not, “in a confused state”? Does it seem to have been calculated for hushing my complaints, implied in the hints which he says I gave of “some Vessels employed in the Public service carrying Goods on the private Account of some Members of the Committee”? Or did it rather, as I have most truly averred serve to “heighten my jealousies by his frequent repetitions that our Commercial Affairs had been sadly conducted”? That those Affairs had been sadly conducted requires no other proof than half an hours review of the Committee’s Books. Why did Mr. Lewis after I had briefly mentioned in Congress the information which he had given me of the Tobacco Ship and had appealed personally to him call on me and say, “I am very sorry you mentioned that affair in Congress, because I intended to mention it to Mr. Morris myself”? And I now appeal to every candid mind, does not Mr. Lewis’s present and very inconclusive narrative of what he calls a tete a t^te conversation tend to excite suspicions of some hidden or unfair pro ceedings in the case of the ship Farmer? The "conclusions of the Committee that the Cargo was not on Public Account” one would naturally suppose were well grounded before they put the Public to the expence of equipping an extra Ship merely for the purpose of carrying dispatches. The owner of the Ship Farmer lived at Baltimore, a conference with him would in stantly have removed all the difficulties which Captain Dashiel had raised.


[Page 513]
January 16, 1779 477 The Ship Farmer was chartered on the third of October 1776, sailed on the 10th of January 1777 and captured on the 21st of that Month. According to Mr. Lewis’ state, the first insinuation that the bulk of the cargo was Public property appeared in Mr. Morris’ Letter written subsequently to the capture informing Congress that he had fifty Hogsheads of Tobacco on board. If the charter, the loading and the Insurance had been actually on Public Account, how came Mr. Lewis to remain in ignorance of these interresting facts at least four Months, and for aught we know, to this hour? I will beg Mr. Lewis’ indulgence to ask him another question—If the Vessel was chartered and insured on Account of the Public, by whose permission and under what stipulations did Mr. Morris ship fifty Hogsheads of Tobacco on his private Account? But, Sir,—After all these appearances I do not charge Mr. Morris with fraud, I never did charge him with fraud, nor did I ever intend to do so from bare appearances, I honestly appealed to the Gentle man who had made a display of those appearances. It will rest with Mr. Morris, unless the Commercial Committee can now give us satisfaction, by clear, explicit, unambiguous proofs to convince this House that his conduct was honest & justifiable. The best friend Mr. Morris has in the World will not more sin cerely rejoice than I shall, at the sight of such evidence. If Mr. Morris’ character has been unjustly drawn into suspicion, I am not the Man, who—from malice, wantonness, or stupid inattention to business placed, or suffered it to remain in an unfavorable light. Had I harboured a malignant disposition for blasting that Gentle mans reputation I should long ago have searched for the Papers which I have, in the present instance been compelled to exhibit. Every sensible Man will acknowledge they contain ample funds for slanderous whisper, but by the grace of God I have acted a more gen erous part; I briefly related to Congress what I had learned from Mr. Lewis, and to this Gentleman I appealed as my informant, thence forward contenting myself with the reflection that I had done my duty. I shall conclude with saying that I have reason to believe I am not the only Gentleman to whom Mr. Lewis has, at some time or other expressed his dissatisfaction with the affair of the Ship Farmer, a mere dissatisfaction expressed by him has a tendency to excite jealousies in the minds of Men ignorant of the facts, but not of the universal opinion “that our Commercial affairs had been sadly con ducted.” 4 Henry Laurens


[Page 515]
January 17, 1779 479 day, in answer to the application of the Delegates of this State, agreeable to your Excellency’s Instructions of the 14th Inst., 1 & am Y’r Excellency’s, Most ob’t & very huml serv’t. Daniel Roberdeau. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:159. 1 Roberdeau enclosed a resolve of Congress advancing Pennsylvania $160,000 in response to the state’s request "for an advance of Sixty Thousand Pounds, which is become necessary, not only from the great expenditures of the State for Congress, but much the more so by the resolve of Congress of the 2d instant, for calling in two emissions of their Bills of Credit.” See JCC, 13:74; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:664, 666-67, 669. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 17th Jany 1779 I have received Your Favor of 14th Ulto which acknowledges the receipt of Mine of the 20th Nov which you say is “replete with cen sure,” as the small portion of time I have to devote to private Friend ship will not admit of my taking copies of such Letters, nor can I recollect at this distance of time the particular mode of expression I then used, I must suppose your Quotation is right; admiting that to be the case. Sc the expressions exceptionable; what is to be done? to retract, (according to the modern opinion) is dishonorable; and we are at too great a distance to settle the dispute in a certain concise way, that is very fashionable in this part of the world. I therefore will consent on my part to drop it, provided you will be more punctual in Your correspondence in future. Perhaps such small concessions as these may produce a Treaty tending to perpetuate a Friendship that I highly value and which you seem to have no objection to. I wish the promotion of Simpson as sincerely as you do, but the reasons you give, viz the appointmt. of Landais & Hardin operate against it for the present. 1 I hope he will content himself with the Command he has for the present Cruise on which I doubt not, his conduct will justify me in urging his promotion. Inclosed is an entry taken from the Books of the Commercial Committee, which is the last article in the Ledger & the accot. is there Ballanced. I have been endeavoring ever since I have been here to get a supply of Flour for you &: am now as far off as ever. In short I know not what can be done. The last Crops were exceedingly short, so short that the Com- misary tells me he shall be put to difficulty to supply the Army. However I do not quite despair. I shall be able in two or three weeks to give you full information on this subject. It will answer no purpose to send vessels at present, as no private vessels will be suf-


[Page 531]
January 20, 1779 495 Virginia, & No. Carolina, auxiliaries 5000 So Carolina at the very utmost when beset by Britons, Indians, Negroes & Tories, on all sides in her bosom 7000 12000 Plunder in Georgia Rice Indigo Gallies & other Navigation Homed Cattle said by Mr. Langworthy to be in the State 15000—admit Negroes not less than 5000 Indian Corn, Peas & Potatoes great abundance sufficient to feed their Troops & fleet 2 or 3 Months Pitch, Tar & Turpentine enough for present supply of their fleet Pine, Cypress & Cedar, Scantlin Boards Sc Shingles, as much as the Enemy can find Shipping to transport Horses—abundance- All the Islands of Daufuskee, Hilton Head, St. Helena, Hunting Islands, Fenwicke’s, Edisto 8cc 8cc $ o c aro jj na abounding with horned Cattle, Horses, / Rice, Indigo, Corn, Pease, Hogs, Sheep, I Negroes 8cc Sec—all at their mercy ’ All the heavy Cannon 8c Military Stores in Georgia MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 24). In the hand of Henry Laurens and endorsed by him: “Estimate of the Enemy’s Enterprize against Georgia, 20th January 1778 [i.e. 1779].” 1 Although the date of Laurens’ endorsement is in error, he undoubtedly pre pared these notes in connection with his work on the committee that was con ferring with Washington on a plan of operations for the 1779 campaign, to which Congress this day referred Gen. Benjamin Lincoln’s December 31 letter on the fall of Savannah. JCC, 13:93. For the steps that the committee’s report led Congress to take on January 22 in relation to the defense of Georgia and South Carolina, see JCC, 13:100-103. Unfortunately, since the committee’s report has not been found, it is impossible to determine whether Laurens made these notes for his personal use or for that of the committee. For a related document, see Laurens’ Notes on South Carolina’s Defense, December 1778. William Whipple to John Langdon 20000 bars 200000 lbs 3000 My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 20th Jany 1779. Your three favors viz No 6, 7 8c 8 came to hand yesterday; I suppose


[Page 532]
496 January 20, 1779 the Severity of the weather has delayed the Post. I see no danger this way of a loss of influence. Some little convulsions are always necessary to let people know themselves. I hope the plan of finance will have a good effect, but something farther must be done. I hope New Hampshire will tax largely and not confine herself to the 500,000—her proportion was set higher, but I got it lowered in order that she might be more at liberty to act herself. 1 Many of the States will tax much more than the sums set to them. Virginia will raise between 2 and 3 millions lawful. Those States that tax very high while money is thus plenty will certainly find their advantage in it. I shall write you a long letter the first opportunity, but at present I have not time to add save that I am very Sincerely, Your most affec tionate friend &c, Wm. Whipple Tr (DLC: Force Collection). 1 Whipple had been a member of the committee appointed on January 4 to apportion the states’ quotas for 1779, which had been set at a $15,000,000 total. As New Hampshire’s proportion for 1778 had been $200,000 of $5,000,000, Whipple had in effect reduced New Hampshire’s proportionate share by $100,000. See JCC, 9:955, 13:25, 28. John Fell’s Diary Jany 21st 1779 Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Letter from the French Minister, and the Marine Committees answer about Provision, and the Commissary Generals reply that he could not furnish any Flour to the Minister. 1 6PM Commercial Committee. MS (DLC). 1 For further information on the French request for flour, see James Duane to Jeremiah Wadsworth, January 15, 1779. Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee Minutes Jany. 21st 1779 A Committee chosen to make an inquiry into foreign affairs to consist of a member from each state. 1 Members chosen: Whipple, Gerry, Ellery, Elsworth, Duane, Fell, Searle, McKeen, Paca, Smith, Burke, Laurens, Langworthy. A number of the members meet several Evenings but not making a Committee did no business. 2 MS (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). In the hand of William Whipple. 1 This committee was appointed on January 20 “to take into consideration the


[Page 534]
498 January 21, 1779 vicious fashion of the day, but with shame I confess it to be alto gether anti-republican and inconsistent with the circumstances of the distressed States of America. Whatever sum the Treasury shall be pleased to determine upon, will be perfectly satisfactory to me; had I known I had been living at public expence my conduct should have been governed by different rules & principles. Under cover with this you will receive an Account of my advances to a Secretary, for I employed but one at a time, to Express Mes sengers &c which you will be pleased to lay before the Honorable Board, and if it shall be found free from error, a Warrent on the Treasury for the Balance 3394 15/90 Dollars, will be very acceptable. 2 I have the honor to be, With great regard, Sir, Your obedient &: most humble Servant. H. Laurens RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23). In the hand of Moses Young and signed by Laurens. Addressed: “John Gibson Esquire, Auditor General, Philadelphia.” En dorsed by Gibson: “Honble Henry Laurens Esq 21 January 1779”; and by an unidentified hand: "passed Novr. 9 1779.” ’ Laurens’ December 19 letter, which was read by Congress on December 22 and referred to the Board of Treasury, has not been found. See JCC, 12:1240. 2 Laurens’ “Account of my advances” has not been found. On November 12, 1779, Congress agreed to pay Laurens $35,000 “in full of his household expences for thir teen months, being the time of his acting as President of Congress,” which had been reduced at his request from the sum of $52,284 originally recommended on November 6. See JCC, 15:1243-44, 1259-60. Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dear Livingston Phila. 21st Jany. 1779. Were it not that I sometimes hear there is somewhere in Existence such a Person as the Chancellor of NYork I should really begin to think you had launched upon the Stygian Ferry and wearied with the Cabals of a Republic made choise of the absolute Government of the galant tho gloomy Pluto. Is it that you are so busied in heavenly Contemplation as to need a Flapper, or so buried in Indolence as to require a Blister? Come tell me your Disease. Is it because you love Chess so much that you love your Friends so little? Does the Bland ishment of Family Enjoyments of domestick Bliss chain your aspiring Soul to your Chimney Corner? Have you lost the Paternal Regards of your great Family the People because some of the Boys are forward, arch and mischeivous? Have you because encountered by Intrigue and Cabal lost a Sense of your own Dignity so as to sink under Evils which Spirit and Activity would surmount? Come I will make no more im pertinent Enquiries. You know your own weak Side. Put Armour on it. Sit down half an Hour and suppose yourself unconnected with all the


[Page 537]
January 22, 1779 501 eral of Prisoners Reside at Camp and that he receive orders from the Commander in Chief, Congress, or the Board of Warr. Inspector General to have the Rank of Major General. 23d Saturday. Commercial Committee 9 oClock. Congress. Intro duced Coll Frelinghuysen. NB some of the Business sett down Yeterday was done this day and Enterd through mistake. MS (DLC). 1 Frederick Frelinghuysen’s service as a New Jersey delegate officially began on January 19 when he set off for Congress. According to his account filed on May 31, 1780, Frelinghuysen claimed "by attendance at Congress as one of the Delegates for the State, from January 19th 1779 to March 14th 1779 both days inclusive at 20 dollars per day is—1100 Dollars.” Charles Roberts Autograph Collection, PHC. Frelinghuysen appears to have "adjusted” the dates of his attendance in this ac count, however. Fellow delegate John Fell noted that Frelinghuysen did not leave Philadelphia to return home until March 25 and that he also did not attend Congress from February 27 to March 10. See Fell’s Diary entries for February 27, March 11, and 25, 1779. 2 The remainder of Fell’s January 22 entry consists of references to proceedings in Congress that actually took place the following day. See Fell’s concluding note at the foot of this combined January 22-23 entry; and JCC, 13:103-4, 107, 110-12. Samuel Holten’s Diary [January 22, 1779] 22. Friday. We have Acct, of Savannah being taken by the enemy. 1 Good Slaying. MS (MDaAr). 1 The news of the British capture of Savannah had been received by Congress on January 20 in a December 31, 1778, letter from Gen. Benjamin Lincoln. See JCC, 13:93; and John Fell’s Diary, January 20, 1779. John Jay to Certain Continental Officers Sir Philadelphia 22nd Jany. 1779 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 21st Instant. 1 I am, Sir, with great Respect, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. J.J. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: "To Major General Sullivan.” Endorsed: "The Same to Major Generals Lincoln & Gates—also to Ebenezer Hancock Esqr. Dy. PayMaster to the Eastn. Department to Benjn. Harrison Junr. Esqr. Dy. Paymaster to the Southern Depart. & to the Assistant PayMaster with Genl. Sullivan.” 1 For this resolve directing auditors and paymasters to establish their offices “near


[Page 538]
502 January 22, 1779 R E S S 8, 1778. OCTOBER • January >4, 1779: ExtrtB from tbt CHARLES THOMSON, Stentary. Printed by JOHN DUNLAP. In JANUARY trt, 1779. Revoked, That it be recommended to the fcveral Sutes forthwith to adopt fuch meafures as may be eBbdual for detediag perfbas employ'd in making Connterfet Bills or paffing the fiune, knowing them to be foch NOVEMBER 19, 1778. Refolded, That the ComtniSioners of the Continental Loan-Offices of the United States, be rejpetiively didb&cd to receive for Loan-Office CertiScttea, foch Bills of Credit only, as have been or may be emitted by Congrefs, any Rcfoludon to the contrary notwithftanding. JANUARY sft» 17> ReCWvcd, ^That One-eighth per cent be allowed to the ConiEaiffiecm of the Lcan^)ffic«^|m the amount of BiUs to be exchanged by them re* i^cdively, in I^b of all ether cxpencet attending the faid Eu&neG, R E S O L VE D, That all Limitatiant of prices of Gold and Silver ba taken off. fir . v -x Refolded, That it be recommended to the feverat States to take the ^Z^***^* medt fpeedy and etib&ual mcofures for publilhing Ae^ Resolutions of the * ad Inftant, id their Several Coonties, Towna^and Dillrias, and for en- couraging the wealthy inhabitants thereof# to unite in affiiting the m- / > digear by exchanging without difeouat. Bills in their pofleffion, of the r 1 Emiffiona of May ao, 1777. 80,1 A P^ XI » x 77®‘ Resolves on Finance, October 1778 to January 1779


[Page 543]
January 23, 1779 507 1 For this January 22 resolution calling upon North Carolina and Virginia “to press forward the relief formerly recommended by Congress to be sent from those states to South Carolina and Georgia,” see JCC, 13:100-102. Jay also enclosed this resolve in a similar letter of this date to Gov. Patrick Henry of Virginia, which in addition was asked to send South Carolina “such part of the regiment of [Virginia] artillery ... as may be spared.” PCC, item 14, fol. 31. John Jay to the Committee of Conference Philadelphia 23d Jany. 1779 The President of Congress presents his Compliments to the Com mittee appointed to confer with General Washington &ca, and re quests the favor of them to compleat, & transmit to him a State of the Intelligence ordered to be sent to Count D’Estaing as soon as they conveniently can—that a measure deemed so important may not be affected by any delay in the President’s dispatches. 1 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 2 See the response of the Committee of Conference to Jay, January 25, 1779. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir Philadelphia 23rd Jany 1779 The Importance which the acquisition of Georgia would be to the Enemy & the necessity there is of not only opposing their further Progress, but of expelling them from that State, call for the most vigorous tho’ prudent Exertions. The enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22nd Inst. 1 will inform You of the Measures taken by Congress to reinforce the Army under your Command. Permit me to assure You of my best wishes that You may gather as many Laurels in Georgia as you reaped in New York. I have the Honor to be Sir, with great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. J. Jay. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See Jay to Richard Caswell, this date, note. John Jay to Rawlins Lowndes Sir, Philadelphia 23d Jany. 1779 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed two printed papers containing Copies of several Acts of Congress on the Subject of Finance. 1


[Page 548]
512 January 24, 1779 Rank to the assistant Inspector General in the opinion of some of the members of Congress. That we may know your Excellency’s Opinion on these points & particularly whether there is a necessity for the Rank recommended are the principal motives for the Reference. 2 The enclosd Dispatches from the Commisy. Prisoners require im mediate Attention. 3 If it will be convenient I shall be glad to spend a few minutes with you at any Time you shall appoint after four oClock. I have the Honour to be—with the utmost Respect, Sir, your Ex cellency’s most Obedient humble Servant, Jas. Duane RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by James Duane. Endorsed: "Philade—from Jas Duane Esq. Chairm. Comm. Conference.” 1 Although undated, this letter was probably written by Duane on January 24, the day after Congress referred to the committee a Board of War report on the Inspector General’s Department and a letter from Commissary of Prisoners John Beatty, both subjects discussed in this letter. 2 Congress agreed to a detailed plan for the Department of Inspector General on February 18 that specifically subordinated the inspector general to the commander in chief and the subinspectors to unit commanders. See JCC, 13:111-12, 196-200. ’ See JCC, 13:104. William Ellery to John Sullivan Dear Sir, Philadelphia Jany. 24th 1779 I received yours of the 15th of December, and have since found that the sentence of the court martial on Crossing & his associates answer’d my expectation. 1 The Court could not have done otherwise consistent with Law and justice; but it seems there is danger of re taliation in case the sentence should be executed. I should be very sorry if the execution of that infamous traitor, should occasion the death of any especially of a worthy whig. Genl. Prescott I find by your last letter to Congress on this subject is very solicitous to pre serve the lives of Crossing & Phillips. His Aid, if I remember right, told you that they both had Commissions. If this should be the case: If they had commissions from the KJing] of Britain previous to their kidnapping Almy &c. it would make a material alteration in their Cases; but I doubt this very much. If they had commissions why were they not produced at their trial: certainly there was time enough for that purpose, between the capture and trial; and why did not the Aid bring them to Providence? If Genl. Prescot will declare bona fide that they had those Commissions previous to their kidnapping expe dition, and exhibit them to you, I should give some Credit to such declaration & exhibit; but I must confess I am not satisfied with the Story of his Aid. The proceedings of the Court-martial are com mitted, and I am one of the Committee. I should chuse to have fuller


[Page 549]
January 25, 1779 513 light, than I have at present, before I can give Judgment: Therefore could wish, if you should receive any further information, that you would communicate it to Congress. Before this reaches you, you will doubtless have heard that the enemy consisting of about 2500 have taken possession of Georgia. Our accounts respecting this matter are confused. A few days since I saw a late Charlestown paper which advises that 6 sail of Count De Estaings Squadron were spoke with off Deseada, and that they had taken & sent into Martinico 7 transports with Troops from N. York bound to the W. Indias. That 2 transports with 300 Green-Coats on board had, under Convoy of the Camilla & Galatea, arrived at Ber mudas, 8c that as many more were to follow them. (I have since heard that they were invalids and were sent to garrison that place.) The same paper mentions that a Vessel (which left Calais the 17th of November) had arrived at Charlestown and brot account that there had been no engagement between the French 8c British fleets and that Ld. Sandwich was put into the Tower. I saw lately at Stephen Collins where I lodge a pretty young woman, who told me that her Husband Francis Brindley, 2 who was a first Lieutenant in Abraham Livingston’s Company, was dangerously wounded in the battle of Portsmouth, that She had heard nothing from him since she received that information, and desired that I would be so kind as to write to you on this Subject. Now, Sir, as I strongly suspect that you are, at least, as fond of obliging pretty women as I am, let me request you, Sir, in her behalf to make inquiry after this same Francis Brindley and let me know whether he is dead or living. I shall be also much obliged to you if you would inform me what Number of Vessels of War the enemy distroyed in our State during your expedition agst Rhode Island; the present State of your and the enemy’s Army &c. For doing this you will much oblige, Yr most humble Servant, William Ellery RC (DLC: Force Collection). 1 For further information on the court-martial of "Crossing & his associates,” see Henry Laurens to John Sullivan, January 5; and William Ellery to Sullivan, March 30,1779. 2 Francis Brindley, who had been appointed a first lieutenant in James Living ston’s First Canadian Regiment, December 18, 1776, survived to retire from the army in 1781. Heitman, Historical Register, p. 99. Committee of Conference to John Jay 25th January 1779. It appears that a detachment of the Enemy’s Troops by no means inconsiderable have possessed themselves of Savannah the Capital of


[Page 550]
514 January 25, 1779 Georgia. Their numbers cannot be ascertained, but it is between 2500 and 5000. Their Naval force is by no means considerable, consisting of a 50 and 40 gun Ship, two sloops of war and some gallies. By this Stroke they are in capacity more effectually to defend their possessions in East Florida, to annoy the southern parts of South Carolina, per haps in a favorable moment to attack Charlestown. They will draw from Georgia immense Supplies of provisions for their troops in America and the Islands. Their cruizers will shut up the navigation of South Carolina, and not only possess themselves of the property at sea intended for that State, but what is of greater importance totally prevent the sending of rice from thence for the use of our Allies in the Islands. It is a melancholy truth that little de pendence can be prudently placed on the wheat and flour of the more Northern States until the next harvest. But however great the ad vantages above Stated they derive one of far more value considered on a general Scale. The riches of Mexico and Peru are in a manner locked up, unless the southern extremities of America, and the Bahama Islands can be wrested from their possession, and it is highly probable that the expedition takes its rise from the apprehension of a war with Spain. While we lament the inconveniences which will be felt from the loss of Georgia, we cannot but derive pleasure from a consideration how much they have exposed themselves—should the Situation of affairs in the Islands permit such detachment from the combined fleets of France and Spain, or either of them as would prevent their escape by sea, while a body of good French or Spanish thrown in some favorable Situation between Savannah and Augustin would prevent their retreat that Way until the force now assembling in Virginia and the Carolinas could be collected to operate against them with effect. On a view of these circumstances it appears ex tremely probable that the consequences of the measure would be not only the destruction of that detachment of the Enemy’s force, but the possession of all those ports which secure the navigation of Mexico and gulph of Florida, the essential advantages of which during the future operations of the war are too evident to need illustration. The above paper 1 agreed to in Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief and directed to be delivered to the President of Congress, as the substance of intelligence respecting the invasion of Georgia. Jas. Duane for the Committee Tr (Archives nationales: Marine B‘ 168). 1 This is clearly a copy of the “state of the Intelligence” concerning the British capture of Georgia that was prepared by the Committee of Conference and General Washington at the request of President Jay following Congress’ January 23 decision to seek French aid in recapturing Georgia. James Duane, who signed this intelli gence report as chairman of the committee, had also drafted the resolution of Con-


[Page 559]
January 27, 1779 523 I have the Honor to be, Your Excellencys most Obedt. and Humble Servant, John Jay, Presidt RC (NHi: Reed Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 Pennsylvania President Joseph Reed’s letter of January 22, which was read in Congress on January 23, is in PCC, item 69, 1:583. His January 25 letter, which was read and referred to a special committee on January 26, is not in PCC, but a draft is in the Joseph Reed Papers, NHi. JCC, 13:105, 115. 2 Pennsylvania officials had long been frustrated over the exercise of Continental authority within their borders and especially with the imperious conduct of the military commander of Philadelphia, Gen. Benedict Arnold, and his staff. "The Papers respecting Mrs. Levy” related to an episode that had occurred in October, when Arnold’s aide Maj. Matthew Clarkson had issued a pass to Miss Hannah Levy to cross the enemy lines to go to New York. Such passes, Pennsylvania correctly contended, were to be issued by “the executive powers of the State to which they [persons ‘desirous of going within the enemy’s lines’] belong.” This procedure had been expressly stated in a resolution of Congress of August 21, 1778, and in pre paring to proceed against Clarkson for violating this resolve the Pennsylvania Council was marshaling evidence for their case. Thus when the “Papers” requested were returned by President Jay with this letter, the council requested Clarkson to attend an inquiry. And when Clarkson refused, contemptuously denying the coun cil’s authority to question him, they submitted charges against him in a January 29 letter signed by Joseph Reed, for which see JCC, 13:131-32; and PCC, item 69, 1:587-600. For the outcome of Pennsylvania’s case against Clarkson, which finally led to a congressional reprimand in March, see John Fell’s Diary, March 24, 1779. For a number of other documents related to Clarkson’s conduct, see also JCC, 11:825, 12:1026, 13:247-50; PCC, item 19, 1:111-16; and Francis Lightfoot Lee to Richard Henry Lee, December 22, 1778, note 1. 2 For Congress’ proceedings in the much more significant case against General Arnold, see Daniel Roberdeau to Timothy Matlack, February 6; and William Paca to Joseph Reed, March 3, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 27th Jany 1779. Your Excellency’s Letter, of this day, was this morning communi cated to Congress, & immediately taken into consideration. By the enclosed copy of an Act, on the Subject of Captain Stoddard’s request, You will perceive that it is granted. 1 Your Excellency’s Recommendation respecting Provision for the speedy recruiting the Army is referred to the Treasury. 2 The Congress have, by Acts of the 22nd & 27th Inst, (Copies of which are also enclosed) directed the Marquis De Bretigny to repair to Count D’Estaing. They have granted him a Commission of Lieu tenant in the Service of the United States, and recommended him to your particular Notice. Should Your Excellency have any dispatches for the Count, I will,


[Page 560]
524 January 27, 1779 with pleasure, place them under the same cover with my own. The Marquis will not sail to morrow. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most Obedt. Servt. John Jay RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 JCC, 13:117. Washington’s January 27 letter enclosing a letter from Capt. Josiah Stoddard of the Second Continental Dragoons is in Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 14:48-49. Stoddard’s January 14 letter, “requesting leave of absence to go to France for the recovery of his health,” is in PCC, item 152, 7:41-44. 2 Washington had asked Congress “to give directions to have the military chest supplied with a sufficient sum of money to enable me to carry into execution their resolve of the 23d instant for recruiting the army.” The Board of Treasury appar ently queried Washington almost immediately on the amount of bounty money needed, for he responded on January 30 with his estimate "that Five hundred thousand Dollars will in my opinion be a sufficient foundation to commence upon.” See JCC, 13:108-9, 117; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:48, 56. Daniel Roberdeau to Joseph Reed Sir, Philad’a, Jan’y 27th, 1779. Yesterday the enclosed Resolution obtained, but hurry of business on the affairs it alludes to, and others respecting this State, was the occasion of my ommitting to forward the enclosed before. 1 I am with most respectful salutations to Council, Sir, yr most obt & very humb. Servt, Daniel Roberdeau. MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:167. 1 For the enclosed resolve appointing a committee of Congress to confer with the Pennsylvania Council on the subject of Gen. Benedict Arnold’s use of public wagons for private gain, pursuant to a January 25 request from the council, see JCC, 13:115. According to the council’s proceedings, this committee met with the council this day in "a free conference . . . for several hours.” Pa. Council Minutes, 11:677. Committee of Conference to George Washington Sir, Philad. 28 Jany 1779. I found myself so much indisposd this morning that it was im prudent to go abroad; which will I hope apologize for my not meeting the Committee of Conference at your Excellency’s Quarters as was proposed. General Knox has paid me a Visit and given me an opportunity of comparing his Remarks with the propositions of the Board of War. 1 I am not sufficiently master of the Subject to decide; & must therefore


[Page 564]
528 January 29, 1779 Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir Philada. Janry 29th 1779 Herewith will be delivered to you a Packet for the honble. Doctr. Franklin with 2 Vols. of the Journals of Congress and a large course of News papers, which you are requested to forward by the first good opportunity. You may examine these Prints if you incline, though I shall put another set for you on board a Vessel now ready to leave the Delaware. 1 The circumstances under which Capt. Cunningham sails in the Revenge are not known here exactly though Mr. Deane and Mr. Carmichael are on the spot. The intentions of the former as to the Sale of her were not confirmed by his Colleagues in France; but yet I do not see how the Request of your Letter of Aug. 16th in regard to her prizes can be taken up; as Mr. Cunningham into whose hands the Product is committed has never informed Congress that he pos sesses any of their Property. I wish you would gain and transmit the true state of facts relative to the outfit and present Claimants of that Vessel. 2 A large Committee of Congress is now considering the whole state of their foreign affairs. I wish the Result may include a notice of your merits in an Arrangement more suitable to your wishes than what a Continuance in your present station seems to appear. I am with much Regard, Your Friend & humble Servt. James Lovell for the Committee for for. affairs RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). Written and signed by James Lovell. 1 Lovell sent these newspapers for Bingham under cover of the following brief note the next day: “I now send you the News papers which I promised yesterday to forward by a second Vessel, and continue your Friend & humble Servant.” PCC, item 79, fols. 248-49. 2 "The true state of facts relative to” the Revenge was difficult to ascertain be cause of the tactics that had been used to disguise her ownership in France to cir cumvent British diplomatic efforts to have the privateer banned from French and Spanish ports. Although Capt. Gustavus Conyngham had enjoyed remarkable suc cess against British shipping in early 1778, he had sailed the Revenge to the West Indies in September when Spain had finally succumbed to British pressures and banned the cutter from Spanish ports. And before Bingham could respond to this query from the committee, Conyngham decided to sail for Philadelphia, where the Revenge arrived on February 21, 1779. Three weeks later Congress simply ordered the Marine Committee to sell the vessel at public auction, apparently to expedite settlement of a number of conflicting claims that had been lodged against her. The result was to sweep under the carpet a potentially explosive issue that partisans of Silas Deane wished to lay to rest, for one of the charges lodged against him was the manner in which he had used public resources for private gain, and the con fused status of the Revenge was a matter that had aroused the suspicions of Arthur


[Page 565]
January 29, 1779 529 Lee. For a previous, unsuccessful attempt to draw information on this subject from William Carmichael, see Charles Thomson’s Notes on William Carmichael’s Ex amination, October 5, 1778. Although Bingham’s response to the committee’s request for true “facts" in this case has not been found, his January 27, 1779, letter addressed to the Secret Com mittee indicates that he enclosed with it “Acct. Sales of the several Prizes sent in here [Martinique] by the Continental Cutter the Revenge.” Lloyd W. Smith Col lection, NjMoHP. Transcripts of Bingham’s letters to Conyngham of October 28 and November 29, 1778, and February 2, 1779, are in the Laurens Papers, no. 31, ScHi. For information on Conyngham’s career with the Revenge and references to a number of the issues confronted by Congress in regard to her, see Nathan Miller, Sea of Glory: The Continental Navy Fights for Independence, 1775-1783 (New York: David McKay Co., 1974), pp. 290—301; M. B. Clark, “Narrative of Captain Gustavus Conyngham, U.S.N., While in Command of the 'Surprise' and ‘Revenge,’ 1777-1779,” PMHB 22 (January 1899): 479-88; JCC, 12:1256, 13:25, 236, 307; and Marine Committee to Joseph Reed, March 12, 1779. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin Honble Sir, Triplicate Philad. Janry. 29th. 1779 By the Way of Martinique I send you a large Course of News Papers. In those of late date, you will see that the Enemy are exerting their force but too successfully against Georgia. We hope the Count D Estaing will be able to operate with us by a Detachment from his Fleet, so that we may wrest from our Foes the Fruits of their present Success: You will know by Letters from Martinique whether those our Hopes are well or ill founded. We have not had a Line from you since the short Letter of Infor mation respecting Byron’s sailing, which you signed jointly with Mr. Adams. I hope this does not arise from any other circumstance than want of a good Conveyance for important Dispatches. We have had a few short Letters with Gazettes from Mr. Adams. Late as it is, I in close a duplicate of your Credentials, and I wish you Success & every Satisfaction in your important Agency, being with much Respect, Sir, Your most humble Servant, James Lovell for the Comtee. of for. Affs. RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). Written and signed by James Lovell. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee Sir, Copy Philada. Janry. 29th. 1779 What I could not add to my Letter of the 26th Via Boston, I now


[Page 566]
530 January 29, 1779 inclose. 1 It will explain to you all we know here in regard to your Secretary Ford. I am affectionately your Friend, James Lovell for the Comtee. of for. Affairs RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). Written and signed by James Lovell. This letter is appended to the “Triplicate” of the Committee for Foreign Affairs’ January 26 letter to Arthur Lee. 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, January 26, 1779, note 1. Committee of Congress Proposed Letter to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir [January 29? 1779] 1 The candor and frankness which have distinguished all your nego- ciations with these States, impose particular obligations on Congress to observe on all occasions the like conduct towards you. They consider the Arms of the Allies as united in one common Cause for the great purpose of effectually maintaining the Liberty, Sovereignty and Independence absolute and unlimited of these States, and for mutual aid during the course of the War and they admire the wise provision, made by the Treaty for preserving the harmony subsisting between them by excluding all after claims of compensation on one Side or on the other, whatever may be the event of the War. How far the fourth Article of the Treaty 2 directs a stipulation for compensation to precede a particular Enterprize proposed by one Party, and to which the aid of the other is requested, has been taken by Congress into consideration. They are of opinion that the compensation mentioned in that Article cannot relate to Enterprizes essential to the design of the Alliance and which may be proposed and undertaken by either Party to secure, not extend, their respective Territories, or to dimin ish the power of the Enemy by defeating their Fleets and Armies, not conquering their Countries or Cities. The Expedition in question aims at nothing more than the expul sion of the Enemy from a state which cannot be Sovereign and Inde pendent while they remain Masters of its Capital, and by destroying part of their force, advance the declared end of the War, which is to compel the Enemy to yield the great objects of the Alliance. This Enterprise therefore must be considered in the same light with all other joint and ordinary exertions of force against the Com-


[Page 576]
540 January 30, 1779 hardly believe at first, that I had not noticed your letter of the Novr. the 9th, as I fully recollect it was my intention. It gave me concern when I heard of the fall you met with soon after you left us, but hope you are fully restored. The disappointments that you have met with by not being fur nished with troops & other necessaries for an expedition against E. Florida, as you expected must be very mortifying, however it was no more than I expected, but I perceive you are likely to have business enough nearer home; Your last letters to Congress are now under consideration 1 & I expect some resolutions will soon be come into &: forwarded with all possible dispatch; The arms you mention as being in the stores at S. Carolina, Mr. Drayton one of the delegates from that state, thinks they do not belong to the continent. The great personal respect I have for you, always operated in my mind against your going to the Southward, but hope you’l be sup ported in the important affairs you are ingaged in. We are expecting news from your quarter, & have nothing here worthy your attention, to be depended on; It is said the Count De Estaing has lost a number of men in attempting to storm a fort in the west Indies. An unhappy dispute has arose between some of our agents on the other side of the water, but I think it most prudent to make but one remark at present upon their conduct (viz.) I think they were very imprudent to get into such a dispute at this time. No doubt you have seen a number of pieces in the public prints respecting the above affair, under the Signature of Common Sense, Plain Truth, &c, &c, but I hope the good people will not form a Judgment upon the mat ter, before they can be better informd. Your letters to Mrs. Lincoln was duly noticed, & it will always give me pleasure to render you any services this way. I am Sir, with great respect &: Sincerity, your most obedient & most humble servt. S. Holten RC (CSmH: HM 39005). 1 General Lincoln’s December 26, 1778, letter had been referred to a special committee on January 25; his January 6, 1779, letter had been referred to the Board of War on January 28. JCC, 13:113, 123. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 30th Jany. 1779 On the 23d Inst, Congress passed two Acts, One relating to the Commissary of Prisoners, the other to the Director General; Copies of both are herewith enclosed. 1


[Page 577]
January 31, 1779 541 Both your Excellency’s Letters of the 29th Inst., one covering an Extract of a Letter from Governor Clinton, the other, a Letter from General Du Portail, have been delivered to me. 2 Whatever Acts they may become the Subjects of, shall be without delay communicated to You. I have the Honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most Obedt. Servt. J.J. 3 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 13:110-11. These resolves were adopted as a part of Congress’ campaign to improve army administration and to clarify the operational authority of the com mander in chief. The former, passed in response to a January 3 request from the commissary of prisoners, John Beatty, specified that he would receive all future orders “through the Commander in Chief,” and would effect exchanges only when directed by Washington, Congress, the Board of War, or the Marine Committee. The latter clarified the authority of the director general of the medical department. For Beatty’s complaints regarding difficulties encountered in attempting to carry out his duties, see PCC, item 78, 3:233-36, 265-68; and JCC, 13:43, 104. Jay transmitted the resolve concerning the medical department to director general William Shippen, Jr., under cover of the following brief note of February 3. “The enclosed is a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 23d Ulto. establishing certain Regulations in your Department.” PCC, item 14, fol. 40. 2 Actually Washington wrote three letters to Congress dated January 29. The first of these, which is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:53-54, and PCC, item 152, 7:93, was not acknowledged by Jay. In it Washington simply stated that he felt himself “under a necessity of requesting the permission of Congress to return . . . [to] camp at Middle-Brook, on Monday next.” The one enclosing a January 27 letter to him from General Duportail “on the subject of fortifying Boston” is in neither the PCC nor Fitzpatrick’s edition of his writings, but a file copy of it is in the Washington Papers, DLC. The one “covering an Extract of a Letter from Governor Clinton,” appealing for the settling of accounts related to his purchases during his defense of “the forts in the Highlands” during the 1777 campaign, is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:52, and PCC, item 152, 7:49. 3 This day Jay also wrote the following letter to the comte de Montfort. "You will perceive by a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 23d Inst., herewith enclosed, that they have accepted your resignation, & have ordered your usual allowance of rations to be continued for the space of two months, provided you shall not embark before the Expiration of that time. I wish you a safe & pleasant voyage to your native Country and am Sir, your most Obedt. & Hble Servt.” See PCC, item 14, fol. 35; JCC, 13:107; and these Letters, 6:310n. 4. Committee of Conference Minutes of Proceedings Sunday 31st January 1779 At a Meeting of the Committee appointed by Congress to confer with the Commander in Chief Present Mr. Duane j Mr. Laurens f In Conference with the Mr. Root I Commander in chief Mr. M. Smith )


[Page 578]
542 January 31, 1779 A Letter from Coll. Gibson of one of the State Regiments of Vir ginia, 1 setting forth that he had receiv’d no Orders for re-inlisting the said Regiment, and that the Time for which the Men were en listed is daily expiring; that very few of the Men were enlisted to serve during the War and that they are willing to enlist on the same Terms as the Troops from the State of Virginia, in Continental Service, was read; and the said Letter being referr’d to this Com mittee, with Powers to take such Order thereon as they shall Judge proper; It is Unanimously agreed that the Commander in Chief shall give Orders for re-inlisting the men belonging to the said Regi ment for the War, allowing them the Continental Bounty: & that if the State of Virginia shall incline to take the Regiment when so reinlisted, into its own immediate Service, it shall be at Liberty to do so; & in that Case, the Bounty money to be advanced out of the Continental Treasury, together with the Expence of recruiting, shall be returned. It is further agreed, that if Coll. Smith & his Regiment, 2 raised for the Service of the State of Virginia, shall make a similar Application to the Commander in Chief of the Army of these United States, the Same measures in all Respects be pursued with Regard to that Regiment. That a Copy of this Resolution be deliver’d to the Commander in Chief; and the Original lodged with the Board of War. Done in Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief & signed by their Order. James Duane-Chair MS (ViHi: Continental Congress Collection). In the hand of Peter Scull. Endorsed by Scull: “War-Office 3rd Aug. 1779. These are to certify that the within writing is copied verbatim from the report of the committee of conference filed in this office." The complete report of the committee of conference has not been found. 1 Col. George Gibson of the First Virginia state regiment had written to General Washington on January 23, 1779, complaining of Virginia’s failure to take steps to reenlist the troops of the "Two State Regiments anex’d to the Continental Army.” Gibson’s letter, which is in PCC, item 78, 10:133, was read in Congress and referred to this committee on January 29. See JCC, 13:124, and E. M. Sanchez-Saavedra, A Guide to Virginia Military Organizations in the American Revolution (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1978), pp. 110, 112-13. 2 Col. Gregory Smith had commanded both the Second and Third Virginia state regiments. Ibid., pp. 112-13. John Jay to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia 31st Jany. 1779 I have the Pleasure of transmitting to You a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Inst; directing the Quarter-Master & Commissary


[Page 580]
544 January 31, 1779 ments” in the Continental Army, see PCC, item 41, 6:83-85, 10:25-26, 41-45, 53-55, item 78, 15:429-33, 22:613; and JCC, 12:1034, 1040-41, 1183-84, 1214, 13:25, 149. For Mauleon’s effort to secure a position in Pulaski’s Legion, see also Henry Laurens to Casimir Pulaski, November 3, 1778, note 2. 2 Although Congress had provided S 1,500 compensation for his return to France, Thuillieres almost immediately petitioned for additional travel funds, a request rejected by Congress on February 5 and the response communicated to him by Jay in a letter of the same date. See JCC, 13:149; and PCC, item 14, fol. 44. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 31st Jany. 1779 Congress, agreeable to your Excellency’s Recommendation, have directed the Commissary, and Quarter-Master General to pay such of the Accounts, mentioned in Governor Clinton’s Letter, as he shall certify. 1 And by their Act of the 30th Inst, of which the enclosed is a copy, have consented to Your Excellency’s Return to Camp. 2 The Opinion of Congress, respecting the continuation of the Com mittee of Conference, is as yet undetermined. To me it appears proper, as well as necessary, that until they become dissolved, by making a Report on the several Matters committed to them, they should consider an epistolary correspondence with your Excellency on those Subjects to be as much within the Line of their Appointment as personal conferences. There are several Acts of Congress, of which I ought to have sent you Copies, & application has several times been made to the Secre tary’s Office for them. I am now informed that the Clerks, instead of delivering them to me, have left them with Your Excellency. These Irregularities will, I hope, be in future avoided. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s most Obt. & Hble Servt. John Jay, Presidt. 3 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 See Jay to George Clinton, this date. 2 JCC, 13:125. 3 Jay also wrote the following brief letter this day to Paymaster General William Palfrey, for which see JCC, 13:128. “You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Inst, directing the Paymaster of the Board of War to transmit to You a certain Sum of Money for the current expence of the Army.” Myers Collection, NN.


[Page 582]
546 January 31, 1779 to be collected in Maryland, and the States before mentioned. You are not to expect any Naval assistance, the Idea of granting such, from our feeble funds was generally exploded, if I remember right when the question was put on that occasion there were no voices, ay, but Mr. Drayton’s and my own; 4 and truly Sir, you will not be much surprized at this, when you are fully informed of the circumstances of our Marine. I shall be providing such Shot as Your Excellency has described, and return your Vessel if she arrives with the utmost dispatch, but, in order to save time, and for guarding against accidents which may happen to a single Vessel, I mean to recommend, indeed have recom mended to send a proper Vessel with Military Stores from hence, but sorry I am to say, a question arises, have we any to spare? This shall be fully investigated tomorrow. 5 I know we have no Lead. We have just now received very unpleasant intelligence from the West Indies, Mr. Bingham ’tis said writes from Martinico that Gen eral Grant had possessed himself of the Island of St. Lucia. Count d’Estaing having block’d up four British Ships of the Line, which were lying in the Bason or Harbor, landed a body of Troops and attempted to force one of the Enemys works, these were severely repulsed, and the Count after having sustained a loss of upwards of fifteen hundred Men, had desisted from the Enterprise, and retired. He had been reinforced by four Ships of the Line from France, and two captured English Frigates. I have not time to enquire into par ticulars, but as the Account is against us, there is no ground for suspecting exaggeration. I perused a Letter yesterday from Sir Henry Clinton to General Washington expressed in such polite terms, and intimating such an Act on the part of Sir Harry, as convinces me he wishes to be friends with us again 6 —the wretched Refugees and Rebels in New York Garrison and its environs are in the utmost distress from apprehen sions of being sent across the Atlantic, or to New Providence, Georgia or Florida. They are plainly told, they must support themselves by Arms, in other words that while they remain, they must draw their subsistence from the Kings Stores as Soldiers, or from plunder in a predatory War against the Rebels. General Maxwell intimates that they were collecting in Companies, seemingly intended for the latter purpose, though with tears in their Eyes. Spain by our last intelli gence, continued a bustle, and Holland grumbling. The Newspapers which will accompany this, will give Your Excellency other scraps of information. I will not further trouble you at present Sir, but to repeat, that I remain, With the highest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys Most Obedient And Most Humble Servant, H.L.


[Page 586]
550 Index 418-19; on provisioning French fleet, 456, 466; mentioned, 58, 63, 113, 114, 147, 167, 184, 187, 259, 353, 458 Adams, Thomas: attends Congress, xxiv, 424, 436; elected to Congress, xxiv; and Robert Morris-Henry Laurens dispute, 478 Adjutant general’s department, deputy appointed, 253-54 Admiralty proceedings: Maryland prize case (Friendship), 182, 226, 287; Jencks v. Payson, 280; Houston v. Olmsted, 341-42; Continental appeals jurisdiction chal lenged, 516-17, 525-26 Agents, Continental; see Bingham, William; Langdon, John; Lee, William; Living ston, Abraham; Morris, Thomas; Mumford, Thomas; Purviance, Robert; Purviance, Samuel; Smith, William; Williams, Jonathan Akers, Charles W., Samuel Cooper, 391 Alexander, William: letters to, 71, 75, 101, 118, 144, 173, 178, 182, 196, 215, 224, 234, 258, 262, 265, 288, 296; ft reports enemy movements, 72, 183, 216, 218, 234, 282; grants travel exemption to Sarah Yard, 119; mentioned, 34, 77, 82, 131, 197, 247, 274, 294, 297, 305, 456 Allen, Ethan, opposes New Hampshire secessionists, 268, 273, 308-9 Alliance (Continental frigate), 120, 134 Almy, Joseph, 512 Amboy, N.J., 353 "Americanus” (pseudonym), 196 Amphitrite (French ship), 423 Anderson, James, 66 Anmours, Charles-Fran^ois-Adrien Le Paulmier, chevalier d’, appointed French consul in Maryland, 135 Annual Register, 345 Appleton, Nathaniel, 101, 517 Archer, Mr., 114, 116 Armand-Tuflin, Charles, chevalier de la Rouerie, requests promotion, 525 Armor, Mr., 99 Arms and ammunition: 178, 285, 545; see also Cannon; Lead; Muskets; Powder Armstrong, John, Sr.: letter to, 25; elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 123, 394 Army: see British army; Continental Army; Militia Arnold, Benedict: and Houston v. Olmsted appeal, 342; condemned by Pennsyl vania, 520, 522-23; plans western land development, 520-21; mentioned, 405 Arnold, Samuel, resigns commission, 14 Articles of Confederation: see Confederation, Articles of Articles of War, 289 Artillery: Continental, 48, 207, 259, 525; arrangement proposals, 437; see also Cannon Atlee, Samuel J.: attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; mentioned, 399, 414 Atlee, William A.: and Thompson-McKean dispute, 227, 299-302, 376; men tioned, 374, 375, 389 Auditors: location of offices regulated, 501; Alexander Fowler appointed, 504; mentioned, 180, 515 Austin, Benjamin, 458 Austria: ignores Amercan overture, 33; mentioned, 22, 76, 100 Avery, John, letter to, 198 Aylett, William, letter to, 213 Bachop, Peter, 296 Balcarres, 6th earl of (Alexander Lindsay): seeks exchange, 98, 145; accused of bribery, 145-46; mentioned, 150


[Page 591]
Index 555 Clarkson, Mr., 78 Clarkson, Matthew: writes “Plain Truth” essays, 369; challenges authority of Penn sylvania, 523 Classical allusions and quotations, 103, 481, 498-99, 518 Clay, Joseph: letter to, 63; elected to Congress, xviii Clingan, William: attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress xxii; mentioned, 395 Clinton, George: letters to, 20, 54, 64, 200, 201, 202, 220, 271, 273, 275, 277, 282, 322, 324, 328, 343, 360, 388, 391, 397, 405, 416, 445, 446, 459, 467, 482, 499, 503, 520, 542; extends John Jay’s special appointment to Congress, 500; accounts, 541-43; requests reimbursement for Highlands defense expenses, 542-44; men tioned, 463, 537 Clinton, Henry: letter to, 85; demands release of Convention Army, 91; de parture from New York anticipated, 224; prisoner exchange proposals, 225, 386, 546-47; revokes prisoner of war paroles, 226; mentioned, xxvi, 21, 24, 33, 36, 60, 64, 98, 104, 106, 107, 196, 215, 241, 242, 299, 320, 333, 366, 379; see also Carlisle Peace Commission Clothier general’s department: reorganized, 41; arrangement proposals, 437 Clothing, 14, 40, 64, 97, 131, 136, 191, 192, 222, 279, 369, 395 Clure, Capt., 82 Cockey, Mr., 191 Coffee, 8, 10 Collins, John: letter from, 225; attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; mentioned, 169, 195 Collins, Stephen, 195, 513 Collins, Thomas: identified, 437; letter to, 436 Colt, Peter, letters to, 50, 101 Columbus (Continental ship), 279 Commerce; see Trade Commissary general’s department: seeks funds, 50; James Gray appointed deputy, 84; congressional oversight committee appointed, 200; pay and allowances, 306; mentioned, 119, 173, 199, 412, 455; see also Committee of Congress (to super intend the commissary and quartermaster departments); Trumbull, Joseph; Wadsworth, Jeremiah Commissary of prisoners: administrative procedures revised, 541; see also Beatty, John Commissioners at Paris: letter to, 49; admonished to preserve internal har mony, 140-44; mentioned, 33, 38, 134, 237, 464, 472, 497, 517, 540; see also Adams, John; Deane, Silas; Franklin, Benjamin; Lee, Arthur Committee for foreign affairs: letters from, 49, 130, 140, 141, 142, 144, 304, 462, 515, 528, 529; instructs Benjamin Franklin, 140, 304; instructs John Adams, 140; instructs Ralph Izard, 141; instructs William Lee, 142; instructs Arthur Lee, 144; Thomas Paine’s status as secretary, 418-19, 422-30, 445-46, 471; instructs eastern navy board, 462; instructs William Bingham, 528; mentioned, 205, 312, 345, 346, 497 Committee of arrangement: and Pennsylvania regiments, 120-23; report, 260; men tioned, 39, 52, 127 Committee of commerce: reorganization proposed, 12; disbursements, 193; elects chairman and secretary, 365; accounts, 385; reorganized, 434; mentioned, 27, 40, 79, 362, 384, 386, 394, 395, 414, 416, 424, 431, 435, 439, 440, 449, 451, 456, 458, 463, 464, 466, 479, 480, 483, 490, 496, 500, 515, 519, 521, 526, 532; see also Secret committee Committee of conference: letters from, 437, 444, 450, 511, 513, 524; letter to, 507; minutes of proceedings, 541; appointed to confer with Washington, 360; opposes Canadian invasion, 409; inquires into prisoner exchange policy, 450; recommends retention of French engineers, 494; prepares intelligence for


[Page 592]
556 Index d’Estaing, 507, 514-15; recommends reorganizing inspector general’s department, 511-12; assesses impact of loss of Georgia, 513-14; and ordnance regulations, 524; confers with Washington, 541-42; authorizes recruitment of Virginia regiments, 542; mentioned, 376, 439, 486, 491, 495, 504, 544 Committee of Congress (on compensation for French aid), letter from, 530 Committee of Congress (on Continental jurisdiction in admiralty appeals), letters from, 516, 525 Committee of Congress (on John Connolly), letter from, 171 Committee of Congress (on provisioning), letter from, 173 Committee of Congress (on Saratoga Convention violations), 275 Committee of Congress (on 1779 campaign), recommends reinforcing southern de partment, 545-46 Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster depart ments): letters from, 200, 201, 202, 203, 291, 482; appointed, 201; recommends state action against monopolization, 201-3, 482; recommends measures against distilling, 203-4; requests forage inventory, 291; mentioned, 173, 205, 213, 412 Committee of intelligence, 34, 72, 74 Committee of secret correspondence, 48, 309, 420, 497, 521, 527 Committee on appeals: decrees, 280, 341; protests Pennsylvania rejection of commit tee decree, 342; jurisdiction challenged, 516-17, 525-26; see also Admiralty proceedings Committee on finance, report, 137-39 “Common Sense” (Thomas Paine), 110, 129, 215, 344, 352, 368, 401, 405, 410, 416, 418, 422, 434, 445, 448, 481, 485, 486, 510, 540 Comptroller; see Trumbull, Jonathan, Jr. Conciliation; see Reconciliation Confederacy (Continental frigate), 120, 135 Confederation, Articles of: Maryland instructions on, xxxi; ratification solicited, 158, 184; ratified by New Jersey, 256-57, 262, 436; Maryland opposition to, 373, 412, 436, 491-93, 538-39; ratified by Delaware, 437; mentioned, 31, 58, 188, 220, 318, 319, 322, 344, 345, 362, 422, 509, 535 Congress: chronology, xii; issues manifesto, xxvii; adopts fiscal reforms, xxxi, 397, 400, 410-18, 502-3; redeploys Pulaski’s corps, 3, 15; extends embargo, 17-18, 20, 35-37; Silas Deane inquiry, 27-30, 290, 295-98, 312-16, 326-28; adopts disability benefits, 32, 217, 220; appropriations, 32, 36, 96, 101, 111, 150, 191, 193, 251, 479, 520, 535, 544; conduct criticized, 32-33, 70, 313-15; investigates British cruelty, 34; publicity practices, 35; authority to lay embargo questioned, 37; suspends prisoner exchange proposal, 41; investigates prisoner of war treatment, 45; prescribes rules for army morality, 53-55, 64-65; retaliates against Carlisle com missioners, 60-64, 148-49, 158-59, 162; relocates Convention Army, 64; acquits Philip Schuyler, 69; grants travel exemption to Sarah Yard, 71, 75, 119; orders South Carolina reinforced, 73, 506-8; on civil-military relations, 81; recommends Canadian invasion, 83, 130, 294, 304; thanks d’Estaing, 84; investigates Saratoga Convention violations, 91, 275; rebuffs Henry Clinton, 91; appoints Benjamin Franklin minister to France, 95, 117; commends Lafayette, 95, 113, 294; confines Carlisle Commission messengers, 95, 183-84, 197, 506; opposes parole exchanges, 97; reimburses secret agent, 119; debates Charles Lee court-martial, 127, 283, 289, 293, 295, 297, 320; defers Canadian invasion plan, 130-31, 407-9; receives Spanish agent, 132; admonishes commissioners in Europe, 140-44; investigates prisoner of war favoritism charges, 145; urges Henry Laurens to continue as president, 153, 318-19, 509-11; appoints Robert Harrison to board of war. 157; endorses Washington’s frontier proposals, 159; reorganizes board of treasury, 161, 217, 220; denies John Connolly exchange appeal, 171-72; 213; compensates foreign officers, 174-75; postpones plan for Dutch loan, 179; denies flag of truce violation charges, 183-84, 197, 265-66; asks Delaware to ratify confederation, 184; appoints


[Page 593]
Index 557 chaplains, 187; recommends expedition against East Florida, 196, 210-12, 214, 219; appoints committee to superintend commissary and quartermaster depart ments, 200-201; adopts widows’ benefits, 207; offers subsidies for the capture of Florida, 210; grants embargo exemptions for French fleet, 212; requests galleys for Florida expedition, 212; appoints day of thanksgiving, 217, 220, 232; prints French treaties, 217, 220, 256; commends Silas Talbot, 223; orders prisoner ex change conference, 225; breach of privilege charged, 226-28, 376, 388; hears William Thompson-Thomas McKean dispute, 226-28, 238, 241-50, 299-303, 351, 374-76, 394; clarifies state authority to appoint Continental staff officers, 253-54; attendance thin, 257, 355, 385, 388, 480; adopts Continental officer arrangements, 259-61; supplies friendly Indians, 275-76; adopts forage regulations, 276-78; arranges Continental Army, 276-78, 281-82; confirms Philip Schuyler acquittal, 281-83, 302; recommends sending a priest to the Indians, 303; elects John Jay president, 324-25, 328-29, 331; stimulates privateering, 329; revises Continental officers’ commissions, 332; compensates supernumerary officers, 336; asserts Con tinental authority in admiralty appeals, 342; thanks Henry Laurens, 344, 350; retires paper currency, 349, 361, 365, 370, 392, 446-47, 456-57, 459, 462, 487; confirms Charles Lee court-martial sentence, 353; recommends provisioning French fleet, 353-55; confirms Arthur St. Clair acquittal, 355; investigates John Temple, 359; appoints committee to confer with Washington, 360; orders Silas Deane to submit report, 369; receives Washington, 372, 376; recommends mast embargo, 387; adopts sinking fund plan, 392; opposes Convention Army ex change talks, 408; sets fiscal quotas, 416, 446-47, 496, 536; Thomas Paine inquiry, 418-19, 422-30, 445-46, 471; appoints general officers, 439, 442-43, 457; hears Henry Laurens’ charges against Robert Morris, 439^10, 451-52, 464-65, 472-78; adopts measures to detect counterfeiting, 447; provisions French fleet, 456; dis avows Thomas Paine allegations, 460; emits paper currency, 464; authorizes remittances on Beaumarchais contract, 467; authorizes embargo exemptions, 469; rejects Philip Schuyler resignation, 469; studies recommendation to retaliate British raids, 470; seeks retention of French engineers, 493-94; orders foreign affairs inquiry, 497; reimburses presidential household expenses, 497—98; im proves status of warrant officers, 505; denies prisoner travel request, 508-9; seeks French aid to recover Georgia, 514-15, 532; authorizes enlistment bounties, 515; orders Robert L. Hooper court-martialed, 515; affirms Continental authority in admiralty appeals, 517; orders sale of Revenge, 528; debates Franco-American treaty provisions, 530-32, 534; adopts Continental Army administrative reforms, 541; reimburses New York defense expenses, 542-44; discourages foreign officers seeking Continental commissions, 543; see also Accounts; Board of treasury; Board of war; Committee for foreign affairs; Committee of arrangement; Com mittee of commerce; Committee of conference; Committee of Congress (by sub ject); Committee of finance; Committee of intelligence; Committee of secret correspondence; Committee on appeals; Foreign affairs inquiry committee; Marine committee; Medical committee; Secret committee. Congress, president of; see Jay, John; Laurens, Henry Congress, secretary of; see Thomson, Charles Connecticut: embargoes wheat, 25; Continental loan office, 101, 520; Continental officers petition Congress, 394, 486; fiscal quota, 413, 416 see also Trumbull, Jonathan, Sr. Connecticut Courant, 490 Connecticut delegates: letters from, 58, 194, 438, 411; attendance, 39, 256, 348 Connolly, John: letter to, 171; exchange petition denied, 171-72, 213; men tioned, 180 Continental agents; see Agents, Continental Continental Army: arrangement proposals, xxviii, 259-61, 263, 276-78, 281-82, 413, 437; Pulaski’s corps redeployed, 3, 15, 30; foreign officers, 14, 30, 48, 98, 143-44,


[Page 598]
562 Index Failly, Philippe-Louis, chevalier de: letter to, 144; promoted, 144, 151 Falmouth, Mass., 107 Fancy (sloop), 280 Farmers general, French, tobacco contract, 527 Farmer (ship), 472, 474, 475, 476, 477 Fell, John: diary, 312, 324, 331, 336, 349, 353, 360, 362, 365, 367, 372, 376, 384, 385, 386, 387, 391, 394, 395, 414, 416, 422, 424, 435, 439, 451, 456, 458, 463, 466, 471, 480, 483, 490, 496, 500, 515, 519, 521, 526, 532, 537; attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; on Arthur St. Clair’s acquittal, 349; committee of com merce, 353, 365, 385; lodgings, 365; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 496-97, 521-22, 527; mentioned, 464, 470 Ferdinand, Prince of Brunswick, 527 Ferguson, E. James, Power of the Purse, 12 Ferguson, Elizabeth, seeks travel pass, 264-65 Ferguson, Henry, 265 Finance: fiscal reforms proposed, 136-39, 391-92; fiscal reforms adopted, 349, 400, 410-18, 456-57, 502-3; see also Accounts; Board of treasury; Committee of finance; Congress, appropriations; Continental loan office; Loans, foreign; Lottery; Paper currency; Prices; Requisitions; Taxation Fisher, Henry, 264 Fisheries: as peace demand, 21, 288; mentioned, 162 Fleming, William: elected to Congress, xxiv; mentioned, 374 Fleury, Francois-Louis Teissedre de: seeks extension of leave from French army, 279; mentioned, 355, 416 Flexner, James T., Benedict Arnold and John Andre, 521 Florida: Spanish interest in, 381-83; see also East Florida; West Florida Flour: price, 24, 169, 193, 251; New England shortage, 43, 115, 168, 173, 181, 250, 264, 268, 287, 458, 469, 479; for French fleet, 213-14, 355, 456, 465, 496; men tioned, 5, 11, 13, 36, 191, 200, 392, 415, 514 Flower, Benjamin, 515 Floyd, William: letters from, 405, 416; attends Congress, xxi, 398, 401, 405; elected to Congress, xxi; committee on Continental appeals jurisdiction, 517; mentioned, 500, 520 Fly, wheat infestation, 354 Folsom, Samuel, 19, 32, 43, 44, 67 Fooks, Paul, and Thompson-McKean dispute, 244 Forage, 208, 291 Forbes, James: attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; mentioned, 18 Ford, Hezekiah: identified, 516: loyalty investigated. 516; mentioned, 530 Foreign affairs: Bavarian succession, 22; state initiatives abroad feared by France, 37-38; Austro-Prussian relations, 76, 100; Anglo-Spanish relations, 287, 292, 297, 305; Anglo-French relations, 305, 528; Anglo-Dutch relations, 348; U.S. territorial’ interests, 381-83; see also Commissioners at Paris; Committee for foreign affairs; Franco-American alliance; Loans, foreign; and individual countries Foreign affairs inquiry committee: minutes, 496, 521, 522, 527; -A- appointed, 490, 496-97; mentioned 503, 515, 520, 528 Foreign officers; see Continental Army, foreign officers Forrest, Thomas: identified, 249; and Thompson-McKean dispute, 244 Fort Chartres, 381 Fort Clinton, N.Y., 187 Fort Johnson, S.C., 392 Fort Montgomery, N.Y., 543 Fort Moultrie, S.C., 392 Fort Pitt, Pa.: reinforced, 509; mentioned, 72, 171, 444 Fort Ticonderoga, N.Y.: inquiry concluded, 283; mentioned, 355


[Page 600]
564 Index Gardiner, Sylvester, 66 Gates, Horatio: letters to, 20, 102, 145, 167, 204, 282, 336, 345, 408, 501; ft ap pointed to eastern command, 102, 236; ordered to Boston, 110, 205; relations with Philip Schuyler, 469; mentioned, 91, 116, 150, 151, 378, 391, 394, 456 Gawalt, Gerard, W., ed.. Journal of Gideon Olmsted, 343 Genoa, diplomatic mission to recommended, 22-23 George III, 108, 491 Georgia: defense measures, 71, 73, 210, 214, 217-18, 251, 500, 533-35; Indian raids feared, 218; invaded, 385, 506-8, 513, 529, 538; vulnerability analyzed, 393; fiscal quota, 416, 536; loyalists, 494-95; strategic value assessed, 494-95; French naval support for debated, 526, 530—35, 545; see also Houstoun, John Georgia delegates: seek Robert Howe’s reassignment, 252; and Charles Lee court- martial, 295 Gerard, Conrad-Alexandre: letters to, 329, 408, 445, 459, 493, 504, 530; fears individual state initiatives abroad, 37-38; seeks prisoner exchange, 42’, 57; sup port for Canadian invasion sought, 130; on Arthur Lee, 133, 311-12; appoints French consul in Maryland, 135; requests pilot for French frigate, 184; seeks provisions for French fleet, 212-14, 353-55, 456, 465; opposes printing of Franco- American treaties, 221, 256; visits Bethlehem, Pa., 238; proposes plan for com pensating Beaumarchais, 284-87, 468; announces Spanish mediation offer, 297, 305; and Silas Deane, 327; subsidizes American privateers, 329, 346; suspects John Temple, 333-35, 357-59, 364, 378; fears separate peace talks, 335, 358, 464; characterized, 343; confers with Maryland delegates, 373; relations with Juan de Miralles, 381-83; seeks embargo on masts, 386-87; retains Samuel Cooper, 396; protests Thomas Paine allegations, 418—19, 422—30, 445—46; on American dueling, 441; health, 445, 504; retains Thomas Paine, 460; seeks extension of French officers’ furloughs, 493-94; appoints French consul in Massachusetts, 504; re quests compensation for naval aid to Georgia, 526, 530-32, 534, 545; mentioned, xxix, xxx, 3, 36, 47, 51, 76, 79, 98, 141, 224, 228, 279, 316, 391, 402, 403, 463 49o’ 496 Germain, Lord George, 4, 88, 91, 259 German Flats, N.Y., 107 Germans, recruitment proposed, 294 Gerry, Elbridge: letters from, 185, 262, 263; ft attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx, 182, 262; drafts finance report, 137; committee of conference, 360; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 496-97; mentioned, 204, 353, 478, 490 Gervais, John Lewis: letter to, 102; ft appointed deputy paymaster, 102; sent money, 535; mentioned. 219 Gibaut; see Pontgibaud, Charles-Albert de More, chevalier de Gibbon, Mrs., 365 Gibbs, Caleb, promoted, 294 Gibraltar, 488 Gibson, George, requests recruiting instructions, 542 Gibson, John, letter to, 497 Gilbert, Capt., 45 Gillon, Alexander, undertakes South Carolina mission abroad, 38 Gimat, Jean-Joseph Sourbader de: letter to, 175; ft returns to France, 175; senior ity, 293; mentioned, 148, 159 Gist, Mordecai: letter to, 439; promoted, 439 Glasgow (H.M.S.), 280 Goetshius, John, 386 Gold: price, xxxi, 503; mentioned, 46, 219, 363, 370, 457 Goldsborough, Robert, western land interests, 538 Goodrich( Virginia loyalist), privateering retaliated, 221-22, 441 Gordon, William, 217


[Page 606]
570 Index The Law of Nations (Vattel), 265 Lawrence, John, 101, 520 Lead: Pennsylvania mining, 191-93: Virginia mining, 192; mentioned, 545 Lee, Arthur: letters to, 77, 123, 132, 144, 325, 515, 529; rebuffed at Berlin, 33; defended, 47-49; relations with John Berkenhout, 49, 56, 311, 363; status with France, 133, 312; committee for foreign affairs instructions, 144; attacked by Silas Deane, 309-11, 383; mission to Prussia, 310; mission to Spain, 310; char acterized, 396, 420-22; attacked by "Senex,” 402; letter quoted, 406; secretary’s loyalty investigated, 516; mentioned, xxv, xxx, 21, 36, 141, 142, 161, 237, 318, 334, 357, 379, 380, 381, 419, 446, 481, 482, 484, 527, 528; see also Commissioners at Paris; Deane-Lee controversy Lee, Charles: letter to, 352; ☆ court-martial, 46, 127, 283, 289, 293, 295, 297, 320, 352-53, 360; duels John Laurens, 372; mentioned, 36, 76, 188, 247, 327 Lee, Francis Lightfoot: letters from, 298, 325, 344, 368, 383, 418; attends Con gress, xxiv, 325; elected to Congress, xxiv; board of war, 169; on Silas Deane, 298, 325, 368; and Deane-Lee controversy, 344-45, 383-84; mentioned, 133, 316, 421, 515 Lee, Rebecca Tayloe (Mrs. Francis), 384 Lee, Richard Henry: letters from, 20, 21, 23, 51, 58, 77, 96, 115, 130, 132, 135, 140, 141, 142, 147, 151, 154, 160, 165; letters to, 187, 320, 327, 344, 368, 383, 418; notes, 167; attends Congress, xxiv; elected to Congress, xxiv; denounces monopoliza tion, 20; conjectures British strategy, 21-22; on foreign affairs, 22-23; secret committee, 26; committee of intelligence, 35; marine committee, 51, 58, 115, 135, 154, 189; committee for foreign affairs, 130, 140-44; recommends Lafayette, 132; on Silas Deane, 133, 165-67; on fiscal policy, 147; threatens retaliation for British prisoner mistreatment, 154-55; leaves Congress, 160, 167, 188; letter quoted, 188; and Franco-American alliance, 335; collaborates with Samuel Adams, 418-19; mentioned, 63, 113, 124, 171, 318, 363, 402, 411, 421, 454, 484, 539 Lee William: letter to, 142; committee for foreign affairs instructions, 142; at tacked for retaining post as alderman, 344—45, 421; attacked by Silas Deane, 383; attacked by “Senex,” 402; mentioned, 22, 23, 33, 133, 140, 144, 318, 327, 485 Leger, Edward, 359 Le Gerard (Pa. privateer), 342 L’Eglise, Dominique, secret service employment, 119 Le Jeune Achilles (brigantine), 39, 78 Lennox, David, 121 Levy, Hannah, secures travel pass, 522-23 Lewes, Del., 264 Lewis, Francis: letters from, 273, 282, 391, 464, 499; attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; secret committee, 26; committee of commerce, 353, 365, 385; and Robert Morris-Henry Laurens dispute, 440, 447-48, 451-52, 464-65, 472-78; mentioned, 79, 165, 270, 441, 446, 454 Lexington (Continental brig), 464 Limes, 8 Limozin, Andrew, 8, 9 Lincoln, Benjamin: letters to, 219, 253, 501, 507, 539; -fr appointed to southern command, 34; injured, 253; mentioned, 76. 77, 96, 100, 102, 110, 114, 162, 210, 251, 276, 282, 490, 495, 515, 526, 538, 545 Lindsay, Alexander; see Balcarres, 6th earl of Lindsay, Lord, 334 Linen, 7 Little, Col., 242 Little Britain, N.Y., 464, 467 Little Egg Harbor, N.J., 19, 30, 74 Livingston, Abraham: letter to, 125; marine committee instructions, 125


[Page 607]
Index 571 Livingston, Alice Swift (Mrs. Robert), 367 Livingston, Catherine Wilhelmina, 481 Livingston, Edward, 461, 499 Livingston, Henry Beekman: letter to, 470; resignation, 400, 469, 499 Livingston, Henry Brockhoist: identified, 354; appointed secretary to John Jay, 354; mentioned, 407, 409, 460, 468, 481, 504, 505, 524, 543, 544 Livingston, Henry P., promoted, 294 Livingston, James, 513 Livingston, Philip, 270 Livingston, Robert, 366, 463 Livingston, Robert C., 367, 400, 506 Livingston, Robert R.: letters to, 399, 460, 498; -fr weighs prospects of diplomatic appointment, 461; urged to accept public office, 498-99; mentioned, 445 Livingston, Walter, 469 Livingston, William: letters to, 3, 20, 43, 54, 64, 200, 201, 202, 203, 220, 277, 354, 446, 482; ☆ recommends John Temple, 327; mentioned, xxviii, 36, 55, 248 Loan office; see Continental loan office Loans, foreign, 93, 114, 147, 179, 194, 229, 407, 412 Loring, Joshua, 98, 194 Lottery, 170, 406, 419 Louis XVI: letter to, 95; mentioned, 62, 305, 422, 423, 427, 445, 494, 522 Louisiana, 382 Lovell, James: letters from, 42, 49, 59, 99, 100, 114, 130, 134, 140, 141, 142, 167, 204, 263, 283, 304, 327, 331, 345, 462, 483, 515, 528, 529; attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx, 182; seeks embargo exemption, 43; committee for foreign affairs, 49, 130, 140-44, 304, 462, 515, 528-30; on fiscal policy, 114, 284; criticizes Washington, 167; health, 204; conjectures British strategy, 205; and Deane-Lee controversy, 327-28, 484; mentioned, 326, 486 Lovell, Mary Middleton (Mrs. James), 43, 332 Lowndes, Rawlins: letters to, 19, 35, 54, 64, 74, 114, 200, 201, 202, 214, 220, 277, 296, 350, 354, 446, 482, 507, 533, 545; y^- claims authority to appoint Continental officers, 20, 253-54; mentioned, 526, 532 Loyalists: in Pennsylvania, 26, 66, 122, 159, 265; in Massachusetts, 66-67, 333; in Delaware, 94; in Maryland, 94, 345; in New York, 103, 129, 546; petition Carlisle commissioners, 129; in New Hampshire, 307, 347; in Georgia, 494-95; in North Carolina, 494-95; in South Carolina, 494-95; military use conjectured, 546 Loyall, Paul: letter to, 69; marine committee instructions, 69 Loyalty (schooner), 47 Lozier, John, prisoner of war status controversy, 386, 547 Lumber, 495 Lusher, Mr., 484 Lyman, Samuel, letter to, 270 McClurg, James, 33 McDowell, James, seeks compensation for Convention Army depredations, 464, 467 McIntosh, Lachlan; offers western expedition plan; 444; reinforced, 509; mentioned, 72, 490 McKean, Thomas: letters from, 55, 388, 436; attends Congress, xviii, 437; elected to Congress, xviii; secret committee, 26; recommends Jacob Rush, 55; dispute with William Thompson, 226-28, 238, 241-50, 299-303, 316, 321, 350-51, 374-76, 388-90, 394; committee on John Temple, 359; signs Articles of Confederation, 437; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 496-97, 521-22, 527; mentioned, 158, 490 McKenzie, Samuel: identified, 249; and Thompson-McKean dispute, 246-47


[Page 608]
Index 572 McKesson, John, 68 McKinly, John: letter to, 157; exchange delayed, 157, 183; exchange proposal, 226-27, 244, 300, 321, 350, 374; mentioned, 246, 250, 388, 389 McNeill, Hector, court-martial, 466 McPherson, William, 439 Madison, James, 22 Madison, James (Rev.), 33 Magaw, Robert: seniority, 123; seeks exchange, 145 Maher, Patrick, 276, 277, 282 Malbone, Evan, petitions Congress, 353 Malcom, William: letter to, 186; urges congressional investigation of administra tive departments, 187 Manheim, Pa., 424, 432, 448, 452 Manley, John, 185 Manning, William, 46 Mansfield, 1st earl of (William Murray), 89 Marchant, Henry: letters from, 24, 97, 169, 176, 180; -ft attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; denounces monopolization, 25; leaves Congress, 170; John Connolly inquiry, 172 Marine committee: letters from, 5, 46, 51, 57, 58, 65, 69, 115, 119, 124, 134, 135, 154, 181, 182, 184, 190, 213, 221, 226, 228, 232, 254, 258, 279, 346, 441, 504, 520; instructs William Smith, 5, 115, 182, 226; instructs John Beatty, 46, 57, 65; instructs Virginia shipbuilders, 69; instructs eastern navy board, 119, 134, 190, 221, 228, 254, 258, 279, 441, 520; orders Raleigh inquiry, 120; instructs Abraham Livingston, 125; instructs Abraham Whipple, 154; threatens retaliation for British prisoner mistreatment, 154-55; disbursements 162, 191, 441, 458, 520; seeks pilot for French frigate, 184; instructs Ephraim Blaine, 213; orders retaliation against loyalist raids, 221; orders Friendship inquiry, 226; instructs John Barry, 232; registers consular appointments, 504; auctions Revenge, 528; mentioned, 62, 185, 189, 207, 250, 253, 287, 291, 325, 372, 384, 496, 537, 541, 547; see also Continental Navy; Eastern navy board Mark (gospel), cited, 510 Marsh, Joseph, and New Hampshire secessionists, 268, 309, 338-40 Martin, Mr., 347 Martinique, 5, 513, 529, 546 Maryland: opposes Articles of Confederation, xxxi, 344, 373, 412, 436, 538-39; unrepresented, 83; loyalists, 94, 345; French consul in appointed, 135; suppression of distilling in sought, 203-4; support for Florida expedition sought, 212, 372; requested to ratify confederation, 322; wheat fly infestation, 354; fiscal quota, 416, 535-36; affirms French alliance, 436; support for Florida expedition can celed, 468; Continental officers, 537-38; western land claims, 537—39; mentioned, 188, 233, 256, 262; see also Johnson, Thomas Maryland Assembly, instructs delegates on Articles of Confederation, 491-93 Maryland Council: warns of loyalist invasion, 94; permits flour shipment to Boston, 116; intervenes in admiralty case, 182; grants Andrew Ragg travel pass, 368; fails to supply galleys for Florida expedition, 373 Maryland delegates: letters from, 372, 535; attendance, 83; and Charles Lee court-martial, 295 Mason, George, on Maryland’s western land interests, 539 Mason, John, appointed chaplain, 187 Mason and Dixon line, 171 Masonic orders; see Freemasons Masons, 192 Massachusetts: flour shortage, 43, 264, 268, 287, 458, 469; loyalists, 66-67, 333; Continental loan office, 101; privateer commissions, 198; asked to embargo masts, 387; fiscal quota, 416; French consul in appointed, 504


[Page 609]
Index 573 Massachusetts Council: letters to, 20, 54, 64, 146, 200, 201, 202, 220, 262, 263, 268, 277, 302, 346, 387, 446, 458, 468, 482, 503, 505; asked to investigate Lord Balcarres, 146; elects delegates to Congress, 182, 262, 269; recommends John Temple, 303, 327; requests a priest for the Indians, 295 Massachusetts delegates: letter from, 263; ft quorum requirement, 182; and Charles Lee court-martial, 295 Masts, embargoed, 386-87 Mathews, John: letters from, 70, 214; ft attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Con gress, xxiii; criticizes Congress, 70; board of war, 169; mentioned, 99 Matlack, Timothy: letter to, 60; confers with John Temple, 359 Matthew (gospel), cited, 510 Mauduit, Israel, recommends American independence, 23 Mauleon, Monsr. de: letter to, 543; ft seeks Continental commisison, 543; men tioned, 165 Maurice, Marian B„ xxx Maxwell, James: letter to, 69; marine committee instructions, 69 Maxwell, William, 3, 384, 546 May, Mr., 114 Mazzei, Philip, recommended for diplomatic mission, 22-23 Mease, James: letter to, 63; removal recommended, 40-41 Medical committee, 50, 470 Medical department, administrative procedures revised, 541 Memoirs of Great Britain and Ireland (John Dalrymple), 57 Mentges, Francis, 121 Mercer, Hugh, 107 Mercure (French ship), 423 Middlebrook, N.J., 353, 521, 541 Middleton, Arthur: letter to, 239; lodgings, 239 Mifflin, Thomas, 515 Militia: New Jersey, 15-17, 386; New England, 16; North Carolina, 17, 371; Vir ginia, 111, 218, 503; South Carolina, 392 Miller, Henry, 122 Miller, Nathan, Sea of Glory, 529 Millet, Joseph, 19 Miralles, Juan de: recommended, 132; visits Bethlehem, Pa., 239; letter quoted, 381; on U.S. territorial interests, 381-83; hosts delegate dinner, 391; mentioned, 36, 240 Mitchell, John, 63, 78, 235, 276 Molasses, 10, 11 Money; see Paper currency Monmouth, battle of, 147, 168, 295, 297 Monopolization: states urged to prevent, 201-3, 482; mentioned, 17, 20, 24-25, 199, 251, 257 Montagu, John: see Sandwich, 4th earl of Montfort, Julius, comte de: letter to, 541; ft resignation, 500; returns to France, 541 Moravians, 239 Morgan, Daniel, petitions Congress, 127 Morgan, William J., Captains to the Northward, 129 Morris, Gouverneur: letters from, 85, 91, 125, 173, 200, 201, 202, 203, 205, 223, 271, 273, 328, 482, 498, 499, 520; speech, 425; attends Congress, xxi, 272; elected to Congress, xxi; responds to Carlisle commissioners, 85-91; “An American” letters, 92; on army morale, 125-28; opposes Thomas Conway, 127; drafts finance report, 137; superintending committee, 173, 200-204, 213, 291, 482; on provisions crisis, 207-7; recommends military redeployment, 206-7, 223; committee on Saratoga


[Page 612]
576 Index Owens, Mr., 41 Owings, Nathaniel, letter to, 191 Oxen, 200 Paca, William: letters from, 332, 535; attends Congress, xix; elected to Con gress, xix; confers with Gerard, 335, 358; and Robert Morris-Henry Laurens dis pute, 440, 478; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 496-97, 521-22; committee on Continental appeals jurisdiction, 517; on French treaty obligations, 532, 534; mentioned, 83, 399, 490, 491, 520 Page, John, 96 Paine, Robert Treat, elected to Congress, xx Paine, Thomas: portrait, xxx, 429; “Crisis” letters, 216; and Deane-Lee contro versy, 344—45, 418-19; congressional inquiry, 422-30, 439, 445-46, 471; collaborates with Henry Laurens, 425; letter quoted, 425; attacks Robert Morris, 434; resigns as committee for foreign affairs secretary, 435; retained by French government, 460; attacked by “Philalethes,” 511; mentioned, 111, 129, 352, 368, 401, 402, 405, 410, 414, 416, 481, 485, 486 Palfrey, William: letters to, 150, 276, 462, 503, 544; sent money, 544 Palmero, Pablo, letter to, 124 Paper currency: exchange rate, 78; depreciation, 92-94, 136-39, 193, 199, 271, 306-7, 347, 349; emissions withdrawn, 361, 365 , 370, 392, 410, 446—47, 456-57, 459, 462, 479, 487, 537; state emissions opposed, 406; new emissions, 464; appreciation predicted, 487-90; mentioned, xxxvi, 188, 309, 382, 415; see also Finance Parke, John: identified as “Philalethes,” 511; mentioned, 402 Parsons, Samuel H., letter to, 486 Passern, William de, 260 Patterson, Stephen, Political Parties in Revolutionary Massachusetts, 67 Patton, John: identified, 249; and Thompson-McKean dispute, 246; regiment re organized, 413 Paymaster general’s department: location of offices regulated, 501; mentioned, 102, 151, 276, 367, 462; see also Hancock, Ebenezer; Harrison, Benjamin, Jr.; Palfrey, William; Trumbull, Jonathan, Jr. Payne, Elisha: identified, 153; letter to, 152 Payson, Jonathan, Jencks v. Payson appeal, 280 Peace negotiations; see Carlisle Peace Commission; Reconciliation Peace terms: fisheries, 162, 288; territorial, 162, 288 Peale, Charles Wilson, xxvii, xxix Peas, 392, 495 Penn, John: letters from, 75, 100, 177, 295, 369, 478; motion, 423; -ft attends Congress, xxii; elected to Congress, xxii; on foreign affairs, 177; moves to dismiss Thomas Paine, 423; duels Henry Laurens, 440-41; and election of North Caro lina brigadiers, 443; opposes Beaumarchais contract remittances, 471; men tioned, 362, 446, 448 Pennsylvania: prosecutes loyalists, 26; loyalists, 66, 122, 159, 265; Continental troops, 120-23, 413; frontier defense, 159; boundary dispute with Virginia, 160, 171; lead mining, 191-93; suppression of distilling in sought, 203-4; challenges Continental authority in admiralty appeals, 342, 516-17, 525-26; wheat shortage, 354; privateer commissions, 377; fiscal quota, 416; sent money, 479; see also Philadelphia Pennsylvania admiralty court: Houston v. Olmsted decree, 341-42; mentioned, 517, 526 Pennsylvania Council: letters to, 51, 184; -fa petitioned for frontier protection, 159; provides pilot for French frigate, 185; rejects Elizabeth Ferguson’s travel request,


[Page 616]
580 Index Rowe, Gail S., Thomas McKean, 390 Rowe, John, 38, 78 Royal Gazette, 320 Rum, 10 Rumsdale, Aquilla, Houston v. Olmsted appeal, 341-42 Rush, Jacob. 55 Russell, William, western land interests, 538 Russell, William (1639-1683), 56 Russia, mercenaries sought by Britain, 491 Rye, 200 St. Augustine, Fla.: capture recommended, 210; mentioned, 196, 251, 282, 372, 385, 393, 466, 494, 531 St. Clair, Arthur: Ticonderoga inquiry, 46, 289, 349, 355; mentioned, 76, 320, 327 St. Eustatius, 5, 9, 179, 262 St. Johns’ Indians, requests a priest, 303 St. Lucia, French forces repulsed at, 539-40, 546 St. Vincent, 255 Salt, 9, 12, 13, 39, 78, 119 Sanborn, David, 44 Sanchez-Saavedra, E.M., Guide to Virginia Military Organizations, 542 Sanders, Mr., captured, 95 Sands, Comfort: identified, 69; letter to, 68 Sandwich, 4th earl of (John Montagu), 513 Sandy Hook, N.J., 183, 255 Santo Domingo, 386 Saratoga Convention: ratification by Carlisle commissioners proposed, 4, 86; viola tions investigated, 91, 275; mentioned, 145, 399 Savage, Samuel P., letters to, 31, 65, 155, 209 Savannah, Ga., captured, 490, 495, 501, 513, 538 Schuyler, Philip: letters to, 69, 198, 276, 283, 302, 404, 469; elected to Congress, xxi; Ticonderoga inquiry, 69, 198, 277, 281-83, 289, 302, 320; employs secret agent, 119; election as president of Congress proposed, 168, 302, 322, 404; Indian affairs commissioner, 277; relations with Horatio Gates, 469; resigns Continental commisison, 469; resigns from Congress, 469; mentioned, 64, 76, 127, 169, 172, 225, 291, 303, 325, 327, 401, 416, 463 Scudder, Nathaniel: letters from, 173, 200, 201, 202, 203, 320; attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; superintending committee, 173, 200-204, 213, 291; leaves Congress, 322; and Thomas Paine inquiry, 423 Scull, Nicholas, xxv Scull, Peter, 542 Seagrove, Mr., 177 Searle, James: attends Congress, xxiii; elected to Congress, xxiii; committee of commerce, 353, 365, 385; and Thompson-McKean dispute, 375; foreign affairs inquiry committee, 496-97, 521-22, 527; mentioned, 458, 490 Secretary of Congress; see Thomson, Charles Secret committee: minutes, 26; -ft reorganized, 26-27; accounts, 27, 424-25, 431-34, 440, 447-54, 464-65, 472-78; mentioned, 30, 48, 420, 527; see also Committee of commerce Seine (French ship), 423 “Senex” (pseudonym), 402 Seton, Mr., 178 Shaker, William, 58 Shakespeare, William, quoted, 91 Sharp, Joseph, 236, 533


[Page 618]
582 Index 381-83; U.S. trade with, 482; mentioned, 161, 177, 255, 270, 497, 527 Sparks, Jared, Gouverneur Morris, 430 Specie, 24, 219, 275 , 382 Speedwell (Pennsylvania sloop), 52 Spencer, Joseph, elected to Congress, xviii St. Albans (H.M.S.), 516 Stanhope, Philip Dormer; see Chesterfield, 4th earl of Staten Island, N.Y., 131, 139 States’ rights: Houston v. Olmsted appeal, 342; Continental control of currency challenged, 361, 370; and admiralty appeals jurisdiction, 516-17, 525-26; military pass granting authority contested, 523 Steer, William, 192 Sterett, Samuel: on dueling, 441; mentioned, 439 Sterne, Laurence, Tristram Shandy, 405 Steuben, Friedrich Wilhelm Ludolf Gerhard Augustin, baron von; letters to, 14, 51; mentioned, 414 Stevens, Ebenezer, seniority, 259 Stewart, Charles: letters to, 84, 216; recommends replacing deputy commissary, 84 Stewart, David, letter quoted, 13 Stiles, Capt., 5, 116 Stinchcombe, William, American Revolution and the French Alliance, 397 Stirling, Lord; see Alexander, William Stockings, 369, 482 Stoddard, Hosea, 533 Stoddard, Josiah: letter to, 146; leave of absence, 523 Stone, Thomas: attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; resigns from Con gress, 83 Story, Thomas, 527 Strangways, Digby, seeks exchange, 98 Stuart, Col., 334 Stuart, John; see Bute, 3d earl of Sugar, 8, 10, 11 Sullivan, John: letters to, 14, 208, 278, 417, 501, 512; mentioned, 16, 84, 116, 196, 200, 247, 414, 422, 483 Sullivan, Kathryn, Maryland and France, 135 Sumner, Jethro: letter to, 478; promoted, 439, 442-43, 457, 478 Superintending committee; see Committee of Congress (to superintend the com missary and quartermaster departments) Supplies; see Arms and ammunition; Clothier general’s department; Clothing; Committee of Commerce; Committee of Congress (to superintend the commis sary and quartermaster departments); Continental Army; Continental Navy; Powder; Quartermaster general’s department; Washington, George Susquehannah Company, 93 Sutton, John, reimbursed, 367 Swan, John, western land interests, 538 Swan (schooner), 47, 115, 182 Swanwick, John, 11 Swift, Jonathan, “The Bubble,” 232 Swift (H. M. Sloop), 305 Taffia, 11 Talbot, Silas: letter to, 223; captures Pigot, 196, 208, 223; promoted, 223 Tar, 36, 495
