Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 5, August 16, 1776 to December 31, 1776
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_05/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 2]
AV.' Vi’b


[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus v information on the document’s authorship if explanation is neces sary, and endorsements or addresses are quoted when they contain more than routine information. Other editorial practices employed in this work are explained in the sections on editorial apparatus which follow. TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [roman] [italic] (italic) One or two words missing and not conjecturable. More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. Number or part of a number missing or illegible. Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub joined footnote. Conjectural reading for missing or illegible mat ter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. Editorial insertion in the text. Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the descriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed docu ments) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manu scripts printed in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 11th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1976). CSmH Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. Ct Connecticut State Library, Hartford CtHi Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford CtY Yale University, New Haven, Conn.


[Page 10]
vi Editorial. Method and Apparatus DLC Library of Congress DLC(ESR) Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection DNA National Archives and Records Service DNDAR Daughters of the American Revolution, Washington, D.C. DeHi Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington ICHi Chicago Historical Society InU Indiana University, Bloomington M-Ar Massachusetts Archives, Boston MB Boston Public Library MH-H Harvard University, Houghton Library MHi Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston MWA American Antiquarian Society, Worcester, Mass. MdAA Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis MdAN United States Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md. MdBJ-G John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins Univer sity, Baltimore, Md. MdHi Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore MeHi Maine Historical Society, Portland N New York State Library, Albany NHi New-York Historical Society, New York NHpR Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, N.Y. NN New York Public Library, New York NNC Columbia University, New York NNPM Pierpont Morgan Library, New York NRCR Colgate-Rochester Divinity School, Rochester, N.Y. Nc-Ar North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh NcU University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill Nh-Ar New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord NhD Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. NhHi New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord Nj New Jersey State Library, Trenton NjFrHi Monmouth County Historical Association, Freehold, NJ- NjHi New Jersey Historical Society, Newark NjP Princeton University, Princeton, N.J. NjR Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. OCIWHi Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio PHC Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. PHarH Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission, Harrisburg PHi Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia PPAmP American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia PPL Library Company of Philadelphia


[Page 11]
Editorial Method and Apparatus vii ViHi ViStrR ViU PPRF PU R-Ar RHi TxU Vi Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Rhode Island State Archives, Providence Rhode Island Historical Society, Providence University of Texas, Austin Virginia State Library, Richmond Virginia Historical Society, Richmond Robert E. Lee Memorial Association, Stratford, Va. University of Virginia, Charlottesville ABBREVIATIONS AND SHORT TITLES Abbreviations and short titles for works frequently cited in the present volume are identified below. Adams, Diary (Butterfield) Adams, John. Diary and Autobiography of John Adams. Edited by Lyman H. Butterfield et al. 4 vols. Cambridge: Harvard Uni versity Press, Belknap Press, 1961. Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield) Butterfield, Lyman H., et al., eds. Adams Family Correspondence. Cambridge: Harvard University Press, Belknap Press, 1963-. Adams, Writings (Cushing) Adams, Samuel. The Writings of Samuel Adams. Edited by Harry A. Cushing. 4 vols. Boston: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1904-8. Am. Archives Force, Peter, ed. American Archives: Consisting of a Collection of Authentick Records, State Papers, Debates, and Letters and Other Notices of Publick Affairs. 4th series, 6 vols. 5th series, 3 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Printing Office, 1837-53. Austin, Life of Gerry Austin, James T. The Life of Elbridge Gerry, with Contemporary Letters to the Close of the American Revolution. 2 vols. Boston: Wells and Lilly, 1828-29. Burnett, Letters Burnett, Edmund C., ed. Letters of Members of the Continental Congress. 8 vols. Washington: Carnegie Institution of Washington, 1921-36. DAB Dictionary of American Biography. Edited by Allen Johnson and Dumas Malone. Evans, Am. Bibliography Charles Evans. American Bibliography. 12 vols. Chicago: Privately printed, 1903-34.


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus Franklin, Writings (Smyth) Franklin, Benjamin. The Writings of Benjamin Franklin. Edited by Albert Smyth. 10 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1905-7. Greene, Papers (Showman) Greene, Nathanael. The Papers of General Nathanael Greene. Edited by Richard K. Showman et al. Chapel Hill: Published for the Rhode Island Historical Society by the University of North Carolina Press, 1976—. Jay, Papers (Morris) Jay, John. John Jay; the Making of a Revolutionary: Unpublished Papers, 1745-1789. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper & Row, 1975. JCC U.S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774^-1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford et al. Washing ton: Library of Congress, 1904-37. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950—. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong. New York. Journals of the Provincial Congress, Provincial Conven tion, Committee of Safety and Council of Safety of the State of New York, 1775-1777. 2 vols. Albany: T. Weed, 1842. Md. Archives Archives of Maryland. Edited by William H. Browne et al. Balti more: Maryland Historical Society, 1883—. Md. Hist. Magazine Maryland Historical Magazine. Morgan, Naval Documents Morgan, William James, et al., eds. Naval Documents of the Ameri can Revolution. Washington: Department of the Navy, 1964—. N.C. Colonial Records North Carolina. The Colonial Records of North Carolina. Edited by William L. Saunders. 10 vols. Raleigh and Goldsboro, N.C.: P.M. Hale et al., 1886-90. N.C. State Records North Carolina. The State Records of North Carolina. Edited by Walter Clark. Vols. 11-26. Winston and Goldsboro, N.C.: M.I. and J.C. Stewart et al., 1895-1914. N.H. State Papers New Hampshire. Provincial and State Papers. 40 vols. Concord, 1867-1943. NYHS Collections Collections of the New-York Historical Society. OED Oxford English Dictionary.


[Page 16]
xii Acknowledgments Jersey Historical Society, New Jersey State Library, New-York His torical Society, New York Public Library, New York State Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, University of North Carolina, Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commis sion, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, University of Pennsylvania, Library Company of Philadelphia, Princeton University, Public Record Office (London), Franklin D. Roosevelt Library, Rutgers University, Rhode Island Historical Society, Rhode Island State Archives, Rosenbach Foundation, University of Texas, United States Naval Academy, Virginia Historical Society, Virginia State Library, University of Virginia, Western Reserve Historical Society, and Yale University. And in addition we express our thanks and appreciation to the following persons: Mr. Ronald von Klaussen, Mr. J. Wood ward Redmond, Mrs. Elsie O. Sang and Mr. Philip D. Sang, Mr. C. Stribling Snodgrass, Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Mr. Robert J. Sudderth, Jr., Mr. Justin Turner, Mr. Paul Francis Webster, and Mrs. John G. Wood. Finally we owe thanks to the historians who have served on the Advisory Committee on the Library’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously act as an advisory committee for the Letters project.


[Page 17]
August 16 August 19 August 20 August 23 August 26 August 27 August 30 September 3 September 6 September 9 September 11 September 16 September 17 September 20 September 22 September 25 Chronology of Congress August-December 1776 Censures Commodore Esek Hopkins. Orders Commodore Hopkins to resume command of Continental fleet; adopts extensive new instructions for Indian commissioners in middle department. Reads draft Articles of Confederation and orders them printed in preparation for debate in committee of the whole. Authorizes additional troops on Continental estab lishment for frontier defense. Adopts measures for relief of disabled soldiers and seamen. Resolves to encourage foreign mercenaries to desert from British army. Adopts plan to improve postal system. Receives Gen. John Sullivan’s written report on Lord Howe’s proposal for peace conference. Designates Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Edward Rutledge to meet with Lord Howe. Revises style of Continental commissions, replacing “United Colonies” with “United States.” Committee meets with Lord Howe on Staten Island. Adopts new plan for a Continental Army of 88 battalions and system of bounties for recruitment of officers and soldiers. Adopts Plan of Treaties; receives report of the com mittee appointed to confer with Lord Howe and orders it published. Adopts Articles of War. Sends committee to New York “to enquire into the state of the army.” Resolves to send committee to Ticonderoga to im prove administration of northern army. xiii


[Page 21]
List of Delegates to Congress xvii William Williams Elected: October 12, 1775; October 10, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 12, 1776 Oliver Wolcott Elected: October 12, 1775; October 10, 1776 Attended: October 1 to December 31, 1776 DELAWARE John Dickinson Elected: November 8, 1776 Did not attend as a delegate from Delaware in 1776 John Evans Elected: November 8, 1776 Did not attend Congress Thomas McKean Elected: October 21, 1775 Attended: September 24 to October 18? 1776 George Read Elected: October 21, 1775; November 8, 1776 Attended: August 16-24?; December 2-12? 1776 Caesar Rodney Elected: October 21, 1775 Attended: August 16 to October 5, 1776 GEORGIA Nathan Brownson Elected: October 9, 1776 Attended: December 20?-31, 1776 Archibald Bulloch Elected: February 2, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 Button Gwinnett Elected: February 2, 1776 Did not attend after August 16, 1776 Lyman Hall Elected: February 2, 1776; October 9, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 2; December 20-31, 1776 John Houstoun Elected: February 2, 1776; October 9, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 George Walton Elected: February 2, 1776; October 9, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 2; December 12-31, 1776 (ap ¬ pointed to Executive Committee at Philadelphia on December 21)


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress MARYLAND Robert Alexander Elected: July 4, 1776 Did not attend under this election Charles Carroll, Barrister Elected: November 10, 1776 Attended: December 7-31, 1776 Charles Carroll of Carrollton Elected: July 4, 1776 Did not attend under this election after August 16, 1776 Samuel Chase Elected: July 4, 1776; November 10, 1776 Attended: September 16-28; November 19 to December 12, 1776 Thomas Johnson Elected: July 4, 1776; November 10, 1776 Attended: September 16 to October 4? 1776 William Paca Elected: July 4, 1776; November 10, 1776 Attended: September 16?—28; November 21 to December 12? 1776 (traveled on a mission to the army in New Jersey, ca. November 25 to December 5) Benjamin Rumsey Elected: November 10, 1776 Attended: November 19?; December 12, 1776 Thomas Stone Elected: July 4, 1776; November 10, 1776 Attended: August 16 to October 22? 1776 Matthew Tilghman Elected: July 4, 1776; November 10, 1776 Attended: December 2-11? 1776 MASSACHUSETTS John Adams Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: August 16 to October 12, 1776 Samuel Adams Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: October 25 to December 31, 1776 Elbridge Gerry Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: September 2 to December 31, 1776 (traveled on a mis sion to headquarters at New York, September 21-30)


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix John Hancock Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: August 16 to December 31, 1776 Robert Treat Paine Elected: January 18, 1776 Attended: August 16 to December 10, 1776 NEW HAMPSHIRE Josiah Bartlett Elected: January 23, 1776 Attended: August 16 to October 26, 1776 John Langdon Elected: January 23, 1776 Did not attend under this election Matthew Thornton Elected: September 12, 1776 Attended: November 4 to December 31, 1776 William Whipple Elected: January 23, 1776 Attended: October 24 to December 31, 1776 NEW JERSEY Abraham Clark Elected: June 22, 1776; November 30, 1776 Attended: August 16-17?; October 28? to November 9?; December 3-31, 1776 Jonathan Elmer Elected: November 30, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 John Hart Elected: June 22, 1776 Attended: October 25? to November 5? 1776 Francis Hopkinson Elected: June 22, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 18? 1776 Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant Elected: November 30, 1776 Attended: December 20?-31, 1776 Richard Stockton Elected: June 22, 1776; November 30, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 23? 1776 (traveled on a mission to Ticonderoga, September 26 to November 22?)


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress RHODE ISLAND William Bradford Elected: October 28, 1776 Did not attend Congress William Ellery Elected: May 4, 1776 Attended: August 16 to December 31, 1776 Stephen Hopkins Elected: May 3, 1776 Attended: August 16 to September 7, 1776 SOUTH CAROLINA Thomas Heyward Elected: February 16, 1776 Attended: August 16 to September 4; December 24?-31, 1776 Thomas Lynch, Jr. Elected: March 23, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 2? 1776 Arthur Middleton Elected: February 16, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 29? 1776 Edward Rutledge Elected: February 16, 1776 Attended: August 16 to November 24, 1776 John Rutledge Elected: February 16, 1776 Did not attend in 1776 VIRGINIA Benjamin Harrison Elected: October 10, 1776 Attended: November 5 to December 31, 1776 Thomas Jefferson Elected: June 20, 1776 Attended: August 16 to September 2, 1776 Francis Lightfoot Lee Elected: June 20, 1776 Attended: August 16 to December 31, 1776 Richard Henry Lee Elected: June 20, 1776 Attended: August 27 to December 31, 1776


[Page 34]
xxx Illustrations Nevertheless he accepted Congress’ call to take over its financial affairs during the crisis of 1781 as superintendent of finance and served largely under terms of his own making. Although equal to the challenge confronting the country, he remained under fire from his enemies, and as nationalist influence waned after the cessation of hostilities he returned to private life. The following decade several of his financial ventures failed, and he eventually spent over three years in debtors prison, the victim of western land speculation. Painting by Charles Willson Peale, ca. 1782. Independence Na tional Historical Park Collection.


[Page 38]
4 August 16, 1776 should establish a single Assembly as a Legislature, I confess it would grieve me to the very soul, and however others may be, I shall certainly never be happy under such a Government. However, the Right of the People to establish such a Government, as they please, will ever be defended by me, whether they choose wisely or foolishly. Mr. Wrixon has found hard Luck in America as well as in Europe. I have never seen nor heard of any Reason to doubt the Sincerity of his Professions of regard to our Country. But he is about return ing. I am sorry that he has just Cause to return. The Baron is dead —has not left a very good Character. 4 There is one Particular, my Friend, in which our Province uses her Delegates here very unkindly, and by the same Means injures herself, and all the united States. I mean in not sending Us your Journals. To this Moment I dont know one step that has been taken to raise the Troops for N. York and Ticonderoga, nor the Name of one officer, nor when they marched. The Interest and Reputation of our Province suffers beyond Measure by such a confused way of doing Business. We ought to be minutely informed to the Charac ters and Connections of all the officers you send into the service as well as of their Names. You ought to Rank and Number the Mass. Regiments and publish a List of all the officers Names. Mr Ellery is very well. He says he dont intend to write you again till you answer his Letter. 5 I made him very happy, by letting him know that Mrs Dana and her little son were in a good way. LB (MHi). 1 Dana’s July 28 letter is in the Adams Papers, MHi. ’See John Adams to John Avery, July 25, 1776. ’See John Adams to John Penn, March 19-27, 1776, note 1. ‘Baron de Woedtke. See John Hancock to Baron de Woedtke, March 19, 1776. 0 Not found. Dana was married to Ellery’s daughter Elizabeth. John Hancock to George Washington Sir In Congress Philada 16 Augst. 1776 I have only time to acknowlege the Rec[eip]t of your Letter of 15th, and to Transmitt the Resolves pass’d since my last, which you will find Inclos’d. 1 That the allwise Disposer of Events may Crown your Arms with Success is the hearty wish of, Sir, Your very hum sert, John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). ’Washington’s letter is in PCC, item 152, 2:413, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:438. The enclosed resolves, which were passed by Congress on


[Page 40]
6 August 16, 1776 ’ The convention’s August 7 letter to the New York delegates, which was ap parently presented to Congress on August 12, is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1482-83. ’See JCC, 5:657. Marine Committee to William Hallock and John Paul Jones Sir Philada. Augt. 16th. 1776 You will find inclosed herein a paper sent us by the Captn. of a French Sloop that is now daily expected from Martinico with Arms and Ammunition Which we are very Anxious should be got safe in. 1 Therefore we desire you to keep a good look out for her and if you fall in with her, make such Signals as will make you known for a Friend. She mounts twelve Guns with Sixty Men. You’l please to deliver this letter and it’s inclosure to Capt. Hallock who must hire a pilot Boat and man her with an officer & four or five men to Cruize about the Capes for this sloop Observing to make the Signal desired and give them the needful information to get safe in here. When the Wasp goes down she will Convey further Orders re specting this matter Unless the sloop arrives safe in the meantime. We are Sir, Your Obedt Servants, John Hancock Robt Morris Frs. Lewis Frans. Hopkinson Joseph Hewes Tr (DNA: PCC, item 58). Addressed: “To Jno Paul Jones Esqr. of sloop Provi dence. Wm Hallock Esqr. of sloop Hornet.’’ ’This "paper” consisted of a drawing of a flag accompanied by these notes: "Flagg of the Queen of Hungary. Six Black Carrs [bars] & Six Yellow Carrs [bars]. “The Capt of the Pilot Boat will put his Flagg in the Foremost head of a Pilot Boat. “Carefully Recommended to the Care of Mr. Paul Siemen.” See PCC, item 58, fol. 169. Force misleadingly printed this enclosure as a postscript to the present letter. Am Archives, 5th ser. 1:977-78. Robert Morris to John Bradford Sir, Philada. August 16th 1776 I have reed your favour of the 8th Inst. 1 and still find you will be disapointed about Money, therefore to prevent all further delay I will Cause ten thousand Dollars to be put up & sent with a Sum of money now going from the Treasury to Mr. Ebenezer Hancock


[Page 41]
August 16, 1776 7 paymaster of the Troops at Boston. This money will be directed to you & Mr Hancock will deliver it. The remainder whatever it may be, you may either draw for or I will send it by some future Con veyance. I hope Mr. Merkle will arrive safe & sail immediately in the Dispatch, Capt Cleveland. I beg the favour of you to deliver the enclosed letter to Capt Cleveland; it is of some Consequence to me & Contains a few bills of Exchange. Give the Captain a Memorandum with the letter desiring him to put it in the Post office at the first Port he arrives at in France or if he goes to Havre to deliver it himself, but shoud he be taken desire him to break it open, take out the bills & destroy the letter, and then to Convey the bills to Mr. Andw Limozin, Mercht at Havre de Grace, the first opportunity he has. Pray excuse me for giving you this trouble & command freely on all occasions. Sir, Your Obed hble servt, Robt Morris P.S. I beg my Compts & best Wishes to Mr Merkle. 2 RC (Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, New York, New York, 1975). 1 Bradford’s August 8 letter to Morris is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:114-15. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see the first letter of Morris to Bradford, August 27, 1776. John Morton to Anthony Wayne Dear Sir, 1 Philada. Aug 16th 1776 I reced your favor of third of July but Want of Opportunity to write and my Engagements to make out the Commissions for our Militia who are all on their march to New Jersey to Oppose Lord How, who is Encampt on Staten Island with About 27000 men In cluding devil Dunmore, Clinton and the Hessians, and my atten dance in congress has taken almost all my time. I hope I Shall stand Excused. Our Politicks here have taken a Turn that I have Expected some time. The people whom you know have all along held back, joyned to some Others who were the Proprieatary friends Chosen by Virtue of A late Law for Enlarging the representation in the City of Philadelphia and the back Counties, became at last too heavy to drag along and A Convention have taken place Consisting of 8 members out of each County and 8 in the City who are to form A New government. They have made but little progress yet having only formed a Bill of rights and tis said they are to have but one branch to Ligislate, to wit an Assembly only, which I am afraid will not do if the Assembly went too slow as I Beleive they did. These Gentlemen will I doubt not make up the Leeway as they make ordinances and do Some things which people did not Expect


[Page 47]
August 17, 1776 13 by Some Means or other, of the Privateers fitted out in your State— their Size, Tonnage, Guns, Men, officers, Names and Characters. But in all these Respects I declare myself as ignorant, as the Duke de Choiseul, and I Suspect much more so. Our People have a curious Way of telling a Story. “The Con tinental Cruizers Hancock and Franklin, took a noble Prize.” Ay! but who knows any Thing, about the Said Cruisers. How large are they? How many Guns? 6, 9, 12, 18 or 24 Pounders? How many Men? Who was the Commander! These Questions are asked me so often, that I am ashamed to repeat my Answer. I dont know. I cant tell. I have not heard. Our Province have never informed me. The Reputation of the Province, the Character of your officers, and the real Interests of both, Suffer inexpressibly, by this Inaccuracy and Negligence. Look into Coll Campbells Letter. With what Pre cision he States every particular of his own Force, of the Force of his Adversary and how exact is his Narration of Facts and Circum stances, Step by Step? When shall We acquire equal Wisdom. We must take more Pains to get Men of thorough Education, and Ac complishments into every Department, civil, military and naval. I am as usual. [P.S.] My Horse, upon which I depended is ruined. How and where to get another to carry me home I know not. I wrote to my Partner to Speak to some Members of the G. Court, to see if they could furnish me with a Couple of good Saddle Horses. If not She will be put to some Trouble I fear. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 Warren’s August 11 letter is in Warren-Adams Letters, 1:267-68. 0 For Warren’s response on the indifferent reaction in the Massachusetts Gen eral Court to Adams’ proposal for additional delegates to Congress, see Warren to Adams, September 19, 1776, ibid., p. 273. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 17th. 1776. 5 O’Clock P.M. Your Favour of the 16th Inst, per Post this Minute came to Hand, 8c shall be laid before Congress on Monday. I do myself the Pleasure to enclose sundry Resolves for your Infor mation, and likewise to forward the Commissions ordered by a Resolve of Congress of the 10th Inst., a Copy of which I transmitted in my Letter of that Date. 1 With the most ardent and sincere Wishes for your Health 8c Pros perity, I have the Honour to be, with perfect Esteem, Sir, your most hble Sert. John Hancock Prest.


[Page 48]
14 August 17, 1776 [P.S.] This morng. I Rec’d the Box by Coll Reed, & am Directed by Congress to Take care of it, which is done. 2 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Han cock. 1 Washington’s letter to Hancock of August 16 is in PCC, item 152, 2:417, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:439-40. The “sundry Resolves” Hancock sent to Washington were passed by Congress this day and dealt with the conduct of Gen. David Wooster, the appointment of an assistant quartermaster general to reside in Philadelphia, prisoner exchanges, the raising of two more Maryland battalions, and supplies for the flying camp in New Jersey. ]CC, 5:664-66. Han cock also wrote the following note to Commissary General Joseph Trumbull this date: “I have this Minute received your Favour by Post, and can just acquaint you, that the Bills you have Drawn shall be paid. No more Time. God Bless you.” Joseph Trumbull Papers, Ct. For Trumbull’s “Favour,” see Trumbull to Han cock, August 15, 1776, in PCC, item 78, 22:105, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:966-67. 2 In anticipation of an attack by Howe, Washington had taken “all the papers in my hands respecting the Affairs of the States,” put them "in a large Box nailed up,” and sent the box to Congress in care of “Lieutenant Colonel Reed, Brother of the Adjutant General.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:426-27. William Hooper to Robert R. Livingston Philadelphia August 17. 1776. Will you excuse me, Dear Sir, if I trespass so far upon your time, at present devoted to the important purpose of struggling yourself and inducing others to struggle for the dearest rights & privileges of mankind, as to awaken your remembrance of an old friend. I know I am in your debt; circumstances which I could not avoid have con tributed to make it of long continuance. I am now in your Neigh bourhood; Opportunities frequently offer & I intend to repay you with ample interest. Since I had the pleasure of seeing you I have experienced all the vicissitudes which change of Climate could afford & been in as per ilous situations as ever St Paul was and am thank God safe and sound without the aid of a Miracle. That hopeful youth Governour Martin made a Bonfire of a countryhouse of mine, fortunately my family were absent from it, and as the buildings were not com- pleated I suffered little more than the mortification of having given Martin an opportunity to triumph at my expense. The accidental Circumstance of my being upon a party from home with my family for a day, prevented my being kidnapped by a Boat from the Cruizer Man of War which was sent within 100 yards of a house I have on the sea side; for that pious purpose. But why do I teize you with what can be of no consequence to any one but myself. In truth I hear so much of the figure in Rhetorick called the Egomet that I have taken the infection; and you’ll easily conjecture the respectable


[Page 50]
16 August 17, 1776 Howe shall make an Attack on New York, which is daily expected. Much depends upon the Event of the Battle which will soon be fought. God grant Success to our Arms. Commodore Hopkins, who was charged with Disobedience of Orders, hath been heard in his Defence. Congress Resolved that his Answers were by no means satis factory, and thereupon further Resolved “that he should be cen sured and he is censured accordingly.” 4 Judge Greene arrived here yesterday. We shall move Congress for the Payment of the Money requested by the General Assembly. 5 We have not urged an Appointment of a Brigadier General to the Command of the Troops in our State; because We think it would be imprudent to bring them in View at this Time least they should be ordered to New York and our State be left defenceless. We should be very glad to receive a Letter now and then from the Assembly [and] you. However We shall continue [to] pursue the Rule We have prescribed to Ourselves, [and are] with great Respect, your Honor’s most obedient, humble Servants, Step Hopkins William Ellery RC (NN). Written by Ellery and signed by Ellery and Hopkins. 'On August 8 Congress had read letters from Generals Gates and Schuyler ex pressing satisfaction with Congress’ resolution of the recent dispute between them about command of the northern army. See Gates to Hancock, July 29, and Schuyler to Hancock, August 1, 1776. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:649, 714—15. See also JCC, 5:526, 638; and Hancock’s letters to Gates and to Schuyler, July 8, 1776. 3 The state of the American fleet on Lake Champlain was one of the subjects discussed in Gates’ August 5 letter to Hancock, which was read in Congress on August 15. See Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:795-97 (where Gates' letter is misdated August 6); and JCC, 5:659. “For the proceedings of Schuyler’s conference with representatives of the Six Nations at German Flats from August 6 to 13, which were transmitted to Con gress by Washington in his August 23 letter to Hancock, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1030-49; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:477. Although the Iroquois did reaffirm their neutrality at the end of this conference, Schuyler’s August 7 letter to Hancock—the latest account of the conference available to the Rhode Island delegates on August 17—clearly stated that he still could not predict whether the Iroquois would “engage to take an active part with us, . . . promise to remain neuter, or give evident marks of an unfriendly disposition." PCC, item 153, 2:248-52; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:856-57 (where Schuyler’s letter is misdated August 8); and JCC, 5:659. ‘See Thomas Jefferson’s Notes on the Inquiry into Esek Hopkins’ Conduct, August 12, 1776. 5 On July 13 the Rhode Island Assembly had appointed John Collins and William Greene to go to Philadelphia and ask Congress for $120,000 "on account of the moneys due to this state, for the expense of the brigade, taken into Con tinental pay;’’ and on August 31 Congress approved the payment of this sum "in favour of the delegates of Rhode Island, for the use of that state, which is to be charged with the same.” JCC, 5:728; and John R. Bartlett, ed.. Records of the Colony of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, 10 vols. (Providence: A. Crawford Greene, 1856-65), 7:594.


[Page 53]
August 18, 1776 19 terally with his Instructions, were by no Means satisfactory. My two Colleagues 3 differed in opinion from me, upon those Questions con cerning the Adfmiral], 6 Colonies ay, 3 No, 3 divided. I am afraid this will hurt the Fleet, but Time must determine. We have ordered the old Hero to his Command. 4 Before the Receipt of your Letter, what you advise concerning Meigs and Dearborne was done. 5 The Board of War recommended it and it was done, but not without opposition from 5 or 6 Colonies, who thought that there ought to be no Distinctions made, but a gen eral Exchange of the Prisoners of Arnolds Party, or none. Let me intreat you, Sir upon your Return to Watertown, to pro mote an Inquiry concerning the Massachusetts Forces. Let a List be collected and published of all the Regiments raised in that State. The Names of all the officers. Let the Regiments be numbered and the officers ranked. Let us know for what Periods they were inlisted. Let me suggest one Thing more. I am in doubt, whether our Province have had returned to them all the Powder, they furnished the Continent from the Town Stocks, as well as the Provincial Maga zines. Pray inquire and if they have not, let it be demanded. There is by a Return from G. Ward 3 or 400 Barrells of Powder there be longing to the Continent, and if this opportunity is not embraced, another so fair may not present itself. I wish to know the armed Vessells in the Service of the Province, their Number, Size, Guns, Weight of Metal, Number of Men &c. As soon as the G. Court shall assemble I hope you will promote an Election of Some fresh Delegates, at least of one, to take my Place. Mr Hawley, I hope will be perswaded to come. It will be a fine season to have the Small Pox here, and Rush will insure him through, almost without a sigh or Groan. Warren is the next, Dana the third and Lowell the fourth. If the Province should approve the Plan of choosing Nine, these four will make up the Number. But if there are objections to these there are enough others. Some of us here, are tremblingly alive, at the Prospect of a Battle, but whether it will be fought this year, or not, I cant Say. The two gratefull Brothers may loose Reputation with their fellow Tyrants, if they dont attack but I hope they will loose more, if they do. My most respectfull Compliments to your good Lady. I am, your Friend and servant, John Adams RC (NN). LB (MHi). 1 Samuel Adams’ August 13 and 16 letters are in Adams, Writings (Cushing), 3:309-11. “David Wooster and Esek Hopkins. JCC, 661-62, 664-65. For Adams’ auto biographical account of the struggle in Congress over the behavior of these men, see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:405-9. “John Hancock and Robert Treat Paine. See Adams to Abigail Adams, this date, note 2. * As this action concerning Hopkins was officially taken on August 19, Adams


[Page 55]
August 18, 1776 21 1 Congress had last considered the articles of confederation on August 8 and took them up again on August 20. JCC, 5:639-40, 674. 2 See JCC, 5:661-62, 664-65. 3 Undoubtedly Gates’ August 5 letter to Hancock, which is printed under the date August 6 in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:795-97. See also John Adams to Horatio Gates, August 13, 1776, note 4. ‘JCC, 5:667. “ In his September 2 response to this letter, Whipple made the following report on his activities during his recent journey home. “I called on Govr Trumble, on my way thro’ Connecticut, who informed me of the state of affairs at the Lakes, which as you observe have a much better appearance then they had some time ago. At Providence I endeavored to get Guns for the Frigate but found that the owners of the Furniss were determined to take every ad vantage of the times. They talked of £90 Lawful Money per Ton but would not contract at that unless half the Money was paid at the Signing of the Contract. I think it better to comply with their extravegant Terms then to let the ship lay here, while one of the Enemys ships (the Milford) is taking everything on our coast. I therefore have advised Mr. Langdon to get the guns on the best terms he can, he talks of seting off for Providence to morrow. If he gets the guns the ship will soon be ready for sea. I have sometimes laugh’d at Mr. Langdons Panegyric on this Ship, but I am now convinced he has said no more in her praise then she deserves. She is really the Best ship by far, of the Nine which I have seen, & is as well Officer’d as any ship in the Service. I hope justice will be done these Gentlen in Ranking them, they really deserve to be high on the list. Were they known to the Committee I am sure they would be. I found on my arrival that our assembly had Emitted £23,000, in addition to the 60,000 Emitted before I went to Philadelphia. I could not help Expressing my surprise to the Committee at their taking this step without asking a supply from the Continental Treasury. I think it very wrong to issue such Quantities of paper Money.” Fogg Collection, MeHi. John Morton to Persifor Frazer Dear Sir Philada. the 18th Augt. 1776 Your favor of the 31th Ultimo is received. 1 I thank you for your Inteligence, it may be useful to me and in some way so to the publick but am sorry to hear of the Extream distress of my dear Country men. There is nobody Abhors Peculation more than I do, how can people attend to such things in this time of distress, surely good cannot Come of such doings. Pennsylvania Never see such days as now on Account of Arrival of so large an Armament at N York. The Enemy now Consisting of 27000 or as some Accounts say 30,000 men all Encampt on Staten Island. Our Militia are march’d to A man Out of Chester County (Except some few that ran of[f] and hid Themselves) and so they have from all the Counties to the Amount in the whole of Upwards of 15000. The Spirit of the Association on this as well as on Other Occasions does them much honor and I have good reason to hope at this time they will be the salvation of North America. 4000 more will soon arrive from Maryland and the Delaware Counties and two Battalions of Regulars also on their


[Page 56]
22 August 18, 1776 march from Virginia for New York and General Lee is also on his way there by order of Congress. I hope If we can stand it this Cam pain the spirit of our Enemies will be broke and our Business will then be Easie. We have Arrivals of Powder, and Military stores fre quently make a great deal and are in no want of that Article nor of Lead. Our Malitia are Stationed at Amboy, Woodbridge and Elizabeth Town point, are in health though Some of them that went from this City about A Month Ago are I am told somewhat uneasie to return. Our army at New York at present Not so Nu merous as I Could wish but Increases every day. General Washington Expects an Attack every hour, is well provided with every thing, and I am sure our Troops will sell their lives dear or Conquer. They have my prayers and yours I am sure for their success. Your friends and Relations I have reason to beleive are well. It is a Very healthy time here as I have known or Else there is no body to be sick the strep being mostly gone. I had almost forgot to mention the Arrival of Devil Dunmore and Clinton who are both at N York and all their troops. With my best Respects to you and prayers for your health I am sir with real Esteem your most Obedt, humble sevt, John Morton P.S. write freely to me—no fear of Injury to you. Subscribe P.F. Sketchleys Compliment to you, he marches this day to Jersey from this place. Augt 21th. News has just now arrived from Martinique that the Governor will receive our Vessels to trade freely, Protect that trade and receive and Suffur us to sell our Prizes there; that the French are preparing for war, which will soon take place agt the English; this may be depended on. RC (MH-H). 1 Frazer’s letter is filed with Morton’s at MH-H. Frazer, a captain in Col. Anthony Wayne’s Fourth Pennsylvania Battalion, was at Ticonderoga. John Adams to Samuel H. Parsons Dear Sir. Philadelphia August 19. 1776 Your Favours of the 13th and 15th are before me. 1 The Gentle men you recommend for Majors, Chapman and Dier, will be recom mended by the Board of War, and I hope agreed to in Congress. 2 I thank you for your observations upon certain Field officers. Patterson, Shepherd and Brooks make the best Figure, I think upon Paper. It is my Misfortune that I have not the least Acquaintance with any of those Gentlemen having never seen any one of them,


[Page 57]
August 19, 1776 23 or heard his Name till lately. This is a little remarkable. Few Per sons in the Province ever travelled over the whole of it, more than I have, or had better oppertunities to know every conspicuous Character. But I dont so much as know from what Parts of the Province Shepherd and Brooks come, of what Families they are, their Educations, or Employments. Should be very glad to be in formed. Lt Coll Henshaw has been recommended to me by Coll Reed for Promotion as a usefull officer. But upon the whole, I think the List you have given me dont shine. I am very much ashamed of it. I am so vexed sometimes as almost to resolve to make Interest to be a Coll myself. I have almost Vanity enough to think that I could make a Figure in such a Group. But a treacherous, shattered Constitution is an eternal objection against my aspiring at military Command. If it was not for this insupperable Difficulty I should certainly imi tate old Nol Cromwell in one Particular, that is in launching into military Life after forty, as much as I dislike his Character and Example in others. But enough of this. I wish I could find Materials any where in sufficient Quantities to make good officers. A brave and able Man, wherever he is, shall never want my Vote, for his advancement: nor shall an ignorant, awkward Dastard, ever want it for his Dismission. Congress must assume an higher Tone of Discipline over officers, as well as those over the Men. With Regard to Encouragement in Money and in Land, for Soldiers to inlist during the War, I have ever been in favour of it, as the best oeconomy and the best Policy and I have no doubt that Rewards in Land will be given, after the War is over. But the Majority are not of my Mind for promising of it now. I am the less anxious about it, for a Reason which does not seem to have much Weight however with the Majority. Altho it may cost us more, and we may put now and then a Battle to a Hazard, by the Method we are in, yet We shall be less in danger of Corruption and Violence from a standing Army, and our Militia will acquire Cour age, Experience, Discipline and Hardiness in actual service. I wish every Man upon the Continent was a Soldier, and obliged upon occasion to fight, and determined to conquer or to die. Flight was unknown to the Romans. I wish it was to Americans. There was a Flight from Quebec, and worse than a Flight at the Cedars. If We dont attone for these disgraces We are undone. A more exalted Love of their Country, a more enthusiastic arder for military Glory, and deeper Detestation, Disdain and Horror of martial Disgrace must be excited among our People, or We shall perish in Infancy. I will certainly give my Voice for devoting to the Infernal Gods, every Man high or low, who shall be convicted of Bashfullness in the day of Battle.


[Page 59]
August 19, 1776 25 part of it, at least, is true, I hope all. By sundry letters, it appears that both the French and Dutch are very fond of our trade, and have sent and are sending to the West-Indies large quantities of arms, and every other article that we are like to want. The insolence of the commanders of the British men-of-war in the West-Indies, is become intolerable. It seems that one of them some time since went into the harbour at ’Statia, and after waiting some days, attempted to take possession of some American vessels there, but was prevented by the Dutch. She then left the harbour, and the next day seized a ship bound from ’Statia to Amsterdam, and carried her into one of the English Islands, and there he detains her. This has so exasperated the Dutch, that the Governour of ’Statia has (it is said) ordered the Captains of the ports to fire on any English man-of-war that comes within reach of their guns. This looks like kicking up a dust. I am, your most obedient, humble servant, Josiah Bartlett P.S. August 20th. Yesterday a vessel arrived at Egg-Harbour, that was sent to the West-Indies on the account of the Congress. It is said she has brought six hundred stand of arms and ten tons of powder. The particulars of the fire-ships attempting the men-of-war, and burning a tender, and of the men-of-war getting down by New- York, you will hear before this reaches you. Ut sup. J. B. MS not found; reprinted from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1060. 1 An extract of Langdon’s August 5 letter to Bartlett is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:56. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston My dear Robert [August 19? 1776] 1 Your Favour of the 6th Instant came to Hand on Thursday; your last I received Yesterday after the Post had left Town. It will give me real Pleasure I assure you to do Justice to Mr. Cortland & promote your Brother to the Rank which his Services and Situa tion in my opinion demand. But as we must pursue opposite Rules in advancing those Gentlemen, the one rising according to Seniority, the other Regimentally, and as the Congress will I believe act with great Caution in their next Arrangement of your Forces I submit to you whether it would not be best to get a Recommendation from your Convention on this Subject. I think there should be no diffi culty in giving Lt. Colo. Cortland, McDougall’s Regiment, & your Brother, Clynton’s, because I know it is the Opinion of Genl. Wash ington & the Board of War to whom that Opinion was given, that


[Page 60]
26 August 19, 1776 Promotions should in common be Regimentally, but that that Rule should give way in extraordinary Cases. This Principle will then exactly apply supposing that your Brother had no peculiar Merits, but with Me he has, and if the House shall think as I would wish them, he will have Merit with them likewise. But as I have already mentioned, lest they should run retrograde, a little Jog from your Convention would not be amiss. The Promotion of General officers gave us a good deal of trouble. Woorster had more Advocates for his Advancement than his Abilities entitled him to. His Friends threaten’d us with his Resignation if he was passed by. This was conclusive with some of us, but he has not as yet justified our Ex pectations, and we begin to fear that his Attachment to 120 Dollars a Month will prevent the good work. We found some difficulty in getting Clynton made a General. Phil. Livingston proposed him & I advocated his Promotion. It was confessed on all Hands that he had done more & suffered more than McDougal, but a Mr. Varnum of Rhode Island &: Maxwell of Jersey were opposed to him. Our Exertions however prevailed. 2 I shall be doubly fortunate if by my Endeavours two valuable officers can be rewarded. You who have served so long in Congress will confess it is not often that we do much good in one day. Most of the last Week was taken up in trying old Hopkins, for a Breach of Orders. The Fact was clearly proved, his Excuses were trifling to the Last Degree, to say the least of them, the Congress in opposition to the Eastern Colonies found him guilty, and have censured him for his Conduct. Some of us pressed his Removal, from the Command, but a tenderness or rather weakness for his Brother, 3 and an opinion that he would resign in Consequence of the Thunder of the House, obstructed the passing of the Motion. I wish he would resign, for I am satisfied that he is totally unfit for the Department, & that we shall be dis graced so long as he shall continue at the Head of our naval Affairs. We are doing every thing in our Power to reform the Pay of the Army &: put the Forces under better Regulations than they have yet been. The Committee of Spies (of which you, Jefferson, Adams & I were Members) who were desired to revise the Articles of War & bring in such Amendments as they thought proper, have reported to the House the British Articles as far as local Circumstances will admit, and the Congress is in a fair way of adopting them. If we can carry them thro’ compleatly it will have a most happy Effect. 4 I know not how we shall so soon purge the Army of the Men you mention, as by prevailing upon them to resent their own Quarrels. To shew you how exactly we concurr’d in Sentiment upon this Subject, I must tell you that when the Congress were employing a little Leisure Time some days ago in considering the new Articles, & before I received your Letter, I proposed to strike out that Article which prevents the sending of Challenges, and pressed it as a


[Page 61]
August 20, 1776 27 Measure that would tend to make their officers Gentlemen, or at least induce them to act as such, whilst in Company with Gentle men. Stone seconded & supported the Motion, but we could not carry the Point. I believe we must leave it to time. We have done nothing with the Confederation for some Days, and it is of little Consequence if we never see it again, for we have made such a devil of it already that the Colonies can never agree to it. If my opinion was likely to be taken I would propose that the States should ap point a special Congress to be composed of new Members for this purpose—and that no Person should disclose any part of the present plan. If that was done we might then stand some Chance of a Confederation, at present we stand none at all. We have not as yet touched the Treaty—and Independence has been declared upwards of Six Weeks! We have heard of Deane’s arrival in France but no Letters from him. I am much pleased with the Spirit of your Con vention. God grant they may receive the Blessings of Liberty, & by a wise Government fix those Blessings upon a strong and lasting Foundation. Exert my good Friend all your Abilities in the ac complishing of this delicate Business, so that you will be beloved by Posterity as truly as you are by your most affectionate, Edward Rutledge P.S. Remember me affectionately to Jay. We have sent to the South ward for General Lee, lest any Accident should befall Washington (which God prevent) & our Army be without a proper Head. You did not inclose me Mr Cortland’s Letter as you thought. RC (PPRF). Endorsed by Livingston: “Edward Rutledge Esqr. Reed. Augt 1776.” 1 This letter was written after Congress censured Esek Hopkins on August 16 but before debate on the Articles of Confederation was resumed on August 20. It has been assigned the date August 19 because of Rutledge’s references to impending action on the revised articles of war, which were debated for a time this day. 2 For Congress’ recent action in regard to the appointment of general officers, see JCC, 5:641. 8 Stephen Hopkins of Rhode Island. ‘On June 14 Congress had directed the committee on spies "to revise the rules and articles of war.” This committee brought in a revised set of articles on August 7, which was considered by Congress on August 13 and 19 and Sep tember 19 and finally approved on September 20. JCC, 5:442, 636, 652, 787-807, 6:1125-26. For John Adams’ autobiographical account of the revision of the articles, explaining why they were essentially "the British Articles of War, totidem Verbis,” see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:409-10. John Adams to Joseph Ward Sir Philadelphia August 20. 1776 Your Favours of 28th July and 8 August are before me. 1 I have a Favour to ask of you, that is to Send me an exact Account of the


[Page 64]
30 August 20, 1776 FC (PPAmP). 1 Perhaps drafted in response to Howe’s letter of August 16—which is available in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:462—but undoubtedly not sent. In a subse quent letter, Franklin explained that he had received Howe’s letter of August 16 but “did not immediately answer it, because I found that my corresponding with your Lordship was disliked by some members of Congress.” See Franklin to Lord Howe, September 8, 1776. John Hancock to George Washington Sir 3 oClock P M, Congress Chamber 20 Augst 1776 Your Letter by Express with its several Inclosures I yesterday Rec’d, & yours by Post this moment came to hand. I have laid the whole before Congress, & am directed to keep the Express. 1 I shall therefore only by the Return of the Post Inclose you Two Com missions which please to order to be Deliver’d, Referring all other matters to be Sent by the Express. 2 I have the honor to be, Your most Obedt sert, John Hancock Prest. RC (MdHi: Middendorf deposit, 1972). 1 Washington’s second letter to Hancock of August 12, which was read in Congress on August 19, is in PCC, item 152, 2:385, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:419. Enclosed in it were “the proceedings and judgment of a court martial against Colonel Donald Campbell.” JCC, 5:667. See also Hancock to Washington, August 22, 1776, note 1. Washington’s letters to Hancock of August 18 and 19, which were read in Congress on August 20, are in PCC, item 152, 2:433-34, 443-46, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:450-52, 463-64. “Hancock probably sent Washington commissions for James Chapman and Thomas Dyer. JCC, 5:667-68. Samuel Huntington to Jabez Huntington Sir Philadelphia 20th August 1776 I am this day favourd with yours of the 15th Instt. The affairs of the nothern department have lain heavy on my mind for a long time, & much hath been said here on that Subject by Some of the member[s]. At present things have a better prospect in that de partment, hope it may continue. Am glad to hear Troops are coming from Connecticut at this Critical Season, alltho that State hath gone so far beyond their proportion. The American Cruisers have in many parts been Successfull, hope we shall have a good ac count of Captains Niles and Hardin in due time. 1 By deserters lately from Staten Island we are told Ld Dunmore with his fleet are arrivd there, that he had divided his troops into three departments, the sick were sent to Hallifax, the well which


[Page 65]
August 20, 1776 31 were few were landed at Staten Island, & his Black Regiment were Sent to the West Indies for Sale. The Indians have Committed Some depradations at the southward on the backs of the Carolinas, & Troops are Sent against them which I hope will bring them to good terms, but in the middle & northern department the latest advices are more favourable. The Indians Seem disposd to observe a neutrality which I cannot but hope will take place among them if our unnatural Brethren Should not get any advantage against us which God prevent. 2 We have Just recivd advice that the Ships which went up the north river returnd last Sunday with the advantage of the wind & tide 8c run by the batteries. Believe they were weary of their Situation. Am Sir with Esteem your Humble Servant, Samll Huntington RC (CtHi). 1 Jabez drafted his August 15 letter to Samuel on the verso of Samuel’s July 31 letter to him. He reported that 14 regiments of Connecticut militia had been ordered to New York, "many of which are on their March & the others Like to Come on Soon,” that Robert Niles, captain of the Connecticut schooner Spy, “is Lately Sailed on a Cruse,” and that Capt. Seth Harding “in a verry fine Bermuda Brig Late Purchassed by Govt, will Sail in a few days.” Samuel Hunt ington Papers, CtHi. For additional information on Harding’s orders, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:16-17, 154-55. “For the August 19 report of the committee on Indian affairs, see JCC, 5:668-70. Thomas Jefferson to John Page Dear Page Philadelphia Aug. 20. 1776. We have been in hourly expectation of the great decision at New York but it has not yet happened. About three nights ago an at tempt was made to burn the two ships which had gone up the river. One of the two fire-rafts prepared for that purpose grappled the Phenix ten minutes but was cleared away at last. A tender how ever was burnt. 1 The two ships came down on Sunday evening and passed all our batteries again with impunity. Ld. Dunmore is at Staten Isld. His sick he sent to Halifax, his effective men he carried to Staten Isld. and the blacks he shipped off to the West Indies. Two gentlemen who had been taken prisoners by the enemy have made their escape. 2 They say they are now 20,000 and that another division of 5000 foreigners is still expected. They think Ld. Howe will not attack these 10 days, but that he does not wait for his last division, being confident of victory without. One of these informants was captain of a continental vessel going for ammunition. The


[Page 66]
32 August 20, 1776 mate and crew rose and took the vessel. They fell in with the di vision of the Hessians which came with the Hessian general and were brought to. The general learning from the dethroned captain what had happened, immediately threw the piratical mate into irons and had the captain to dine with him every day till they got to Halifax where he delivered him, vessel &c. over to the English. A gentleman who lived some time in this city, but since last winter has become a resident of St. Eustatia writes that by a Dutch ship from Amsterdam they have advice that the states of Holland had refused to renew the prohibition on the exportation of powder to the colonies, or to cede to the English the Scotch brigade in their service, or to furnish them with some men of war asked of them by the British court. This refusal so piqued the ministry that they had been induced to take several Dutch ships, amongst which he sais were two which sailed from that island and were carried to London, another to St. Kitt’s. In consequence of this the Dutch have armed 40 ships of war and ordered 60 more to be built and are raising 20,000 land forces. The French governor in chief of their W. Indies has not only refused to permit a captain of a man of war to make prize of our vessels in their ports but forbidden them to come within gun shot of the ports. The enemy’s men of war being withdrawn from our whole coast to N. York gives us now fine opportunities of getting in powder. We see the effect here already. Two Canadians who had been captains in our Canadian regi ment and who General Gates writes us are known in the army to be worthy of good credit made their escape from St. John’s, and came over to our army from Tyonderoga; and give the following intelligence. 3 The enemy did not fortify any place we abandoned. They had 2000 men at Isle aux noix under Genl. Fraser, 2000 at St. John’s under Carleton and some at Montreal. 250 only had been left at Quebec. It was reported that 4000 English troops which were to have been a part of that army had perished at sea which gave great uneasiness. The fleet brot over timber &c. for 50 boats which they attempted to transport by land from the mouth of Sorel to St. John’s, but could not for want of carriages which had been de stroyed. Carleton therefore employed Canadians to build batteaux at St. John’s. He has rendered himself very odious to the Canadians by leving contributions on them in general and confiscating the estates of all those who followed our army or who abscond. Great numbers of the Germans desert daily and are anxiously concealed by the inhabitants. 70 Brunswickers disappeared in one day. Their officers are so much afraid of bush-fighting and ambushes that they will not head any parties to pursue the runaways. The men have the same fears, which prevents them from deserting in so great num bers as is supposed they will when once our fleet shall appear cruis-


[Page 72]
38 August 20, 1776 1 Victor Th6rese Charpentier, comte d’Ennery, was governor of the French colony St. Domingue. “Archibald Bulloch, governor of Georgia, wrote a similar letter to d’Ennery on August 28, 1776, asking his support for trade with merchants from Georgia. Archives nationales, Marine B 7, 458, no. 17. ’Silas Deane. ‘William Bingham. Roger Sherman to Zebulon Butler Sir Philadelphia August 20th. 1776 I received by Mr Swift Your Letter of the 6th Instant with the representation made by the Authority, Selectmen & Committee of Inspection concerning their apprehentions of trouble from the In dians, upon which we applied to Congress to raise Some Companies upon the Continental Establishment. 1 The application was referred to the Delegates of Connecticut and Pennsylvania who reported for raising three Companies in the Town of Westmoland to be under the Command of a Major, which now lies before Congress not acted upon, as also a report for raising a Battallion in Pennsylvania for Defence of the Frontiers of that State. Since these applications were made we have had favourable accounts from the Indians that they refused to comply with the Solicitations of Butler & others to take up arms against the colonies and are determined to remain Neuter. I dont know what will be finally done about raising Troops to de fend the Frontiers, but if any are raised in Pennsylvania ’tis probable You will be allowed to raise three Companies. We shall pay proper attention to the affair and if anything is done about it Shall give You the earliest Notice. 2 I hope your people will have restitution of their effects taken at the Warriours run, after the State of Pennsylvania hath Settled a regular Government. I remain Your humble Servant, Roger RC (CtY). 1 The August 6 letter of Westmoreland officials to the Connecticut delegates is in Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:18-20. ’On August 23 Congress authorized Westmoreland to raise two companies at Continental expense and ordered six companies to be raised in Pennsylvania to protect the frontiers in Northampton and Northumberland counties. JCC, 5:698-99. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadel. Augt 20 1776 I reed your favr of the 17 yesterday informg of the Attack by the Fire Ships. They have done something worth atchieving, if they have


[Page 73]
August 21, 1776 39 not paid too dear. Happy, if they had succeeded with the Phenix. We are just informd that they dont incline to sustain any more such encounters, & are pushd back by your Batteries & joind the fleet, have not the certainty of it yet. Convinced that it was the surest way I had sundry times pressed sev[era]l of the board of War, to recommend Cap Dyer for a Majr. They promised to consider it &c & yesterday brot in a report recco- mending him & Cap Chapman of Tylers, & after some Consideration, the votes were calld for & they are both appointd. 1 Conclude the Pres[iden]t has or will send their Comissions. Your Letter came just Time enough for me to strengthen the Recomendaftion] by inform ing the House that the objection of Rank was removed. I just knew of the Conveyance by Mr Colt, & had but a minutes Time. Pray let me know every thing material passing among you. I am your affect. Friend & Bror. W Williams RC (Ct). 1 See JCC, 5:667-68. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 21. 1776 Yesterday Morning I took a Walk, into Arch Street, to see Mr. Peele’s Painters Room. Peele is from Maryland, a tender, soft, affec tionate Creature. 1 He shewed me a large Picture containing a Group of Figures, which upon Inquiry I found were his Family. His Mother, and his Wifes Mother, himself and his Wife, his Brothers and sisters, and his Children, Sons and Daughters all young. There was a pleasant, a happy Chearfulness in their Countenances, and a Fa miliarity in their Airs towards each other. He shewed me one moving Picture. His Wife, all bathed in Tears, with a Child about six months old, laid out, upon her Lap. This Picture struck me prodigiously. He has a Variety of Portraits—very well done. But not so well as Copeleys Portraits. Copeley is the greatest Master, that ever was in America. His Portraits far exceed Wests. Peele has taken General Washington, Dr. Franklin, Mrs. Washing ton, Mrs. Rush, Mrs. Hopkinson. Mr. Blair McClenachan and his little Daughter in one Picture. His Lady and her little son, in another. Peele shewed me some Books upon the Art of Painting, among the rest one by Sir Joshua Reynolds, the President of the English Accademy of Painters, by whom the Pictures of General Conway and Coll. Barry [Barrd] in Fanuil Hall were taken. He shewed me too a great Number of Miniature Pictures, among


[Page 80]
46 August 22, 1776 our ports as they will be most likely to reach with safety. We deliver you herewith Some of the Marine Books, List of Continental Agents in every state, and Several of the printed declarations of Indepen dance. They may do well to notify the inhabitants of the French Islands of St Pierre & Miquelon of this declaration and sound how the inhabitents stand effected towards us, assuring them the French Government favour our Cause and will probably become our Allies by treaty. Perhaps our Ships may find shelter and protection on these Islands if the enemy have Ships in that quarter too Strong for us. Should this Fleet take any prizes whose Cargoes might be particu larly usefull to the inhabitants of these States, they may do well to convoy Such into port, and if they gain any intelligence that the Commanders think important they Must dispatch one of the small vessells with the account to us, putting into the first port and Send ing an express with it to the General or to us. You will instruct the commander of each vessel to write us by all opportunities of their proceedings and of the Occurrencies they meet with. They must make us Monthly returns of their Crews, of the Supplies made to them, of the provisions, and make Copies of their Log Books and Journals to be transmitted to us at their return. They must be carefull of their Ships, stores and materials, use their officers and Men in Such a Manner as will recommend the service and at the same time preserve strict discipline. They will no doubt from principles of humanity and generosity treat their prisoners with all the kindness and atten tion their respective Situations and circumstances will admit of and we hope their conduct will in all things be such as to Merit the continuance of our Confidence. You will direct the commanders of each Vessel to be very exact in keeping a List of all persons on board that are intitled to prize Money Mentioning their Names, stations, & Shares, Copys of which they must furnish the Agent or Agents that receive the prizes in order that just 8c equitable distribution of Prize Money may in due time be made. We also wish to have a full and just valuation of all the Cannon, Stores 8cc which you brought from Providence that have been ap propriated to public use or that remain for that purpose, and we desire you would have the vessels you took and the property in them Libelled and tryed, in order that Such part as is condemned may be sold, the accounts Settled and distribution of the Prize Money made. We are sir, Your very Humble servts, John Hancock Geo Walton Sami Huntington Fras Lewis Geo. Read Robt Morris Step Hopkins Joseph Hewes


[Page 81]
August 22, 1776 47 P.S. We deliver you herewith a Letter to Nathaniel Shaw junr. Esqr. of New London directing him to purchase the Armed Schooner You took in Your late Cruize. This Schooner Must be called the Hopkins and immediately fitted out as a Continental Cruizer and you are to add her to the Fleet destined against Newfoundland Fishery sending her away in Company with the Alfred &c. We deliver you herewith a blank Commission for the Captain and we choose the offer of it should be Made to Captain Chew of New Haven he being Strongly recommended by the Committee of that place, but if he refuses this appointment we hereby authorize you to put in a proper com mander and fill this Commission with his Name. We also deliver you Some blank warrants which you will fill up with proper persons for the Master and other inferior officers for that Schooner. Let it be an article of your instructions to all the Captains to be particularly carefull to Send all salt they may take to Some of these States as we expect it will be very Much Wanted. Should you think it adviseable to go upon the expidition to Newfoundland &c Your self You May do therein as you judge will be Most Serviceable to the Continent and hoist your Broad Pendant on board any of the Vessels you choose. 2 John Hancock, For the Come. RC (CSmH). In the hand of Timothy Matlack and signed by Hancock, Hewes, Hopkins, Huntington, Lewis, Morris, Read, and Walton. The postscript, which is also in Matlack’s hand but signed only by Hancock, remains in the Hopkins Papers, RHi. 1 This day the Marine Committee also wrote a letter to Capt. Hoysted Hacker, commander of the Hampden, instructing him to disregard his previous orders and place himself at the disposal of Commodore Hopkins. PCC, item 58, fol. 17; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1107. “This day Francis Lewis of the Marine Committee wrote to Capt. Thomas Grenell: “I some time ago advised you that Congress had appointed you to the command of the largest of the frigates, called the Congress, now at Poughkeepsie, and desired you would furnish me with a list of such persons as you recommend for your commission and warrant officers, but am yet without your answer, so conclude my letter miscarried. Pray let me hear from you as soon as possible.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:504. There is no record in the journals of when Grenell was first appointed commander of the Congress, nor has Lewis’ letter to him announcing this appointment been found. But see JCC, 6:861. It may be of some interest to note that this day Congress appointed John Hodge to command the Montgomery, a frigate in New York which had previously been commanded by Grenell. See JCC, 5:696-97. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir Philadelphia Augt 22d 1776 Commodore Hopkins recommends the purchase of the armed Schooner his Fleet lately carried into New London as an adviseable measure for this committee to adopt and in hopes to promote the


[Page 82]
48 August 22, 1776 Public Service thereby, we now request you will purchase said Schooner on the best terms in your power and assist the commodore to fit, equipp and man her with all possible expedition as a Con tinental Cruizer. 1 He is ordered to offer the command to Captain Chew of New London and we hope he may accept it as he is so well recommended by your Committee. You will supply this Vessel with all necessary Provisions and Stores for a Six Months Cruize provid ing the whole on the best terms and in due Time rendering us an account thereof. If you have not money sufficient for this purpose your drafts on us will be duely honored by Sir, Your very hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The schooner Hawke had been sold before this letter reached Shaw, the Continental prize agent in Connecticut. Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:639, 757. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir August 22nd 1776 The Secret Committee have directed Mr Barnabas Deane of Whethersfeild Connecticut to deliver you sundry Articles he has im ported On Continental Account which you are to receive for the use of the American Navy, granting Mr Deane a receipt for the whole in order to Answer the Accounts of said Secret Committee, but as Mr Deane is in want of some of those very articles as well as others for the Frigate built under his direction, 1 you are to supply any of these and assist him in procuring any other articles wanted for that Ship charging the same to his Account or to the Ships as you shall judge most proper. You are hereafter to render us an account of the expenditure of all Stores you receive or buy on Account of the Continent. The Salt you will keep for the purpose of putting up Pork the ensuing Season for the use of the Navy. We are sir, Your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). ’The Continental frigate Trumbull, which was launched at Chatham, Conn., early in September 1776. Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:654. Robert Treat Paine to Henry Knox My dear Sr, Philada. Augt. 22d. 1776 I have been hoping for some time to hear what progress Mr. Byers makes, & more perticularly what Success in working his Air Furnace with wood, as upon the success of that experiment will de pend the place of erecting a new Furnace.


[Page 86]
52 August 23, 1776 Marine Committee to John Baldwin Sir August 23d 1776 The Continental Schooner Wasp under your command being now thoroughly repaired, well fitted, equipped and manned you are im mediately to proceed in said Schooner on a Cruize against the ene mies of these states. We deliver you herewith a marine Book by which you will know who are our enemies and also how to conduct yourself in conformity to the Continental Rules and Regulations. You have likewise a List of the Agents in the several states to some of whom you must address the Prizes you take. We deliver you herewith a Letter for a Gentleman in Bermuda which is of much consequence to America. 1 You are therefore to proceed with the utmost expedition to Port Ellis at the East end of that Island and deliver the said Letter as quickly as possible, receive from him any others he may Send in return, and as you will then be near the best Cruizing ground for West India Ships you may make a Cruize about that Lattitude for such length of Time as your Provisions will enable you to keep the sea, unless success should tempt you to return much sooner with a good Prize. You must be careful of the Schooner, her stores and Materials. Use your people well but preserve strict discipline, treat prisoners, if any you make, with humanity and in all things be duely attentive to the honor and interest of America. If you can get any Seamen at Bermuda Ship as many as you can accommodate and bring us the best Account you can obtain of the State and condition of that Island, with respect to Provisions, Numbers of Inhabitants, what Cannon, arms &c they have there and enquire particularly after any British men of war that have been there, that are there, or that are expected. Should you be unfortunately taken either going to or after you leave Bermuda be sure to destroy all Letters you may have for or from that Island. Should you gain any intelligence you may think impor tant you must quit all other pursuits to inform us thereof soon as possible. Wishing you success. We are sir, Your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: "To Lieutenant John Baldwin commanding the Schooner Wasp.” 'This letter has not been found, but it may have been written to Henry Tucker, a Bermuda merchant who had helped persuade Congress to relax its restrictions on trade with Bermudians in 1775, and who was subsequently asked by the Marine Committee to supply the Continental fleet with salt. See Thomas Jefferson to St. George Tucker, June 10, 1775, note; and Marine Committee to Thomas Godet and Henry Tucker, October 10, 1776.


[Page 87]
August 24, 1776 53 John Adams to Daniel Hitchcock Sir Philadelphia August 24. 1776 Yours of the Twenty Second is before me. 1 You mention the Delicacy of appointing an officer of the Same State over another— and you put the Case of Coll Varnum and yourself. I have been a long Time puzzled to account for Varnums Standing on the List of Colonells before you, whom I know to be many Years older than that Gentn has been represented to me to be. I have heard this young Gentleman Spoken of in Raptures as a Genius, and from all I have heard I believe his Abilities and Accomplishments to be very good. But his Years are tender in Comparison of yours, and his Education is but equal at best, how happened it then that in Arranging of Collonells, you was placed after him, I am sure this has made a Puzzle in some Minds here which will continue. It may possibly prevent either of you from rising so soon, as one of you would have done, if this obstruction had not been in the way. The Massachusetts Bay, your Native Country, continues to act the most odd, surprising and unaccountable Part, respecting officers. They have a most wonderfull Faculty of finding out Persons for Generals and Colonells of whom no Body ever heard before. Let me beg of you, in Confidence to give me your candid and explicit opinion, of the Massachusetts General and Field officers, and point out such as have any Education, Erudition, Sentiment, Reflection, Address or other Qualification or accomplishment excepting Honour and Valour for officers in high Rank. Who and What is General Fellows? Who and What is General Brickett? Who is Coll Holman, Cary, Smith? There is a brave Veteran gone as a Coll to Ticonderoga, who should have my Vote for a General sooner than an hundred of them, I mean Aaron Willard. If there are any officers, young or old, among the Massachusetts Forces who have Genius, Spirit, Reflection, Science, Literature, and Breeding, do for the Lands sake, and the Armys sake, and the Province sake let me know their Names, Places of abodes and Characters. Your Plan for New modelling the Army may be a good one, for what I know. But I will give you more for a Plan for new modelling Massachusetts officers. I am &c. LB (MHi). ‘Hitchcock’s August 22 letter to Adams is in the Adams’ Papers, MHi.


[Page 88]
54 August 24, 1776 John Adams to William Tudor Dear Sir Philadelphia August 24. 1776 Your Favours of 18 and 19 of August are before me. 1 I am much obliged to you for them, and am determined to pursue this Corre spondence, untill I can obtain a perfect Knowledge of the Characters of our Field officers. If the Coll quits the Regiment Austin will certainly be promoted, unless Some Stain can be fixed upon his Character, Since he has been in the Army. His Genius is equal to any one of his Age. His Education is not inferiour. So far I can Say of my own knowledge. If his Morals, his Honour, and his Discretion are equal there is not a Superiour Character of his Age in the Army. If I could Speak with as much Confidence of these as of those, I should not hesitate one Moment to propose him for the Command of a Regiment. You mention a Major Lee in Glovers Regiment. I wish you had given me more of his Biography and Character. Captn. Jos. Lee the Son of Coll Jer. Lee, has so much Merit, that I think he ought to be promoted. I never heard of these two Gentlemen before. I mean of their being in the Army. Are they Men of Reflection? That is the Question. Honour, Spirit and Reflection are Sufficient to make very respectable officers, without extensive Genius, or deep Leisure, or great Literature. Yet all these are necessary to form the great Commander. You Say there are Several other young officers of Parts and Spirit in that Regiment, I wish you had mentioned their Names and Characters. You Say they will never “basely cringe.” I hope not: but I also hope, that they will distinguish between Adulation and Politeness: between Servility and Complaisance: between Idol atry and Obedience. A manly, firm attachment to the General, as far as his Character and Conduct are good, is a Characteristic of a good officer, and absolutely necessary to establish Discipline in an Army. I have a great Character of Lt Coll Shepherd and Major Brooks. I wish you would write me a History of their lives. I knew nothing of them. If Brooks is my old Friend Ned of Mistick, as Mr Hancock this Evening gave me some Reasons to suspect, and if he deserves the Character I have reed of him, as I doubt not he does, if he is not promoted before long it shall be because I have no Brains nor Resolution. I never untill this Evening Suspected that he was in the Army. Pray tell me what Regiment he is in. The Articles of War, are all passed but one—that remains to be considered. But I fear they will not be made to take Place, yet. 2 Gentlemen are afraid the Militia, now in Such Numbers in the Army, will be disgusted and terrified with them. The General must quicken this Business, or I am afraid it will be very slow. Every Body seems convinced of the Necessity of them, yet many are afraid


[Page 98]
64 August 26, 1776 P.S. Have Col Greely & Mr Proctor provided any Bords for me as I Desired them for finishing my house; as I hope to be at home & Do something about it another year, God willing. 27th Holds better of my Cold. J. B. RC (NhHi). 1 General Washington’s August 23 letter to Hancock containing news of the British landing on Long Island was read in Congress this day. See JCC, 5:700; PCC, item 152, 2:483-86; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:476-77. John Hancock to Artemas Ward Sir, Philada. August 26th. 1776. The Service in the Eastern Department requiring an Officer of Rank and Experience, and Colonel Whitcombe having declined accepting his Commission, the Congress have been induced, both from a Regard to your Merit while in the Army, and your Zeal and Attention since you left it, to request you will, if consistent with your Health, take the Command of the Forces in that Quarter. 1 As soon as Congress can fix on some Officer to relieve you, they will do it, and only desire you, in the mean Time, to continue in the Command until such appointment. Your Readiness to comply with the Wishes of your Country, gives me the strongest Reason to believe, you will not resist their application at this Juncture. I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.S.] Inclos’d you have sundry Resolutions of Congress to which I beg leave to Refer you. RC (MHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and postscript by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:694; and Hancock to Ward, April 26, 1776, note 2. An August 8 letter from the Massachusetts Council to Hancock, urging that in the event of Ward’s retirement “a General Officer may be directed to take the command of the troops here as soon as possible,” is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:859-60. Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton Dear Sir Philadelphia. Aug. 26. 1776 Your’s of the 10th. inst. came to hand about three days ago, the post having brought no mail with him the last week. 1 You seem to have misapprehended my proposition for the choice of a Senate. I had two things in view: to get the wisest men chosen, and to make them perfectly independent when chosen. I have ever observed that


[Page 99]
August 26, 1776 65 a choice by the people themselves is not generally distinguished for it’s wisdom. This first secretion from them is usually crude and heterogeneous. But give to those so chosen by the people a second choice themselves, and they generally will chuse wise men. For this reason it was that I proposed the representatives (and not the peo ple) should chuse the Senate, and thought I had notwithstanding that made the Senators (when chosen) perfectly independent of their electors. However I should have no objection to the mode of election proposed in the printed plan of your committee, to wit, that the people of each county should chuse twelve electors, who should meet those of the other counties in the same district and chuse a senator. I should prefer this too for another reason, that the upper as well as lower house should have an opportunity of superintending and judging of the situation of the whole state and be not all of one neighborhood as our upper house used to be. So much for the wisdom of the Senate. To make them independent, I had proposed that they should hold their places for nine years, and then go out (one third every three years) and be incapable for ever of being re-elected to that house. My idea was that if they might be re-elected, they would be casting their eyes forward to the period of election (however distant) and be currying favor with the electors, and consequently dependent on them. My reason for fixing them in office for a term of years rather than for life, was that they might have in idea that they were at a certain period to return into the mass of the people and become the governed instead of the governors which might still keep alive that regard to the public good that otherwise they might perhaps be induced by their independance to forget. Yet I could submit, tho’ not so willingly to an appointment for life, or to any thing rather than a mere crea tion by and dependance on the people. I think the present mode of election objectionable because the larger county will be able to send and will always send a man (less fit perhaps) of their own county to the exclusion of a fitter who may chance to live in a smaller county. I wish experience may contradict my fears. That the Senate as well as lower [or shall I speak truth and call it upper] 2 house should hold no office of profit I am clear; but not that they should of necessity possess distinguished property. You have lived longer than I have and perhaps may have formed a different judg ment on better grounds; but my observations do not enable me to say I think integrity the characteristic of wealth. In general I beleive the decisions of the people, in a body, will be more honest and more disinterested than those of wealthy men: and I can never doubt an attachment to his country in any man who has his family and peculium in it. Now as to the representative house which ought to be so constructed as to answer that character truly. I was for extending the right of suffrage (or in other words the rights of a


[Page 100]
66 August 26, 1776 citizen) to all who had a permanent intention of living in the coun try. Take what circumstances you please as evidence of this, either the having resided a certain time, or having a family, or having prop erty, any or all of them. Whoever intends to live in a country must wish that country well, and has a natural right of assisting in the preservation of it. I think you cannot distinguish between such a person residing in the country and having no fixed property, and one residing in a township whom you say you would admit to a vote. The other point of equal representation I think capital and funda mental. I am glad you think an alteration may be attempted in that matter. The fantastical idea of virtue and the public good being a sufficient security to the state against the commission of crimes, which you say you have heard insisted on by some, I assure you was never mine. It is only the sanguinary hue of our penal laws which I meant to object to. Punishments I know are necessary, and I would pro vide them, strict and inflexible, but proportioned to the crime. Death might be inflicted for murther and perhaps for treason if you would take out of the description of treason all crimes which are not such in their nature. Rape, buggery &c. punish by castration. All other crimes by working on high roads, rivers, gallies &c. a certain time proportioned to the offence. But as this would be no punishment or change of condition to slaves (me miserum!) let them be sent to other countries. By these means we should be freed from the wickedness of the latter, and the former would be living monuments of public vengeance. Laws thus proportionate and mild should never be dispensed with. Let mercy be the character of the law-giver, but let the judge be a mere machine. The mercies of the law will be dispensed equally and impartially to every description of men; those of the judge, or of the executive power, will be the eccentric impulses of whimsical, capricious designing man. I am indebted to you for a topic to deny to the Pensylvania claim to a line 39 complete degrees from the equator. As an advocate I shall certainly insist on it; but I wish they would compromise by an extension of Mason & Dixon’s line. They do not agree to the tem porary line proposed by our assembly.® We have assurance (not newspaper, but Official) that the French governors of the West Indies have received orders not only to furnish us with what we want but to protect our ships. They will convoy our vessels, they say, thro’ the line of British cruisers. What you will see in the papers of Capt. Weeks is indubitably true. 4 The inhabi tants of St. Pierre’s went out in boats to see the promised battle, but the British captain chose not to shew. By our last letters from N. York the enemy had landed 8000 men on Long Island. On Friday a small party, about 40, of them were out maroding and had got some cattle in a barn. Some riflemen (with whom was our Jamieson) attacked them, took away the cattle, they retired as far as the house


[Page 110]
76 August 28, 1776 been obligd to abandon that Country, to the great Detriment of his Affairs. He was appointed by Gen. Wooster a Commissary of Stores there; and apprehending such an Officer to be at this time necessary in our Northern Army, he has apply’d to Congress for a Continuance in that Office. 1 I understand that his Memorial is re ferred to the Board of War. As I have had occasion to know Mr Measam as a good Accomptant, a Man of Method, and very correct in Business, I cannot but think that if such an Officer is wanting, he is extremely well qualify’d for the Employ, and as such beg leave to recommend him to the Favour of the Board. With great Respect, I have the Honour to be, Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servant, B Franklin RC (DNA: PCC, item 42). l In response to George Measam’s petitions of August 7 and 26, 1776, Congress resolved on August 29 that he be continued in office. See JCC, 5:636, 700, 717. Measam’s petitions are in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:725-26, 1157. Benjamin Franklin to Horatio Gates Dear Sir, Philadelphia, 28 August, 1776. The Congress being advised, that there was a probability that the Hessians might be induced to quit the British service by offers of land, came to two resolves for this purpose, which, being trans lated into German and printed, are sent to Staten Island to be distributed, if practicable, among those people. 1 Some of them have tobacco marks on the back, that so tobacco being put up in them in small quantities, as the tobacconists use, and suffered to fall into the hands of these people, they might divide the papers as plunder, before their officers could come to the knowledge of the contents, and prevent their being read by the men. That was the first resolve. A second has since been made for the officers themselves. I am de sired to send some of both sorts to you, that, if you find it prac ticable, you may convey them among the Germans that shall come against you. The Congress continue firmly united, and we begin to distress the enemy’s trade very much; many valuable prizes being continually brought in. Arms and ammunition are also continually arriving, the French having resolved to permit the exportation to us, as they heartily wish us success; so that in another year we shall be well provided. As you may not have seen Dr. Price’s excellent pamphlet, for writ ing which the city of London presented him a freedom in a gold box of fifty pounds’ value, I send you one of them. 2 My last advices from England say, that the ministry have done


[Page 112]
78 August 28, 1776 People throughout the Continent will be both better arm’d & better disciplin’d, as most of them will have some Experience of a Camp Life &: actual Service. Present my best Respects to General Gates, and believe me, with sincere Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obedient, humble Servant, B Franklin RC (PHi). 1 Not found. John Hancock to George Weedon? Sir, Philada. August 28th 1776 The Congress being informed that you are on your March to New Jersey with Intention to pass through York Town & Philada., I have it in Charge to direct, that you continue your March from York Town by the nearest Route to New Jersey (avoiding Philada. on Acct, of the Small Pox) where on your Arrival you will execute such Orders as Genl. Washington shall think proper to give you. 1 I am, Sir, your most obed. &: very hble Servt. J. H. Prest. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “To Colo. 1 See JCC, 5:711. Col. George Weedon was in command of the Third Virginia Battalion, although at the time this letter was written Hancock was uncertain about the identity of the Virginia unit that was on the march to New Jersey. This uncertainty stemmed from the fact that on August 22 Congress had read a letter from Gen. Andrew Lewis stating that he had ordered the First and Third Virginia Battalions to proceed to New Jersey—but saying that the third “may be expected before the other’’—and describing Weedon as commander of the third only “for the present." PCC, item 159, fols. 246-47; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1053-54; and JCC, 5:696. For evidence that this letter from Hancock was probably never delivered to Weedon, see Lancaster Committee to Hancock, August 30, 1776. PCC, item 69, fol. 223; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1230. In consequence of the battle of Long Island, however, Hancock on August 30 sent Weedon the following letter as “The Officer Comandg. the 3d Battn. of Va Troops.” “You are Directed notwithstanding a former order to March to New Jersey & wait the orders of General Washington, to March your Battalion im mediately on Receipt of this to New York, & inform the General of your Arrival.” Roberts Collection, PHC. For the specific intelligence which led to this change in Weedon’s earlier orders, see the letters to Hancock from Robert H. Harrison, August 27, from Hugh Mercer, August 28, and from Washington, August 29, which were read in Congress on August 29 and 30. PCC, item 152, 2:499-500, 503-6, item 159, fols. 178-79; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:494-97; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1193-94; and JCC, 5:715, 718. William Hooper to William Livingston Dear Sir Philadelphia August 28. 1776 I thank you for your kind favor which came to hand yesterday. Pray observe that this has a date.


[Page 117]
August 29, 1776 83 How minutely he remembers every Circumstance of the Engagement! When Facts are related in this manner the Reader, the public, and Posterity are enabled to form a Judgment upon the whole, to decide what is the Consequence of the Event, to determine the Character and Conduct of Commanders and of Troops, to ascertain their Merit or Demerit. In short to pass just Reflection, to praise or blame with Propriety, to reward or punish with Justice. Read the Relation of the Battle between Cataline, and his Adver saries, in Sallust. You See the Combatants—you feel the Ardor of the Battle—you see the Blood of the slain and you hear the wounded sigh and groan. But if you read our American Relations of Battles and Sieges, in our News Papers, or in private Letters, or indeed in public official Letters, you see none of this Accuracy. You are left in Confusion and Uncertainty about every Thing. It may one day be your Fortune to be obliged to convey Information to the Public of the Course of the Events and Transactions of a War and whenever it is, I doubt not, it will be faithfully done. At present except by the Commander in Chief, and one or two others, it is done very Superficially, crudely and confusedly. A General officer Should Spare no Pains to make himself Master of the Epistolary Style which is easy, natural, simple and familiar, and of the historical Style too, which is equally simple, altho a little more grave, solemn and noble. Xenophon, Caesar, Wolf, Lee are all indebted for a very large share of their Fame, to their Pens. The Strange Uncertainty in which we are Still involved concerning the late Skirmishes, upon Long Island, have given rise to the fore going observations. My Friends have been a little negligent, in not writing me a Line, upon this occasion. I think We have Suffered in our Reputation for Generalship, in permitting the Enemy to Steal a March upon Us. Greens Sickness I conjecture has been the Cause of this. We have not been Sufficiently vigilant in obtaining Informa tion of the Motions and Numbers of the Enemy after their landing on Long Island, in reconnoitering them and in keeping out advanced Guards and patrolling Parties. Our officers dont seem Sufficiently Sensible of the Importance of an observation of the King of Prussia, that Stratagem, Ambuscade, and Ambush are the Sublimest Chapter in the Art of War. Regular Forces are never Surprised. They are Masters of Rules, for guarding themselves in every Situation and Contingency. The old officers among them are full of Resources, Wiles, Artifices, and Strategems, to deceive, decoy, and over reach their Adversaries. We must oppose Art to Art. We must not disdain to learn of them. Fas est et ab Hoste doceri. My Mind is more and more engaged with the Thoughts of the Importance of introducing into our Army officers of Parts and Ambition. Captain Lee has been constantly upon my Mind, ever


[Page 118]
84 August 29, 1776 Since you mentioned him. His Fathers Merit and his own demand Promotion for him. Pray let me know who are Nixons Lt Coll and Major? Who are Learneds Lt Coll and Major? You Said there were other young officers of Parts and spirit in Glovers Regiment. Let me know the Name and Character of every one of them, I conjure you. Have We not put too much to the Hazard in sending the greatest Part of the Army over to Long Island from whence there is no Retreat? Will not the Enemy by making regular Approaches upon us, be able to force Us, by Means of their Bombs and Carcasses, out of our Lines? 1 LB (MHi). ’For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Tudor, September 2, 1776. William Hooper to William Livingston Dear General Philad. August 29. 1776 The Bearer of this is Mr. Milles a Gentleman employed by the State of North Carolina to make inquiry after and employ manufac turers in the various branches of an Iron Work to proceed to North Carolina and be employed there. He goes to the Jersies with the expectation of finding some there as he has been told that several Iron Works in your State are discontinued and the Workmen out of Employ. I will esteem it a very particular favor if you will render him any Assistance in your power to accomplish the purpose of his Errand which is very interesting to our State. 1 Yours with Esteem, Wm. Hooper RC (MHi). Addressed: “General William Livingston, Elizabeth Town, New lersey.’’ 1 On August 2, James Milles had been commissioned by the North Carolina Council of Safety “to proceed to the Northern States there to Contract in behalf of this State with one or more persons well skilled in the Art of Casting Pig Iron, Cannon, Cannon Balls and hollow ware.” N.C. Colonial Records, 10:693-94. For a report by Milles about iron manufacturing in North Carolina, dated July 3 and addressed to the council of safety, see ibid., pp. 647-50. Francis Lewis to Jonathan Trumbull, Jr. Sir, Phila 29th Augt. 1776 I have been duly favored with your letter of the 18th Inst, wherein you advise me that all the drafts I sent you were promised payment except mine on Walter Livingston Esqr. for £71.11 which I find he had paid to my son before my order came to his knowledge. You’l please to return me that Bill. And as I presume the other drafts have


[Page 119]
August 30, 1776 85 long ere this been honored, I am daily applyed to by the Proprietor for an order for the money, which cannot be obtained without your Certificate of having received it there, the which I must desire you would immediately send me. Upon the Application in your Letter, I moved Congress and ob tained a Resolve for 500,000 dollars, to be Issued for your depart ment. 1 Whenever I can render you any services here please to Command, Sir, Your very Humble Servt, Fras. Lewis RC (CtHi). 1 See JCC, 5:659. John Adams to Abigail Adams Phil. Aug. 30. 1776 The two Armies, on Long Island have been shooting at each other, for this whole Week past, but We have no particular Account of the Advantages gained or Losses suffered, on either side. 1 The General and Officers have been so taken up, with their military Operations, that they have not been able to spare Time to give Us any very particular Information, and the Post which ought to come punctually every day, has been very irregular. I fear We have suffered a good deal. Amidst all my Concern for the Army, my dear Charles is con tinually present to my Mind. I dont know what to think. A Load of variolous Matter, sufficient to stupify him for forty Eight Hours, and then to break out so thick, as to threaten a Confluence, I fear will be more than his delicate frame can support. Children of his Age, however, are often seen to bear a great deal. If I had foreseen, that he would have been seized so violently, I should have had no Heart to tell you the vain story of Mather Biles, as I did in my Letter of the 25th. I have been obliged to hire a servant here, to attend me, untill another shall come for me, with my Horses. My Horses I want beyond Measure. I have never been once on Horse back, since I came here, and I suffer, in my Health, for Want of Exercise. Mr. Barrell is thought to be past recovery. After I had written the above, my Servant came in from the Post Office, which he watches very diligently, and brought me yours of the 22d and if you knew how much Joy it gave me, your Benevolence would be satisfied. It has given me fine Spirits. I feel quite light. I did not know what fast Hold that little Pratler Charles had upon me before. Give my Love to my little Speckled Beauty, Nabby. Tell her I am glad she is like to have a few Pitts. She will not look the worse for them. If she does, she will learn to prize looks less, and


[Page 121]
August 30, 1776 87 negotiating at Pittsburg 8c from the account of the Treaty which Colo. Butler held with the Indians met at Niagara this summer (a Copy of which we have receivd from an enterprizing person in what manner may not be made public at present) it appears the Chiefs 8c Sachems are determined to observe a Strict neutrality in the present war,' so far as their Speaches can be relied upon. Col. Butler opened the Treaty by Inviting them to Join the Brittish Forces. He told them the Americans were mad 8c foolish, that they were weak, Boys, 8c women. They had no powder or ammunition. True they made a little but it was no better than dirt, 8c that if they would Join the Brittish forces they would soon drive the Americans into the Sea. Next morning the Indians by a Sachem replied you told us yesterday the Americans were mad 8cc but we say tis you are mad. They are wise for they advise us to be Still 8c quiet 8c let you 8c them fight it out which we Intend to do. If they have no powder, are weak, Boys 8c women, why do you want us to help you &c. 2 By the late Treaty at the German flatts with our Commissioners the Indians engage to remain Neuter 8c to call home their young warriours which had been enticed as they Say to go into Canada 8c it Seems was without the Consent of their Sachems. 3 Upon the whole Circumstances attending their conduct we have reason to hope the Indians in general in the Middle 8c Northern departments will remain Neuter unless some more unfavourable Events Should take place in our Armies 8c cause them to Change their minds which God prevent. By a vessel arived here yesterday we are Informd from the Master, who lately sailed from this port for Cape Francois, that on his arrival there under American Colours, the curiosity of his flag drew Such numbers on board as almost Sunk his vessel. They enquired whence he came, what news 8cc. He told them he carried the flag of the Independant States of America, 8c gave them the declaration of Independance which they carried on Shore Soon after which the Govr Sent his Compliments to the Capt with permission to hoist his flag in that harbour. The Capt farther says that three days before he left the Cape, which is thirteen days Since, dispatches arrived from old France acquainting the Governor that Twenty Ships of war with a number of Troops were coming to that port in Consequence of which people were Set to work in repairing the barracks there to receive the Troops. By authentic accounts from Martinique as late as the 3rd Instt. we are Advised the Commandant there had Just received Orders to protect all American vessels that came there, that an English Frigate chasing an American vessel into Port Royal came So near the fort they fired upon the Frigate 8c beat her off. 4 I forgot to mention that we have procured two Companies to be raised and Stationed at Westmoreland to guard our Settlements there,


[Page 125]
September 2, 1776 91 Josiah Bartlett to Nathaniel Folsom My Dear Sir Philadelphia Septembr 2nd 1776 I have Reed yours of the 14th Ulto with the acts of our Legislature inclosed, for which I thank you as it gives me particular Satisfaction to be informed of the Situation of affairs in our own State. I am fully Sensible of the great Difficulties we labor under, by the Soldiers being inlisted for Such Short periods, and that it would have been much better had they at first Reed a good bounty & been inlisted to Serve During the war, But you may recollect, the many and to appearance almost insuperable Difficulties that then lay in our way, no money, no magazines of provisions, no military Stores, no Government, in Short when I look back and Consider our Situation about 15 months ago, in Stead of wondering that we are in no better Situation than at present, I am Surprised we are in so good; who of us at that time Expected that the infatuation of Brittain would have forced us to the State we are now in; as Circumstances now are I think we ought by all means to be provided with a well Disciplined army to Serve during the war, and that they ought to be raised as Soon as possible. I am Glad to hear that our powder mill is ready to be Set going; pray take particular Care that the powder is good; a Considerable Quantity made by one of the mills in this State appears not to have above half the force of good powder, and Does not Catch quick. The danger from bad powder in an Engagement is So great that the Congress have ordered that no powder Shall be Sent to the army but Such as have been well tried & approved by inspectors appointed for that purpose, and have Recommended it to the Several Legislatures to appoint inspectors to prove all the powder that is made or im ported into their Respective States; a Copy I will Enclose if I Can procure one before the post Sets off. I will also inclose the order of Congress Concerning wounded 8c maimed Soldiers and Seamen. The affairs at New York Seem at present almost wholly to Engross our attention; we have not had the full of the particulars of the action of the 27th ulto. on Long Island from the General; but by the best accounts we have obtained it appears that our people were Decoyed 8c Surrounded by the main Body of the Enemy and obliged to fight their way thro’ or Surrender prisoners; It Seems there must have been Some very great neglect Either in not Sending out proper [guards] 8c parties to gain intelligence or they are not doing their Duty. Generals Sullivan 8c Lord Sterling are prisoners 8c I believe 6 or 700 others. The consequence has been the Evacuation of Long Island 8c Governors Island, of both which the Enemy are now in possession, a very unfortunate Begining of the Campain there. However it is not irreparable and I hope it will make both officers 8c Soldiers more Careful to keep proper guards 8c not Suffer themselves to be taken by Surprise any more.


[Page 126]
92 September 2, 1776 After writing the above Genl Sullivan came to my Lodgings in this City and by his account the affair of Long Island was much as I had heard. He says he has two verbal messages from Lord Howe which he is per[mitted] on his parole to Come to Congress to pro pose. One is the Exchange of himself & Lord Sterling for Genls. Prescot &: McDonald, the other is to propose a meeting with Some of the members of Congress (as private Gentlemen for he Can’t acknowl edge any such Body as Congress) to See if they Can’t agree on Some propositions for an accommodation without further Bloodshed and Says he will meet at almost any place for the purpose. These are but verbal messages & I can Easily foresee great Difficulties that may arise let the Congress accept or refuse the proposed Conference. What the Congress will do is at present uncertain but hope they will be directed by the Supreme Disposer of all Events, to do in this & Every other affair before them what will be most Conducive to the Safety & Hapiness of these American States. 1 So wishes your friend and most obednt, Humble Servt, Josiah Bartlett RC (NN). 1 For further information on John Sullivan’s report to Congress, see Bartlett to John Langdon, September 1, 1776, note 2. William Hooper to William Livingston My dear Sir September 2d 1776. Philadelphia I thank you for your’s of the 29th and sincerely sympathize with you in the trouble and sollicitude which attend you in your new department. 1 An Army raised (to use a Congress Cant) upon the spur of the occasion composed of Men who have no Idea of Subordination & when the officers have no security of being obeyed but from their orders being made to suit the taste of those to whom they are ad dressed, is such a motley system that it will require all your abilities to give it form and order and all your patience & philosophy to support the frequent disappointments which your best exertions will be subject to. We have met a snarle in our arrays reliniquishing Long Island. The measure was necessary perhaps when taken, as the preservation of the Army depended upon it, but was the Island incapable of being fortified, or was the whole of the last Summer too limited a time to accomplish it? or Have we no Engineers? The brave fellows who fell at Long Island from what I have heard deserved a better fate. Do we owe the misfortune to the overheated Zeal of young Officers or to what cause. I am apprehensive of the effects this disappointment may produce upon Luke Warm whigs, men too indolent to think for themselves, or too phlegmatick hitherto to have taken an active


[Page 127]
September 2, 1776 93 part. The Tories will assume a temporary Triumph, & there is a race of men who however otherways well disposed they may be, can not conflict—altho the contest was to purchase Liberty. Be it our en deavour as it is our duty to view the Hand of providence in every event & with resignation wait the day which is to give us reparation for the past & teach our Enemies that we fight the cause of heaven. Zedwitz’s affair is mysterious. How he could be criminal enough to merit being broke by a Court Martial (which I am told has been the case) when his charge was of so black a dye 8c yet not deserve death I confess I am at a loss to conjecture. We expect Sullivant here every hour. We are told that he has a Message from Lord Howe to Congress. I fear the Arts and address of Lord Howe, who by all Accts is a Politician, a Soldier and a Gentle man, more than I dread the British Arms. Pray pick up every anec dote of the Long Island Affair—Deaths, Wounds, flight &c 8cc 8c direct a Sheet to a friend who esteems himself highly honoured with your Correspondence. I am affectionately, Yours &c, Will Hooper RC (MHi). Addressed: “General William Livingston, {Elizabeth Town} Prince Town, New Jersey.” 1 Livingston’s August 29 letter to Hooper is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1210. Marine Committee to Daniel Tillinghast Sir September 2nd 1776 The Secret Committee of Congress have directed Mr Thomas Green of Providence in your State to put into your hands the fol lowing articles belonging to the Continent now in his possession for which you will please to give him a receipt. 330 Bolts of best Holland and Russia Duck 26% Casks of Powder 2 pair 4 lb Cannon 3 pair 3 lb Do. 4 pair Swivels 3 Casks leaden ball 21 Casks Sewing Twine 598 lb salt Petre 60 lb Brimstone 470 Bushels salt 50 half Johannes 1 Drum You have underneath a Copy of a Resolve of Congress of the 30th Ulto ordering such part of the above Duck as is suitable for Tents to be made up and forwarded with all possible expedition to his


[Page 128]
94 September 2, 1776 Excellency General Washington which we request you will im mediately execute. 1 You will hold the rest of the articles ready for the future orders of this Committee, who are Sir, your hble Servants, LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Leiter Book). 1 See ]CC, 5:718. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 5:409, 435. Till- inghast was the Continental prize agent in Rhode Island. Josiah Bartlett to William Whipple Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept 3d 1776. By that time this reaches you, I expect you will be near ready to set out on your return to this City. Make all convenient haste. The Congress is at this time very thin. Col Lee is arrived here, but several others have taken leave of absence, among them Mr. Jef ferson and Mr. Haywood. 1 The unhappy affair of the 27th on Long-Island has occasioned the evacuation of our works there and on Governor’s Island. Our people were ensnared, and what vexes me, in a very careless manner. Yesterday, General Sullivan arrived at my lodgings, being on his parole. He says he has a verbal message to Congress to propose himself and Lord Sterling in exchange for Generals Prescott and McDonald. He also says that Lord Howe expressed himself very de sirous of an accommodation with America, without any more blood shed; that he was very willing to meet, at almost any place, a num ber of the members of Congress (as private gentlemen, for he could not own any such body as Congress) to try if they could make any proposals for an accommodation; that he said he had waited near two months longer in England than he should have otherwise done, to procure proper powers for a final accommodation, with which he said he was now vested, &c, and he allowed General Sullivan to come here to propose the aforesaid conference to Congress. What will be done in the affair by Congress I know not, but think there are difficulties on both sides. If the Congress should accept of the proposed conference, only on a verbal message, when at the same time Lord Howe declares he can consider them only as private gen tlemen, especially when we are certain he can have no power to grant any terms we can possibly accept; this I fear will lessen the Congress in the eye of the public, and perhaps at this time intimidate people when they see us catching hold of so slender a thread to bring about a settlement. On the other hand, General Sullivan’s arrival from Lord Howe with proposals of an accommodation, with 30 falsehoods in addition, are now spread over this City, and will soon be over the Continent, and if we should refuse the conference,


[Page 138]
104 September 4, 1776 Countrymen be crowned with deserved Success. This is the most ardent Wish of One who is with greatest Esteem, Dear Sir, Your most obt„ humble Servt, Ths. Heyward Jun RC (PHi). Addressed: “To John Morgan. M.D., Director General, New York.” 1 In response to a June 18 memorial from Dr. Morgan, director general of hos pitals and physician in chief of the Continental Army, Congress had passed a comprehensive set of resolutions on July 17 dealing with medical care for the army and delineating Morgan’s authority. See JCC, 5:460, 556, 568-71; PCC, item 41, 6:3-6; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1714-15. Additional resolutions on these points were also approved on August 20. JCC, 5:673. Two June-July 1776 letters from Morgan to Samuel Adams and other members of the Medical Committee, of whom Heyward was one, are in John Morgan, A Vindication of His Public Character in the Stations of Director-General of the Military Hospitals, and Physician in Chief of the American Army; Anno 1776 (Boston: Powars and Willis, 1777), pp. 49-53, 67-71. Morgan also included in this work brief extracts of an August 5 letter to him from Samuel Adams and one of August 14 from Charles Thomson. The former reads: “I have received several letters from you, which I should have sooner acknowledged, if I could have found leisure. I took, however, the necessary steps, to have what you requested, effected in Congress.” The latter: "There is no man, Sir, acquainted with you, who can doubt of your abilities. All the world bears witness to them, and the learned in Europe, who must be allowed to be the best judges, have given ample testimony, by the honours they have heaped upon you. While you exercise your great talents, for the benefit of those entrusted to your care, your Country will honour you, and posterity will do you justice; even though Dr. S[hippen], when you chance to meet, should refuse to give you precedence.” Ibid., pp. xxx, 71. For a detailed account of Morgan’s situation at this time, see Whitfield J. Bell, Jr., John Morgan: Continental Doctor (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1965), pp. 182-96. Caesar Rodney to George Read Sir Philada. Septr. the 4th 1776 Inclosed you have a Resolution of Congress. One of these papers was delivered to the Delegates of each Colony to be by them Trans mitted to their several assemblies or Conventions that Order might be taken therein. 1 I mentioned in my last 2 the arrival of General Sullivan and then hinted the business of his Coming. The day I wrote you last he was admitted in Congress and informed them that he had been on bord the Eagle and there had private Conversation with Lord Howe. The Substance of which was that his Lordship declared he had am ple power (together with the General) to Settle matters between Great Britain and the Colonies in Such manner as Should be for the True Interest and benefit of both and to make such Settlement permanent. That he wished for nothing more than to Converse with General Washington or some one or more Members of Con gress on that Head, but that there was a difficulty in the way which


[Page 139]
September 4, 1776 105 prevent it, for that his Rank & Scituation was attended with that kind of delicacy. That he Could not treat with the Congress as Such, and had no doubt that the Congress from their Scituation lay under the same difficulty—therefore proposed his having Con versation of an Hour or two with some of the members as private Gentlemen. That he would meet them in that Carrector also where Ever they pleased. That he did not doubt by this Step mat ters might be put in a Train of Accommodation—if not that it would only be so much time Lost. That his Lordship further said he had stayed in England two months after he was otherwise Ready to Come on purpose to obtain those ample powers before men tioned, by which means the Declaration of Independency had taken place before his Arrival. There was other Conversation Such as that his Lordship thought this a fine Country, that he had many friends & Acquaintances here and that he should be pleased much to have an oppertunity to Ride thought [throughout] the Country to See them &c. You Sir may be desirous to know what Congress think of this Message delivered by Sullivan at the request of Lord Howe. To Satisfy your desire I think I may Venture to say that a verry great majority of the Members look on it as an Insult and be lieve a Resolution will pass that no proposals for the future be Received, Unless Reduced to writing and Signed [fry] Some person who has authority to Treat with the Congress as an Assembly of the United Independent States of America, or to that Effect. From Certain intelligence Reed, since I Wrote last Coll Haslet, Coll Smallwood and Coll Bedford were Setting on a Court-Martial in York at the time the Delawarers and Marylanders were Engaged with the Enemy. That those two Battalions fought as Bravely as Men Could possibly do. That the Marylanders lost 259 men missing, many of Whom were Killed. That it was owing cheifly to their being Seperated by which Means the Enemy got between them and oblidged them to fight in Small parties. The Delawares being well Trained kept and fought in a Compact Body the Whole Time, and when oblidged to retreat kept their Ranks and Entered the lines in that order, frequently while retreating obliged to fight their way through Bodies of the Enemy, Who had before make [sic] an attack on our lines, Where they were repulsed and were also retreating and Met each other. The Delawares in this retreat lost four or five Men, one or two killed and two or three drownd in Crossing a Creek. This would have been all their Loss, but unfortunately about the beginning of the Engagement had placed a Small party of observa tion at some distance with Whom they Could never again Join (the Enemy haveing Got between them) tho Frequently attempted. Greatest part of those were lost, either Killed or taken prisoners, but supposed Chiefly Killed. Upon the Whole the Delaware Bat talion has now Missing thirty one including two officers to wit Lt.


[Page 140]
106 September 4, 1776 Stuart and Lt. Harney. The Major had a Slight wound in the Knee. This is the Whole o£ the damage the[y] have Sustained. Captain Adams of Kent after fighting bravely a Considerable time was seized with a Most Violent Collick. He was sent off the Ground & a Soldier with him to Conduct him to our lines. In his way he had to Cross a deep Marsh in which when the Battalion Crossed they found him Just Expiring. They carried him over on boards, got him in the lines, and he is now well. Our old friend Billy Livingston is appointed Governor of the Jersey. Stoggden [Stockton] Cheif-Justice. The other appointments not yet come to hand. I am Sir your Sincere Friend and Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney P.S. You’l Communicate the Matter Relative to Sullivan’s Message to Mr. McKean. RC (DeHi). 1 It can not be determined at this point which resolution Rodney enclosed, but it may have been the August 26 resolution establishing regulations for the care of disabled soldiers and sailors. JCC, 5:702-5. 2 Not found. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Convention Sir. Phila. Sep. 4. 1776 Inclosed I send You part of an Indian Speech which respects Maryland. 1 I have only time to inform the Convention that As sistance is extremely wanted at New York, and to express my Hope that the Exertions of that honourable Body will be in proportion to the Exigency of our affairs. I am with great respect, sir, Yr most obt Sert, T. Stone RC (PU). Addressed: “To The Honorable Matthew Tilghman Esqr., President of the Convention of Maryland, Annapolis.” 1 For the enclosed "Indian Speech,” see Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (1872; reprint ed., New York: Da Capo Press, 1973), 2:107-12. It apparently was enclosed by General Schuyler in his letter of August 18 to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on August 26. "Some of our best, and I believe real friends, the Oneidas and Ochquaques, complained that some Indians had been sent to Maryland,” Schuyler explained, "to invite some Nanticokes that live in that Province to remove into the interior part of the country, and that neither those that were sent were suffered to return, or the others who they say incline to leave their present habitations, permitted to do it. We promised to lay the matter before Congress. . . . Please to give us some information on the subject.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1031. The matter seems never to have been resolved. The Board of War directed another inquiry about the Nanticokes to the Maryland Council on November 8, to which a reply was returned the following week, but on November 30 Samuel Chase again requested that the council investigate the charges further. See Board


[Page 141]
Septembers, 1776 107 of War to the Maryland Council of Safety, November 8; and Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, November 30, 1776. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia Septr. 5. 1776 Mr. Bass arrived this Day, with the joyfull News, that you were all well. By this Opportunity, I shall send you a Cannister of Green Tea, by Mr. Hare. Before Mr. G[erry] went away from hence, I asked Mrs. Yard to send a Pound of Green Tea to you. She readily agreed. When I came home at Night I was told Mr. G. was gone. I asked Mrs. Y. if she had sent the Cannister? She said Yes and that Mr. G. under took to deliver it, with a great deal of Pleasure. From that Time I flattered my self, you would have the poor Relief of a dish of good Tea under all your Fatigues with the Children, and under all the disagreabble Circumstances attending the small Pox, and I never conceived a single doubt, that you had received it untill Mr. Gerrys Return. I asked him, accidentally, whether he delivered it, and he said Yes to Mr. S.A.’s Lady. 1 I was astonished. He misunderstood Mrs. Y intirely, for upon Inquiry she affirms she told him, it was for Mrs. J.A. I was so vexed at this, that I have ordered another Cannister, and Mr. Hare has been kind enough to undertake to deliver it. How the Dispute will be settled I dont know. You must send a Card to Mrs. S.A., and let her know that the Cannister was intended for You, and she may send it you if she chooses, as it was charged to me. It is amazingly dear, nothing less than 40s. lawfull Money, a Pound. I am rejoiced that my Horses are come. I shall now be able to take a ride. But it is uncertain, when I shall set off, for home. I will not go, at present. Affairs are too delicate and critical. The Panic may seize whom it will, it shall not seize me. I will stay here, untill the public Countenance is better, or much worse. It must and will be better. I think it is not now bad. Lyes by the Million will be told you. Dont believe any of them. There is no danger of the Communication being cutt off, between the northern and south ern Colonies. I can go home, when I please, in spight of all the Fleet and Army of Great Britain. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:119-20. 1 That is, Mrs. Elizabeth Wells Adams, wife of Samuel Adams.


[Page 143]
September 5, 1776 109 delicacy and difficulty. I have not been accustomed in such cases to make solemn professions of impartiality, and shall not do it now, because I will not suppose that there are any suspicions to the con trary in the minds of those who hear me. Besides the variety of opinions that have been formed and delivered upon it, seem to prove that we are giving our own proper judgment, without preju dice or influence; which I hope will lead to the discovery of what is most wise and expedient upon the whole. As the deliberation arises from a message sent to us by Lord Howe, at least by his permission, I think it is of importance to attend with greater exactness to all the circumstances of that message, than has been done by any gentleman who has yet spoken on the subject. It comes from the commander in chief of the forces of the king of Great Britain, and one who is said to carry a commission to give peace to America. From the conduct of the ministry at home, from the acts of parlia ment, and from Lord Howe’s proclamation in conformity to both, it is plain, that absolute unconditional submission is what they re quire us to agree to, or mean to force us to. And from the most au thentic private intelligence, the king has not laid aside his personal rancour; it is rather increasing every day. In these circumstances, Lord Howe has evidently a great desire to engage us in a treaty; and yet he has constantly avoided giving up the least punctilio on his side. He could never be induced to give General Washington his title. He plainly tells us he cannot treat with Congress as such; but he has allowed a prisoner of war to come and tell us he would be glad to see us as private gentlemen. It has been said that this is no insult or disgrace to the Congress; that the point of honour is hard to be got over, in making the first advances. This, Sir, is mistaking the matter wholly. He has got over this point of honour; he has made the first overtures; he has told General Washington, by Colonel Putnam, that he wished that message to be considered as making the first step. His renewed at tempts by Lord Drummond, and now by General Sullivan, point out to all the world that he has made the first step. 2 It will doubtless be related at home, and I am of opinion it is already written and boasted of to the ministry at home, that he has taken such a part. Therefore, any evil or condescension that can attend seeking peace first, has been submitted to by him. Yet has he uniformly avoided any circumstance that can imply that we are anything else but subjects of the king of Great Britain, in rebellion. Such a message as this, if in any degree intended as respectful to us, ought to have been secret; yet has it been open as the day. In short, such a mes sage was unnecessary; for if he meant only to communicate his mind to the Congress by private gentlemen, he might have done that many ways, and it needed not to have been known either to


[Page 145]
September 5, 1776 111 America has done lately. They generally disbanded and ran off wholly as soon as the rebels came within ten or twenty miles of them. In short, Sir, from any thing that has happened, I see not the least reason for our attending to this delusive message. On the con trary, I think it is the very worst time that could be chosen for us; as it will be looked upon as the effect of fear, and diffuse the same spirit, in some degree, through different ranks of men. The improbability of any thing arising from this conference, lead ing to a just and honourable peace, might be shewn by arguments too numerous to be even so much as named. But what I shall only mention is, that we are absolutely certain, from every circumstance, from all the proceedings at home, and Lord Howe’s own explicit declaration in his letter to Dr Franklin, that he never will acknowl edge the independence of the American States. 3 I observed that one or two members said, in objection to the re port of the board of war, that it was like a begging of the question, and making a preliminary of the whole subject in debate. Alas, Sir, this is a prodigious mistake. It was not only not the whole, but it was properly no subject of debate at all, till within these three months. We were contending for the restoration of certain priv ileges under the government of Great Britain, and we were praying for re-union with her. But in the beginning of July, with the univer sal approbation of all the states now united, we renounced this connection, and declared ourselves free and independent. Shall we bring this into question again? Is it not a preliminary? has it not been declared a preliminary by many gentlemen, who have yet given their opinion for a conference, while they have said they were determined on no account, and on no condition, to give up our independence? It is then a necessary preliminary—and it is quite a different thing from any punctilios of ceremony. If France and England were at war, and they were both desirous of peace, there might be some little difficulty as to who should make the first proposals; but if one of them should claim the other, as they did long ago, as a vassal or dependent subject, and should signify a desire to converse with the other, or some deputed by him, and propose him many privileges, so as to make him even better than before, I desire to know how such a proposal would be received? If we had been for ages an independent republic, we should feel this argument with all its force. That we do not feel it, shews that we have not yet acquired the whole ideas and habits of inde pendence; from which I only infer, that every step taken in a cor respondence as now proposed, will be a virtual or partial renun ciation of that dignity so lately acquired. I beg you would observe, Sir, that Lord Howe himself was fully sensible that the declaration of independence precluded any treaty, in the character in which he appeared; as he is said to have lamented


[Page 146]
112 September 5, 1776 that he had not arrived ten days sooner, before that declaration was made. Hence it appears, that entering into any correspondence with him in the manner now proposed, is actually giving up, or at least subjecting to a new consideration, the independence which we have declared. If I may be allowed to say it without offence, it seems to me that some members have unawares admitted this, though they are not sensible of it; for when they say that it is re fusing to treat, unless the whole be granted us, they must mean that some part of that whole must be left to be discussed and obtained, or yielded, by the treaty. But, Sir, many members of this house have either yielded, or at least supposed, that no desirable peace, or no real good, could be finally expected from this correspondence, which is wished to be set on foot; but they have considered it as necessary in the eye of the public, to satisfy them that we are always ready to hear any thing that will restore peace to the country. In this view it is con sidered as a sort of trial of skill between Lord Howe and us, in the political art. As I do truly believe, that many members of this house are determined by this circumstance, I shall consider it with some attention. With this view it will be necessary to distinguish the public in America into three great classes. 1. The tories, our secret enemies. 2. The whigs, the friends of independence, our sincere and hearty supporters. 3. The army, who must fight for us. As to the first of them, I readily admit that they are earnest for our treating. They are exulting in the prospect of it; they are spreading innumerable lies to forward it. They are treating the whigs already with insult and insolence upon it. It has brought them from their lurking holes: they have taken liberty to say things in consequence of it, which they durst not have said before. In one word, if we set this negociation on foot, it will give new force and vigour to all their seditious machinations. But, Sir, shall their devices have any influence upon us at all? If they have at all, it should be to make us suspect that side of the question which they embrace. In cases where the expediency of a measure is doubtful, if I had an opportunity of knowing what my enemies wished me to do, I would not be easily induced to follow their advice. As to the whigs and friends of independence, I am well persuaded that multitudes of them are already clear in their minds, that the conference should be utterly rejected; and to those who are in doubt about its nature, nothing more will be requisite, than a clear and full information of the state of the case, which I hope will be granted them. As to the army, I cannot help being of opinion, that nothing will more effectually deaden the operations of war, than what is proposed. We do not ourselves expect any benefit from it, but they will. And they will possibly impute our conduct to fear and jealousy as to


[Page 147]
September 6, 1776 113 the issue of the cause; which will add to their present little discour agement, and produce a timorous and despondent spirit. 4 MS not found; reprinted from John Witherspoon, The Works of John Wither spoon . . . , 9 vols. (Edinburgh: J. Ogle, 1815), 9:99-107, where it appears under the heading “Part of a Speech in Congress on the Conference proposed by Lord Howe.’’ ‘The finished quality of this speech indicates that Witherspoon probably delivered it on the day Congress decided to enter into talks with Lord Howe. JCC, 5:737. 2 See JCC, 5:731; and Hancock to Washington, August 24, 1776. “See the letters of June 20 and August 16 from Lord Howe to Franklin in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:458, 462. ‘In his autobiography Benjamin Rush gave this account of the debate on the issue of treating with Lord Howe: “I took part in several debates; the first or second time I spoke was against a motion for a committee of Congress to meet Lord Howe in their private capacity to confer upon peace with Great Britain. On the same side of the question Jno. Adams, Dr. Witherspoon, and George Ross spoke with uncommon eloquence. The last of those gentlemen began his speech by asking what the conduct of George the 3rd would be, had Congress proposed to negociate with him as Elector of Hanover instead of King of Great Britain. He would spurn, and very properly spurn the insulting proposal. ‘Let the American States,’ said he, 'act in the same manner. We are bound to cherish the honour of our country which is now committed to our care. Nothing could dishonour the Sovereign of Britain that would not in equal circumstances dishonour us.’ In the conclusion of my speech, I said that ‘our country was far from being in a condition to make it necessary for us to humble ourselves at the feet of Great Britain. We had lost a battle, and a small island, but the city and State of New York were still in possession of their independance. But suppose that State had been conquered; suppose half the States in the Union had been conquered; nay, suppose all the States in the Union except one had been conquered, still let that one not re nounce her independance; but I will go further: should this solitary state, the last repository of our freedom, be invaded, let her not survive her precious birthright, but in yielding to superiour force, let her last breath be spent in uttering the word Independance.’ The speakers in favor of the motion were Ed. Rutledge, Thos. Lynch, Jno. [i.e. Thomas] Stone, and several others. One of them, in answer to the concluding sentence of my speech, said ‘he would much rather live with dependance than die with independance upon his lips.’ The motion was carried with some modification.” Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton University Press, 1948), pp. 119-20. John Adams to Abigail Adams Fryday Septr. 6. 1776 This day, I think, has been the most remarkable of all. Sullivan came here from Lord Howe, five days ago with a Message that his Lordship desired a half an Hours Conversation with some of the Members of Congress, in their private Capacities. We have spent three or four days in debating whether We should take any Notice of it. I have, to the Utmost of my Abilities during the whole Time,


[Page 149]
September 6, 1776 115 See JCC, 5:738. The vote on the selection of delegates to confer with Lord Howe is also described in Josiah Bartlett to William Whipple, September 10, 1776. Robert Treat Paine simply noted in his diary for September 6: "Agreed to Send Comittee to Ld. Howe.” MHi. 3 From the evidence now available it seems clear that the committee neither received such directions nor made such an inquiry. Elbridge Gerry to John Wendell Dear sir Philadelphia 6th Sepr. 1776 I have lately returned from a Journey to the Massa. 1 & have now an opportunity of acknowledging the Receipt of your several Fa vours of June 12th & 25th, July 2d & 16th. Our affairs in Canada wear a favourable Appearance, or rather at Ticonderoga & Crown Point; where by the last Return the Army were about thirteen thousand strong of wch. about 3000 were unfit for Duty. In addition to these, six other Regiments were on their March from Connecticut Sc Massachusetts & about four Regiments at other different Posts at New York. Things for the present are a little shattered by Means of the Retreat, but the Skirmish on Long Island has served to convince our Army that they are now able with the Regiments that are disciplined, to meet the Enemy on equal Terms. General Lee is ordered to reinforce them with several Regi ments from the southward & one from Rhode Island, & with firm Conduct our Generals may yet baffle the Enemy. There is Reason to imagine that the Enemy have suffered more than our Army in cluding the Captives, & Lord Howe has sent to Congress by General Sullivan a Desire of conferring with some members of it’s Body in a private Capacity, not doubting that he can offer such Terms of peace as will be acceptable & proposing to treat with the Congress when the same are acceded to. But the whole is considered as an artifice to divide, by leading the people to suppose that his Lord ship has used every Method for obtaining Peace while on our Part they have been rejected. To turn the Stratagem upon him Congress have resolved that being the Representatives of the independent States of America they cannot send a Committee but in tf eir public Capacity, & that being every ready to listen to Terms of neace they will send a Committee to know his Lordships Power & proposals 8c to enquire what the Terms are which he has to offer to the Con tinent. The Committee are appointed, altho against the Mind of every Member from the State which I represent, as well as Rhode Island 8c Georgia who are apprehensive that the Appointment pre vious to his Lordships assurance that he will receive them will wear the appearance of an over great Desire for Peace which is neither consistent with Dignity or true Policy; 8c be construed as an Act of Timidity very discouraging to the States 8c animating to the Enemy.


[Page 152]
118 September 7, 1776 that if two delegates were here they might have an opportunity to relax now and then from that constant attention which if one dele gate only should be continued here he would be obliged to give, unless he should leave the State unrepresented in Congress, which I am determined not to do, let what will be the consequence; and a constant attendance on Congress for nine Months without any re laxation is too much even for a robust constitution. Beside it is necessary that motions should be made and supported in which case the advantage of having two on the same side is manifest. In causes of no great importance it is common to engage two lawyers and the vulgar observation that two heads are better than one is just. Can then the State of Rhode Island hesitate about immediately ap pointing an additional delegate? I am sure it cannot. I should be exceedingly glad that Gov Hopkins might return for he is well ac quainted with the mode of conducting business and is well esteemed in Congress and I have reason to think from what hath passed that we should act in concert and harmony: but if he should con clude not to return it would be best that two should be immediately appointed; for matters of great consequence will be on the carpet. In the multitude of council is safety; and in that case the delegates might alternately visit home, brace up their relaxed minds and bodies by a journey and enjoying their native air, and thereby be better able to discharge the duties of their office. There is nothing against our State appointing three delegates but the expenses and if the amount of the allowance to the two delegates and their expenses for one year be summed up and compared with what would be the amount of the expence to the State of three delegates at five dollars per day I believe the difference will be found to be but trifling; but if it should be something considerable I am sure the benefits result ing to the State therefrom would compensate for any such addi tional expence. If a confederacy should hereafter take place a coun cil of State would doubtless be appointed in which case our State would have only one delegate to support constantly. The other two if three should be appointed would be present only a small part of a year when the Congress should sit. 1 Mr Hopkins will acquaint you with the news and the state of our armies &c &c. So that I hope I shall be excused in not saying anything on those subjects. The same reason will excuse my not writing to the Assembly by this post. I wrote a letter to send by the last post, but unluckily the post had set out before my letter reached the office. Congress have ordered one of our battalions to N York and its place to be supplied with a battallion of Militia from Massachusetts. 2 It was moved at first that both the battalions should be ordered thither. I opposed the motion to the best of my abilities, and think we have come off pretty well. I expect that if our affairs at N York should take an ill turn that the other battallion will be ordered from our


[Page 155]
September 8, 1776 121 William Williams to Joseph Trumbull My dear Sir Philadel. 7 Sepr 1776 As You are the great Theater, on which the grand Tragedy is acting I wished to hear frequently from you tho I know I am in your Debt but I can most easily beleive your hands are full, & excuse your omission. I hope our Army are far from discouraged or dismayd, the Enemy are not invulnerable. They will defeat & con found them yet if our men hold their Spirits. To the Greif of Con gress the Genl, has wrote several (they think) too gloomy Letters. Some speak with great Resolution. After a most serious & long debate Congress have orderd three members, in their proper Character only, to wait on Ld Howe, in Consequence of his message by Gen. Sullivan to know if He has power to treat of Peace, what his Power is, 8c to hear his Proposi tions, if he please to receive them as such. If not the world will be satisfied there .is no sincerity in his Professions. We are already. The Measure is an object of great Speculation 8e Anxiety. I hope no Ill can arise from it. Congress are greatly on their Guard you may rely. The whole will be published on Monday, 8c every one will be better able to judge of the Expediency of the Measure. Howe wanted Them only as private Gent, but Congress wod only send as a Deputation of their Body, 8c He will act his Pleasure about receiving them. I am dear Sir your affectionate Friend 8c brother, W Williams [P.S.] Have you heard any thing fr[om] Brother Jona 8cc. I hoped for a Letter eer now. There has been great Compla[int] to Congress, of Letters in that Departmt being playd fury with. They have given orders for better Regulations 8cc. I mentioned the affair of Salt to the Presidt. He says he has laid all yr. 8c other Letters before Congress, 8c can give no Orders which they dont give but thinks as you must [provide?] Provisions, you most certainly may 8c ought to find the means to preserve it. The Comte are Franklin, J Adams 8c Rutledge. RC (Ct). John Adams to Samuel Adams Dear sir. September 8. 1776 Tomorrow Morning Dr F., Mr. R. and your humble servant sett off, to see that rare Curiosity, Lord H. Dont imagine from this that a Panic has Spread to Philadelphia. By no Means. This is only Re-


[Page 156]
122 September 8, 1776 finement in Policy. It has a deep, profound Reach, no doubt. So deep that you can not see to the Bottom of it, I dare Say. I am sure I can not. Dont however be concerned. When you See the whole, as you will eer long, you will not find it very bad. I will write you the Particulars, as soon as I shall be at Liberty, to do it. 1 LB (MHi). 1 Adams, Benjamin Franklin, and Edward Rutledge conferred with Lord Howe on Staten Island on September 11. Adams’ autobiographical account contains more information on their trip to Staten Island than of the conference itself, but Adams does provide an anecdotal account of their first encounter with Lord Howe. “Lord How had sent over an Officer as an Hostage for our Security. I said to Dr. Franklin, it would be childish in Us to depend upon such a Pledge and insisted on taking him over with Us, and keeping our Surety on the same side of the Water with Us. My Colleagues exulted in the Proposition and agreed to it instantly. We told the Officer, if he held himself under our direction he must go back with Us. He bowed Assent, and We all embarked in his Lordships Barge. As We Approached the Shore his Lordship, observing Us, came down to the Waters Edge to receive Us, and looking at the Officer, he said, Gentlemen, you make me a very high Compliment, and you may depend upon it, I will con sider it as the most sacred of Things. We walked up to the House between Lines of Guards of Grenadiers, looking as fierce as ten furies, and making all the Grimaces and Gestures and motions of their Musquets with Bayonets fixed, which I suppose military Ettiquette requires but which We neither understood nor regarded.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:417-20. The only mention of the journey to Staten Island in Adams’ diary is the terse entry for September 10: “Took with me to N.Y. 51 dollars and 5s. 8d. Pen. Currency in Change.” Ibid., 2:250. For John’s promised account of the conference, see Adams to Samuel Adams, September 14, 1776. John Adams to James Warren September 8. 1776 I am going tomorrow Morning on an Errand to Lord Howe not to beg a Pardon, I assure you, but to hear what he has to say. He sent Sullivan here to let us know that he wanted a Conversation with some Members of Congress. We are going to hear him, but as Congress have voted that they cannot Send Members to talk with him in their private Capacities but will send a Committee of their Body as Representatives of the free and independent States of America, I presume his Lordship cannot see Us, and I hope he will not, but if he should the whole will terminate in nothing. Some think it will occasion a delay of military operations, which they think We must want. I am not of this Mind. Some think it will clearly throw the odium of continuing this War, on his Lordship and his Master. I wish it may. Others think it will silence the Tories, and establish the timid Whigs. I wish this also. But dont expect it. But all these arguments and twenty others as weighty would not have convinced me of the Necessity, Propriety, or Utility


[Page 166]
132 September 10, 1770 precise declaration of France, upon a suggestion that our reunion with G.B. may be greatly endangered by delay. Should Spain be disinclined to our cause from an apprehension of danger to her South American dominions, cannot France be pre vailed on at our request and assurances not to disturb theirs to Gurantee to that Crown her Territories there against any molestation from us. Should not the Ambassador be instructed to give us the most speedy & effectual intelligence of his progress in this business, and of any other European intelligence that it may import us to know. MS (PPAmP). In the hand of Richard Henry Lee. Endorsed by Lee: "Proposed addition to the instructions given the Commissioners going to France 1776 Octr. Agreed to.” 1 On August 27 the plan of foreign treaties was recommitted to committee. At the same time Richard Henry Lee and James Wilson were added to the committee, which was then ordered “to draw up instructions pursuant to the amendments made by the committee of the whole.” Lee must have written this document before September 10, since these instructions were incorporated almost verbatim into the committee’s report, which—according to Charles Thomson’s endorsement—was “bro’t in Septr. 10, 1776.” The committee’s report, with addi tional amendments by George Wythe and Lee, was approved on September 24 and served as the basic directions to the commissioners to France who were ap pointed on the 26th. See JCC, 5:700-10, 813-17, 827. William Hooper to William Livingston My dear Sir [September 11, 1776] 1 I congratulate you upon the honourable appointment which your Country hath called you to. I congratulate them upon the return of their reason, that they have found at length discernment enough to distinguish real merit, & virtue enough to reward it. 2 I rejoiced that you approximate in your political Character, I wish you could find a little leisure to play the private Gentleman & pay us a visit here. Should that be impracticable, I will make an effort at least to meet you at Trenton. I had a letter from Duane this moment. Trop doloureux! Chere quam tristes! It is not a time to whine. I am of Montrose’s Mind expressed in his pompous gingle. Country & wounds demand supplies More from Briareus hands than Argus eyes & I would in the stile of the same poetick Herold speak forth my Country’s wrongs “In trumpets sounds I write his pungent wrongs in blood Sc wounds. A little Interpolation of the Editor—but we Editors take liberties with our Authors. 3 Immediately upon receiving yours of the 5th Instant. I rode out to Germantown to Bringhurst who is by far the best Carriage maker


[Page 167]
September 11, 1776 133 in this province. In his Shop I found a single Chais that exactly answers your description nearly finished. It was intended for one of the honourable and heroick body of Philadelphia Associatiors but Bringhurst from the promise of prompt pay from you & the im probability of getting it from the other, has suffered me to take it & has most solemnly promised to finish it in the Course of next Week. It will cost you £45 Penns. Currency. The materials are well seasoned & the whole neat. If you have any Inclination to have your Crest or Cypher upon it pray send me the former or direct the latter by the first Oppty otherwise, I shall decorate it with a modest Urn, the tast of the day. I consulted your brother’s Crest, find it a Ship, too large & tawdry for a Small carriage, therefore I will not adopt it without your Orders. I am, Dear sir, Yours with Esteem & Affection, Will Hooper [P.S.] Pardon me if I mistake the Address of the Govr of the Jersey. Is it Excellency or Honour? RC (MHi). 1 This is undoubtedly the letter to which Hooper referred in his September 12 letter to Livingston when he mentioned that “I wrote you yesterday.” See Hooper to Livingston, September 12, 1776. 2 Livingston had been elected governor of New Jersey on August 27. 3 For the correct reading of Montrose’s verse, see Poems of James Graham, Marquis of Montrose (1612-50), ed. J. L. Weir (London: John Murray, 1938), p. 33. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir Philadelphia Septr. 11th 1776 I have no letter from you by this post, and indeed but seldom have from Whence I Conclude you have either verry little to say for yourselves or become verry Idle. As to One Mr. Killen (a former Acquaintance of Mine) I have never heard but once of him Since the late Storm Which happened in your part of the Country That Blasted the Whig interest and laid prostrate many of the patriots. If he too be fallen tell him he nobly fell in defence of his Country’s rights, and for his Comfort Virtue itself hath it’s days of tryal. The Israelites (the Chosen people of God) met with Crosses and dis appointments in their Journey from the land [of] Bondage to that of Liberty, But by a Steady perseverence and divine assistance they at length possessed the promised Land. So that, that God, Who Vieweth & Judgeth all things with Unerring Wisdom, Seeing the Righteousness of his Cause (tho he permitteth Temporary Obstruc tions) Will one day (with a firm Reliance on him) Crown his Vir tuous Endeavours with Success, and Cause the Modern Pharoah’s


[Page 168]
134 September 11, 1776 with their Hosts to be buried in the Sea of their Toryism, As he did the Antient Pharoah in the Red Sea. The Bulk of the people have been lead astray from a Virtuous persuit by the Art and Cunning of Wicked and designing men among You. He must undeceive and put them again in the right path. They are naturally honest and Mean Well, but are Weak and Credulous. And by so much as Wicked and designing men are more industrious than the Honest and Virtuous, are they lead to do that which is Evil, and to leave undone that which they ought to Do. I have Reed two Letters from our friend Coll Haslet, since the Engagement on Long-Island, the last is dated at the heights near Kings-Bridge Where his Battalion and about 9000 others now are. 1 He is Well and desires to be kindly Remembered to you and Mr. Killen, who he terms the Barrister, and Says “I Condole with them Mightily in their present State of dejecting Dereliction.” It is a long letter in which he Concludes with saying “We Expect every Moment Something important here, and hope in our next fight to be on more Equal terms and to give you a more pleasing account.” It Seems Jack behaved Well and brought off his Colours like a Hero. The post before last I sent by Parke two pair of shoes, one for Betsey, the other for Sally, You have never told me Whether they Came to hand and it appears that Parke is about to decline Rideing. He did not go down the last time, but sent Robert the Old Rider. This I never knew till last evening when I perchance met him in the Street and Calling him to account for it he told me he had taken a Small house Somewhere in this town. That he meant to go into some small Trade and Could not say whether he should Continue to Ride or not, but believed he should not go down this time. I know not Parke’s Cir cumstances, but as I imagined he might owe you Some Money, thought proper to give this information. Doctor Tilton wrote me a Letter from New York, in Which he inclosed me one for his Brother Mr. Nehemiah Tilton. I have Sent it by this Post (being the first Opertunity) and hope it will get safe to hand. From What I can learn of the Convention at Newcastle, They will attempt nothing but Barely the framing A plan of Government, Except what may be necessary for the dispatching the flying Camp Battalion. Mr. Read lets me know that matters go on Slooly, and that the members of Kent & Sussex grow uneasy to get home. This is (I know) as it used to be with them. I Suppose you have heard that General Sullivan has been with Congress on a Message from Lord Howe, and as it has occationed Various reports suppose you wou’d be Glad to know as of a truith the Sum and Substance of it. It is this. That Lord Howe told General Sullivan in Conversation, that he and his brother the General had full power to Treat, that he had stayed in England near two months after he was otherwise ready to come, for the purpose of Obtaining


[Page 173]
September 11, 1776 139 Congress—that he hoped they would not by any Implication commit him upon that Point—that he was rather going beyond his Powers in the present Meeting—[Dr. Franklin said You may depend upon our taking care of that, my Lord] That he thought the Idea of a Congress might easily be thrown out of the Question at present, for that if Matters could be so settled that the King’s Government should be reestablished, the Congress would of course cease to exist, and if they meant such Accommodation, they must see how unneces sary & useless it was to stand upon that Form which they knew they were to give up upon the Restoration of legal Government. Dr. Franklin said that His Lordship might consider the Gentlemen present in any view he thought proper—that they were also at liberty to consider themselves in their real Character—that there was no necessity on this occasion to distinguish between the Congress and Individuals—and that the Conversation might be held as amongst friends. The Two other Gentlemen assented, in very few Words, to what the Doctor had said. Lord Howe then proceeded—that on his Arrival in this Country he had thought it expedient to issue a Declaration, which they had done him the honor to comment upon 5 —that he had endeavored to couch it in such Terms as would be the least exceptionable—that he had concluded they must have judged he had not expressed in it all he had to say, though enough, he thought, to bring on a Dis cussion which might lead the way to Accommodation 6 —that their Declaration of Independency had since rendered him the more cau tious of opening himself—that it was absolutely impossible for him to treat, or confer, upon that Ground, or to admit the Idea in the smallest degree—that he flattered himself if That were given up, their was still room for him to effect the King’s Purposes—that His Majesty’s most earnest desire was to make his American Subjects happy, to cause a Reform in whatever affected the Freedom of their Legislation, and to concur with his Parliament in the Redress of any real Grievances—that his Powers were, generally, to restore Peace and grant Pardons, to attend to Complaints & Representations, and to confer upon Means of establishing a Re-Union upon Terms hon orable & advantageous to the Colonies as well as to Great Britain— that they knew We expected Aid from America—that the Dispute seemed to be only concerning the Mode of obtaining it. [Doctor Franklin here said, That we never refused, upon Requisi tion.] Lord Howe continued—that their Money was the smallest Con sideration—that America could produce more solid Advantages to Great Britain—that it was her Commerce, her Strength, her Men, that we chiefly wanted. [Here Dr. Franklin said with rather a sneering Laugh, Ay, my


[Page 177]
September 11, 1776 143 Gentlemen returned to Amboy.” Lord Howe to Germain, September 20, 1776, PRO, C.O. 5, 177:38-40. 2 Adams told the following anecdote about this remark in his autobiography: "Lord How was profuse in his Expressions of Gratitude to the State of Massa chusetts, for erecting a marble Monument in Westminster Abbey to his Elder Brother Lord How who was killed in America in the last French War, saying ‘he esteemed that Honour to his Family, above all Things in this World. That such was his gratitude and affection to this Country, on that Account, that he felt for America, as for a Brother, and if America should fall, he should feel and lament it, like the Loss of a Brother.’ Dr. Franklin, with an easy Air and a collected Countenance, a Bow, a Smile and all that Naivetee which sometimes appeared in his Conversation and is often observed in his Writings, replied 'My Lord, We will do our Utmost Endeavours, to save your Lordship that mortifica tion.’ His Lordship appeared to feel this, with more Sensibility, than I could expect: but he only returned ‘I suppose you will endeavour to give Us employ ment in Europe.’ To this Observation, not a Word nor a look from which he could draw any Inference, escaped any of the Committee.” Adams, Diary (Butter field), 3:422. ’See the Olive Branch Petition and the second Address to the People of Great Britain, both adopted by Congress on July 8, 1775, in JCC, 2:158-61, 163-71. ‘See Lord Howe to Franklin, August 16, 1776, in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 5:462. ’Howe had sent a copy of his June 20 declaration “for restoring peace to his Majesty’s Colonies” enclosed in a letter to Franklin of the same date with a July 12 postscript. Am. Archives, 4th ser. 6:1000-1002. Franklin had commented on both documents in Franklin to Lord Howe, July 20, 1776, and Congress had com mented on the declaration in a published resolution of July 19. JCC, 5:592-93. ’After this clause Strachey first wrote and then deleted: “that He would so far communicate his Powers as to say generally that they were, to confer with any Persons upon the Subject of Peace and Rebellion—that the King was dis posed.” ’Alongside this paragraph Howe noted in the margin: "No—To their increas ing population.” “In his autobiography Adams described an exchange with Howe to which this remark gave rise: “When his Lordship observed to Us, that he could not confer with Us as Members of Congress, or public Characters, but only as private Persons and British Subjects, Mr. John Adams answered somewhat quickly, ‘Your Lordship may consider me, in what light you please; and indeed I should be willing to consider myself, for a few moments, in any Character which would be agreable to your Lordship, except that of a British Subject.’ His Lordship at these Words turn’d to Dr. Franklin and Mr. Rutledge and said ‘Mr. Adams is a decided Char acter:’ with so much gravity and solemnity: that I now believe it meant more, than either of my Colleagues or myself understood at the time. In our report to Congress We supposed that the Commissioners, Lord and General Howe, had by their Commission Power to [except] from Pardon all that they should think proper. But I was informed in England, afterwards, that a Number were ex pressly excepted by Name from Pardon, by the privy Council, and that John Adams was one of them, and that this List of Exceptions was given as an Instruc tion to the two Howes, with their Commission.” Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:422-23. The most recent authority on the subject mentions no exceptions to the Howe brothers’ authority to grant pardons. Ira D. Gruber, The Howe Brothers and the American Revolution (New York: Atheneum, 1972), pp. 73-76. 9 Rutledge also discussed the question of parliamentary authority over America with Howe. See John Adams to Samuel Adams, September 14, 1776. 10 The committee’s report to Congress describes the conclusion of its meeting


[Page 178]
144 September 12, 1776 with Howe as follows: “His Lordship then saying that he was sorry to find, that no accommodation was like to take place, put an end to the conference.’’ JCC, 5:766. Board of War to George Washington Sir. War Office Septr. 12th. 1776 By Direction of Congress to the Board of War I have procured two of the Philadelphia Light Horse to conduct the Generals Prescott & Macdonald to your Excellency to be exchanged agreeable to the Resolve of Congress for the Generals Sullivan & Lord Sterling. 1 I have directed the Gentlemen of the Escort to stop short at some safe Place on the Road & send off an Express to your Excellency for your Directions in the Matter. The Generals are on their Parole not to attempt an Escape or take any Step contrary to the Rules of War, but to deliver themselves to your Excellency for your proper Disposal of them until their Exchange can be effected. 2 I have the Honor to be, your obedt humble servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 5:735. Sullivan was subsequently exchanged for Prescott, but, at the insistence of General Howe, Lord Stirling was exchanged for Gov. Montfort Browne of the Bahamas instead of General McDonald. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:22, 23, 45, 74, 100, 117, 173, 183. ‘ The Board of War also wrote brief letters to Washington on September 14 and 16. In the first Peters enclosed “a copy of the arrangement of Officers in the old Virginia Regiments” and in the second a "Memorial of the Second Lieutenants of the Virginia Regiments.” Washington Papers, DLC; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:320-22, 348-49. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir Philadelphia 12th Sepr 1776 Colo Williams shewed me your Letter to him mentioning the Situation of your Brother at Ticonderoga, in Consequence of wch It was moved to Congress to appointment him D. Adjt. General & no objection was offered. Mr. Lewis recommended by General Gates is also appointed D. Quar. Master General. 1 The Difficulties which You mentioned as the Grounds of your Resignation of the Commissaryship for the northern Department being removed by Congress, will it is hoped induce You to renew your Engagemt. therein. 2 Surely It is the Intention of Congress, that the whole of the Commissary affairs shall be under your Direction,


[Page 179]
September 12, 1776 145 & if Mr Levingston opposes, You will be supported in dismissing him. General Schuyler has nothing to do with your officers otherwise than to order where the Magazines shall be placed & the Quantity of provision to be procured or delivered. If he refuses to deliver Money You can easily receive a greater Sum from the N York Chest & Send it forward. 500,000 Dollars are I suppose arrived e’er this, & another Sum to the same amount is order’d to Mr Palfrey, whereby he will be able to supply You; & in such a Case I would remonstrate against G. Schuyler’s Conduct in putting the Continent to the extra Expence of Sending forward the Money. I cannot conceive what his Intention is unless to put the northern Army which is now in good Order, in the same Confusion as has been heretofore experienced; but this will be prevented unless he is indulged by your giving up to his Schemes. Congress seem now determined to have an Army of some Duration & to give sufficient Bounties for the purpose; I wish It had been sooner acceded to but We must move with the Waters. The present Campaign will try the Resolution of Persons & dis criminate pretenders from those who are fixed in good principles; I hope the latter will thro’out America exert themselves &: prevent the former from disseminating their timid principles being sir with Esteem your very humi sert, E Gerry [P.S.] Your affairs will be attended to when the present Hurry is over. [P.S.] Since writing the within, Letters from General Schuyler recom mend the appointmt. of your Brother to the Office of D.A. General wch was previously complied wth. A Letter from Mr. Levingston contains his Resignation, wch was very agreable to some Members of Congress. One from South Carolina mentions several Engagements wth the Indians, in which the latter have been put to the Rout & several of their Towns & Cornfields laid Waste. One from Mr Deane in France mentioning great preparation by France & Spain wth an ostensible Design to attack Portugal, two Fleets are equipping by the former & one by the latter. The Reprisal is also arrived in the River wth two Tons of Powder & 450 stands of Arms from Martinico. RC (Ct). Mohn Trumbull was elected “deputy adjutant general of the army in the northern department, and Morgan Lewis, Esqr. was elected deputy quarter master general of said army.” JCC, 5:753. 2 Trumbull’s ongoing jurisdictional conflict with Walter Livingston over the right to supply the armies on the lakes and at New York led both to submit letters of resignation, dated September 7, to President Hancock. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:213, 220-21. Trumbull’s letter was read in Congress on September 11 and referred to a committee which reported to Congress the next day. Congress accepted the committee’s resolution sustaining Trumbull’s “right to direct the operations of his department” and expressing hope that this support would “induce his continuance in the office of commissary for both armies, at New York, and on the lakes.” JCC, 5:750, 752-53.


[Page 180]
146 September 12, 1776 This same committee, consisting of William Hooper, Richard Henry Lee. and Roger Sherman, was also directed "to enquire into the conduct of Mr, Livingston, deputy commissary general in the northern department.” What is apparently their report on Livingston—two paragraphs of which are printed in JCC, 5:750n.2—recommended that the “Commissioners appointed to settle Accounts in the Northern Department be empowered and directed to enquire into the conduct of Walter Livingston.” When Livingston’s letter of resignation arrived on Sepetmbcr 13 it was referred to the Board of War and the next day Congress accepted Livingston’s resignation. JCC, 5:750, 756, 758. See also Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, June 8, 18. 19, and 25; Gerry to John Adams and Samuel Adams. July 21; and Samuel Adams to Joseph Trumbull, August 3, 1776. William Hooper to William Livingston Dear Sir Thursday Sept 12 1776 Your’s of the Uth Instant this moment came to my hands. I wrote you yesterday & have nothing since to add—except that your Brother 1 who has been a little indisposed is recovered & promises to accompany me to meet you at Bristol on Saturday the 21st, the Journey to Trenton being rather too far and the claims of Congress to our attendance rather too pressing to leave this City this Week. I am sorry that the Information we have received from Pittsburgh since Sunday leaves little doubt of our having an Indian War with the Wiandats, Delawares, & the other infernal Scoundrels on the back of this & Virginia. 2 I am, with Affection Yours, Wm Hooper RC (MHi). 1 Philip Livingston. 2 See JCC, 5:749, 752. Robert Morris to Silas Deane Sir Philada. Septr. 12th. 1776 You will receive herewith Copy of what I wrote You the 11th ulto. & by this Conveyance I remit the 2d bills of those setts men tioned in that letter. I have bought a considerable quantity of Tobacco but cannot get suitable Vessels to carry it. You cannot conceive the many disappointments we have met in this respect. However I expect a ship is now taking in about 400 hhds as I wrote two posts ago agreeing to the Owners terms and shall advise you more particularly in my next respecting this matter. I am sorry to tell you another Vessell bound from hence for Bourdeaux with a Cargo of flour &c has been taken and carried to N York with the Fleet. This was a fine New Brigt intended as a Packet between us; she had dispatches for You which were thrown overboard & sunk


[Page 185]
September 12, 1776 151 gress, and that he would get the Convention to give a power to one Member to Act so that our Government might be Represented by me alone till the Convention Should Rise. I mentioned this to Mr. McKean who directly declared they should make no appointment of Delegages, nor even alter the powers Given them, least they (meaning the Convention) should plead that as a president for going into some other appointments, which they were not auth orised to do by their Choice. Therefore Upon the Whole I don’t imagine they will attempt any Change. But sir whether they do or not, I do not purpose Continuing here longer than till the other Gentlemen Return; I have made a verry Great Sacrifice of my property to the Cause, Government never paid me above half what I have necessarily Expended even when my friends were at the Helm. What may I Expect from these? They would see me Serve without a Shilling. You know they wou’d, because you know they like not either me or the Cause. 2 General Dagworthy, Mr. Clowes and Mr. Peery were here, and say the Tory plan for leaving me out of the Convention was, first to put me at the head of their Ticket to shew their approbation of me, after which they put another person in my Stead, and assigned as a Reason for it, that it was now a Critical time. That it was absolutely necessary We should keep up our Representation in the Congress. That they wished I might not be laid under the necessity of leaving the Congress at a time so Interesting which I must Do if Chose in Convention &c. These Gentlemen then said that the Inhabitants of Newcastle County had not Considered to the Matter in that light for they had chose both their delegates. In Answer to this, it was said they, the people of Newcastle, had done verry wrong &c. By Such little Cunning are the people to be Cajoled. I saw a Man from Mispillion who left there a day or two before my letter Could have reached it, who told me that yours and Cap tain Adams’s families were well, but they were in Much distress for the Delawares who (from all accots. they had Received) were at least two thirds Cut off, that almost all the officers were killed particularly you. He told me the people were Generally distressed haveing most of them some friend or Relation in the Battalion. My letter I am Sure has set that Matter Right. I wrote above a week ago to Mr. Montgomery the Chaplain, not knowing then whether you were among the Dead or living. Should be Glad to know whether the letter got Safe [to] hand. 3 Be pleased to Enquire of him and let me know in your next which I hope will be soon. Make my compliments to Doctr. Tilton, and tell him I forwarded his Brothers letter. That you may have a happy deliver ance, and your Battalion be Crowned (if possible) with still more Honor in every Combat is the Sincere wish of Sir, Yr. Real Friend & Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney


[Page 186]
152 September 12, 1776 P.S. I Remembered you as desired to Messers Killen & Rodney RC (DeHi). 'John Haslet's letters of August 31 and September 4 to Rodney are in Rodney, Leiters (Ryden), pp. 108-9, 111-13. 2 Rodney left Congress early the following month and did not return. See Rodney to John Haslet, October 6, 1776. 3 Not found. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Sepr. 12. 1776. Come. met. Present, Messrs. Morris, Hewes, Col. Lee, & Mr. Bartlett. Js. Marsh applys for extraordinary Pilotage of the ship Olive Branch up and down the river. Agreed to allow him £9 for sd service for wch. gave an order on Mr. Morris. Issued follg. drafts on the Treasurer. In favor of G. Meade & Co. for 1466 2/3 dlls being value of their sloop Fanny chartered & insured by this Come. 8c since lost by barratry of the Seamen. 1 In favor of Meredith 8c Clymer for 2143 1/3 dlls being value of their ship Peggy taken by the Orpheus man of war as appears by protest. 2 (N.B. This Order was cancelled 8c another drawn April 18, 1777.) MS (MH-H). 1 For additional information on this contract and the condemnation of the sloop Fanny in Nova Scotia, see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, May 2, 1776; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 5:1121-22, 6:277. 2 For a contract with Meredith & Clymer for the sloop Peggy, see Secret Com mittee Minutes of Proceedings, June 13, 1776. Virginia Delegates to a Committee of the Pennsylvania Convention [September 12, 1776] 1 The Virginia Delegates have received the proposal for establish ing a Temporary Boundary between the States of Virginia and Pennsylvania, and for answer, say, their power is ended; having been expressly limited to the line already proposed to the honorable Convention of the State of Pennsylvania as a temporary boundary. 2 That they will without delay transmit the proposal of the honor able Committee to the Governor and Council of the Commonwealth of Virginia, in order to its being laid before the General Assembly that meets early in October next; and in the mean time they wish that the influence of both Governments may be exerted to preserve


[Page 189]
September 13, 1776 155 greatest man in the world, except Lord North, and has as great a levee as he has. This is a secret. I don’t recollect anything else worth communicating just now except that I am, Sir, your humble servant, Caesar Rodney Tr (NN). 1 See JCC, 5:765-66; and Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15168. 2 That is Silas Deane. Deane’s July 30, 1776, covering letter to Robert Morris with several enclosures is in NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 143-70. Secret Committee to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentn. Philada. Septr. 13th. 1776 We have been applyed to for a supply of Powder for the Conti nental Frigate built at Baltimore which shou’d have been ordered down there, but as we understand you have a considerable quantity at that place & as there is some Powder due to the Continent from your State, We request the favour of you to supply Messrs. Wm Lux, Sami Purviance & David Stewart with four Tons & a half of Gun Powder for the use of the said Frigate & for Proving Her Canon &c and hereafter we will repay you in powder the ballance that will then become due to your State or supply you with more Shou’d it become necessary. Your Complyance with this request will save time & charges. 1 It will also oblige- the Secret Committee of Congress of which we are a Quorum & We remain, Gentn, Your obedt hble servts, Robert Morris B Franklin Richard Henry Lee Josiah Bartlett RC (MHi photostat). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Bartlett, Franklin, and Lee. 1 For the Maryland Council of Safety’s reply, see Md. Archives, 12:305-6. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadel. Sepr. 13 1776 I reed yours of the 7th. I had wrote you the same day by Mr. Halsey, but about nothing. You will see by the Copys &c gone from the Presidt to you I trust that Congress will not give you up as Commisa for the nothern Department. 1 Many of them greatly re sent the Conduct of the Gent, who has so interferd with you & there are appearances of many other things agst him, which begin to work, & will I beleive force his downfall, but things are not fully ripe yet nor can they possibly be attended to now. He had lately


[Page 190]
156 September 13, 1776 written a very long Epistle to inforce the necessity & expedience, the bestness & Cheapness See of supplying the nothern Army by a Contract with somebody there. It was hastily read thro in the House, & not the lest further notice taken of it. I presume he will not interpose in your departmt. again, tho I know He has paid but little attention to his orders in many things. We yesterday moved the appointment of a D. Adjt Genl, for that Army, & with no great Difficulty carried the appointmt of your Bror. Jno. to that office. Nothing is added about the rank 8c Pay, but on motion & Enquiry I found it to be an establishment already made, of a Colo. & there was no need of it. I trust the Prest has forwarded the Comisn. Morgan Lewis was also appointed D. Qr. Masr. Genl for the same Department. Our Affairs are truly in a critical Situation, but far I hope from desperate. My trust Sc hope is in a merciful & just God, who with one Volition of his Will can change their appearance. I fear we shall be chastized for our Sins, but not forsaken I trust 8c firmly believe. But most certainly it becomes all to humble Themselves deeply before Him, repent of our Sins 8c most earnestly to supplicate his Favor. He will be known in the Judgements he executes. He has a Controversie with His People, 8c will certainly accomplish his De sign in it. We must bend or break. No Means for our defence 8c Safety must be omitted 8c may God grant Our Officers 8c Soldiers, great Wisdom, understanding, Cour age 8c Resolution. Our Enemies are not invulnerable, 8c one severe trimming must amazingly dishearten 8c unnerve them. We have every thing to fight for, that is valuable & good. They have nothing but their pay 8c to establish the greatest of political 8c moral Evil. They cannot, will not be always prospered. Every thing shod be done, 8c doubless is, to inspire the Men with the greatest In- trepedity 8c by all acco They f’ot bravely on L. Island. The Enemy doubtless intend to surround you, 8c I see not why they cant go beyond you, go as far as you will, 8c attempt to cut off your Supplies. Our Officers are far more acquainted with their movements 8c Intentions than I 8c will doubtless take the best Measures. We just hear They are possessd of Montorzour or 8cc Island, against Har lem. I have no Doubt Congress will reward their Services. Are now busie in planing 8cc for forming a new 8c permanent Army. Will 20 dols. bounty 8c 100 acres of Land at the Close sufficiently operate upon N Engld. Men to engage for 5 years. Tho I pretend not to say such a thing will be carried if attempted, in deed I much fear it, but I wish I had the best opinions 8cc 8cc about it, soon as possible. I am dear Sir with undissembled 8c strong Affection, your Friend 8c Bror, Wm. Williams


[Page 191]
September 13, 1776 157 [P.S.] I am grieved & confounded at the Conduct of some of our Militia & . Have found the same Accos are given in other Letters, but They add they have enow left to fight &c. Mr Huntington has several Times expresd his Wonder that you have wholly done writing him, that he continued a Correspondence with you whenever he had anything worth communicating. I really think it might be well, & that He is truly Friendly to You & He has weight in Congress, & ever on the right side. His Passions are not, nor can be warm. I have excused it by yr exceeding hurry of Business &c. RC (CtHi). 1 See Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, September 12, note 2; and John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull, September 16, 1776. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dr Sir Sepr 13. P.M. [1776] Since writing my Letter, I found at the House unexpectedly that our Comtee were last night returned from their interview with Lord Howe. The sum & substance of their Report is, that having sent a previous message to him he agreed to receive Them on Staten Island at a house opposite Amboy. He accordingly sent over a Barge Wednisd. morning. They went in without Ceremony. H. met Them on their Landing, complimented them on the Honor they did by their unlimited Confidence that they placed in Him, by puting Themselves so intirely in his Power &c, waited on Them to the House, entertained them most politely, & with a cold Col lation &c introduced the Subject by informing Them how He first came to give his Attention to this American Dispute, viz the passing the Boston Port Bill awakened & alarmed his grateful remembrance & attention to that Town & Province which had been impressed on Him from the high Respect & Honor They had done his Brother &c & from that Time he attended to the American Affairs &c. He was urged to come over, had an ardent Desire to Settle the Controversie amicably &c. Being asked if He had Powers to settle it, He owned He had no other than to confer with Congress Members, but not as such, or any other Gent, whom they called Rebels (This it seems took him his two months to obtain) & to move & urge Them to their Duty &c & to declare them in the Kings Peace. He had no power to treat with Them as Members of Congress, & no Terms or Proposals to make to any, without a full return to their Alleigance as an indis- pensible Preliminary. When that shod be come into his Majesty wod certainly cause the greivous Acts of Parliament to be revised


[Page 199]
September 14, 1776 165 By a Resolve of Congress there is ordered a Paymaster for each Battalion in the Continental Service. 2 I know not whom to recom mend as Paymaster to the Battalion ordered to New York: Nor do I know whom to recommend as Surgeon to it. I shall recommend a Paymaster and Surgeon for the Battalion that shall remain at New port when it shall be known which of the Battalions hath march’d to N. York. At present it is to me uncertain; for the President first required the Commanding Officer to order One of the Battalions to N. York, and afterwards, when it was known that the Field Officers were not commissionated, they were ordered by Congress to be commissionated, agreeable to the Recommendation of the Assembly, and the Second, Col. Lippit’s, Battalion is ordered to march to N. York provided the first should not have marched before the Arrival of the last Direction of Congress. 3 I should be glad to know when the Battalions and Artillery Company raised in our Colony were inlisted and for what Time; and what the whole Number of our Militia was before the War commenced: And also the Number of white, black, and Indian In habitants of our State. I hope the Genl. Assembly will not neglect to appoint an addi tional Delegate at their first Session after the Receipt of this. The Reasons for such an Appointment I suggested in a private Letter to your Honour and have not Time now to mention to them. 4 Indeed so many, so obvious and so cogent are they, that they will readily offer themselves to every Member and induce them to come into this necessary Measure. I could wish that a certain Sum by the Day might be speedily fixed upon for the Delegates of our State; for it is very troublesome and disagreeable to keep an Account of every Expence which accrues, and a lumping Account I imagine would not be satisfactory to the Assembly. A considerable Number of the Enemy have landed at Montrozer’s Island, which lies at the Mouth of Harlem River, and it is supposed that they mean to land at Harlem or Maurisania or both. Capt. Weeks in a Continental armed Ship hath arrived here from Martinico and imported Two Tons of Powder and four hundred and fifty small Arms and some coarse Goods. The Northern Army is so respectable that we are not afraid of Irruption into our States by the Lakes, and I hope We shall be able to maintain our Posts at and near New York, if Genl. Wash ington should think proper to keep any Troops in that City. I heartily congratulate our State upon the Success of our Priva teers, 5 and wishing that I may have the Pleasure of congratulating them very soon upon a Victory over our haughty implacable Enemies I continue to be with great Respect, Yr Honor’s most Obedient, Humble Servant, W Ellery


[Page 204]
170 September 14, 1770 James Wilson to John Montgomery and Jasper Yates Dear Gentlemen Woodstock 14th September 1776 Your interesting Dispatches by Mr. Girty have been received, and been attended to by the Committee for Indian Affairs, and by Con gress. The Result you will learn by the Resolutions transmitted to you by Mr. Boyd. 1 What the Convention has done or proposes to do I cannot yet inform you of; but presume they will give every Assistance in their Power. 2 The Congress, you will observe, have strengthened your Hands as far as they could by Ammunition and the Regiment in their Service. I think it peculiarly fortunate that you are at Pittsburgh in this very critical Season. It is probable that you have heard before this Time of the Action on Long Island and of the Retreat of our Troops from it. There was certainly a Defect somewhere with Regard to Vigilance. Had a proper Look-out been kept, it is impossible that eleven thousand of the Enemy could have got between our Troops engaged and the Lines, without being discovered before they could have cut off their Retreat. Our Men, in general, behaved with remarkable Spirit. We have lost a great Number, that were made Prisoners. But the Loss of the Enemy in killed and wounded is, according to all Accounts, superior to ours. The Hessians, it is said, behaved with great In humanity. They even knocked on the Head the Men that were lying wounded on the Field of Battle. After the Action, the Retreat from the Island became, I believe, absolutely necessary. It was performed in a very masterly Manner, and without any Loss. Even the Field Officers in our own Camp did not know what was the Design of the Movements. Col. Shee’s and Col. Magaw’s Regiments covered the Retreat; and were for half an Hour, the only Troops on the Island, with above twenty thousand of the Enemy within a very short Distance of them. By the Possession of Long Island, Genl Howe has gained the important Advantage of being able now to supply his Troops with fresh Pro visions. All the late Movements on the Side of the Enemy indicate an Intention to surround the Island, on which the City of New York stands, and hem in our Army upon it. Should they accomplish this Design, the Consequences must be very disagreeable to us. General Washington must either surrender, or fight at a Disadvantage; and with inferior Numbers. But I hope they will not succeed in their Views; for I have the best Reason to believe that General Wash ington has, before this Time, retired above Kingsbridge, and I ex pect to hear the Accounts of it every Hour. Inconveniences will, without Doubt, always attend a retreating Army; but amidst sur rounding Difficulties it is Prudence to make Choice of the least. A Retreat may have a Tendency to dispirit our Troops, and may pre-


[Page 205]
September 14, 177G 171 vent our acquiring that brilliant Figure, which a State would always wish to support in the Opinion of the World. But Fabius became glorious cunctando. A Defeat, in our present Situation, would pro duce the most disastrous Effects. We have Men enough to recruit an Army; but Arms and Ammunition and Artillery and other mili tary Stores, which would be lost in an unsuccessful Engagement, we could not, by any Means, replace during the present Campaign. By Delay the Enemy will suffer more than we shall. Our Affairs in the Northern Army begin to wear a very smiling Aspect. 3 Our Army at Ticonderoga is numerous, in high Spirits, and in good Order. Our Naval Force on Lake Champlain is very respectable, and much superior to that of the Enemy. I wish I could say that the Militia of this State, who have marched into New Jersey, have conducted themselves unexceptionably in every Respect. They have not, on any Occasion, discovered Want of Spirit, as far as I have been able to learn both at the Camp, and since I left it. But it has been impossible to introduce any Kind of regular Discipline among them. A Number of them, particularly those from Philadelphia, shewed an intemperate Desire of returning Home. However, they gain much by a Comparison with those from some other States. Two thirds of the Militia of Connecticut, though they came much later into the Field than ours, have already run Home without the General’s Leave. Our Convention is still sitting. What they have been about dur ing Part of their Session, and what their Spirit is, will, in some Measure, appear to you from their Plan of government published for Consideration. This and the News papers Mr Boyd will carry up to you. The Germans, particularly in Berks County, are becoming totally unreasonable and ungovernable. They are jealous and violent to the last Degree. Mr Yeates’s Brother in Law Major Burd com manded a Detachment of the flying Camp, furnished from Reading and the Neighbourhood, in the late Action on Long Island. He behaved with great Propriety and Spirit, and has gained much Honour. But, with other brave Men, was obliged to surrender him self and his Party Prisoners of War. What do you think the People in Reading have said of the Matter? That he was an Englishman, and sold to the Enemy the Men under his Command. The Rewards that the best of Services sometimes receivel I am told the Women in Reading have entered into a Confederacy against high Caps as infallible Evidences of Toryism. Lord Howe, about ten Days ago, sent a verbal Message to Con gress by General Sullivan, who was made a Prisoner on Long Island, desiring a Conference with some of its Members in their private Characters, and that he would meet them in his. This Message oc casioned much Speculation. His Lordship said he had ample Powers,


[Page 206]
172 September 14, 1776 and he professed the strongest Inclination to accomodate the Differ ences between Great Britain and the Colonies. Some regarded this Message as an Artifice to draw the Congress into a dangerous Train of Negociations, divert the Attention of the Troops and the public from the War, and turn it upon delusive Prospects of Peace. They therefore thought it highly improper to consent to a Conference. Others thought it an Artifice of a different Kind; and that Lord Howe, by the Earnestness which he professed for an Accomodation, meant if a Conference should not be agreed to by Congress, to throw the Odium of Continuing the War upon their Shoulders, and remove it from those of his Masters. They were of Opinion that, by consenting to a Conference, his Lordships own Battery would be turned upon himself; for that it would be found, upon Enquiry, that instead of having ample Powers, he had no Power to grant any Conditions of a Peace. The Congress agreed to a Conference, but could not, with any Propriety, send their Members in a private Character. Dr Franklin, Mr John Adams and Mr Rutledge were the Members chosen. They had a Conversation with Lord Howe; and the Result justifies the Opinion of those, who were in Favour of it. The Particulars I will transmit to you by the next Opportunity. It is enough at present to observe, that the Commissioners, as far as we can learn, have no Power to offer any Terms whatever. It ex tends only to confering, consulting and receiving Submissions. This Letter has already bored you: I will conclude it after men tioning a Matter respecting Mr. Devereux Smith. You know his Merits and his Sufferings. The Gentlemen who are from Virginia will surely not be unwilling to give their Consent to his Removal to any Place more agreeable to him than Pittsburgh is. You will be good enough to make the Application to them. I would make it in Congress; but think better if it can be done in this Way. I would write to Mr Smith; but have no more Paper here. Make my Compli ments to him; and to all the other Gentlemen, my Friends, that are with you. I am, Dear Gentlemen, Yours very sincerely, James Wilson RC (DLC). ’For Congress’ resolutions of September 12, 1776, which were apparently sent by John Boyd, paymaster of Col. Aeneas Mackay’s battalion raised for the de fense of the western frontiers, see ]CC, 5:752. “For action taken by the Pennsylvania Convention on September 19 and 20 in response to information received from Montgomery and Yeates on the danger of Indian war in the region of Fort Pitt, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:46-47. 3 Wilson had written to Montgomery the week before to reassure him that despite the misfortunes suffered by the army in Canada there was no reason to fear for the safety of Montgomery’s son, who had been with the Sixth Penn sylvania Battalion. Wilson to John Montgomery, September 7, 1776, Montgomery Papers. ICHi.


[Page 216]
182 September 16, 1776 my Friend we shall have very little to do in Congress of any great importance untill we know what reception the Confideration plan will meet with in the different states. Hooper as well as myself would be glad to come, it is what has been done in these States, do leave it to us to determine. You may depend we will not leave the Congress if any thing of Consequence should require us to stay. I am, Dear Sir, Your mo. obt. Sevt. John Penn [P.S.] Perhaps it would be better to direct that we should come. Since we are to raise such a number of Battalions would it be pru dent to stop the officers of the neighbourg. states from inlisting any more men in No. Carolina untill we have compleated our Quota? J.P. Since writing the above I hear General Washington has removed from New York so that Lord Howe I suppose is there; it was prudent or otherwise he might have been surrounded. J.P. RC (Nc-Ar). 1 Not found. 2 See North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, Sep tember 3, 1776. Benjamin Rush to Jacques Barbeu-Dubourg My dear Sir, Philada September 16th. 1776. I write this letter at a venture. I wish it may reach you, but I shall not complain if it falls into the hands of our enemies. It shall contain nothing but facts. The campaign was opened in this country on the 27th of last month on Long Island in the neighbourhood of New York. 3000 American troops opposed 10,000 British & Hessian troops for six hours. At last our people were obliged to give way with the loss of about 1000 men killed 8c taken prisoners. The Enemy had 500 men killed 8c wounded in the action. Our troops behaved like veterans. One brigade sus tained three heavy fires in an open field without moving. When the word of command to “fire” was given, the enemy gave way, and a total rout was expected, but alas, their numbers supplied their want of {courage) order, and our men were surrounded and cut to pieces or taken. The enemy soon after this victory gained possession of Long Island by means of their ships, and as the heights on this Island command New York, our troops are preparing to evacuate it. Genl Howe’s army will probably winter there. The disaffected people begin to flock to his standard. We hope in a few months to oblige them to decamp with [their] new masters, for Genl. Washington has it in his power to prevent their penetrating more than 10 or 11 miles into the country around New York. Our army consists at present of 30,000 men: 20,000 at New York, 8c 10,000 at Ticonderoga under the


[Page 217]
September 16, 1776 183 command of Genl. Gates. As we expect 20,000 Russians to reinforce Genl. Howe next spring, we are about to encrease our army to 60,000. They will suffer much from the want of woolens unless soon supplied by our good friends the subjects of the king of France. New governments are instituted in all the states, founded on the authority of the people. They all differ in some particulars, but they all agree in having their legislative officers chosen annually and in establishing a rotation of power. My Countrymen have done me the honor of making me a member of the congress. I can therefore from authority assure you that a fixed determination still prevails in that body to establish the liberties of America or to perish in their ruins. No difficulties discourage us, no losses depress us. We look only to heaven and France for succour, being resolved if we are subdued that our last breath shall be “Inde pendance upon the court of Britain.” Lord Howe sent a message to us a few days ago requesting a conference with some members of the congress. Dr. Franklin, Mr. Jno. Adams, and Mr. Rutledge were ordered to wait upon his Lordship. He talked much of his powers to accommodate the dispute between Britain & America, but said he could offer nothing 8c promise nothing till we returned to our Allegiance. Here the negotiation ended. All America disdains such propositions. I must here mention an anecdote in honor of Mr. Adams. When his Lordship asked in what capacity he was to receive the gentlemen of the congress, Mr. Adams told him “in any capacity his Lordship pleased except in that of British Subjects.” This illus trious patriot has not his superior, scarcely his equal, for Abilities 8c virtue on the whole continent of America. A confederation is now forming between the united States. Each State is to have an equal vote, but no question relative to peace 8c war or other important matters is to be determined by less than 9 states. The States are to confer no titles, and no American is to hold any post under the States who accepts of a title from any foreign power. No delegate is to set in congress more than three years in seven. A counsel of State consisting of one delegate from each state is to do business during the recess of the congress. This business is always to be only of an executive nature. We have nearly finished a treaty which we expect soon to offer to your court through the hands of Mr. Dean—8c perhaps of Dr. Frank lin. The common toasts in Philada. now are: “His most Christian majesty,” and “a speedy Alliance between the king of France 8c the united States.” My wife joins in compts. to your dear M. Dubourg, with, my dear friend, yours most sincerely. P.S. The Baron Wotke [Woedtke] dishonored your recommenda tion. He died a few weeks ago at Ticonderoga with the effects of


[Page 227]
September 18, 1776 193 RC (Nc-Ar). Written by Hooper and signed by Hooper, Hewes, and Penn. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:804-6. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety, Sep tember 3, 1776. 2 See JCC, 5:762-63. “The North Carolina Provincial Congress agreed to raise three new Continental battalions on November 26, 1776. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:941. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen [September 18, 1776] 1 This will be handed to you by our worthy Colleague Mr Hewes who after a long and diligent attendance in congress, and the dif ferent committees of which he has been member is now upon his return home. From the large share of naval & mercantile business which has been allotted to his Attention by Congress, his health has been much injured, we wish his Journey may tend to restore it &: that he may enjoy in his recess from publick employment much happiness among his Country men who it has been his unwearied endeavour to serve while he has been in publick trust. Mr Hewes will inform you by letter or in person of the state of our publick affairs, of the situation of our Army at New York and whatever else that has occurred in this quarter which may im mediately or in its consequences operate importantly upon the State of North Carolina. The Check which the American Arms have lately received on Long Island reflects no dishonor upon those who bore them. The Struggle was bravely maintained by our young Soldiery and to a want of Generalship in some of our inferiour Officers is to be ascribed the necessity we have been under of re linquishing so important a Post. To the honor of 3000 Troops which we had that day upon the Island it will be remembered that they opposed, fought and for many hours maintained their ground against the Enemys whole force which at the least on that day out- numberd them by 12,000. They cut their Way thro the main body & marked their retreat with the blood of great numbers of the Enemy who we are well assured lost in killed more than fell on our side. From the Enemys obtaining possession of some advantageous heights on the Island our works were commanded by them and were no longer tenable. Under these Circumstances Genl Washington thought it prudent to draw all his Strength to New York. This retreat was effected without any loss to us and in a manner which reflects great Credit upon the Military Abilities of our commanding officer. Unfortunately for us New York being accessible to the Enemys Ships, and lying much lower than Long Island was exposed to all


[Page 232]
198 September 18, 1776 From all I Can collect This was the Situation of Affairs on Sun day Morning, When the Ships before mentioned began a verry heavy Firing at Turtle-Bay to Scour the Country previous to their landing the Troops, but hurt no Body that I can hear of. When the Firing ceased their Troops began to Land and ours to Run as if the Devil was in them, in Spite of all the Genel. Could do. They never fired one Gun. General Washington having discovered their intention to Land at that place, and haveing properly disposed of his Troops in case of an Attempt in either or both the other places, ordered a Reinforcement and set out there himself. How ever before he got to the place, met our people running in Every direction. He Endeavoured by persuation, Threats &c to get them back, but all to no purpose. In Short they run till they left the General to Shift for himself. General Putnam who was in New- York with his people, hearing What had happened made the best of his way for head Quarters least he should be kooped up, fought his way Through the Enemys lines, brought his men to Camp with the Loss of only three of four as said. It Seems not one of the men who run from the place of the Enemy’s landing was from this Side the North River—all New-England men. General Washington Writes he is Advantageously situated at present, and if attacked Should be more than a Match for the Enemy if their numbers were even More than they are, provided his men would fight, which is more to be wished than Expected. I have wrote on this Subject till I am in an Ill Humour, and my only Comfort is that by the time you have read it you’l be as Angry as I am. I have inclosed Mr. McKean’s order on the Trustees of New castle thinking it might be wanting. I am Gentmn., Your Most Obedt., Humble Servt. Caesar Rodney P.S. My boy will return tomorrow morning. RC (DeHi). Benjamin Rush to Julia Rush My dearest Julia, Wednesday Eveng. [September 18-25? 1776] 1 I begin to sicken for your company. What will become of me a fortnight thence? But I will not as formerly tear you from Morven. I flatter myself that you will soon be infected with home sickness & that you will tease me in less than a fortnight to send Wm. for you. Our Affairs in New York {grow worse & worse) wear a melan- cholly aspect in the eyes of most people. You witness for me that I have for a long time not only expected, but wished that Genl. Howe might gain possession of New York. I have seen molasses


[Page 233]
September 19, 1776 199 wasted on a board on purpose to collect together & destroy all the flies of a house. In like manner I believe Genl. Howe will attract all the tories of New York & the adjacent states to his army where they will ripen as the tories of Boston did for banishment & de struction. The continent in the mean while will be purged of those rascals whose idleness or perfidy have brought most of our present calamities upon us. But further, I think we stood in need of a frown from heaven. I should have suspected that our cause had not been owned as a divine one, if we had prospered without it. It is, you know, thro’ difficulties & tryals that states as well as individuals are trained up to glory & happiness. My faith is now stronger than ever. I begin to hear with pleasure an outcry among some people that there is no dependance to be had upon the arm of flesh. But the worst is not over. We must be bro’t lower. I predict a defeat, or another disgraceful retreat. We stand in need of it. We must all be taught that “Salvation is not to be hoped from the hills, nor from the multitude of the Mountains,” before we can expect to prevail over our enemies. Adieu my dearest angel. Mrs Stamper joins in love to you & your Mama with, yrs, B Rush P.S. I shall write again if possible by the post. RC (CtY). 1 Rush’s reference to the “melancholly aspect” of “our affairs in New York” suggests that he wrote this letter shortly after the September 15 evacuation of New York, and when in a mood similar to that expressed in his letter to Anthony Wayne of September 24, 1776. September 18 and 25 were Wednesdays. Benjamin Franklin to William Temple Franklin Dear Billy Philada Sept. 19. 1776 I received yours of the 16th, in which you propose going to your Father, if I have no Objection. I have consider’d the matter, and cannot approve of your taking such a Journey at this time, es pecially alone, for many reasons, which I have not time to write. I am persuaded, that if your Mother should write a sealed Letter to her Husband, and enclose it under Cover to Govr. Trumbull of Connecticut, acquainting him that it contains nothing but what relates to her private Family Concerns, and requesting him to for ward or deliver it, (opening it first if he should think fit) he would cause it to be deliver’d safe without opening. I hope you do not feel any Reluctance in returning to your Studies. This is the Time of Life in which you are to lay the Foundations of your future Improvement, and of your Importance among Men. If this Season is neglected, it will be like cutting off the Spring from the Year. Your Aunt had the Carelessness to send the Bundle containing


[Page 240]
206 September 20, 1776 quire it) that I can make no particular proposals about it. Per haps the Person who has had the management wd. undertake it; whatever is done this Season must be done soon; & a particular Answer as soon as you conveniently can will be very agreable. The maintaining the post at the highlands is of the utmost im portance to the united States in general & to N England in par ticular in order for which Cannon are still wanted. It is said that 18 pounders are cast at the furnace. I am desired by the Committee on the highland affairs to request of you to inform us of this fact & if there be any such whether they can be removed for those forts. I am &c, RTP FC (MHi). ’For Congress’ instructions to Paine this day, see JCC, 5:807. Governor Trum bull's October 25 response is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1271-72. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Sepr. 20. 1776 Come. met. Present, Morris, Hewes, Lewis, Bartlett. Agreed to pay Mr. Jonn. Hudson the valuation of his ship Molly, taken by Ld. Dunmore & retaken on her passage to Burmuda, by the Andrew Doria, Capt. Biddle, & sent for Rhode Isld. valuation or sum insurd on Charter party £5000. Also agreed to pay his Acct, for Expences, incurrd by said ship being taken by the Otter & retaken by Ship Defence of Maryland amount £159.8— £5159.8 Equal to Dollars 13755 36/90 deduct what is already paid him . . 2133 30/90 leaving due 11625 6/90, for which drew an order on the Treasurer. 1 Mr. Benjamin Gibbs appeared before the Come. & represented that the Ship Aurora, Capt. Getshuis, is taken & carried into Gi- bralter, for the truth of wch. he refers to a Letter from Messrs. Livingston & Trumbull of that place to Messrs. Willg., Morris & Co. wch. they confirm to be the case. Agreed to pay Mr. Gibbs £3500 the valuation as per Chartr. party he givg. a receit for the money bindg. him to refund it if the ship should not be condemnd as a prize, of wch. however there is no hopes. Therefore issued an order on the Treasurer for 9333 1/3 dlls in favor of Mr. Gibbs. 2 Mr. Oswell Eve producd his acct, for manufacturing powdr. to this time amountg to 13157 lb with the Comy’s receit for that quantity wch. at half cost of Casks amounts to £405.11, deduct already pd. him £200, balance £205.11, equal to Dlls 548 12/90 for wch. sum we this day issued an order on the Treasurer in favor said Oswell Eve being in full to this time. Agreed That Mr. Morris be desird


[Page 247]
September 21, 1776 213 Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham Sir, Philadelphia September 21st 1776 Your several letters of the 4th, 15th and 26th August to this Committee have been duely received with the several enclosures & the whole have been laid before the Congress. We can therefore communicate that satisfaction which we dare say it must afford you to know that you have so far obtained the approbation of that August Body. It is not necessary that we should enter into minute replys to the Contents of your letters, therefore we shall only notice such parts as seem to require it. Captain Wickes behaviour meets the approbation of his country and fortune seems to have had an Eye to his merit when she con ducted his three prizes safely in. 1 You made a very proper use of his engagement, by your question to the General and it is extreamly satisfactory, that our prizes may be carried into and protected in the French ports, but hitherto the Congress have not thought proper to intrust blank Commissions beyond Sea’s, Neither can their Re solve for bringing prizes into some of these States for Condemnation be dispensed with. These matters are now under consideration of a Committee and should any alteration take place you Shall be in formed of it. We are bound to return thanks to his Excellency the General for the information he Authorized you to give us as mentioned in your letter of the 4th and particularly for his disposition to Favour Our Commerce in Port and protect it at Sea and likewise for that concern he expressed at not having it in his power to assist us with the Arms and powder we requested. 2 You will therefore signify to His Excellency that this Committee entertain the warmest senti ments of esteem and respect for his person and character, and of gratitude for His Favourable attention to the concerns of our much injured Country, that we request the continuance of his Friendship and hope during your residence at Martinico there will be many opportunities of benefiting by His Favourable disposition—par ticularly in countenancing you in the purchase and exportation of Arms, Ammunition and Clothing. We are not surprized that Admiral Young’s letter shou’d alter the Generals sentiments respecting Convoys, but we esteem much his Spirited answer to the Admiral which may probably be productive of some alteration. 3 We like well your proposal for a Constant inter course by Packets, and the Sloop Independance, Capt Young, is now sent on that service in which we hope she will be Successfull


[Page 249]
September 21, 1776 215 the same time men of Merit and abilities will always meet with Suit able encouragement. You must therefore pursue the line you set out in, give general discouragement to those that apply and recommend none but such as the General will pledge his word for, and you may even intimate to him that if too many come over the Congress will not know what to do with them. 5 RC (CtY). In a clerical hand, and signed by Franklin and Morris. Morris’ draft of this letter is in PCC, item 37. 1 For Capt. Lambert Wickes’ encounter with H.M. Sloop Shark, see Thomas Jefferson to Edmund Pendleton, August 26, 1776, note 4. 3 General d’Argout’s offer to favor “the interest of the Insurgents as much as it would be within my power’’ was immediately overruled by the French minister of marine, Gabriel de Sartine. See Morgan, Naval Documents, 5:1317-19, 6:583-84. 3 For British Admiral James Young’s strongly worded protest and General d’Argout’s response, see ibid., 6:51-52, 111. 1 Richard Price’s Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Committee of Secret Correspondence to Bingham, October 1, 1776. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Sept. 21st. 1776 Congress have ordered a New Army to be raised to consist of Eighty eight Battalions, each State to furnish as follows—New Hampshire three, Massachusetts Fifteen, Rhode Island &c Two, Connecticut Eight, New York Four, New Jersey Four, Pennsylvania Twelve, Lower Counties One, Maryland Eight, Virginia Fifteen, North Carolina Nine, South Carolina Six and Georgia One, to serve during the War; and to encourage a speedy Inlistment have ordered a Bounty of Twenty Dollars for each Soldier that shall inlist, and a Grant of Land &c &c. The Resolve of Congress respecting the new Army, & the new Articles of war will be transmitted to you; but as it is possible they may not reach you so soon as a Letter by the Post, I have therefore been more particular than I should have otherwise been. 1 The State of Massachusetts Bay have ordered every Fifth Man to march to reinforce the Army near New York, from all their Towns except Those which from their Situation are exposed to the Enemy, and from which the Battalion is to be composed that is to supply the Place of the Continental Battalion ordered from Newport to New York. I wish they may arrive at Camp before a decisive Battle is fought. You have heard without Doubt of a Skir mish between a Party of our Troops and a Party of the Enemy, and that our Troops drove them repeatedly from their Ground and forced them to retreat. It was the Intention of Genl. Washington to have served the Enemy as they did Us at Long Island. He ordered


[Page 251]
September 21, 1776 217 ship, &: that you would give her all the possible dispatch in your power. 1 I am also glad to hear Capt Exceen with the Brigt Friendship is at your Port with 6 or 700 bus[hels] salt. If you can prevail upon him to come round with his salt either to this place or Virginia (where the Coast is intirely clear from Cruizers as Vessells arive here daily) we would from either place give his Vessell an extraordinary good freight out again and allow him for his extra time and still hold his Vessell insured by the Congress. Should this be objected to (which I hope will not be the case as the Vessell can earn nothing now) endeavor to get his Vessell discharged at New London, & let me know the result. I am, Sir, Your very Humble Servt, Fras Lewis P.S. Pray let the Flaxseed be well cleaned. RC (CtY). 1 This letter to Lewis from Shaw, the Continental prize agent in Connecticut, is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:781. In it Shaw mentions an August 24 letter from Lewis which has not been found. See also New York Delegates to Augustine Lawrence and Samuel Tuder, October 21, 1776, note 3. Marine Committee to Thomas Cushing Sir, In Marine Committee, Philadelphia Septem. 21, 1776 In consequence of a letter from the president of Massachusetts Bay dated the 13 Instant to the President of the Congress which was by Congress referrd to this Committee; we have determined to Comply with the wishes of your assembly by Ordering the Frigate Commanded by Capt. McNeill and that by Captain Thompson of New Hampshire to be fitted immediately and proceed on a Cruize on your Coast in hopes of taking the Milford Frigate or of drawing her or any other Enemy away from those Seas. 1 We therefore authorize you to accept the Profferd assistance of the said assembly or any Committee they appoint to assist in fitting, equipping, arming & manning that Frigate. You are also to Accept their offer of Twenty four nine Pounders (cannon) and to Co operate with them in getting this ship to sea with the utmost Expedi tion, and we agree to reimburse the state of Massachusetts Bay for all Just & necessary Expences they incurr in Effecting this Business. We shall in due time also cause this Cannon to be returned unless they think proper to make Sale of them for the use of this ship and in that case we woud choose to purchase them provided they are good guns quite suitable for the service. You will please to purchase a proper number of Swivell Guns, good musketts, Blunderbusses, cutlasses, Pikes & other arms & in-


[Page 255]
September 22, 1776 221 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:131. 1 The plan for the army was embodied in resolutions adopted by Congress on September 16 and ordered published on September 20, 1776. JCC, 5:762-63, 807. In his autobiography, Adams asserted that “The Articles of War and the Insti tution of the Army during the War, were all my Work,’’ measures that emerged from the Board of War under Adams’ chairmanship. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:434-35. a The Articles of War, as agreed to by Congress on September 20 after long debate, are in JCC, 5:788-807. For passages in Adams’ autobiography pertaining to the Articles of War, see Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 3:392, 409-10, 433-34. “For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Abigail Adams, October 1, 1776. Benjamin Franklin to William Temple Franklin Dear Grandson, Philada. Sept. 22. 1776 You are mistaken in imagining that I am apprehensive of your carrying dangerous Intelligence to your Father; for while he re mains where he is, he could make no use of it were you to know & acquaint him with all that passes. You would have been more in the right if you could have suspected me of a little tender Concern for your Welfare, on Acct of the Length of the Journey, your Youth and Inexperience, the Number of Sick returning on that Road with the Infectious Camp Distemper, which makes the Beds unsafe, to gether with the Loss of Time in your Studies, of which I fear you begin to grow tired. To send you on such a Journey merely to avoid the being oblig’d to Govr Trumbull for so small a Favour as the forwarding a Letter, seems to me inconsistent with your Mothers usual Prudence. I rather think the Project takes its rise from your own Inclination to a Ramble, & Disinclination for Returning to College, join’d with a Desire I do not blame of seeing a Father you have so much Reason to love. They^send to me from the Office for my Letter, so I cannot add more than to acquaint you, I shall by next post if desired send several Frank’d Covers directed to Govr Trumbull, for Mrs F. to use as she has occasion. I write to him in the first now sent, 1 to introduce her Request. She may desire her Husband to send his Letters to her under Cover to me: It will make but 2 Days add. The Family is well &: join in Love to her & you. 2 Your affectionate Grandfather, B Franklin RC (PPAmP). 1 Not found. ’Franklin hurried off the following brief note to Temple a few days later: "I hope you will return hither [i.e., Philadelphia] immediately, & that your Mother will make no Objection to it, something offering here that will be much to your Advantage if you are not out of the Way.” Franklin to William Temple Franklin, September 28, 1776, Franklin Papers, PPAmP.


[Page 256]
222 September 22, 1776 Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philada. Sepr. 22d 1776. I am Glad you are Sending the Sloop up to Sell, and hope you’l not delay doing it, least some of the Men of War now at New York should be thought no longer Necessary there, and be sent to our Capes. A Circumstance of this Sort would inevitably knock up the Sale of all kind of Veshells, for it is the trade they are now pushing that keeps up the demand for them, and the men of War Coming to the Cape would put an End to that trade. Super-fine Flower is now at 18 Shillings and Rising as Brown tells me, tho’ when I Sold Could Get no more than 13/6. It is What they Call light packed, or Seven Quarter that brings this price. I Should have no Objection to Your Sending the Schooner Also. But am Doubtfull shee is too Flat and therefore would not answer the purpose of foreign trade and of Course not sell well. If the Sloop is not Come away before you Get this Letter, would advise you to get John Bell to Come in her. He has been dealing in that way and would be of Great [use?] to me in Selling her here. But if shee is Come away And you Should Conclude to Send the Schooner pray Get him to Come in her. I had Some Convention [Conversation?] with Bell while in Town, and he promised to Call on You Concerning the Sale of them. I don’t know what you do for News now since Your Post has fell through. I have Reed no Letter from Colonel Haslet for eight or ten days past, But Received one from a Worthy Gentleman of my Acquaintance dated the 16th Instant, Wherein he Says “Yesterday a Most Inglorious day! The British Troops Landed on New York Island, from Long Island, at a place Called Turtle Bay about five miles above New York City, when the Appearance of only a few of them made two or three Regiments of Americans Retreat. Retreat did I say, it ought to be Run away notwithstanding all the Solicita tions, prayers and I might say tears of General Washington. These were not Southern Troops. Our people had a few Hours before, Evacuated New York. The Enemy then took possession of it, and all the Lower End of the Island. A line was immediately thrown up, about Eight Miles from New York Across from East to North River. The Enemy possessing the West and We the East part up to Kings- Bridge, and the Pensylvanians and Delaware Encampment is on the East side of the Bridge, under the Command of General Mifflin. This far for Bad News. This Morning I was Spectator to a Most Glorious Scene. The Enemy Advanced to An Eminence, about a Mile from our Lines. The Maryland and Virginia Troops were Ordered by General Washington to disposses them, and with un daunted Bravery they Marched up. When a Smart Engagement Ensued, Fresh Troops were Poured in upon both Sides, The Contest Obstinate, and Long. Finely our Heroes forced them from three


[Page 260]
226 September 23, 1776 result of his agency. 1 We regret with him that it has not been ac companied with the successes you had reason to expect from it. Nothing was wanting on his part that the most earnest zeal to serve you could prompt, 8c we have cooperated with our best endeavours to carry his designs into execution. But such is the demand for Workmen in every branch of the Iron Manufactury 8c the Wages so very extravagantly high that men who have any pretensions to skill in the business cannot be prevailed upon to leave home. We have been under the necessity to purchase a light Waggon and two horses to remove the man whom he has employed together with the Patterns of Pots which we have been so fortunate as to procure tho at a great price, as they were the only ones to be sold in the province of Pennsylvania. We have advanced 100 dollars to Mr Milles for which he will be accountable to you. We have been induced to this from an ex pectation that on his way out he may meet some Workmen who may answer his purpose 8c to whom it may be necessary to pay something in hand to induce to accompany him to Carolina. We are Gentlemen, With great Respect, Your Obed. Humble Serts, Will Hooper Joseph Hewes John Penn [P.S.] Inclosed is the Expence of the Waggon 8c Horses. RC (Nc-Ar). Written by Hooper and signed by Hooper, Hewes, and Penn. N.C. Colonial Records, 10:806-7. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 On this point, see William Hooper to William Livingston, August 29, 1776, note. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston My dr. Livingston, Philada. Sept. 23d. 1776. I have been so much upon the going that for some Weeks past it has been impossible for me to put Pen to Paper. The Hurry is however past away in a Degree 8c I snatch a Moment’s Leisure to request that you or Jay or both of you will immediately on receipt of this set off for this Place. Little less than the Salvation of your Colony may depend on your Presence. I would tell you a great deal, had I Time, or were it not possible that this might fall into Hands inimical to us 8c our Cause. If I have Leisure I shall write to Jay to desire his Attendance, if not make my Love to him, tell him how I esteem him, 8c how much I long to see him. 1 By a Letter re ceived this Day from Schuyler he informs us that he is no longer a


[Page 261]
September 23, 1776 227 Major Genl, in our Service, but that he will attend his Duty in Congress in a Fortnight from the Date of his Letter. I wish he was now here. You know as well as I do, that the Rascals who took much Liberty with the Character of that Gentleman would not venture to look him in the Face. I admire his Wisdom; it was the only Step which he could take to recover &: establish his Reputa tion. If it is in your way to write him let him know how agreeable his presence will be in Congress to all who wish well to our Affairs. Let me repeat it; you cannot render as much Service to your Coun try in any other way whatever as by coming to us immediately & bringing with you Jay &: Schuyler. 2 I shall go from hence for Caro lina within a Month. I wish to see Matters put upon a better Foot than they now are, & to contribute as far as my Abilities can carry me, towards rendering your Country free & happy. Don’t take my Silence amiss, but let me hear from you soon. God bless you. Yours Sincerely & affectionately, E Rutledge RC (NHpR: Livingston-Redmond Collection deposit). Addressed: “To Robert R. Livingston Esquire at the Congress of New York, to be forwarded to him wherever he may be in New York.” 1 Jay and Livingston were too involved in local New York political affairs to return to Congress at this time. See Robert R. Livingston to Rutledge, October 10, Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC; and John Jay to Rutledge, October 11, 1776, Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:998-99. “Infuriated by criticisms of his performance as commander of the northern army and aroused by allegations of corruption in the provisioning of his men, General Schuyler submitted his resignation in a letter written to Hancock on September 14, which was read in Congress on September 23 and referred to the Board of War. Although a number of New England delegates, who had been especially critical of Schuyler’s military strategy, were confident that the general’s resignation would be accepted, this confidence was misplaced. Even before Schuyler’s letter reached Congress, opposition to his resignation had been ex pressed by the Albany Committee of Correspondence and the New York Con vention. The convention in particular had adopted a series of resolves on Sep tember 20 calling for Schuyler’s continuance in office and had written a letter to the New York delegates warning that “General Schuyler’s resignation will not only be highly prejudicial to the common cause of America, by the loss of an able and vigilant officer . . . but will be productive of internal jealousy and dis content, at a period when union and harmony are necessary for our preservation.” Congress referred these resolves to a committee consisting of William Hooper, Thomas McKean, and Edward Rutledge on September 27. The convention’s intervention, when combined with the critical military situation then existing in both northern and southern New York, led Congress on October 2 to approve a resolution drawn up by Rutledge rejecting Schuyler’s resignation and promising the appointment of a committee “to enquire fully into his conduct, which, they trust, will establish his reputation in the opinion of all good men.” See JCC, 5:809, 831, 841; PCC, item 67, 1:332, item 153, 2:368-71; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:333-34, 703-4, 707-10; William Williams to Joseph Trumbull, September 26; Philip Livingston to the New York Convention, September 28; Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston, October 2; and John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, Oc tober 4, 1776. See also Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 110-29.


[Page 265]
September 24, 1776 231 and urged them in the most pressing Language to comply in the fullest Manner with the Requisition of Congress. As the Troops now in Service belonging to the several States will be considered as Part of their Quota in the American Army, it will be necessary to ascertain what Number of the Troops, as well as what Officers will engage to serve during the War. For this Purpose I have wrote to the States, and forwarded blank Commissions for all such Officers, and others whom they shall appoint agreeably to the enclosed Resolves. The Articles of War as first adopted by Congress being exploded, I send you sundry Copies of those, which they have instituted in their Room. 2 I enclose you also sundry other Resolves, to which I beg Leave to request your Attention. 3 As the Committee of Congress will confer with you on the State of the Army, to them I beg Leave to refer you, and am with every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obedient and very hble Sevt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 5:762-63; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:4-7. 3 See JCC, 5:788-807. 3 These consisted of numerous resolves on military affairs passed by Congress on September 16, 18, 19, 20, and 23. See JCC, 5:761, 780-81, 783-84, 808, 810-11. Lewis Morris to the New York Convention Sir Philadelphia Septemr 24 1776 I had the honor to receive your Letter accompanying the Resolve of Congress relative to my returne to resume the command of my Brigade. At a time when the State to which I belong is invaded, and particularly as I am honored with a military command, I esteem it my duty to account for my absence. Since my arrival at Philadelphia the State of N York has had no more than a representation in Congress, and as the Gentlemen of the Committee for Indian affairs were mostly out of Town, the whole of that necessary business has Devolved upon me. My family have been Obliged to desert their home and meeting with them in this place, altogether unprovided, I have been under the necessity of delaying the time of my Stay untill I could fix them in some situation where they could be accommodated. The distress of my Family on this occasion made it my particular duty to attend to them, and which I flatter myself will be justifiable upon every principle of justice. The Situation of my Brigade I was convinced was well known to


[Page 267]
September 24, 1776 233 the Convention. I apprehended that not more than a Colls Com mand was left in it, and as such did not think my presence was so absolutely necessary. I have thought that the existance of such a Brigade, in which were so many disaffected persons, was dangerous to the cause, as well as to my own Life. But being desirous to participate in the virtuous opposition to the British Tyrant, I had determined as soon as possible to join Genl Washington, and con tribute my assistance to him, prompted in the first instance by a Love to my Country, and in the next place the preservation of my property, being thoroughly convinced that unless we conquer, I am ruined. However in obedience to the commands of Convention, I shall prepare with all possible expedition to set out for West Chester, and will endeavour to execute any orders they may be pleased to give to the utmost of my ability. 1 I have the honor to Subscribe myself, Sir Your Obliged and Obet. Huml Servt, Lewis Morris RC (NN). 1 Noting that as a result of the absence of Morris, a brigadier general in the New York militia, “the Militia of Westchester County are not so properly ar ranged and managed as they ought to'be at this critical juncture," the convention on September 16 had ordered him to return to his command. In answer to the present letter, the convention reaffirmed this order on October 8, although by then Morris had already left Philadelphia. On January 9, 1777, the New York Committee of Safety ordered him to be paid “two hundred and eleven pounds four shillings ... for his attendance as a Delegate of this State in Continental Congress, to the fourth day of October last, as per his account delivered in this day.” See ,4m. Archives, 5th ser. 2:693, 3:231-32; and Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:766. New York Delegates to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen Phila. 24 Sepr. 1776 We reed, your lett. of the 9th Sepr. with Sundry Inclosures which were laid before Congress, who have Come to Several resolutions A Copy of which we Send here inclosed. 1 You will See that 3 Tons of powdr. was direetd. to be delivd. at New Windsor to be sent to the forts, but that will not be done as the Waggons with the 15 Tons referred to In the resolution went by Way of Minisink. The five Tons we Shall forward Immediately. We obtained an Order from Congress for 6700 dollr. to be laid out in Arms for yr. State which we Shall purchase when we have an opportunity. 2 None are more to be had here, but parcells frequently Arrive, if You Shd have occasion for the Money for a More pressing purpose you will please to Acquaint us. We wrote you the 30 Augt. which we hope Came to hand. The En-


[Page 269]
September 24, 1776 235 think it no breach of charity to suppose that a family so much affected in power, and property as the one above mentioned were actuated only by low and interested motives. My Seat in Congress has subjected me to many cares to which I was a stranger when my whole business consisted in reading, writing & feeling pulses. I am obliged daily to hear the most melancholly Accounts of the distresses of our troops from wants of every kind. I have felt a large share of the pain & shame brought upon our arms by the desertion of Long Island, and evacuation of New York. The military Spirit of our countrymen seems to have subsided in that part of the continent, and a torpor seems likewise to have seized upon the citizens of America in general. I apprehend we have over rated the public virtue of our country. If this is the case, let us not repine at misfortunes. They are necessary to the growth & existence of patriotism. History shows us that states like individuals have arisen to importance only when their foundations were laid in difficulties & Adversity. We received so many pledges during the last Campaign of the favor and protection of heaven that it would seem a Species of infidelity to doubt our Success in the issue of the present controversy. A convention have at last formed a goverment for our State. Herewith I send you a copy of it. 1 It is tho’t by many people to be rather too much upon the democratical Order, for liberty is as apt to degenerate into licenciousness, as power is to become arbitrary. Restraints therefore are as necessary in the former as the latter case. Had the governor 8c counsel in the new constitution of Pennsyl vania possessed a negative upon the proceedings of the assembly the goverment would have derived safety, wisdom 8c dignity from it. But we hope the counsel of Censors will remedy this defect at the expiration of seven years. My present Situation requires that I should possess a thorough knowledge of the State of the Armies of the continent. Let me beg of you therefore to furnish me every week (if possible) with the history of every material occurrence in the northern department. Tell me all your wants whether they relate to provisions, cloathing, tents, ammunition or medicines. I could wish you would go further and inform me what officers, and what brigades, or regiments stand highest with you for courage, conduct, and military discipline. Duty 8c inclination will prompt me to do every thing in my power to remedy abuses, correct delays, and reward merit of every kind in the army. My Compts. await Genl Gates, and Genl. St Clair. Tell the latter that I have done nothing since I took my seat in congress with greater pleasure than giving my Vote for making him a Brigadr., and I wish for nothing more than to do the same justice to the merit of my friend Col. Wayne. Inter Nos—an Attention in you to


[Page 270]
236 September 24, 1776 Genl Gates may facilitate this matter if it should soon come before congress. Adieu my dear Anthony. God bless you! & bring you back in Safety to our native province in which I hope to spend many days with you in the enjoyment of that freedom for which we are both making sacrifices in the cabinet & field. Yours sincerely, B Rush RC (PHi). Addressed: “Col. Anthony Wayne of the 4th Pennsylvania Regent, at Ticonderoga.” ’According to the minutes of the proceedings of the Pennsylvania Convention, the new frame of government was not finally agreed to until September 27. The text of the Pennsylvania constitution was entered on the minutes the following day. See 4m, Archives, 5th ser. 2:48-59. Secret Committee to William Bingham Sir Philada. Septr. 24th. 1776 We have Shipped 1000 bbls flour onboard the Ship Betsey, Capt Wm. Stevens, for your address on Account & Risque of the United States of America agreable to the enclosed Invoice & bill of Loading.’ The Captn has liberty either to go into St Lucia or Martinico just as winds or other Circumstances may serve. You will therefore receive this flour at either place and cause it to be sold to the best advantage, pay the freight as per bill of Loading & place the net proceeds to the Credit of this Committee. We hope the Brigt Cornelia & Molly, Capt Lockhard, arrived safe & delivered her Cargo in good order. If so you will no doubt have paid for the Muskets & Powder you remitted by Cap Wickes, out of that Cargo, but if it did not arrive you will have to pay for them out of the present one, or from that of the Sloop Independance also Sent to your address. You must dispatch this Ship back as expeditiously as possible and if the Sloop Independance does not arrive whilst she is there you may remit us back in her the Value of £1500 to £2000, in Good blankets and other Woolen Goods suitable for Soldiers, with some more Muskets, Powder, Gun Flints, Salt Petre, Sulphur &c just as you can obtain them to the best advantage observing that we now want Cloathing for our Troops beyond any other Articles. Shou’d the Sloop Independance arrive safe, You may then remit the less Value in the Ship because we deem the Sloop a safer conveyance but still we wou’d have some Goods by each, The Value propor tioned to the Effects you have in hand unless you can obtain Credit & then you may increase it one half. We are sir, Your hble servants, Robt Morris Joseph Hewes Josiah Bartlett Tho M:Kean Phil. Livingston Richard Henry Lee


[Page 271]
September 25, 1776 237 RC (PHi). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Bartlett, Hewes, Lee, Livings ton, and McKean. 'This day Robert Morris also wrote a brief note on behalf of the Secret Committee to the Pennslyvania Council of Safety requesting their permission for a pilot to carry the Betsey down Delaware Bay. Signets Collection, Ini’; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:28. John Adams to James Warren Dr sir Septr. 25. 1776 1 This Express carries a new Plan of an Army. I hope the Gen. Ct. without one Moments delay will Send Commissions to whole Corps of their officers, either by Expresses or Committees to New York and Ticonderoga that as many Men may be inlisted without delay as possible. It may be best to send a Committee with full Powers to each Place. There is no Time to be lost. I inclose you a Sett of Articles as lately amended. 2 Discipline I hope will be introduced at last. I am, John Adams RC (MHi). ’This day Adams also wrote a brief letter to his wife Abigail. “I have only Time to say, by Mr. Taylor, that I am not worse than I have been—that how ever, I think, the G Ct might have sent somebody here, before now—and that it will not be many days before I shall sett off, I shall wait for the Completion of a few Things and then go—perhaps in a Week or ten days." Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:134. “For the “new Plan of an Army” and the “Articles as lately amended,” see Adams to Abigail Adams, September 22, 1776, notes 1 and 2. William Hooper to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir 1 Philada. Sept 25. 1776 I Thank you for your very obliging letter of the 9th of this Instant. I take my pen in hand rather to prove my own punctuality than because I have anything that is important enough to intrude among the many weighty matters which press upon your attention. We anxiously wait the important consequences which two such numer ous armies brought in contact may produce. Genl Howe supported with Officers & Men inured to service—found with every species of Military stores which can make them formidable; determined, and desperate some of them from the disgrace which attended their re treat from Boston &: anxious to restore the honour of the British Arms—to conflict with an army of new troops—ill found—ill cloathed—headed by officers who supposing they have every other merit have no pretensions to experience—& unhappily for us I fear that past events may have a future effect 8c some of our turgid friends may not feel bould when it is necessary that they should.


[Page 272]
238 September 25, 1776 We have been alarmed with an account of the City of New York having been in flames several days past & that the greatest part of it has been consumed. Some accounts attribute this Calamity to Genl Howe’s orders while others with greater probability ascribe it to accident or the ungovernable Brutality to those Men mon sters the Hessians. General Howe in full possession surely would not be mad enough to burn his house over his own head. The Congress have ordered 88 Regiments to be raised for the next Year’s service to continue during the War. I wish this may save the dreadful Consequences of short Enlistments or calling forth the Militia upon Exigencies. Were we to persist in the method hitherto pursued the Contest would be of short duration. Our Treasury would soon discover its weakness. Juniper Lees Express arrived here last night. 2 He left Lee at Georgia, the Congress Express within a day & half ride of him. Possibly Lee may be here in a day or two. The weight is too great for any one man, the conduct of the American Army without any to lean upon for advice. Adieu. 1 scrawl this amidst the confusion of tongues—at the Treasury board. Your’s truly, Wm Hooper RC (Facsimile, Lawrence H. Leder, ed., The Genesis of American Freedom, 1765-1795, Waltham, Mass.: Brandeis University, 1961, plate 9). ’Recipient identified in American Art Association Catalog (January 25, 1918), items 16-17, where an extract of Livingston’s October 26 reply to Hooper is also printed. ’This day Congress read letters from Gen. Charles Lee to Hancock of August 24 and to the Board of War of August 27. See ]CC, 5:818. See also PCC, item 158, 1:79; and NYHS Collections 5 (1872): 239, 241-45, in which the letter to Hancock is dated August 23. Robert Treat Paine to Samuel Phillips, Jr. Sr. 1 Philada. Septr. 25th. 1776. Mr. Gerry delivered me a letter you sent by Major Cox; 2 I have been a long time anxious to know the state of Gun Powder manu facture in our Government and have wrote repeatedly without being able to get any satisfactory information. We have had great success in making saltpetre, but without great Care it will be all spoilt in making into Gunpowder. There have been some great instances here of miserable trash turn’d out for Gunpowder, which occasioned the Congress to appoint a Committee to enquire into the defect and procure a remedy. . . . 3... .1 am exceeding glad to find you turning yr. attention to this very important Manufacture. I hope you will not only make im provements in yr. own Works but communicate Knowledge to the


[Page 273]
September 25, 1776 239 other Powder makers and do what lays in yr Power to promote the manufacture of good Powder for it must be a most cruel Vexation in the day of decision for Liberty or Slavery to have the Scale turn against us meerly thro’ the defect of our own Powder. This matter has lain as a Burthen on my mind and has caused me to apply great attention to this manufacture. . . . Congress have passed some resolves to prevent the bad manufac ture of Powder and also the importation of bad Powder, (for much Powder which has been imported from abroad has proved exceed bad) and have recommended inspectors to be appointed to prove all Powder. This matter should be carefully attended to. Majr. Cox will describe to you the machine by which we made most of our Experiments. You will excuse the freedom I take in addressing you thus freely when you consider the real importance of the subject. I wish the Inhabitants of the United States were more intent upon providing and manufacturing the Means of defence, than making Governments witht. providing for the means of their Support. Wish ing you Success in yr. noble Efforts to promote that best Good of yr Country, its defence from powerful Enemies, I part your most hble Servt, R T Paine MS not found; reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:101. Endorsed: "Mr. Paine to S. P. Eve [?] on Gun powder.” 'Although it now seems clear that Paine wrote this letter to Samuel Phillips, Jr. (1752-1802), Burnett, interpreting a transcribed endorsement, ventured to identify the recipient as "S.P. Eve [?].” An Andover, Mass., merchant and mill owner, Phillips manufactured gunpowder from 1776 to 1796, except for a period after his mill exploded in 1778. He served in the general court from 1775 to 1801, and in 1776 served on a committee to supervise and encourage the manu facture of saltpetre. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:593-605. 2 In his September 11 letter to Elbridge Gerry, Phillips had requested informa tion on the manufacture of saltpetre and gunpowder. Paine Papers, MHi. 3 Elipses in Tr here and below. Caesar Rodney to Thomas Rodney Sir, Philada. Sepr. 25th 1776 That the New England men placed to defend the Landing place Behaved in a Most Dastardly, Cowardly Scandelous Manner is Most Certain. But that Courage is not always to be found the Same Even in the Same person is Equally true, and Verryfied in those verry same Men. For Some of them the day following were in the other Engagement and behaved with great Bravery, As did the whole Body Engaged; You have Some Account of the Skirmish in the papers, therefore Shall refer you to them and a Letter I wrote by Wilds & Kirkley. I saw Carsons but not till this morning, When he told me some person by the name of Jones from Mifflins Cross-Roads


[Page 286]
252 September 26, 1776 ter, was signd by the Come. Orderd That Mr. Morris employ a proper person to go to N. England to charter vessals to proceed from thence to Chesapeake Bay, there to load with tobo. now pur- chasg. on acct, of the Continent. Issued the followg. drafts on the Treasurer. In Favr. of G. Meade & Co. for 4434 17/90 dlls being amount of an Invoice of 1000 barrels flour purchasd by them & shippd on board the ship Betsey, Wm. Stevens Mr., for St. Lucia or Martinico on Conti. Acct. Consignd to Mr. Wm. Bingham Mercht. there. In favr. Jh. Hewes Esqr. for 2000 dlls part paymt. of the freight of his Brige. Fanny, Capn. Tokeley, now under Charter party to this Come. 1 In favor of Robert Morris Esqr. for 40,000 dlls advanced him to pay for produce now purchasg. on Conti. Acct. Order on Col. Timy. Matlack to deliver G. Losch 4 Casks Salt petre to be manufacture! into powdr. MS (MH-H). 1 For information on the troubles that beset the Fanny before she finally sailed for France, see Joseph Hewes to William Tokeley, May 18, 1776, note. William Williams to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadel. 26 Sepr 1776 I reed yours of the 19th. Have you reed mine containg. an ex tempore Accot. of the Nego[tiatio]n with Ld Howe. 1 Congress have directed You to purchase Salt 8c put up Provisions as You shall judge necessary for next years army. 2 Trust You have reed it from the Presidt. They have alarming Accos. from the No. Army that the Sick have nothing but bread 8c meat, not so much as Ind. meal nor any kind of Vegetable 8cc & the Sick perish for want 8cc 8c have sent a Comte of Mr Stocton 8c Clymer to enquire into all the Circumstances of that Army in order to make Them as comfortable as possible, 8c the Idea of a Contract for that Departmt. is received 8c adopted 8c the Comte are instructed to endeavor to make one, upon Schylers Plan, of which They have a Copy. Suppose it will ease You of a heavy Burden. Three wod have been sent but they cod not find a 3d man, two had been sucessively chosen 8c begd off, 8c then it was concluded to send but the two. 3 Tis also said the Jersey Troops have nothing but bread 8c meat 8c that none of the Troops have their full rations, 8c that there is jobbing 8c cheating, tho nobody directly blames you 8c surely you have powerful Friends 8c Sup porters but there is great uneasiness that yr Deputies or somebody grossly fails 8cc. Tis very possible they may soon be for enterg. into a Contract for the York Army 8c have you continue Comissary. They say tis his business only to issue 8c be a Check upon the Contractor. I tell Them if They make a Contract then You ought by all means


[Page 294]
260 September 28, 1776 was mistaken. 1 I did not forsee what Maneuvre wod take place; the N. York Convention have sent a warm & spirited Remonstrance agst. acceptg it representg the Consequences of it as fatal & total destruction &c &c &c in the most pressing Terms & unanimous they say. It is possible some body wrote to them to procure this. His Friends here blaze away on the same side, & have got a Comte, to consider the remonstrance & to report, &: no doubt what the report will be. His Friends are so many & fierce, that I doubt not those who wod willingly accept it, must give way to such a Torrent in his Favr. for the sake of Peace here. RC (Ct). A continuation of Williams to Joseph Trumbull, September 26, 1776. ’See Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston, September 23, 1776, note 2. John Adams to Henry Knox Dear Sir. Philadelphia Septr. 29. 1776 This Evening I had the Pleasure of yours of the 25th. 1 I have only to ask you whether it would be agreable to you to have Austin made your Lt Coll.? Let me know sincerely, for I will never propose it without your Approbation. I agree with you that there is nothing of the vast in the Char acters of the Enemies General, or Admiral. But I differ in opinion from you, when you think, that if there had been, they would have annihilated your Army. It is very true that a Silly Panick has been spread in your Army, and from thence come to Philadelphia. But Hannibal spread as great a Panick once at Rome, without daring to attempt to take advantage of it. If he had his own Army would have been annihilated—and he knew it. A Panic, in an Army, when pushed to Desperation becomes Heroism. However, I despise that Panic and those who have been infected with it, and I could almost consent that the good old Roman fashion of Decimation should be Introduced. The Legion which run away, had the Name of every Man in it, put into a Box and then drawn out, and every tenth Man was put to death. The Terror of this Uncertainty whose Lot it would be to die, restrained the whole in the Time of danger from indulging their Fears. Pray tell me, Coll Knox, does every Man to the Southward of Hudsons River behave like an Hero and every Man to the North ward of it like a Poltroon or not. The Rumours, Reports, and Letters which come here upon every occasion represent the New England Troops as Cowards running away perpetually, and the Southern Troops as standing bravely. I wish I could know whether it is true. I want to know for the Government of my own Conduct, because if the New Englandmen are a Pack of Cowards, I would resign my Place in Congress where I should not choose to represent


[Page 297]
September 30, 1776 263 Service of this State. The late resolution of congress for encreasing our army to 60,000 men will necessarily call for a number of new Brigadiers, and the proportion which Pennsylvania will send into the field will give her a right to demand one or two more for her Share. Merit like yours will weigh heavily with the congress, but it must be held up in a pointed light to their view. Col. Magaw tho’ a younger Officer than you being near the congress, 8c having one or two eloquent friends in the house may perhaps be held up in colours that may injure your more just pretensions to promotion. Upon this Acct. I beg leave to suggest to you that your friends in congress (among whom I desire to be classed) will derive great support from a few words in your favor from General Gates. You must not omit improving this hint to your advantage. And in every thing relative to this matter I beg you will command my services. I should not have suggested these ideas to you, had I not more than once seen the most emminent military merit neglected in our pro motions, from ignorance in the congress, or from the want of proper recommendations. The bearer Mr Stockton is my father in law—a most zealous 8c faithful servant of the States. He commands the vote of New Jersey. I therefore beg (for your sake as well as my own) your par ticular Attention to him. With best compts. to Genl. Gates, Genl. St Clair, Col. Erwin, Col. Johnson, Capt. Frazer 2 8c such other of the officers at Ticon deroga as I have the pleasure of being acquainted with I am dear sir yours sincerely, B Rush P.S. I have this day seen a prisoner belonging to the 23rd regiment taken by our people near New York. I was much pleased with the fashion of his hair. It was cut Short all round by Genl Howe’s orders. Count Saxe recommended this fashion in his memoirs. It saves time 8c trouble 8c prevents lice. It moreover prevents a Soldier from suffering from rain which often keeps the hair wet for hours Afterwards. Suppose you introduce it in your regiment? If you begin with yourself, every private as well as officer must follow your example. RC (PHi). 1 Undoubtedly Rush’s letter to Wayne of September 24, 1776. ’Apparently the last three officers to whom Rush refers here were James Irvine, Francis Johnston, and Persifor Frazer. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia, Sept. 30th, 1776. Last Saturday I rec’d yours of the 14th inst. and am very sorry for your bad success in procuring guns for the frigate; you say you


[Page 298]
264 September 30, 1776 have mentioned the affair to the President, and I hope some order will be taken about it, but what I know not. 1 I have not been able to attend either the Marine or Secret Committee for some time past and Congress but little. It is now above five weeks since I have been troubled with a severe cough, slow fever, profuse sweats and loss of appetite, except for light food. By the advice of my friends and physicians I design to leave this City in a few days and try to move homeward in hopes a change of air, moderate exercise and a recess from business may assist in restoring my health. Mr. Hancock has offered me a seat in his carriage, which I shall accept, as it is impossible for me to return on horseback in my present state of health. I rec’d Col. Whipple’s letter of the 15th, 2 where he informs me he expects to set out for this place about the 10th of October. I hope he will set off before that time, when he comes to be informed by my letters of my bad state of health and the necessity there is of a Delegate here. There is no news here more than you will see in the public prints. I am your friend, Josiah Bartlett. Tr (DLC). 1 Langdon’s September 14 letter to Bartlett is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:816-17. For Congress’ action on the cannon at Providence, R.I., see Marine Committee to Langdon, October 9, 1776. s An extract from William Whipple’s September 15 letter to Bartlett, which is in the Gratz Collection, PHi, is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:831. John Hancock to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philadelphia Septr. 30th. 1776. The Congress having appointed you to fill a most important and honorable Department, it is with particular Pleasure I congratulate you on the Occasion. By the enclosed Resolves you will percieve, that Doctor Frank lin, Mr. Deane, and yourself, are chosen Commissioners at the Court of France, to negotiate such Business as the Congress shall entrust you with. For this Purpose, Letters of Credence, and In structions will be delivered to Doctor Franklin, and Duplicates forwarded to you and Mr. Deane. You will therefore, be pleased to acquaint me, by the Return of the Express, who brings you this, at what Time and Place it will be most convenient for you to em bark, in Order that a Vessel may be sent to take you on Board. A suitable Vessel, will, in the mean Time, be provided here for the Accommodation of Doctor Franklin, it being judged most prudent, that you should sail in different Ships. 1 As it is fully in your Power, so I am persuaded it is the favorite Wish of your Heart, to promote the Interest and Happiness of


[Page 299]
September 30, 1776 265 your Country; and that you will, in particular, render her the great Services which she so fondly expects from you on this Occasion. With the warmest Wishes for your Health, and a safe and speedy Passage, I have the Honour to be, with every Sentiment of Esteem, Sir Your most obed. 8c very hble Servt., John Hancock, Presidt. RC (MHi). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:523-24. 1 In response to the news of his appointment as a commissioner to France, Jefferson regretfully informed Hancock on October 11 that “circumstances very peculiar in the situation of my family, such as neither permit me to leave nor to carry it, compel me to ask leave to decline a service so honourable and at the same time so important to the American cause." Congress acceded to Jefferson’s request to be relieved of this appointment and on October 22 chose Arthur Lee in his place. See ibid., 1:524; and JCC, 5:827-28, 879, 897. Thomas Stone to the Maryland Council of Safety Gent. Phila. Sep. 30th. 1776, Tuesday 1 Your Letter of the 27th to the Delegates of Maryland was de livered to Me yesterday. 2 Capt. Watkins did not leave this city so soon as I expected he would do, I fear nothing will do with him but Dismission. I have procured Clothes for his Company 8c have directed Lt. Grace, who at present commands, to have every thing got ready for them as soon as possible. Every thing here is very dear, but I thought it better to pay high, than keep the Soldiers doing Nothing or send them naked to Camp. I have heard nothing of the Powder you mention, my Col[leagu]es I presume attended to that Matter. Messrs Chase 8c Paca left this on Sunday 8c I shall sett out on Thursday if my State of Body will permit tho this I much doubt being at present much indisposed. The two adverse Armies remain in Statu quo. Genl Miflin who is in Town sais our Army is getting into better order 8c he hopes will be able to sustain any Attack the Enimy may make. Doctr Brown arrived here the Day after my Letter to him was sent, but has been very ill ever since. Surgeons are much wanted in Camp but where proper ones will be procured I know not. 3 I am with great Esteem, Gent., Yr most obt Sert, T Stone RC (PHi). 1 Since September 30, 1776, was a Monday, Stone may have misdated this letter. 2 See Md. Archives, 12:304-5. 8 A few days later Stone sent a brief letter to the president of the Maryland Convention recommending “Mr. Hopkins, a Young Gentleman of great Merit who wishes to enter into the Service in some Office among the Maryland Troops. He went a volunteer to Quebec where he behaved as I am informed very well, he was also in the Engagement on Long Island and showed great Spirit Sc Readi ness.” Thomas Stone to Matthew Tilghman, October 11, 1776, Gratz Collection, PHi.


[Page 300]
266 September 30, 1776 William Williams to Jabez Huntington Hond & dear Sir [Philadelphia September 30, 1776] I reed your Favor of the 7th a few days since & thank you for it, have nothing material to give you in Return. Congress are pressed with an exceeding Load of Business, I wish They wod sit more hours to attend it, but it is indeed extreemly fatiguing & exhausts the Spirits. Since the Affairs of N. York have happend, there has been no Time to attend to the Confederation, having passed the Comte it is redrafted & lies for Congress. Maryland solemnly protest They will never agree to it. Their capital objection is that it does not limit the Claims of Virginia, by whom they shall be swallowed up 8cc. If We were rid of our foreign cruel oppressors, that wod give me little concern. The Enemy have lately got Possession of Powles Hook on Jersey side, 1 it seems to have been deserted by Us, & that it will be no advantage to Them but only serves to di vide their Force. It is thot by many that our Army is in a better Situation in one Body 8c out of the reach of the Ships, than they were or cod be while They had so many Posts to defend 8c accessible by Land 8c Sea, 8c as it obliges them in their Station to divide their Army 8<: renders their Ships in a manner useless, if We are not wanting to our Selves, it must puzzle them extreemly to steer their Course. All was in statu quo the last we heard, but doubtless Howe is meditating some important blow. I sent the Issue of the Negotiation to the Govr. I think it will be happy, nothing but the attempt wod have satisfied many, 8c silenced those who wished to divide Us. He is instructed to talk much 8c thro out indeterminate words 8c Seems specious 8c fair. I think He greatly faild in his Politics, but will not say for him what He might have said. It must confirm every one that nothing can be Expected but total Destruction or absolute Submission, if in the power of their Hands. Mr 2 was sent by the Secret Comte only for Intelligence 8c to promote Commerce. They have a Letter from him containing very little of importance, he had not then reached his Place of Residence. The French are certainly strongly inclined in our Favor, but they are consummate Politicians. Sev[era]l Ships of Fr. 8c Spain are arrived in their West Indies to protect our trade, we have it in a Letter from an Agent there, as well as News Papers. Am glad to hear the poor long Islanders are geting off, tis said They are called upon to swear Alleigance 8c then forced to take up Arms. Am concerned for our Army’s winter Quarters, 8c Cloathing. Hope the last Militia will do better than the first. The Genii, says they have no Tents or Camp Kettles 8cc which distresses him beyond measure, it must be true for I know we have them not. The most bitter reproaches are thrown out against their late Conduct, 8c which I hope are groundless, but surely


[Page 301]
September 30, 1776 267 there can be no dependance on Militia; all are deeply convinced of it, it is of the last importance that a permanent Army shod be established. There is no looking back, the prospect forward is exceedingly better & more hopeful. I hope no one is at all discouraged. It was not to be conceivd that We shod establish Liberty & Freedom for ever, without some trouble & Distress in deed, the Enemy have attained as yet far less than might have been feard, from such immense preparation & Expence, tis scarce possible to believe the Nation can bear it much longer. If We are distresd, so are They. We have a noble Prize in View, while nothing but infernal Rage dictates the measures of our Enemies. It is said there is great bickering between the German & English Troops, but this is uncertain. Nothing is wanting on our Side but the repentance & Refor mation of the Land. The great 8c mercifull God seems to hold his uplifted Hand suspended & loth to strike the Blow, 8c waiting for our amendment, to say look to Me for why will ye die, my Chil dren of America. He that can do most to promote this blessed work will do the most important 8c essential Good to his Friends 8c to his Country. Strange that a sick Man shod be loth to apply a Remedy pleasant 8c sweet to the Taste, kind in its opperation, 8c sovereign in its Effect. We are sending a Comte to the nothern Army to indeavor to supply their Wants. We hear They are distresd. Will it not be best for Us to send a proper Person there also, with Commissions 8cc to inlist Men upon the new Regulation. Have not heard of Niles’s 2d Prize, fear She is lost. 3 The Loss of so many of our dear Countrymen, peirces my Heart with anguish. Do not their Friends pity Them 8c will They not destroy the Weapons of their Destruction; They are slain by the Sword, the Sins of their own Country. If our Assembly rechose their Delegates, I hope They will be guided by Wisdom 8c Prudence. 4 I must say that Mr Sherman from his early acquaintance, his good sense. Judgment, Steadiness 8c inflexible Integrity, has acquired much Respect 8c is an exceed ing valuable Member, 8c so is Mr Huntington 8c truly judicious, upright 8c worthy the Trust in Spight of that awful Contempt of Religion 8c Goodness too visible &c. Integrity 8c Virtue does 8c will Command Respect. For my part I neither expect nor wish to re main here, the Burden is exceeding great, but in this Critical time the acquaintance the others have with the men 8c Connection of affairs, is very usefull. It is of very great Importance that whoever attends here shod be Men of Uprightness 8c Integrity, inflexibly resolved to pursue 8c serve the great Cause, insensible to motives of Ambition, Interest 8c any other Applause than that of a good


[Page 307]
October 1, 1776 273 land this Fall £200,000 Sterling worth of Arms and Ammunition to St. Eustatius, Martinico, or Cape Francois; that application was to be made to the Governors or Commandants of those Places by inquiring for Mons. Hortalez and that on Persons properly au thorized applying, the above Articles would be delivered to them.” 2 Philada. October 1st. 1776. The above intelligence was Communicated to the Subscribers being the only two Members of the Committee of Secret Correspon dence now in this City and on Considering the Nature & importance of it, We agree in opinion that it is our indispensable duty to keep it Secret even from Congress for the following reasons. First. Shou’d it get to the ears of our Enemies at New York they wou’d undoubtedly take measures to intercept the Supplies & thereby deprive us not only of these Succours but of Others expected by the same route. Second. As the Court of France have taken Measures to Negotiate this loan and Succour in the most cautious & Secret Manner, shou’d we divulge it immediately, we may not only loose the present bene fit, but also render that Court Cautious of any further Connection with such unguarded People & prevent their granting other Loans & assistance that we Stand in need of & have directed Mr Dean to ask of them—for it appears from all our Intelligence they are not disposed to Enter into an immediate War with Britain altho dis posed to Support us in our Contest with them. We therefore think it our duty to Cultivate their favourable disposition toward us, draw from them all the support we can & in the end their private Aid must assist us to establish Peace or inevitably draw them in as Parties to the War. Third. We find by Fatal Experience the Congress Consists of too many Members to keep Secrets, as none cou’d be more Strongly enjoined than the present Embassy to France, notwithstanding which, Mr. Morris was this day asked by Mr. Reese Meredith 3 whether Doctor Franklin & others were really going Ambassadors to France, which plainly proves that this Committee ought to keep this Secret if Secrecy is required. Fourthly. We are also of opinion that it is unnecessary to inform Congress of this Intelligence at present because Mr Morris be longs to all the Committees that can properly be employed in re ceiving & importing the expected Supplys from Martinico, St. Eustatia or Cape Francois and will immediately influence the neces sary measures for that purpose. Indeed we have already authorized Wm Bingham Esqr. to supply at Martinico & St Eustatia for what comes there & remit part by the Armed Sloop Independance Capt Young promising to send others for the rest. 4 Mr Morris will apply to the Marine Committee to send other armed Vessells after her


[Page 308]
274 October 1, 1776 & also to Cape Francois (without Communicating this advice) in Consequence private Intelligence lately reed that Arms, ammunition & Cloathing can now be procured at those places. But shou’d any unexpected misfortune befall the States of America so as to depress the Spirits of the Congress, it is our opinion that on any event of that kind, Mr. Morris (if Doctr. Franklin shou’d be absent) shou’d communicate this Important matter to Congress, otherwise keep it untill part of or the whole Supplys arrive, unless other events happen to render the Communication of it more proper than it appears to be at this time. 5 B Franklin Robt Morris Communicated to me the 11th October 1776 and I concur heartily in the measure. Richard Henry Lee Communicated to me the 10th [i.e. 11th] of October 1776 and I do also sincerely approve of the Measure.® Wm Hooper MS (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Morris, signed by Franklin and Morris, and endorsed and signed by Lee and Hooper. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 133). In the hand of Robert Morris. 1 This introductory sentence does not appear in the two extant manuscript copies of this document. It was first printed in this form in the April 1, 1828, Committee of Foreign Affairs report on the claim of the heirs of Caron de Beaumarchais for $1 million and was printed from "a paper which was before the Committee of Claims in 1808.” U.S. Congress, House Committee on Foreign Affairs, 20th Cong., 1st sess., 1828, H. Rept. 220, pp. 19-20. It appears as an integral part of the document which follows in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspon dence, 2:151-52, and Burnett, Letters, 2:110-11. 2 In addition to this verbal report from Arthur Lee, Story also delivered to the committee several items from C. W. F. Dumas, Congress’ agent at The Hague. It cannot now be determined precisely what Dumas had sent to the committee, but the best evidence available on this point is contained in the following brief acknowledgment Franklin wrote to Dumas this day. "I have just time to acknowl edge the Receipt of your two Packets, A & B, with the Pamphlets enclos’d, the Contents of which are very satisfactory. You will hear from me more fully in a little time. . . . We have a great Force brought against us here, but continue firm.” Beinecke Library, CtY. Packets "A & B” were apparently Dumas’ letters of April 30-May 9, and May 14-June 6, 1776, which are in PCC, item 93, fols. 18-28, 36-41, translations of which are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:85-89, 90-92. The second of these letters is clearly designated “B,” but since the first bears no similar identification mark, its identity as “A” can only be conjectured. “The Pamphlets enclos’d” have not been identified. 3 A Philadelphia merchant. ‘See Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham, this date. “President Hancock formally certified that Franklin and Morris were autho rized to carry on the activities of the Committee of Secret Correspondence in a certificate of October I, 1776. “I do hereby Certify that Benjamin Franklin {Richard Henry Lee, William Hooper} and Robert Morris Esqrs. delegates in Congress from Pennsylvania have been duely appointed Members of the Honor able Committee of Secret Correspondence, and that they are fully empowered to


[Page 309]
October 1, 1776 275 direct all matters in their department on behalf of the United States of America, the other Members of Said Committee being now absent. "I do also Certify that the delivery of Arms, ammunition, Specie or other Stores, to them or their Order on behalf of the Congress, is and will be acknowl edged as Valid and binding on the United States of America.” Continental Con gress Miscellany, DLC. Lee’s and Hooper’s names were subsequently inserted between the lines, perhaps after they were appointed to the committee on October 11, 1776. An attempt to erase their names was only partially successful. There is no evidence in the journals to indicate that Hancock penned this certificate in consequence of any official action by Congress. 'Hooper apparently made the simple error of writing "10th” for “11th” when he added his endorsement to the document. Hooper, Lee, and John Witherspoon were added to the committee on October 11. JCC, 6:867. There is no evidence indicating why Witherspoon did not subsequently add his endorsement to the statement or why Hancock failed to include him in the certificate of authoriza tion quoted in the preceding footnote. Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham [October 1, 1776] We are now at the 1st of October and have heard from Mr Deane after his arrival at Bourdeaux. His last letter is dated the 23d June when he was just setting out for Paris. We have later than his. In consequence of which we desire you to enquire of the General and Governor whither they have received any Arms or ammunition from Monsr. Hortalez with directions to deliver the same to any person properly authorized by Congress to receive them. If they have, we hereby authorize you to receive the Same, giving you receipts on behalf of the United States of America. If none Such are Arrived enquire if they have any advice of Such and request they will make known to you when they do arrive. We desire you to make the like application to the Governor of St. Eustatia, 1 but proceed cautiously in this business. We think you Should go there yourself in a French Vessel or if that might be unsafe or make a Noise, get Mr. Richard Harrison or Some person in whose prudence you can confide. Let the first question be, whether His Excellency has received any advices from Monsr. Hortalez. If the answer be in the negative, tell him he will receive letters from such a person and that those advices have reference to you; there fore request the favour of being immediately made acquainted when they come to hand when you will wait on him or Send a proper person in your Stead. If the Answer be in the affirmative then enquire if His Excellency has received any thing beside ad vice from Monsr. Hortalez and if he has, inform him you are empowered to receive the Same from him agreeable to the direc tions sent with the Goods. We beleive you had best proceed in the


[Page 314]
280 October 1, 1776 than formerly 8c Speak more openly but Tories are now of various kinds and various principles, some are so from real attachment to Britain, some from interested Views, many, very many from fear of the British Force, some because they are dissatisfied with the General Measures of Congress, more because they disapprove of the Men in power 8c the measures in their respective States, but these different passions, veiws and expectations are so combined in their Consequences that the parties affected by them, either withhold their assistance or oppose our operations and if America falls it will be oweing to Such divisions more than the force of our Enemies. However there is much to be done before America can be lost and if France will but join us in time there is no danger but America will soon be established an Independant Empire and France drawing from her the principal part of those sources of Wealth 8c power that formerly flowed into Great Britain will im mediately become the greatest power in Europe. We have given you as just a Picture of our present Situation as we can draw in the Compass of a Letter in order that you may be well informed, but you will only impart such circumstances, as you may think prudent. Our Frigates are fine Vessels, but we meet with difficulty in pro curing Guns and Anchors. Our people are but young in casting the former, and we want Coals to make the latter; however these dif ficulties we shall surmount and are bent on building some Line of Battle Ships immediately. The Success in privateering and encour agement given by the Merchants will inevitably bring Seamen Amongst us. This, with the measures that will be adopted to encourage the breeding of Seamen amongst ourselves will in a few Years make us respectable on the Ocean. Surely France cannot be so blind to her own Interest as to neglect this Glorious opportunity of destroying the power and humbling the pride of her Natural and our declared enemy. We make no doubt you have been made acquainted with the Negotiations of Monsr. Hortalez, 3 and in consequence thereof we conclude that you will be at no loss to obtain the Supplies of Goods wanted for a particular department, notwithstanding we know that the greatest part of those Remittances that were intended you have been intercepted by One means or other. It is unfortunate and much to be regretted that those remittances have had such Ill fate, but we hope you have obtained the goods on Credit, and you may depend that Remittances will be continued until all your engagements are discharged. Cloathing and Tents are so much Wanted for our Armys that we intreat you to apply immediately to the Court of France for a Loan of Money Sufficient to dispatch immediately very considerable quan tities of Stuff fit for Tents, 8c of Coarse Cloths, Coatings, Stockings, and such other comfortable necessarys for any Army as you can readily judge will be proper.


[Page 315]
October 1, 1776 281 You will get these goods sent out direct in French Vessels, or to their Islands where we can Send for them, but if you cou’d prevail on the Court of France to send out Men of War with them it wou’d be most acceptable. Whatever engagements you make for payment of the Cost of Such Cloathing and Necessarys the Congress will order Sufficient Remittances to fullfill the Same but in our circumstances it requires time to accomplish them. You’l Observe the Secret Committee have given orders to Mr. Thomas Morris to procure Sundry Articles and dispatch them im mediately, 4 and if you succeed in the negotiation of a loan from the Court for this purpose you may employ him or act in Conjunction with him, to procure and dispatch those Articles ordered by them and Such others as you Shall judge Necessary and the Remittances to be made him will serve to refund the Loan. Should the Court decline this matter perhaps the Farmers General may be induced to advance the Money or Stake their Credit, for the Sake of secur ing the Tobacco the Secret Committee will Remit to Europe. These things we throw out as hints and Shall only further observe that you cannot render your injured Country more essential service at this time than by procuring these Supplies immediately. We are told our vigilant enemies have demanded of the Courts of France, Spain, and Portugal to deliver up the American Ships in their Ports, and to forbid their having any further intercourse with them, that the Court of Portugal has complyed so far as to order our Ships away on ten days Notice—That France & Spain gave evasive Answers. This is private uncertain intelligence, but we think you will do well, to intimate to the Ministers of those Nations, that first impressions are lasting, that the time has been when they stood much in need of American Supplies, that such time may come again, that altho we are Stiled Rebels by Britain, yet our Friendship may hereafter be of the utmost importance to those powers partic ularly that possess American Colonies, and that injuries now done us will not be easilly effaced. These hints and arguments you’l offer as the Suggestions of your own mind and endeavour to influence them by Interest or fear from taking any part against us. On the contrary as it is evidently their Interest to encourage our Commerce, so we hope you’l be able to influence them by One Means or other to protect and Licence it in the utmost extent. We Shall not take up more of your time at present but remain, Sir, Your very hble Servants, B Franklin Robt Morris RC (MH-H). In a clerical hand and signed by Franklin and Morris. 1 See Robert Morris to John Jay, September 23, 1776, note 2. “Louis XVI had given orders on April 22, 1776, to outfit 20 ships of the line and a "proportionate number of frigates” in Toulon and Brest. But these were destined for convoying merchant ships carrying arms to America rather than


[Page 319]
October 1, 1776 285 which I transmit to the Committee of Congress by two persons who go express at the expence of this State. The assembly are clearly of opinion that the Articles will be purchased 25 per Cent cheaper if they have the Cash in hand. The House seemed to think that I ought to draw on the President; but that power is properly vested in the Committee of Congress, and not in an individual member. If the Committee should approve of the mode, and the sum men tioned, they will 1 doubt not immediately draw on the President for the money that no time may be lost. The Assembly continue to sit now, only for the return of their messengers with the money, which will be proportionately distributed among the members of the several Counties. I wait Mr Clymer’s arrival here, which I expect this evening and expect to proceed on for Ticonderoga to morrow morning. 2 I am Sir, your most obedt. hb Servant, Richd. Stockton RC (MHi). Addressed: “The Hold. Mr. Paine, Chairman of the Committee of Congress for &c &c.” 3 Paine was the chairman and Stockton a member of the committee on clothing appointed on September 25. JCC, 5:822. Congress’ resolution of the same date authorizing each member of this committee to employ “proper persons” in his state to purchase "blankets and woolens . . . [and] all other necessary cloathing for the soldiers” is in JCC, 5:821. On October 1 the New Jersey Assembly re solved that it would be "proper to appoint the Representatives in Council and Assembly of this State in their respective Counties” to carry out this resolution and sent Jonathan Baldwin and William C. Houston to obtain $30,000 from Congress for this purpose. There is no mention of this matter in the journals, but Baldwin and Houston must have been successful in their mission because one week later the assembly decided to reimburse them “for their Trouble and Expenses in bringing the Money from the Continental Congress.” See Votes and Proceedings of the General Assembly of the State of New Jersey (Burlington: Isaac Collins, 1777), pp. 26, 28-29, 40. ’See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philadelpa 1 Octo. 1776 This morning I arrived safe to this City with as much Health as when I left Home tho a little fatueged with a long Journey. I went by the Way of the Fishkill as I expected to find Mr. Hallet and Broome there, but Mr. Broome was gone to N Haven, and Mr. Hallet to the Jerseys. I found Mr. Miller in the Jerseys tho I was oblidged to go out of my Way for him with whom I have fully settled my Acco. but Mr. Hallet and Hazard were gone to the East ward but I have paid Mrs. Hallet £340.0.6 N York Currency and have her Receipt therefor, which same I think settles that Acco. Mr. Hallet it is said will be at Philadelpa in about a Month when I hope finally to Close that Matter. My Search for these Gentlemen


[Page 321]
October 2, 1776 287 quainted with the Ground, that they had never reconnoitred the Enemy, that they had neither Spies, Sentries, nor Guards, placed as they ought to have been, and that they had been Shamefully remiss in obtaining Intelligence of the Numbers, and Motions of the Enemy, as well as of the Nature of the Ground. I have read somewhere or other that “A Commander who is Sur prised in the Night, though guilty of an egregious Fault, may yet plead something in Excuse; but, in Point of Discipline, for a gen eral to be surprised by an Enemy, just under his Nose, in open day, and caught in a state of wanton security, from an overweening Presumption of his own Strength, is a Crime of so capital a Nature as to admit, neither of Alleviation, nor Pardon.” Ancient Generals have been nailed to Gibbetts, alive, for such Crimes. E. W. Monta gues Reflections on the Rise and fall of the ancient Republicks, p. 203. Be this as it may, I think the Enemy have reached their Ne Plus, for this year. {Yet I hope that your Army will continually harrass them with skirmishes, on Long Island, and wherever you can come at them.) I have drawn this Conclusion from the Example of Hannibal, whose Conquest changed the face and Fortune of the war. Accord ing to Montesquieu, so long as he kept his whole Army together, he always defeated the Romans; but when he was obliged to put Garrisons into Cities, to defend his allies, to besiege Strong holds, or prevent their being besieged, he then found himself too weak, and lost a great Part of his Army, by Piece meal. “Conquests are easily made, because We atchieve them with our whole Force: they are retained with difficulty, because We defend them with only a Part of our Forces.” Howe with his whole Army, could easily take Possession of Staten Island where there was nothing to oppose him. With the Same Army, he found no great difficulty in getting Long Island, where even his Talent at Strategem which is very far from eminent, was superiour to the Capacity of his Antagonist. After this, it was easy to take New York, which was wisely abandoned to him. But, sir the Case is altered. A Garrison is left at Staten Island, another at Long Island, a little one at Montresors Island, another at Paulus Hook, a large Body in the City of New York and a larger still to man the Lines across the Island between the Seventh and Eighth Mile Stone. After Such a Division and Distribution of his Forces, I think he has nearly reached the End of his Tether, for this year. The Enemies Forces are now in a situation peculiarly happy for Us to take advantage of. If an enterprising Spirit should be in dulged and encouraged by your Commander in little Expeditions to Staten Island, Long Island, Montresors Island, and elsewhere, you would gradually form your Soldiers for great Exploits and you would weaken, harrass, and dispirit your Enemy.


[Page 322]
288 October 2, 1770 Thus you see I Scribble my opinions with great assurance upon subjects which I understand not. If they are right, it is well, if wrong they will not mislead you. LB (MHi). 1 Parsons’ August 29 letter to Adams is in tbc Adams Papers, MHi. 2 In a September 16 letter to President Hancock, Washington had commended Generals Parsons and John Fellows for their "exertions” in attempting to rally their brigades at Kip's Bay. Washington, irntings (Fitzpatrick), 6:58. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane Sir Philada. October 2d. 1776 We have this day received from the Honorable Congress of Dele gates of the United States of America the important papers that accompany this letter being, first, a Treaty of Commerce & Alliance between the Court of France & these States. 1 second, Instructions to their Commissioners relative to the said Treaty. 2 lastly, A commission whereby you will see that Doctr. Franklin, The Honorable Thos. Jefferson Esqr & yourself are appointed Com missioners for Negotiating said Treaty at the Court of France. These papers speak for themselves & need no Strictures or re marks from us, neither is it our business to make any. You will ob serve, that in case of the absence or disability of any one or two of the Commissioners the other has full Power to Act. We therefore think it proper to inform You that Doctr Franklin & Mr. Jefferson will take Passage with all Speed, but it is necessary that their appointment on this business remain a profound Secret and we do not choose even to trust this paper with their rout. Suffice it therefore, that you expect them soon after this reaches your hands, but by different conveyances. And if you do not see some evident advantage will arise by Communicating this Commis sion to the French Ministry immediately, We give it as our opinion You had best suspend it, untill the arrival of one or both these Gentlemen, because you will then benefit of each others advice 8c abilities, and we apprehend their arrival will give additional Im portance to the Embassy. But should you be of opinion that delay will be in the least degree injurious to our Country or its Cause, You must by all means use your own discretion in this matter, wherein we are not author ised to instruct or advise; we only offer our own thoughts on the Subject. Shou’d you think proper to disclose this Commission to the


[Page 323]
October 2, 1776 289 Ministers of France, enjoin the Stricktest Secrecy respecting the Names, or rather insist that it be not made known to any Persons, but those whose office and employments entitle them to the com munication that any others are joined with you in it because if that Circumstance reaches England, before their arrival it will evidently endanger their Persons. The Congress have ordered the Secret Com mittee to lodge Ten thousand Pounds Sterling in France subject to the drafts or orders of the Commissioners for their support, and you may depend that remittances will be made for that purpose with all possible dilligence. We can also inform you, that you may expect instructions for forming Treaties with other Nations. Con sequently you will Cultivate a good understanding with all the Foreign Ministers. We have Committed these Important dispatches to the care of Mr. Wm. Hodge junr who we hope will in due time have the pleasure to deliver them in person. 3 He knows nothing more of their Contents, than that they are Important and in case of Capture his orders are to sink them in the Sea. This Young Gentle mans Character, Family, 8c alertness in the Publick Service, all en title him to your Notice. He is also charged with some business from the Secret Committee wherein your Countenance & assistance may be usefull. You will no doubt extend it to him and also engage Mr. Morris’s exertions therein. You will please to advance Mr. Hodge the Value of One hundred 8c fifty pounds Sterling for his Expences 8: transmit us his receipt for the same. We most fervently pray for a successfull negotiation 8c are, with the utmost attention 8c regard, Dear Sir, Your affectionate Friends 8c obedient hble Servants, B Franklin Robt Morris P.S. Mr Hodge has some instructions from the Secret Committee which he will lay before you 8c if the Negotiation of Monsr Hortalez respecting Arms 8c Ammunition has been Conducted with Success it will be needless for Mr Hodge to make Contracts for those Arti cles. 4 You will know how that matter is and direct Mr Hodge ac cordingly, and if you shoud think it of more Consequence to send him immediately back here with dispatches than to employ him in the business that Committee have proposed he will obey your orders 8c Mr Morris may do the other. RC (PHC). Written by Morris and signed by Franklin and Morris. ’The Plan of Treaties, which Congress had adopted on September 17, 1776, is in JCC, 5:768-78. ’Although the enclosed copy of the "Instructions to their Commissioners relative to the said Treaty’’ has not been found, this is undoubtedly a reference to the instructions adopted by Congress on September 24, 1776. JCC, 5:813-17. 3 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Hodge, October 3, 1776. ‘See Secret Committee to William Hodge, October 3, 1776.


[Page 324]
290 October 2, 1776 John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Philada. Octr. 2d. 1776. The many and just Complaints of the Insufficiency of the Sur geons and their Mates to discharge their Duty in a proper Manner, have induced Congress to pass the enclosed Resolves, recommend ing it to the several States, to appoint some skilful Physicians as Examiners, without whose Approbation, no Surgeon or Surgeon’s Mate, shall receive a Commission either in the Army or Navy. 1 The Congress being at present deeply engaged in Matters of the utmost Importance to the Welfare of America, have judged it absolutely necessary, that there should be a full Representation of the several States as soon as possible. For this End, I am to request, in Obedience to their Commands, you will immediately take proper Measures to comply with the enclosed Resolve, 2 in Order that the United States may be fully represented in Congress, and the Senti ments of America be the better known, upon those interesting Sub jects that lie before them. I shall therefore only once more request your Compliance with this Requisition of Congress—and have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. &: very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (R-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: "Assembly of New Hampshire. Massachusetts Bay. Rhode Island. Connecticut. New York. New Jersey.” Except for the omission of the first paragraph, Hancock sent the same letter this day to Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. PCC, item 12A; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:838. ’Congress passed these medical resolutions in response to Washington’s insistence that Continental surgeons should undergo a regular examination. See JCC, 5:836-37; and Washington to Hancock, September 24, 1776, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:106-16. 2 See JCC, 5:837. Edward Rutledge persuaded Congress to pass this resolution about "full Representation” for a number of reasons which he explained in his letter to Robert R. Livingston of October 2, printed below. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Octr. 2d. 1776. The Bearer Major Ross calling on Me previous to his setting out for Head Quarters, I have only Time to enclose you sundry Re solves, and to inform you, that I shall write you fully by General Mifflin. 1 In the Interim I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem and Respect, Sir, your most hble Ser. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Hancock sent Washington a variety of resolutions pertaining to the army


[Page 325]
October 2, 1776 291 which were passed by Congress between September 25 and October 1. ]CC, 5:819-25, 829-30, 831-32, 83&-S7, 838. On October 3 Hancock also sent Commissary General Joseph Trumbull a brief note requesting his “greatest Attention” to an enclosed resolve of Congress, which was probably Congress’ September 25 resolve directing Trumbull to procure salt and provisions “for the next campaign.” PCC, item 12A; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:851; and JCC, 5:825. Richard Henry Lee to William Lee Philadelphia October the 2d. 1776 As I have but now been made acquainted with this opportunity that is just departing, you will therefore excuse my not gratifying your curiosity so fully as it might wish, and the same reason will be an apology for my considering this letter as written both to you & your acquaintance in the Temple. 1 Early preparations had been made to receive the force coming against America as you will perceive by the manner in which that force has been received. The Troops ready in Virginia & North Carolina, with the united alert ness of those States (for so they are now called) to meet Gen. Clinton, occasioned him to go with his whole force against Charles Town in South Carolina, where his landing was prevented, and Sr. Peter Parkers fleet beaten and repulsed as you will see in the inclosed paper, which is a very authentic account. Thus defeated and dis appointed they returned to join Lord & Gen. Howe then before New York. Lord Dunmore, after having figured most contemptibly in Virginia for some time, was at length compelled by hunger, disease, and fear, to retire to N. York likewise. You will see herein a printed true account of the last attack made on him and the con sequences. The small pox having raged with pestilential fury and universality, leaving not above one in ten of the American Army unattackt in Canada, in that state the British troops &c. arrived in that Country. It is realy not surprising that the former retreated to the east side of Lake Champlain, but it is most astonishing that they effected their retreat with little or no loss. The American strength on that Lake is at this time so great both by land and water that they rest secure against any attempts from Gens. Carleton and Burgoyn. When the whole Fleet and Army were collected be fore New York, the British Troops had been for some time in pos session of Staten Island, they landed the greatest part of their Army on Long Island, where they had not been long, before an engage ment happened between 3000 of the American troops and (as the best accounts here agree) at least 18,000 of the regulars, which ended in the loss of about 1000 Men taken, killed, & wounded of the Americans, who made few prisoners, but who slaughtered of their enemies many more than were killed of their own people. It being


[Page 326]
292 October 2, 1776 very evident that Long Island and the City of N. York were not to be defended against a potent land army &: sea force acting in con junction, both these places were in their turns evacuated, and the American Army retreated to their present post on the heights of Haerlem about 8 or 10 miles above the City and on the same Tongue of land upon which the Town stands. This is a very strong post by nature and strongly fortified by Art. 30,000 men are there placed to prevent the further progress of Mr. Howe, and to this time he has been effectually prevented. A thousand men under command of Brigr. Gen. Leslie lately attempted some of Gen. Wash ingtons Outposts, and was beaten off with the loss of about 400 killed & wounded. Thus things remain this 2d of October. The British Army have Connecticut on their right where they do not incline to go, Gen Washington with 30,000 men on the heights of Haerlem in their Front, and on their left the Jersies in which an army of Observation is posted either to prevent penetration that way or to aid Gen. Washington occasionally. The N. river is so obstructed that Vessels cannot go above the heights of Haerlem, and these obstructions are covered by 50 pieces of heavy Cannon placed on the heights. This you may depend upon it is a true state of things at present, and you will readily see how poor a compensa tion it promises for the expence of 12 millions this Campaign, and the loss of America forever. You may remember that I wrote you my opinion 14 months ago, that if the Ministry pushed the war an other year this would be the consequence, and facts seem to au thenticate my judgment. The manner in which the last petition of the Congress, was treated and the last speech to Parliament alarmed the people here, but when the Army and Fleet destined against America was made known, the eyes of all Men were opened, the blind saw, the timid became determin’d, and all joined in com manding the Congress to declare the Colonies Free & Independant States which they did, as you will see among the inclosures. A very trifling few indeed, amazingly few excepted, saw that it was no longer optional in America to be connected with G.B. on Constitu tional terms, but that this Country was reduced to the Alternative of Slavery or Independency, and they hesitated not to choose the latter. In most of the States new and regular Governments are established. The Legislature in most consists of two branches, the third being confined to the executive line. Since Lord Howes arrival he has not mended matters in the way of treaty. The Americans say the insidious nothings that he proposes is adding insult to injury. You will see by one of the inclosures how his plan was bared to public view by a conference he had with a Committee of Congress, that, it would seem, had been sent on purpose to expose to the World that nothing but Subduction was ever intended. We understand the Hessians carry it with a high hand over the British Troops who are obliged to truckle on every occasion! The number of Prizes taken


[Page 352]
318 October 8, 1776 John Adams to Abigail Adams Oct. 8. 76 I ought to acknowledge with Gratitude, your constant Kindness in Writing to me, by every Post. Your favour of Septr. 29 came by the last. I wish it had been in my Power, to have returned your Civilities with the same Punctuality, but it has not. Long before this you have received Letters from me, and News papers containing a full Account of the Negociation. The Communi cation is still open and the Post Riders now do their Duty and will continue to do so. I assure you, We are as much at a Loss, about Affairs at New York, as you are. In general, our Generals were out generalled on Long Island, and Sullivan and Stirling with 1000 Men were made Prison ers, in Consequence of which, several other unfortunate Circum stances, a Council of War thought it prudent to retreat from that Island, and Governors Island and then from New York. They are now posted at Haarlem about 10 or 11 Miles from the City. They left behind them some Provisions, some Cannon and some Baggage. Wherever the Men of War have approached, our Militia have most manfully turned their backs and run away, Officers and Men, like sturdy fellows—and their panicks have sometimes seized the regular Regiments. One little skirmish on Montresors Island, ended with the Loss of the brave Major Henley, and the disgrace of the rest of the Party. Another Skirmish, which might indeed be called an Action, ended in the defeat and shamefull flight of the Enemy, with the Loss of the brave Coll. Knowlton on our •■Part. The Enemy have Possession of Paulus Hook and Bergen Point, Places on the Jersey side of the North River. By this Time their Force is so divided between Staten Island, Long Island, New York, Paulus Hook and Bergen Point, that, I think they will do no great Matter more this fall, unless the Expiration of the Term of Inlistment of our Army, should disband it. If our new Inlistments fill up, for Soldiers during the War, We shall do well enough. Every Body must encourage this. You are told that a Regiment of Yorkers behaved ill, and it may be true, but I can tell you that several Regiments of Massachusetts Men have behaved ill, too. The Spirit of Venality, you mention, is the most dreadfull and alarming Enemy, that America has to oppose. It is as rapacious and insatiable as the Grave. We are in the Ftece Romuli, non Republica Platonis. This predominant Avarice will ruin America, if she is ever ruined. If God almighty does not interpose by his Grace to controul this universal Idolatry to the Mammon of Unrighteousness, We shall be given up to the Chastisements of his Judgments. I am ashamed of the Age I live in.


[Page 354]
320 October 8, 1776 erous allowances made for your services. 1 My Complimts to Colo Cortland & the Ladies & believe Me to be sir your very humble Sert, E Gerry P.S. The officers pay is raised 50 per Cent but this to be communi cated but to a few Friends untill the report relative to the Men is considered. 2 General Lee is arrived. The Cherokees have had a severe drubbing, abt 300 killed, 75 of wch. are scalped & great Numbers put to Flight leaving their Towns to be burnt & Corn Fields destroyed. I am just informed that while We were at N York the Ticonderoga Committee had power to supply the army by Contract, & inclose a Letter Which pray examine & forward per 1st Op portunity. RC (CtHi). 1 The commissary department was not reorganized until June 10, 1777. JCC, 8:433-48, 469-70. See also Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, October 22, 1776, note 4. “Congress had just taken this action on October 7. JCC, 5:853. Robert Morris to John Bradford Dear Sir Philada. October 8th. 1776 I am indebted for several of your favours from the 26 August to 30th Septr. 1 but you must excuse my want of punctuality in this Correspondance and I am sure you will do it when you know that I am not master of my own time. If I was you shou’d never have cause to complain for want of a letter. The Anxiety you expressed to have the Brigt Dispatch sent away always gave me pleasure because it convinced me you had the Public Interest at heart and if that was truely the case with all Concerned we shou’d make a good Figure. The delay of Mr Merckle & other dispatches does not lie at my door, but theres no getting Committees & Public body’s to move quick. Poor Merckle was very unfortunate in his Journey but I am glad he has got away at last with such a fair prospect of going safe. I have written you a letter from the Secret Committee respecting the Bay Ships 2 and hope you’l be able to make some cheap purchases—and the modes pointed out will I hope supply you with money but as yet I dont hear of your drafts for the Cost of the Dispatch Sc her Cargo. The Money is waiting for them. I approve much of the purchase you have made of a schooner for my Virginia plan & hope you will suc ceed in getting the Salt, Rum & Sugar. These Articles as well as the Vessell are exceedingly wanted in Virginia and I hope you have sent the Vessell away, that Coast is now clear of Cruizers but theres no knowing how long it may remain so & I wou’d have her dispatched at once Insured or not. Your drafts for this Vessell & Cargo will also meet punctual honor, and you may be assured I have a proper sense of your attention to my Concerns &: wish we cou’d fall on some plan


[Page 367]
October 11, 1776 333 Resolves goes eastward this Day. The additional Bounty to the Soldiers cod never have been carried but by a Letter, from Gen Washingn recomendg & inforcing the reasonableness Sc absolute Necessity of it in Terms moving pathatic, rational & nervous, ex- ceedly so, which came in not an hour before the same question wod have been irreversibly negatived. 3 I hope things will be assured happily. We have many Difficulties to encounter, but our Encouragements are very great. Let Us trust in God alone, & earnestly look to him for his Blessing & Protection. I am Dr Sir your most Affecte Friend 8c Brother, Wm Williams [P.S.] I wish you wod caution Col Dyer 8cc abt whom they send for a Comte to settle the officers. It must be soon if ever the Assembly is setting. 4 RC (CtHi). 1 Undoubtedly the resolution empowering the commissary general to employ persons to import salt, which had been recommended by the committee on the state of the army at New York. JCC, 6:859. “See JCC, 5:853. “The resolves recommending that state committees be sent to the camps and establishing a clothing bounty were passed in Congress on October 8. JCC, 5:854-55. Washington’s October 4 letter, which was read on the eighth, is in PCC, item 152, 3:103-9, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:152-56. ‘ For the composition of the committee appointed by the Connecticut Assembly for this purpose, see A Historical Collection, from Official Records, Files, ire., of the Part Sustained by Connecticut, during the War of the Revolution, comp. Royal R. Hinman (Hartford: E. Gleason, 1842), p. 240. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia Octr. 11. 1776 I suppose your Ladyship has been in the Twitters, for some Time past, because you have not received a Letter by every Post, as you used to do. But I am coming to make my Apology in Person. I, Yesterday asked and obtained Leave of Absence. It will take me till next Monday, to get ready, to finish off a few Remnants of public Business, and to put my private Affairs in proper Order. On the 14th day of October, I shall get away, perhaps. But I don’t expect to reach Home, in less than a fortnight, perhaps not in three Weeks, as I shall be obliged to make stops by the Way. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:141. ‘The journals do not record any vote on Adams’ “leave of Absence,’’ but ac cording to his diary he left Philadelphia on October 13. Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:251.


[Page 371]
October 12, 1776 337 state of the Frigate & what she wants to complete her. I refer you to the papers for news and am Sir Your most obedient Servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (MdHi). ’See JCC, 6:861. 2 See Lee to Purviance, November 24, 1776. Benjamin Rush to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Sir, Friday [October 11, 1776] The congress have ordered the board of war to confer with a com mittee of the council of Safety of Pennsylvania (agreeable to their request) upon the propriety of having a few battailions Stationed in or near this city. 1 The board of war will set this morning at 9 oClock at the War Office at which time & place they expect the pleasure of meeting your committee. I beg leave to inform the council that such information was given yesterday in Congress respecting the designs of our enemies against this city, as makes the delay of a single day, or even an hour dangerous. I have the honor to be sir with great respect your most humble servant. B. Rush RC (PHi). Addressed: "The Honble. Thomas Wharton Esqr., President of the Council of Safety." ’For Congress’ resolution of October 10 on this subject, sec JCC, 6:863. Marine Committee to the New York Convention Gentlemen October 9th [t.c. 12] 1776 1 Having received information that some of the enemies Ships of war and Tenders have passed the obstructions laid in Hudsons River, and got above the same, we are very anxious for the fate of the Frigates now building in your State. We therefore earnestly desire to direct your close attention to some probable means of securing the said Ships; either by launching them immediately, if possible, and removing them to some place of greater Safety, or by such other Methods as your wisdom shall devise. With great respect, We are Gentn, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 There are compelling reasons for believing that this letter—although clearly dated October 9 and located in the Marine Committee letterbook before other letters composed on October 10—was actually written on October 12. The “enemies Ships” mentioned below did not sail up the Hudson past American "obstructions” until October 9, and Congress did not learn of this event until October 11.


[Page 372]
338 October 12, 1776 JCC, 6:866; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:184. Furthermore, on October 19 the New York Committee of Safety, which was sitting in place of the convention, received a letter from the Marine Committee “dated the 12th in stant . . . relative to the safety of the Continental ships building at Poughkeepsie,” a description perfectly fitting this letter dated October 9 in the Marine Com mittee letterbook. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:259. For the reaction in New York to this letter, see ibid., pp. 259, 275; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1435. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Falconer Sir October 13th 1776. We are in great want of Coals to make anchors and other Smith work for the frigates here, and as you are going on public business into the states of Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusets &: New Hampshire you may probably meet with some Coals fit for Smiths use, that have been or may be taken on board some of the Prizes sent into those places. 1 Should that happen we request you will purchase as many as will load two schooners or sloops and send them to us immediately. For this purpose we desire you will buy two fast Sailing Marblehead schooners or Sloops that will sail and carry well, buy them cheap as possible and if you get coals send them here directly. If you get the Schooners but cannot get the Coals, then put some salt, Sugars, or rum on board as much in value as you think will pay for a load of Coals for each at about 2/ per bushel and dispatch them with the same immediately for James’s River Virginia consigned to the Honble Benjamin Harrison Esqr. inclosing him an Invoice of the Goods you send and advising him to sell those goods and load the Vessel with coals immediately dispatching the same to us. You will take care to procure active good Masters, Mates and Men, and manage the whole to the best advantage for the public and as you have this and other business to transact we deliver you herewith Four thousand Dollars for which you are to account on your return. We also give you letters of Credit & recommendation to the Conti nental Agents in each State and a warrant authorizing you to Survey the Continental Frigates at Rhode Island, 2 but since this was agreed to, we have heard those frigates are compleated and ready for the sea which we hope may be true. We are sir, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Rhode Island Frigate Committee, October 9, 1776, note 2. “For the Marine Committee’s brief circular letter of this date to the Con tinental prize agents in New England, requesting them to provide assistance to Falconer if called upon, see PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 33; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:32.


[Page 377]
October 15, 1776 343 in good health. We propose to sett off in the morning for Saratoga and from thence to Ticonderoga, where we expect to be by the middle of the week. The ground is hard frozen here this morning. My love to my dear Julia, and be assured of the constant affection of your’s forever, Richd Stockton RC (MdHi: William Middendorf deposit, 1972). 1 See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. 2 See Stockton to Robert Treat Paine, October 1, 1776, note 1. Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir, Philadelphia Oct 15th 1776. As 1 rec’d no letter from Col Whipple or you last week, I am in hopes he is on the road here and will bring your letter with him. I wait with some impatience for his return as it is very hard for one delegate to constantly attend Congress and the several Committees where one delegate is appointed from each State, especially if unwell, as has been my case for some time past; however 1 am now much better and hope to be able to ride home in a short time on horse back. 1 Yesterday the Committee appointed to hear the appeal from the Maritime Court in New Hampshire concerning the Elizabeth made their report which was accepted; they have reversed the sentence of our Court and have ordered a salvage of one tenth part to be paid by the Claimants as she did not come under the order of Congress of November and December last. Afterwards the Congress by a vote gave up to the said claimants their share of the said tenth, so that they will have but one twentieth part to pay, beside the costs. 2 The same Committee have had Mr. Sheafe’s petition under their consideration but have made no report. By what I have conversed with them, I believe they will not think themselves authorized to do anything in that affair as there is no appeal from the Court to the Congress and the opposite party not present to be heard in the case and nothing but the Petition without anything more before them. They all say the case appears to be hard but know not how to remedy it without more proofs than they have at present and with out the opposite party being heard and the case brought properly before them. 3 Before this reaches you, you will see the several Orders of the Marine Committee about guns for your ship and the reason of those orders. The rank of the Captains is settled. Capt Thompson is the Sixth. Capt Manly is uneasy at his being the 3d and has desired leave to Resign; whether his resignation will be accepted or his rank altered I am uncertain. 4


[Page 378]
344 October 15, 1776 Captains Manly and Roche are got pretty hearty again as to their health. As to news you will see what is passing here by the inclosed paper. By letters from France of the 3d of August we have some favorable advices. In haste my Friends. Adieu. Josiah Bartlett Tr (DLC). 1 Bartlett reported substantially the same news in a letter to his wife, Mary, this date. “I find I gain Strength, so that if I have no relapse I hope I shall be able in about a fortnight to set out for home provided my Colleagues arrive here soon.” Watt Collection, NhHi. “This report is in JCC, 6:870-73. See also, JCC, 5:835. “Jacob Sheafe’s petition had been referred on October 5 to the same com mittee that heard the case of the Elizabeth, but there is no record in the journals that any further action was taken. JCC, 5:848. 4 For the seniority list of Continental Navy captains, adopted on October 10, see JCC, 6:861. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office October 15th. 1776 The Board of War have endeavoured to form an exact Acct, of Ordinance Stores, in the several Departments, as well as of those in the Magazine under their immediate Notice here. But from the Want of accurate Returns they have not yet been enabled to ac complish their Design. If these Returns were made monthly the Board would be enabled in some degree to anticipate the Wants of Ammunition in the Army and keep up the supply as far as may be in their Power. I have it in Direction to request your Excellency will order a Return to be forthwith made of all Ordinance Stores in your Department and that you would be pleased to direct as exact Returns to be made monthly as the situation of the Army will admit. 1 As well as Accounts of the Men, as to their Numbers .and Capacity to do Duty, Returns should, if possible, be made of their Arms & Accoutriments & also of the Rations drawn from the Com missary of Provisions as it has been said that Regiments not half full draw their Rations as if they were complete; with how much justice this has been said cannot be clearly known but if monthly Returns were made from the Commissaries Office of the Rations drawn by each Regiment, the Returns from the Adjutant General would shew whether they had exceeded in their Number of Rations what they were justly ent’tled to. A List of the Army is making out wherein at one View every thing relating will be seen. But the Fluctuating State of the Army has prevented that Accuracy which it is hoped will be shewn in the Military Affairs of the Continent when they shall, by the new Establishment, be put upon a more perman ent, & of Course a more respectable Footing.


[Page 379]
October 15, 1776 345 I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, Your very obedt, humble Servant, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). In a clerical hand and signed by Peters. ’“In respect to your requisition for an immediate return of ordnance stores,” Washington’s secretary, Robert H. Harrison, wrote the Board on October 22, "his Excellency says it cannot possibly be compiled with in the present unsettled state of the army.” Am. Archives, 5th scr. 2:1187. For another document pertaining to an issue that came before the board periodically, the management of prisoners of war, see also ibid., p. 956. William Floyd to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen Head Quarters at Harlem. October 15, 1776 Inclosed I Send you Some Resolves of Congress, with a news paper agreable to your Desire. 1 I yesterday Sent you by Mr. Wisner ten thousand Dollars for the purpose of paying for the Blankets and Cloathing to be purchased in this State; all which I hope will come Safe to hand. 2 I am now going to try to get off Some of my Effects from the Island if it is possible and Shall be absent from Congress a few Days. I beg you would Excuse me as it is the first time I have absented my Self; But it happens at a time when no Important matter was like to Come before us. 3 I am Gentlemen with the greatest Esteem, Your most Obedt. Servt. Wm Floyd RC (N). ’These “Resolves” have not been identified. However, on October 11 Floyd had written a letter to the committee of safety from Washington’s headquarters at Harlem “enclosing two Resolutions of Congress, the one relating to General Schuyler, the other respecting Clothing for the Troops.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:244. This letter has not been found, but for the resolves in question see JCC, 5:841, 855. The “news paper” which Floyd sent to the committee was probably the October 5 issue of the Pennsylvania Ledger, on the significance of which see New York Delegates to the New York Convention, October 7, 1776, note 3. 2 See the letter of October 7 from the committee on clothing, of which Floyd was a member, to the New York Convention, printed above. 3 Evidently Floyd was occupied for the remainder of this month in helping his family to move from their Suffolk County home to Connecticut in order to escape the British occupation of Long Island. William Q. Maxwell, A Portrait of William Floyd, Long Islander (Setauket, N.Y.: Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities, 1956), pp. 20-21. Floyd’s account with the New York Convention shows that he was paid $676 “for Expenses in attending the Conti nental Congress from 23 of April 1776 to the 8 October 1776 Inclusive” and $140 for the period “from 14 Novr. 1776 to the 18 Deer 1776 Inclusive.” See William Floyd, Account with the New York Convention, April 30, 1777, Emmet Collection, NN. A business letter from Floyd to Peter Lyon of Virginia, written in Philadelphia on November 18 and dealing with “the Administration on the


[Page 380]
346 October 16, 1776 Northward estate of Mr. Smith,” is in the possession of Ronald von Klausscn (state of Florida, 1976). Benjamin Franklin to Robert Erskine Sir Philade. Oct. 16. 76 I should sooner have acknowledged your Favour of Aug. 16 con taining the Drawing of your Chevaux de Frise, 1 but that I have been so extreamly occupy’d as to be oblig’d to postpone writing to many of my Correspondents. Please to accept my Thanks for the Communication of your Contrivance, which I am persuaded will answer the Purpose where ever the Bottom is so hard as to prevent the Points being press’d into the Ground by the passing Ship before the Resistance shall become great enough to force the upper Points thro’ her Bottom. The Ground being soft in our Channel, we were oblig’d to fix our pointed Beams to a Floor, in the Chevaux we plac’d there during the Summer of the preceding Year. That Floor gives them so firm a Stand, that all the Vessels which thro’ Inadvertance have run upon them, have had such Breaches made in their Bottoms as immediately sunk them. One was a large Ship. I am, Sir, with great Esteem, Your most obedt., humble Servant, B Franklin RC (PPAmP). 1 Erskine’s letter and enclosed drawing, which explained his proposal for building “Marine Chevaux de Frise” consisting of Beams “12 or 15 inches square” and 32 feet long capable of obstructing navigation in river channels up to seven fathoms deep, are in the Franklin Papers, PPAmP. Erskine (1735-80), Scottish geographer, hydraulic engineer, and fellow of the Royal Society, had emigrated to New Jersey in 1771 to represent investors interested in developing iron mines in Passaic County. Sympathetic with the American cause, he became a captain in the Bergen County militia in 1775, and in July 1777 was appointed “geographer and surveyor of the roads” in the Continental Army. DAB; and JCC, 8:580. Francis Hopkinson to William Livingston Dear sir, Philada 16th Octr 1776 Agreeable to your Desire I have taken the first Opportunity of forwarding to your Excellency the inclosed Resolves of Congress. I shall move Congress to replenish the Pay Masters Chest to enable him to answer the Draughts which will be made on him in Con sequence of the said Resolves. 1 With great Respect, I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s most obedient humble servt. F. Hopkinson


[Page 381]
October 17, 1776 347 RC (MHi). 'See JCC, 6:874-75. The New Jersey delegates secured the passage of these resolves concerning pay for the New Jersey militia in response to Governor Livingston’s letter to them of September 19, 1776. William Livingston Papers, MHi. Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull Dear sir Philadelphia 17th Octr 1776 I reed your Favours of the 9th & 11th Instant & find by the Journals that the Continental Agents are as follows: John Langdon Esqr. of Portsmouth, John Bradford Boston, Daniel Tillinghast for Rhode [Island] but I think John Brown of Providence is Agent for that State, Nathaniel Shaw Jr. for Connecticut & Jacobus Van- zantz for New York. 1 The Resolve for impowering You to import Salt is past & You will probably receive it e’er this. 2 I agree with You that it is absurd to supply One Army with & the other without a Contract; my Suspicions are confirmed relative to the Rise of a certain Committee, 3 while We were on the Business of the Army. I hope however that the plan will not be carryed. Congress have sent to all the Assemblies for a fuller Representation &: on their Return I hope your allowance will be settled. I am glad You discontinue the Thought of giving up your office; such practices in so important a Department may ruin the Cause before We are aware of it. If this should reach You in Connecticut pray give my best Respects to Governor Trumbull, Colo Dyer &c & believe me to be your assured Friend &: serv, E Gerry RC (CtHi). 1 For the list of Continental prize agents, except for John Brown, who appears not to have received such an appointment, see JCC, 4:301, 5:478. “This resolve was passed on October 9. JCC, 6:859. a Perhaps the committee appointed to go to Ticonderoga. See Gerry to Horatio Gates, October 9, 1776. Marine Committee to John Langdon Sir In Marine Committee. Philadelphia October 17th 1776 Capt. John Roche having laid his plan before Congress they have referred the same to this Committee with power to carry it into Execution, and as we are of opinion the publick Service of America will be promoted by it We hereby authorize and require you to have built with the utmost Expedition a Brigantine calculated for a Vessell of War a fast Sailer and of strong Construction to carry Eighteen Six Pounders and about 120 Men. 1 As both Capt. Roche


[Page 384]
350 October 18, 1770 drafts prefer those of the Continental Agents, Paymasters & Com missary's to any other provided they are drawn on the President of Congress, this Committee or any other public Board for public Service. Next to these undoubted good private Bills but none others. When neither One or the Other can be met with, inform us and of the sums you have, that we may give particular orders respecting the remittance or application thereof. By the other Resolve you will find yourself under orders of Con gress to make a just distribution amongst the officers and men concerned in taking each Prize as soon after the Sales as possible agreeable to the Rules and Regulations made by Congress in this respect, and it is our duty to see this punctually complied with as the Service has already suffered by delay—therefore you will always make the said distribution soon as can be after the Sale and transmit us duplicates of the accounts and your proceedings therein. We shall allow all your just expenditures on Account of the Continent to be charged against their share of the Prize Money but those charges must be supported by vouchers. We are Sir, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Addressed: “To John Langdon Esqr. Continental Agent, Portsmouth, New Hampshire. John Bradford Esqr., Boston, Massachusetts. Daniel Tillinghast Esqr., Providence, Rhode Island. Nathl. Shaw jr. Esqr., New London, Connecticut. Jacobus Vant- zantz Esqr., New York. John Nixon & John Maxwell Nesbitt Esqrs., Philada., Pennsylvania. William Lux Esqr., Baltimore, Maryland. John Teazwell Esqr., Williamsburg, Virginia. Robert Smith Esqr., Edenton, No. Carolina. Richard Ellis esqr., Newbern, No. Carolina. Corneilus Harnet esqr., Wilmington, No. Carolina. Livinus Clarkson & John Dorsius esqrs., Chs. Town, So. Carolina. John Wereat Esqr., Savannah, Georgia.” ’See JCC, 6:882-83. Marine Committee to George Washington’s Prize Agents (Circular) Sir October 18 th 1776. We have the honor to inclose herein a Resolve of the Continental Congress of which we are members whereby you will see we are empowered to order a proper and just distribution of all Prizes taken by the Cruizers Genl Washington caused to be fitted out on Contin ental Account, and also that we are authorized or rather ordered to receive from the Agents who received and sold the said Prizes, the Continental share thereof, 1 and as we find you have been employed as an Agent in this business, we desire that you will immediately send us an Account of the Prizes that have been put under your care, with Coppies of the decrees of the Court of Admiralty, Inventories of Ships and Cargoes with Copys of the Accounts Sales properly


[Page 385]
October 18, 1776 351 Authenticated, an Account Current for each Prize wherein you Credit the Neat Proceeds, and charge the share appertaining to the officers and Crews who were interested in the Capture and also the Continental Share agreeable to the Rules and Regulations laid down by Congress and a General Account Current wherein you will credit the Continent for their share in every Prize and charge for all such Remittances as you make to us in consequence of these orders as well as for any other just charge you have to make against them. We desire that you will remit to this Board whatever moneys you have in hand arising from the Continental Share of the Prizes put under your management, and as there are many persons gone from hence to purchase prize goods, you may procure drafts on this place from undoubted safe good men which will save the trouble and risque of sending the money, or you may pay it in to the Continental pay master at Boston Ebenezer Hancock Esqr. and transmit us his draft on the President of Congress, or the Honorable Thomas Cushing Esqr., John Bradford Esqr of Boston or John Langdon Esqr. of New Hampshire have occasion for money on our Account. Their drafts on ourselves will be good and the sooner you make these Remittances and render the Accounts the better. We must also enjoin you to make an immediate division and distribution of that share of Prizes that appertains to the officers and Crews that took them, agreeable to and in strict conformity with the Rules and Regulations of Con gress, and that you transmit as soon as can be duplicates of those Accounts as it is our duty to see this business perfected, otherways the maritime service of America will suffer greatly, by the discourage ments arising from delays in the payment of Prize money Sec. Where any part of the Prizes have been applyed to Continental use, that part must be valued and included at the valuation in the new account of Sales—if applyed to the use of yours or any other State, they must pay the valuation and that be includes in the Acct. Sales. Expecting your complyance with an answer to this Letter We remain sirs, Your Obedient servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Addressed: "To William Bartlett Esqr. in Beverly. William Watson Esqr. in Plymouth. John Wentworth Esqr. in Plymouth. Wintrop Serjint in Cape Anne. Messrs. Bartlet & Glover in Lynn, Marble Head and Boston. John Bradford Esqr., Boston.” 1 See JCC, 6:882-83. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Octr. 18, 1776. Comme met. Present, Mr. Morris, Col. Lee, Messrs. Lewis, Living ston &: Bartlett. The follg. letters were wrote & signed by the Come. 1 To Mr. Thos. Morris, 2 now in France, appointg. him general Agent for transactg. the business of this Comme. in Europe. Another Letter


[Page 386]
352 October 18, 1776 to Thomas Morris respectg. the Cargo of the Ship Success, Capt. James Anderson, that now goes consignd to him for sale, on Acct, of the Continent. To Messrs. Plearne & Penet & Co. at Nantes. Congress have orderd the Marine Come, to put the followg. vessels under the direction of this Come, for this voyage: Brig Andrew Doria, Capt. Josa. [Isaiah] Robinson, Lexington, Capt. Wm. Hallock, Sloop Sachem, Capt. Js. Robinson. Resd. that the follg arrangemt. be made of them, for the purpose of procurg. Supplies for the Army 8cc: Andrew Doria for St Eustatia, Lexington for Cape Francois, Sachem for Martinico. With orders to the Agents at the different ports to purchase 8c ship by them all the woollen manufac tures, Arms & Ammunition, they can procure with the effects they have on hand or on the credit of these States & shou’d they procure more than the Armd vessels can bring back, then to hire or buy other vessels suitable to bring sd. Articles to America. 3 Agreed That £50 be allowd 8c paid Mr. Jams. Sterret for services done by his Son Andw. deceased—as Clerk to this Come. MS (MH-H). 1 Not found. a A footnote in the copyist’s hand keyed at this point reads: “and Partner with his Brother, the Chairman of the Comme. A. Lee.” For information on sim ilar footnoted comments pertaining to Robert Morris found in this copy of the committee’s “journal,” see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, August 8, 1776, note 2. 3 For a further explanation of why these vessels were being sent to the West Indies, see Committee of Secret Correspondence Statement, October 1, 1776. See also Marine Committee to Isaiah Robinson, October 17; and Secret Committee to William Bingham, October 21, 1776. By mid-January 1777 all three vessels had returned with military supplies. See Robert Morris to John Hancock, Decem ber 23, 1776; and Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:862, 972. Secret Committee to Andrew Limozin Sir Philada. October 18th 1776 We hope you will in due time receive this by the hands of Capt Thos. Kennedy of the Ship Mary which is now loaden at New London with wheat in the Hold & Flaxseed between Decks. 1 This Cargo is addressed to Mr. Thos. Morris of Philadelphia, but now in France or to his assigns, and as your House is strongly recommended to us by Messrs. Willing, Morris 8c Compy as very solid, active 8c well attached to the Interest of this Country, we have desired the said Mr. Thos. Morris to give you the preferrance of our business at Havre de Grace which there is little doubt but he will comply with. We therefore direct Nathl. Shaw Junr Esqr our agent at New London to inclose this letter with the Invoice 8c bills of Loading for the said Cargo to you and on the Ships arrival you will please to advise Mr. Morris immediately of the Ships arrival 8c the Contents of the Cargo,


[Page 388]
354 October 19, 1776 Josiah Bartlett to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia October 19th 1776 This will be handed you by Capt. Roche who has at length finished his Business here and got orders for you to Build another Ship as you will see by the letter from the Marine Committe to you. 1 After I wrote you last Tuesday I Reed yours of the 30th ulto. and Desired the Clerk of the Secret & Marine Committe to take out from the Books the Sums of money you have Reed of Each of those Committes. The Sum you have Reed of the Secret Committe is Twenty five Thousand Dollars but the Clerk was so Engaged he could not give me the other account at this time, will try to Send it you next week. I Mentioned in the Marine Comitte that you were Desirous to Know whither you were to allow any Passenger or sea man on board any of the prizes their adventures or private property more than the wages to the seamen agreable to the resolve of Con gress; they informed me they had not given any orders about it, and that it was not in their power to give any orders Different from the resolves of Congress yet it seemed to be the Desire of the Committee that such Passengers & seamen as behaved themselves Decently Should be Dealt well by, and not Striped of Every thing that might be taken from them by the rules of war. As for news I have none at present to Communicate. We have had no Certain accounts from our Camp at Harleam Since the 13th. There are some flying accounts but Capt Roche as he passes that way will be able to give you a true account of our affairs there. A great number of foreigners Especially French officers 2 are Daily almost arriving here & requesting to be employed in our Army, many of whom are well recommended. Col. Whipple is not arrived here yet. I shall look for him every day now till I see him when I shall return home and after your example enjoy the pleasure of residing in my own Country in future. Remember me to all friends and be assured that I am, your affec tionate friend, Josiah Bartlett. P.S. I am much better in health than I was for four or five weeks. RC (Facsimile, Robert F. Batchelder Autographs, catalog 15, item 74). Tr (DLC). ’See Marine Committee to John Langdon, October 17, 1776. “Remainder of text taken from Tr. North Carolina Delegates to the North Carolina Council of Safety Gentlemen Oct 19th 1776 Phila This goes with four Waggons charged with different Articles, agreeable to Invoices inclosed, for the State of North Carolina. 1 The


[Page 391]
October 19, 1776 357 nothing as to my own Return to Carolina. It depends upon Cir cumstances over which I have no Influence. My Intention some time ago was to leave this City about the tenth or 15th Instant, but judg ing it improper to leave Congress until our Affairs were put in better order than they were at the Time fixed on for my Departure, I have continued to act. Indeed so many Members have moved off in this Day of Danger that I thought it incumbent upon me to stay, lest as you say my Departure might be attributed to unworthy Motives. This is doubly distressing, & you will confess it, when I tell you that Mrs. Rutledge’s Situation requires her being at Home amongst her Friends. Your Brother should have been long since appointed to the Command of Clynton’s Regiment, but Mr. Phil. Livingston thinking the Congress had no Right to fill up Vacancies after their Resolution of the 16th of Sepr. & that it wd. be interfering in the internal Polity of the State I did not press the Matter, But got the inclosed Resolu tion pass’d in order to preserve to him his proper Rank. 5 I shall not leave this before the 10th of next Month. I am called off & cannot add anything more than that I am what I always shall be yr. most affectionate Friend. E. Rutledge P.S. I wish you wd. tell me what you mean when you say that the No. River might be stopt by sinking Blocks. How is it to be done. 6 Remember me to Jay. I shall write him tomorrow. RC (NHi). 1 See Lewis Morris to the New York Convention, September 24, 1776, note. 2 A reference to Gouverneur Morris’ absence from the New York Convention, which Morris himself ascribed to “a series of accidents too trifling for recital.” Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1023-24. Rutledge was responding to the harsh appraisal of Morris’ behavior contained in Livingston’s letter to Rutledge of October 10. Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC. 3 Livingston was disturbed by a passage in Rutledge’s October 2 letter to him, which, in Livingston’s words, “gives us reasons to immagine that some are ungenerous enough to take advantage of the distresses of this state.” Livingston to Rutledge, October 10, 1776, Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC. 1 Schuyler was irritated by Congress’ September 25 resolutions creating a com mittee to journey to Ticonderoga and “consult with the commanding officer in the northern department,” because, for reasons that are still difficult to fathom, he persuaded himself that Congress intended this committee to meet only with General Gates. See JCC, 5:822-23; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:921-22. See also Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 129-31. 'Rutledge is probably referring to the October 10 resolution calling for the making out of new commissions for such Continental officers “who have been appointed in the places of others resigning and promoted.” JCC, 6:864. On September 16 Congress had resolved that “the appointment of all officers, and filling up vanancies, (except general officers) be left to the governments of the several states.” JCC, 5:763. See also Livingston to Rutledge, September 27, 1776, Miscellaneous Manuscripts, DLC. In an editorial note to Rutledge’s letter, Burnett confused Henry Brockhoist Livingston, the son of former New Jersey delegate William Livingston, with Henry Beekman Livingston, the brother of Robert R. Livingston. Burnett, Letters, 2:126n.3.


[Page 392]
358 October 20, 1776 ’See the extract from Livingston’s October Naval Documents, 6:1198. 10 letter to Rutledge in Morgan, Committee to Ticonderoga to General Gates Sir: Saratoga, October 20, 1776. Having been appointed by Congress as a Committee to examine into and transact certain matters relative to the army in the Northern department, and having spent several days with Gen eral Schuyler, at Albany and this place, in execution of part of our commission, we were about to proceed to Ticonderoga; but being informed by the General of the great probability of our army being now attacked by the enemy, or that such an event might be hourly expected, we have concluded to wait here until we shall have the pleasure of hearing from you. If the enemy have not yet made their attack, and you think it probable that we may be able to reach Ticonderoga, and have an opportunity of conversing with you and the other principal officers of your army, and to inspect into its present state before that event may happen, we shall immediately, upon being advised by you, proceed on our journey. 1 With great respect, we are, sir, your most obedient and very humble servants, Rich’d Stockton, Geo. Clymer. Reprinted from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1142. ’Gates wrote to the committee on October 24 advising them to remain at Saratoga until they received further notice. They apparently set out for Ticon deroga on the 30th. See Committee to Ticonderoga to John Hancock, October 26 and November 10, 1776; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1299. Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham Sir, Philadelphia October 21st 1776 We send you herewith a Copy of what we wrote you the 1st Inst, per the Sloop Independance, Capt Young, and hope some of the articles that were to be forwarded to your Island or St. Eustatia by Monsr. Hortalez have arrived. In that case you will apply for, receive and Ship them by these opportunities of our Continental Cruizers, which are Sent for that purpose, and also to bring back such woolen Goods as can be procured agreeable to the Orders of the Secret Com mittee. You’l observe this goes by the Sachem, Captain Robinson, to Martinico, a Copy of it we send by the Armed Brigt. Andrea Doria,


[Page 400]
366 October 22, 1776 Morris. Bush [Rush?] a Morris. Traduite de l’anglais. Intcrccptec.” The Franklin anecdote is also found in Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, cd. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical So ciety by Princeton University Press, 1948), p. 149. "La lettre de Franklin it Morris” is Franklin’s letter to Thomas Morris of December 4, 1776, which he wrote from Auray in Brittany just after reaching France. At the same time he also wrote a letter to Silas Deane announcing his arrival at Quiberon Bay and one to Jacques Barbeu-Dubourg asking him to for ward the letters to Morris and Deane, which he was sending “under your cover.” Whether they were sent to Vergennes by Dubourg is not known, but French translations of all three letters, along with a December 10 letter of "W.L.” [William Lee] to Dubourg, arc now in the Archives du ministere des affaires etrang^res. It is known that Dubourg sent Vergennes Benjamin Rush’s letter to Dubourg of September 16, 1776, printed above, although the French extract of that letter is in a hand different from that of the other four documents. Sec Archives du ministcre des affaires ctrangires, Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, 1:292-95; and (for English retranslations of the three Franklin letters) Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:469-73. Committee of Secret Correspondence to William Bingham Sir Philada. October 23d. 1776 We have wrote you already by this Conveyance of the Brigt Andw Doria to St Eustatia which we deam safer than the Sachem as she sails faster & is of more Force. 1 Therefore we now enclose you some very Important dispatches for Mr Dean & request you will forward them by the very first good Conveyance advising us hereafter the Vessell & Masters name by which they go & also of their arrival when you hear it. We are sir, Your Obedt Servants, B Franklin Richard Henry Lee Robt Morris Wm Hooper Jno Witherspoon RC (PHi). Written by Morris and signed by Morris,’ Franklin, Hooper, Lee, and Witherspoon. ’See Committee of Secret Correspondence to Bingham, October 21, 1776. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Stephen Ceronio In Committee of Secret Correspondence. Sir Philada. October 23d 1776 The Inclosed 1 letter was wrote and Signed before we had an opporty to transmit it and having now so good a conveyance as this Brigt Lexington we transmit the Same to you as an official Letter


[Page 403]
October 23, 1776 369 Commissioners for negotiating a treaty of alliance, Amity and Com merce with the Court of France, and also for negotiating Treaties with other Nations agreable to certain plans and instructions of Congress, which we have transmitted by various conveyances to Mr Deane another of the Commissioners. 1 We have requested him to give you immediate notice to join him, and on your meeting to deliver this letter and lay before you all the Papers and instructions, also to deliver you the Resolve whereby you are appointed. We flatter ourselves from the assurances of your Friends here, that you will chearfully undertake this important business & that our Country will greatly benefit of those abilities and that attachment you have already manifested in Sundry important Services, which at a proper period, shall be made known to those you woud wish. This Committee will think it proper to address all their despatches unto Mr. Deane untill they have certain advice that his Colleagues have joined him, but the communication of them will be the Same as if addressed to the whole. We remain with much Esteem and regard. Sir, Your most obedt hble Servts. Rob Morris B Franklin RC (CtY). In a clerical hand, and signed by Franklin and Morris. 1 See JCC, 6:897. Lee, who had been acting as an overseas agent for Congress since early 1776, had been collaborating with France’s agent Beaumarchais in laying the groundwork for shipping French military supplies to America. See Committee of Secret Correspondence to Arthur Lee, December 12, 1775; and to Silas Deane, October 1, 1776, note 3. Lee accepted his appointment as com missioner to the French court on December 31, 1776, referring to a now missing letter of October 31 from the Committee of Secret Correspondence. Lee’s letter reflects the tension between Deane and himself that became increasingly impor tant in future years. “The politics of Europe are in a state of trembling hesti- tation. It is in consequence of this that I find the promises that were made me by the French agent in London, and which I stated to you by Mr. Storey and others, have not been entirely fulfilled. The changing of the mode of con veying what was promised was settled with Mr. Deane, whom Mr. Hortalez found here on his return, and with whom all the arrangements were afterwards made. I hope you will have received some of the supplies long before this reaches you. Infinitely short as they are of what was promised in quantity, quality, and time, I trust they will be of very material service in the operation of the next campaign.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:242. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir, Philada. Octr. 23d. 1776. I have the Honour to transmit herewith sundry Resolutions of Congress, to which I must request your Attention. They relate to a Variety of Subjects, and are absolutely necessary for your Informa tion & Direction. 1


[Page 408]
374 October 23, 1776 to us than from us—and I hope he will pay all the ballances we owe & recover those due to us. I have advice from Mr. Langdon of Portsmouth that Capt Palmer is arrived there but he threw over the Packet of letters he had from you & indeed all his letters expecting to be taken by a Man of War from which he had a hairs breadth escape. I intend writing you more at large than I can spare time to do at present. Be assured that I am with perfect esteem & regard Dr sir Your affectionate hble Servant, Robt Morris RC (CtHi). Board of War to George Washington Sir. War Office Octr. 24th. 1776 The Board of War have directed me to enclose you the Plan they intended to present to Congress for preventing Abuses in Regiments or Companies receiving more Rations than they are entitled to; an Evil which has been complained of perhaps with too much Founda tion. It frequently happens that sick Soldiers are either left behind at Posts or Places thro’ which their Regiments or Companies are march ing, or they are sent to Hospitals at a Distance from their Corps. These unhappy People, or some of them, are often thought incurable & discharged by the Director or Surgeon of the Hospital as unfit for Service, & turned out to beg their Subsistence to their Homes, or Places of their former residence, altho’ they may have Pay due to them sufficient to support them. This not only raises Compassion & from this Motive should be remedied, but is extremely detrimental to the Service, by deterring others from enlisting. The Board there fore have thought that the Soldiers, so discharged, should have it in their Power to receive their Pay in whatever Part of the States they may be & have accordingly formed a Plan to enable them to do it, & request your Excellency’s Advice on both these Subjects. 1 With the greatest Respect, I have the Honour to be, your obedt humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 The "Plan” discussed by Peters is in the Washington Papers, DLC, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1211. Washington’s secretary subsequently informed Congress that the general considered the proposal “for preventing more rations being drawn than may be due, well calculated to answer the end,” but that the portions “respecting the sick seems to him not entirely perfect.” See Robert H. Harrison to John Hancock, November 4, 1776, in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:509-10. The plan was put into effect by a resolution adopted by Congress on November 19, after the proposal relating to the sick had been modified to meet Washington’s objections. JCC, 6:965-66.


[Page 410]
376 October 24, 1776 the Doctor will land & from thence proceed to Paris, & he will either carry with him or send forward this letter by express as to him may then appear best. The Reprisal is a fast sailing Ship and Capt. Wickes has already done honor in Action to the American Flagg. We have therefore ordered him to land at Nantes some Indico he has onboard, take in any refreshments, Stores, Provisions or other neces- sarys he may want and immediately to proceed on a Cruize against our Enemies, and we think he will not be long before he meets with a sufficient Number of Prizes. 1 We have directed him to send them into such of the French Ports as are most Convenient addressing them at Dunkirk to Messrs. P. Stival & Son, at Havre de Grace to Mr. Andw Limozin, at Bourdeaux to Messrs. Sami & J. H. Delap, at Nantes to Messrs. Pliarne, Penet &: Compy and at any other Ports in France to such persons as you may appoint to receive them. When he finishes his Cruize he will call in at Nantes or Bourdeaux or Brest for your orders & advices which we beg you will have ready for him lodged at those places. In Consequence of this plan for the Reprisals Cruize we desire you to make immediate application to the Court of France to Grant the Protection of their Ports to American Men of War & their Prizes. 2 Shew them that British Men of War under Sanction of an Act of Parliament are daily Capturing American Ships & Cargoes. Shew them the Resolves of Congress for making Reprisals on British & West India property & that our Continental Men of War and numerous private Ships of War are most success fully employed in executing those Resolutions of the Congress. Shew them the Justice & equity of this proceeding, and surely they cannot, they will not refuse the protection of their Ports to American Ships of War, Privateers & their Prizes. If your application on this head is crowned with Success, try another which it is their interest to grant, that is to obtain leave to make Sale of those Prizes & their Cargoes or any part thereof that may be suitable for that Country. If you succeed in this also, you must appoint some person to Act as judge of the Admiralty who shoud give the Bond prescribed for those Judges to determine in all Cases agreable to the Rules & Regulations of Congress, and for this purpose we will Report to Congress some Resolves Vesting you with Authority to make such appointment and Authorizing such judge to Condemn without a jury as required here. 3 If these Resolves are agreed to by Congress they shall be im mediately transmitted to you. If they are not that plan must drop and the Prizes must all proceed for America for Condemnation. You can in the mean time consult the Ministers whether they will permit such Courts in France and in the French West India Islands. If protection is granted to our Cruizers & their Prizes you will immedi ately procure proper orders to be sent to the officers of all their Ports on this Subject, and write yourselves to those Houses we have Named at the several Ports that the Prizes are to remain for Cap Wickes


[Page 412]
378 October 24, 1776 when pressed further, ordered American ships and prizes out-of-port while per mitting delays for refitting. Issues arising from the arrival of American privateers in French ports never theless produced a crisis in Anglo-French relations the following summer when American privateers operating in St. George’s Channel returned to France with 18 prizes. Thus in late August, in response to the repeated protests of the British ambassador, Lord Stormont, the comte de Vergennes finally ordered Wickes’ squadron to depart and issued new instructions prohibiting the use of French ports by American privateers. Designed to prevent the outbreak of war with Britain prematurely, this action, coupled with the sailing of the Reprisal and Lexington from St. Malo and Morlaix in September, enabled France to postpone a rupture with Britain and to maintain her neutral stance until 1778. For additional information on this issue, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 75-83; and William Bell Clark, Lambert Wickes Sea Raider and Diplomat (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1932) pp. 98-348. The American commis sioner’s correspondence with Congress and with Vergennes on this issue can be followed in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:283-90, 296-98, 322-27, 364-66, 375-82, 388-91. ’The committee apparently failed to obtain such a resolve, and Congress did not authorize the commissioners to appoint a person “to act as judge of the Admiralty.” As Silas Deane subsequently reported: “The prizes are sold without condemnation, and consequently to a great loss.” See Deane to Robert Morris, August 23, 1776, Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:381. For the article per taining to privateers in the treaty of amity and commerce later negotiated with France, see JCC, 11:434. Committee of Secret Correspondence to Silas Deane Dear Sir Philada. October 24th. 1776 We embrace this opportunity of your Worthy Colleague & our mutual good Friend Doer. Franklin to transmit you Copies of our letters of the 1st Octr. 1 by the Sloop Independance, Cap Young, to Martinico from whence they wou’d be carried to you by Mr. Wm Hodge junr sent in said Sloop for that purpose. Those letters con tained a Commission from the Congress appointing Doctr. Franklin, Thos Jefferson Esqr. 8c yourself Commissioners on behalf of the United States of America to Negotiate a Treaty of Alliance, Amity 8c Peace with the Court of France, a plan of that Treaty, Instructions from Congress relative thereto, Form of Passports for the Ships of each Nation 8cc. We consider those papers as of the utmost con sequence 8c hope they will arrive safe. Yesterday we wrote you a few lines enclosing additional Instructions from Congress to their Com missioners authorizing them to Treat with other Nations, also Two Resolves of Congress by one of which you wou’d see that Thos. Jefferson Esqr declined his appointment 8c that Arthur Lee Esqr was appointed in his stead, to whom we enclosed a letter, Copy


[Page 415]
October 24, 1776 381 The Honorable Doctor Franklin being appointed by Congress one of their Commissioners for negotiating some publick business at the Court of France, You are to receive him and his Suite on board the Reprisal as passengers whom it is your duty and we dare say it will be your inclination to treat with the greatest respect and attention and your best endeavours will not be wanting to make their time onboard the ship perfectly agreeable. 1 When they are on board you are to proceed with the utmost dilligence for the port of Nantes in France where they will land and there you will deliver their baggage &c. It is of more importance that you get safe and soon to France than any prizes are that you cou’d take, therefore you are not to delay time on this outward passage for the Sake of Cruizing, but if you are beset with Contrary winds or during the passage be So circumstanced that Doctor Franklin may approve of your speaking any Vessels you see, do therein as he shall direct. We understand the Secret Committee have put on board the Reprisal a quantity of Indigo. This you must land at Nantes im mediately on your arrival and deliver it to their order and they have directed their Agents to Supply you immediately with what ever refreshments or necessarys you may stand in need of. We deem it Es sential to the Success & Safety of your Ship that you Make a very Short Stay in the River of Nantes. It is equally so that you keep totally Secret where you are bound from thence or what your business. These things promised, we take it for granted your Stay will not ex ceed more than two or three days, and that you will rather dispose people to think you are returning back here again but you are directly to proceed on a Cruize against our Enemies. You have the Resolves of Congress by which you will know who they are. By them you will know what Ships you are authorized to make prize of and the Resolves of Congress must be the Rule of your Conduct. We think you had best proceed directly on the Coast of England up the channell before they can have any Notice of you, and we judge every day if not every hour you are there will give you opportunity of making prizes; you will Always have some of the French ports at hand either to send in your prizes or to run into yourself if chased by Superior force. Doctor Franklin will make application at the Court of France for the protection of their ports to the Reprisal and her prizes and we hope he will be successfull therein. However we propose as follows. Should you take one or two valuable prizes with woolen or linen goods on board, or Such Cargoes as you Know us to be in immediate want of, that you dispatch them immediately under the command of trusty officers and Men for this port. If you meet other vessels partly loaden with such goods that you take as many of them on board your own Ship as you conveniently can, and that you Send all the other prizes you take, immediately into Some of the ports of France with orders to Apply at Dunkirk to Messrs. P. Stival


[Page 416]
382 October 24, 1776 8c Son Merchants, at Havre De Grace to Mr. Andrew Limozin Mercht., at Bourdeaux to Messrs. Sami 8c J. Hans Delap Merchts., at Nantes to Messrs. Pliarne Penet 8c Co.; at any other port to apply to the Commander thereof for protection untill he receives orders from his Court on the Subject, and with these orders will also come instructions from Dr. Franklin, Silas Deane Esqr. 8c Dr. Lee or some of them which he Must obey. You may direct all the prize Masters to wait in port for your further orders provided the above Gentle men wrote that they will be protected, but if that protection is not granted they must then apply to our Agents for such Supplies, as are Necessary, and push away immediately for this Continent making the first safe port they Can. We are convinced you will treat all prisoners with humanity but we think you had best land them in France whenever they are too numerous on board your Ship to prevent giv ing alarms in England, for You may depend they will have Cruizers out after you soon as they hear of your being there. We expect there fore you will make but a Short Cruize, especially as every day Must immediately throw plenty of English vessels in your way. Perhaps off Falmouth you might meet with a Lisbon Packet, and whatever Specie you collect take it onboard and carry it into France, where you may deliver or pay the same to the order of Doctor Franklin, Mr Deane 8cc, or to Mr. Thos Morris on his order as agent for the Secret Committee of Congress, and the Congress will pay here yours and the peoples Shares of Such money, as well as their Shares of any prizes or parts of Prizes that [may] be sold there and the Money applyed to publick use. When you are about to quite your Cruize it may be well to send any prisoners you then have on Shore and make them believe you are coming direct for America, or going round into St George channell to Cruize for Bristol ships just as you think may be most likely to gain Credit, clear your Ship of them and then Run of[f] into Bourdeaux, Brest or Nantes, just as may be most conveni ent. You will find letters from our Commissioners at Paris with Messrs. Delap at Bourdeaux. Messrs. Pliarne Penet 8c Co at Nantes or Some proper person at Brest, advising you the success of their application and if they tell you the Prizes are to be protected, you can then write to the Prize Masters and either collect and bring them home under your Convoy or order them to proceed seperately as you shall then judge best. If protections was not to be given, they will come away of Course, and in that case we think you should put your Ship in good order, advise the Commissioners and Mr. Thomas Morris that [you] only wait for their dispatches. If you have Room on board the Ship receive any goods Mr. Morris or they may order, and when you have received their dispatches make the best of your way back to this place or any other port of Safety in these States, bringing with you any prizes you can take by the way. Should the Court of France grant free protection for our Cruizers and prizes in


[Page 417]
October 24, 1776 383 their ports, we think you may do better in Europe than here, respect ing which consult with and be governed by the advice of our Said Commissioners at the Court of Paris, and if prizes are allowed to be sold there consign all you take to the order of Mr. Thomas Morris, who has correspondents in every port of France and will take care that Justice is done in the Management of [it]. Your Stay in Europe must depend on the advice of the Commissioners and your Cruizes should always be quick as you can be soon in and out. Keep your Ship well Manned, fitted and provided, and let old England see how they like to have an active Enemy at their own Door, they have sent Fire and Sword to ours. You know we want Seamen here, therefore encourage all you meet with both at Sea and on shore to enter our Service and send or bring as many of them to these States as possible. You must by all opportunitys inform us of your proceedings, and communicate all the usefull or important intelligence that comes to your Knowledge. A Spirited active conduct in this enterprize will recommend you to all America and you have our best wishes for your Success and honor being very Sincerely Sir, Yr. Friends and humbl Servts. 2 FC (DNA: PCC, item 37). 1 Captain Wickes left Marcus Hook, Pa., on October 27, arriving in France on November 30, 1776. For an account of this voyage and his subsequent ex ploits in European waters, see William Bell Clark, Lambert Wickes Sea Raider and Diplomat (New Haven: Yale University Press, 1932). See also Secret Commit tee to Thomas Morris, October 25, 1776. 2 This day Wickes also received the following directive from the Marine Committee. “The honble Congress of the United States of America have directed us to commit the Reprisal under your command to the management of the Com mittee of Secret Correspondence for the present voyage or Cruize, you are there fore to receive and obey the orders of that Committee. To us however you are to communicate such occurrences as ought to be known by those who superintend the American Navy.” PCC, item 37, fol. 83; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1213. John Hancock to Thomas Cushing Dear Sir Philada. 24th Octor. 1776. 11 oClock Night Our incessant Attention to the Affairs of the Northern Army & Genl Washington’s (& my Duty you know) with my present En gagedness to that Service prevents my writing more, than just to Inclose you the Resolve of Congress respectg the other Frigate, which you will Exert yourself to Compleat as soon as possible. 1 Pray lay it before the Assembly, & Apologize to them for my not writing them by this, but will by the Express which I shall Dispatch in 48 hours with Manley’s Instructions 2 & your Money & the other Commisss. The Warrants you have Inclos’d, what you do not use you will keep for future purposes. The Inclos’d Letters please to Seal & Deliver.


[Page 422]
388 October 25, 1776 take to be as good a proof as the other because the severity of the proof consists in the resistance the powder meets in passing thro the [barrel?]; But many of the Cannon made here have burst under this operation. You say the Guns made at yr. Furnace were proved with a double quantity of powder & Shott. I do not surmise that this is not a Sufficient proof, but as it is indeterminate I wish you to be ascertained precisely what it is. Some reckon i/g the wt of the ball a proper charge for Action wch I believe to be the practice 8c that will make the proof 2/ 3 & 2 balls wch. I do not think Sufficient beside 3 hard Wadds 8c considerable addition. Another thing that requires attention is the quality of the powder, a great deal made in this State 8c also some imported is exceeding poor. It has been said that some made with you has been bad, but if the Resolves of Congress respect ing the Inspectors of Gunpowder be attended to I hope that difficulty will be soon cured; you will excuse my Freedom on this subject when you consider of what importance it is that the Guns should be Sound for Should any burst on board a Ship it might destroy many lives, occasion the loss of the Ship 8c discourage the service. We hope soon to hear that a convenient place is found for erecting a Stack sufficient for heavy Cannon. Perhaps they will never be more wanted than Next summer, 8c there are few matters that require more im mediate attention. 3 FC (MHi). 1 Trumbull’s October 15 letter to Paine is in Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1271-72. 2 A reference to the standards required at the royal foundry at Woolwich. “This day the Marine Committee also wrote to Trumbull, directing him “to provide Sixty four Cannon for the use of the Frigate building in New Hampshire, and one of those in the Massachusetts Bay,’’ and authorizing the transfer of cannon to the New Hampshire frigate from the Connecticut frigate, if the latter “not be in equal forwardness." See ibid., pp. 1415-16. Secret Committee to Thomas Morris Sir: [October 25, 1776] You will receive herewith a copy of our letter of the 16th instant, 1 whereby you are appointed our agent to superintend all our business in Europe. This goes by the Continental ship-of-war called the Reprisal, Lambert Weeks, commander. The value of this indigo is particularly intended to the lodged with your banker in Paris, for the use and subject to the order of Dr. Franklin, Silas Deane, and Arthur Lee, 8cc. The Reprisal, Captain Weeks, will make but a short stay at Nantes, as she will immediately proceed on a cruise, and if fortunate, some of the prizes may probably be sent into some of the ports of


[Page 423]
October 26, 1776 389 France. The Commissioners will apply at Court for the liberty and protection of their ports. If this should be granted, it’s probable that they may also permit the sale of prizes there, and in such case, the prizes, or such parts of their cargoes as are to be sold in France, will be put under your direction. You must take care that every thing is disposed of to the best advantage, apply the proceeds to the pay ments we have ordered you to make on account of the publick, and render us very exact accounts of what you credit us in this way, and a particular account of sales of each prize. Should Captain Weeks take any specie, he will pay it to you or the Commissioner, or to their or your order for the same purpose, and you must grant him receipts for the same, expressing that you receive it for the use of the United States of America, and that he is to be repaid by Congress. 2 MS not found; extract reprinted from Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1237. 1 Not found. 2 The following extract, also dated October 25 and endorsed "per Wickes,” was probably taken from the same letter. “We have chartered and are now loading a fine Ship in Virginia called the Aurora, the master not yet fixed. She will carry upwards of 400 Hhds. of Tobacco and be dispatched soon as possible for Nantes consigned to your Order. You may insure this Tobacco valuing it at £10 Sterling per hhd. not exceeding 15 per Cent Premium. We have also char tered and are loading a New Ship at Baltimore, name nor Master yet fixed. She will carry 5 to 600 hhds. Tobacco also for Nantes consigned to your order on which we wish for Insurance valuing the Tobacco as above. We have bought large quantities of Tobacco and are trying to get ships to carry it. Some arc- engaged, but we must trust to future opportunities to write for insurance.” PCC, item 19, 4:303. For Congress’ request for assistance from Virginia in dispatching the Aurora, see JCC, 5:850-51; and John Hancock to Patrick Henry, November 12, 1776. Samuel Adams to Samuel Mather My dear Sir 1 Philada Octob 26 1776 On the evening of the 24th Instant I arrivd in good health in this City. I give you this Information in Compliance with my word, and flattering myself that I shall very soon be favored with a Letter from you. I will promise to give you hereafter as much Intelligence as the Secrecy to which I am in honour bound will allow. I met with Nothing disagreeable in my journey, saving my being prevented from passing through the direct Road in East Chester, the Enemy having taken Possession of the Ground there. Our Army is extended in several Encampments from Kings Bridge to White Plains which is 12 or 15 Miles Northward, commanded by the Generals Lord Sterling, Bell (of Maryland) Lincoln, McDougal, Lee, Heath & Putnam. I mention them, I think, in the order as they are posted from the Plains to the Bridge. The Generals Head Quarters are now at Valentine Hill about the Center of the Encampment. The Army


[Page 425]
October 26, 1776 391 other Necessaries can be had your Way as this State is much drained of all Articles required by the Army. If Musketts were given them instead of Rifles the Service would be more benefitted, as there is a Superabundance of Riflemen in the Army. Were it in the Power of the Congress to supply Musketts they would speedily reduce the Number of Rifles & replace them with the former, as they are more easily kept in order, can be fired oftner &: have the Advantage of Bayonetts. I have the Honour to be, your very obedt Servt, Richard Peters, Secy RC (MdAA). 'The council of safety’s October 18 letter to the board, dealing with the “want of both guns and blankets’’ for “a rifle Company on the Continental Establish ment . . . raised in Harford County” is in Md. Archives, 12:365. Abraham Clark to Elias Dayton Eliza. Town Octor. 26. 1276. It is long since I reed, a Letter from you, and longer since I wrote to you. The last I reed was by Mr. Caldwell. I had then just returned from Phila. much indisposed and was Elected into the Assembly, which, tho’ very infirm I Attended for About ten days & returned home Sick where I have remained ever since with my self and most of my family much indisposed. 1 We are all got tolerable Well except my wife who hath the 3d day Ague, and one of my younger Children I lost. I purpose next Monday to return again to Phila. where I can remain but two Weeks when Our Assembly will Meet again, when I purpose to Sue for a dismission from Congress finding it too hard to Attend there & at the Assembly, between both of which I could not expect to spend much of my Time at home. Public News I Suppose you know as much of as I do from my long Confinement.” Recapitulates recent military develop ments and concludes: “I hear Genl. Schuyler lately wrote to the Congress requesting to resign his Commission, upon a Supposition they meant to cast an Oblique Censure on him by Approving Gen. Wosters Conduct in Canada; concluding there must be a fault some where, and if not in Genl. Woster it would Naturally fall on him. His Conclusion was ill founded as the Congress when they cleared Genl. Woster of Misconduct never thought of laying it on Genl. Schuyler, but imputed the Miscarriage there to the Short Time the Soldiers had inlisted for, the Small pox getting into the Army, the want of hard money to purchase Provisions in Canada, and the almost impossibility of transporting any quantity there in the Winter.” 2 RC (MeHi). ’ Clark had also discussed the state of his health in two letters to John Hart,


[Page 427]
October 26, 1776 393 set out for Fort George, in order to inspect the State of the Hospital at that place. The chief of the sick from Tyonderoga are sent there, as being a much more healthy & convenient situation: and we are happy in being able to inform Congress that the Building is convenient & comfortable, that the Director Genl, has lately received a large supply of the most capital medicines, and that they are now fur nished with a sufficient quantity of fresh mutton and Indian meal. They yet want Beding, and some other matters which we shall state upon our return: we shall endeavour to procure some straw (a very scarce article here) which is much needed at the Hospital. At the close of our business at Fort George, we received a letter from Genl. Gates, advising us not to pursue our journey to Tyonderoga, but to remain at Saratoga, until further advise from him. We are just re turned here from Fort George, and shall wait a few days to hear further from Genl. Gates. In the mean time, we shall be pursuing the other parts of our instructions, which can be executed here. Genl. Schuyler has taken every possible step in order to keep open the communication from hence to Tyonderoga, that the Army may not want supplies. Considerable bodies of the militia are daily going up: yet we heard, the last evening, that the Savages had appeared be tween the upper End of Lake George & Tyonderoga, and had, on the day we left Fort-George, taken two and killed 8c scalped one of our people going to Tyonderoga. An Express comes in this moment, who brings a letter from the commanding officer at Fort George, informing that a party of the Enemy had made their appearance and fired on some of our people who were crossing Lake George. Genl. Schuyler yet doubts of this fact. We shall attend, with all possible diligence, to the remaining business committed to us by Congress; and for our own sake, as well as the public interest, return as soon as may be. With the greatest esteem & respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and very humble Servants, Richd. Stockton Geo. Clymer RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Stockton and signed by Stockton and Clymer. Endorsed: “read 4 Novr. 1776.” 1 Robert R. Livingston and Walter Livingston. See John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Oct. 26th 1776 Since my last Congress have received the disagreeable Intelligence of the Destruction of our Fleet on Lake Champlain. The Enemy were vastly superior to Us in the Number and Size of their armed Vessells, and in the Number of Men and Weight of Metal. Genl.


[Page 433]
October 26, 1776 399 on our part to resist him & must necessarily involve the ruin of our cause. Strange Infatuation. What are the mighty feats that the utmost exertions of Great Britain by sea and land, aided with all the auxili aries that Germany would credit them with, collected into a focus in the center of America, performed. They have taken possession of Long Island and York Island. The first they purchased at the expence of 1000 men after a well fought battle which with 3000 men we main tained against twice that number, Sc where success even then deter mined in their favor by a superiour stroke of experimental Generalship. Were we disgraced here? No! We retired in a manner that would have honoured a Roman General, and they took posses sion of their dear bought purchase, with nothing to boast but that from their Shipping they might have cut off our communication with our main army and prevented us a supply of provisions. Have they any extraordinary merit in the acquisition of New York? Believe me they have none. This place was long ago thought incapable of defence against Shipping, and an experienced Engineer who some time ago was sent out for the express purpose of fortifying it de clared that it was impossible to make it formidable. It required more men than we could spare to make it tenable, and as we had many other posts to which as well as to this, the Enemy had access with their shipping, It was tho’t prudent to abandon it and concenter our force where the Enemies Ships could not annoy them. Have the Enemy notwithstanding this advanced into the Country? No! They keep close to their shipping and with all their advances have not yet marched a mile into our Country. The trouble (for that was all, the work being done by the soldiers when otherwise they would have been idle saving the greatest part of the Expence) of erecting Bat teries was well bestowed. It has retarded the Enemies operations, advanced a Summer Campaign into the Month of November, dis tressed them for food, and gives us oppertunities to arm and accoutre & cloath our own Army and furnish them with the means of de fence. Staten Island has seen British Troops fly before us. The 16th on Haerlem plains it is believed they lost near 1000 in killed and wounded, Sc we held possession of the field. Last Week They left 150 dead near Frog point to grace the success of Genl Glover. Deserters say they lost above 500 in killed & Wounded & a Skirmish at Rochele last Week thinned them of 30 or 40 men. How stands the ballance? Britain surely has not much to boast? The Officers of the British Troops called Long Island a second Bunker Hill Affair and I believe it proved so to them. Altho this Skirmishing immediately decides nothing of importance yet as it accustoms our troops to the sound of Musquetry, it is of essential service to them. Many men have courage by mechanism, & fighting may by frequent practice become so habitual as to con stitute part of a mans pleasure. The Affair on the lakes is a matter of real importance, & the


[Page 435]
October 26, 1776 401 to prevent those evils which in a course of years must creep in and vitiate every human institution and by insensible gradations at length steal upon the Understanding as part of the original System. To these pure, genuine, unadulterated principles I sincerely wish we may, in our present state untramelled by any rule but that of right have recourse. Let us consider the people at large as the source from which all power is to be derived, & that whatever restraints may be imposed upon them, if they have not their happiness as their only aim, are the fetters of tyranny and the badges of Slavery. Rulers must be conceived as the Creatures of the people, made for their use accountable to them, and subject to removal as soon as they act inconsistent with the purposes for which they were formed. With this for a Basis, if we will divest ourselves of theoretical or practical prejudices except as they arise from knowlege founded on experi ence we shall find little difficulty in adopting a frame of Government which will be stable and lasting. The Constitution of Britain had for its object the union of the three grand qualities of virtue, wisdom and power as the Characteristicks of perfect Government. From the people at large the first of these was most to be expected, the second from a selected few whom superiour Talents or better opportunities for Improvement had raised into a second Class, and the latter from some one whom variety of Circumstances may have placed in a singular and conspicuous point of view, and to whom Heaven had given talents to make him the choice of the people to intrust with powers for sudden and decisive execution. The middle class like the hand which holds a pair of scales balancing between the One 8c the many and impartially casting weight against the scale that prepon derates in order to preserve that equality which is the essence of a mixed Monarchy & is called the ballance of power. Might not this or something like this serve as a Model for us? A Single branch of Legislation is a many headed Monster which without any check must soon defeat the very purposes for which it was created, and its mem bers become a Tyranny dreadful in proportion to the numbers which compose it, and possessed of power uncontrolled would soon exercise it to put themselves free from the restraint of those who made them; and to make their own political existence perpetual. The consultations of large bodies are likewise less correct and perfect than those where a few only are concerned, the people at large have generally just Objects in their pursuit but often fall short in the means made use of to obtain them. A Warmth of Zeal may lead them into errors which a more cool dispassionate enquiry may discover and rectify. This points out the necessity of another branch of legis lation at least, which may be a refinement of the first choice of the people at large selected for their Wisdom, remarkable Integrity, or that weight which arises from property and gives Independence and Impartiality to the human Mind. For my own part I once thought it would be wise to adopt a double check as in the British Constitution


[Page 441]
October 27, 1776 407 Oliver Wolcott to Samuel Lyman Sir, Philidelpa. 26 Octr. 1776 I sit down to Write to you, rather to give you a Mark of my Regard for you than that I have any Thing of Consequence to Com municate. The publick Attention is greatly turned to Observe the Movements at N York and Ticonderoga, from which Places some thing important is soon expected but whatever they may be you may receive as early an Information as I can. The Period is Very interest ing, but hope soon that something decisive will appear in our favour. May that God who presides Over human Events grant a prosperous Issue to our Undertakings. I have not heard a Word from any of my Freinds at Litchfield since I left them. I hope they do not forget me, I beleive they do not, tho I have for some time expected at least a Letter from you. 1 I do not injoy good Health tho I am much better than I have been lately—and hope before long that I may be favoured with established Health. Mr. Sherman went home on my coming here, his Return is dayly expected. Mr. Huntington goes home on his Return as he is not well. Williams will douptless con tinue here, and have a farther Appointment for that Purpose. Nothing New from the Southward. Present my kindest Regards to my Freinds and be Assured that I am, sir, your Freind and most humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (Ronald von Klaussen, state of Florida, 1976). 1 Wolcott also wrote a brief letter to his wife, Laura, this day, complaining that he had not heard from her since he had left home. Wolcott Papers, CtHi. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Friends October 27, 1776. Philadelphia Mr. Penn having come to a determination to leave this City imme diately and to attend the Convention in North Carolina, nothing is left to my choice but to submit with patience to the allotment which it necessarily makes of me and not to murmur at a disappointment which it was not in my power to prevent. You well know that I had it in contemplation to have been present at the framing a constitu tion for the future Government of our Colony, and as I am likely to spend my days under the influence of it, it may be naturally sup posed that I do not feel myself altogether indifferent to what may be the result of the publick deliberations on this important subject. Superficial as my knowledge may be of the theoretical principles of Government, yet from an intimate observation of the late experi ments which have been made in several states, I profess myself not a mere noviciate in the practical line, and think I have profited some-


[Page 442]
408 October 27, 1776 what from the Blunders of others. This mite I should be happy to contribute, trifling as it is it would serve as an evidence of the good ness of my intentions. The present situation of my family in a part of the country to which I have the fullest confidence that General Howe will transfer part of his force as soon as the Winter begins excites my most anxious sollicitude for their future security and an earnest desire that I could afford them my personal assistance to remove them at a greater distance from the impending horrors of War. But I have still a duty superiour to all these, which supersedes every tie of private affection, and every connection in publick life that is not essential to the salvation of the liberties of America. Yes! We are upon the verge of that important moment which tho it may not decide, yet must have a very important influence upon the state of these colonies in the future struggle for their liberties. Genl Washington at the head of an Army of 25,000, Howe perhaps with a number not inferiour to him, at half a mile distance from each other, and in expectation every instant of a general action, when the stakes they fight for are the liberties of millions living and unborn, is an Idea almost too vast for comprehension. In firm reliance upon that being whose almighty fiat disposes the fate of Empires I wait the results. I took an early share in this controversy & when it was believed that it might have been decided without the effusion of human blood. I will not desert it when the conflict is grown serious; and am prepared to meet its most formidable approaches and resign myself to my fate however severe, if this can in the least contribute to the happiness of those who sent me hither. What may be the con sequence of an engagement at New York it is impossible to foretell, the success of War is often the effect of casualty where bravery or conduct have little share in the decision. And should we be unfortu nate, it will be necessary that this Congress should have all its powers in their full energy. We cannot be always successful yet a series of good fortune is apt to blind us against the possibility of a reverse, and in proportion to our elevation we become depressed with a sudden stroke of Adversity. This event we must conceive possible and therefore as the trustees of the liberties of America we must be pre pared to meet the worst, and be upon the spot to counteract the effect which it may have upon those of weak minds and to prevent dispiritedness from becoming contageous. It will be necessary also to check the career of our enemies by immediate exertions, and to locate a success which otherwise might extend its pernicious consequences, thro’ought America. God grant that these precautions may be un necessary; at least they are prudent. And in justice to my constituents in respect to the sacred trust they have reposed in me I cannot leave them unrepresented at a time perhaps when the fate of America may turn upon a single vote. My private feelings shall never weigh


[Page 443]
October 27, 1776 409 against this publick duty, & I will never be unfaithful to them what ever torture I may thereby inflict upon myself. Yet My friends, Is there not a possibility that I may be e’er long relieved, soon enough perhaps to congratulate the convention before they disperse, upon the prudent establishment which they may have formed for the regu lation of our state. Could the number of delegates in Congress be increased to five the service would be much less irksome, three might always attend, and the other two relieve them occasionally. 1 This might be done with little or no additional expence to the State by dividing the sum now given or that with a small addition amongst the five, who from their short absence from home, and greater oppor tunity to attend to their own private affairs, may without injustice to themselves serve the publick for much less than the delegates receive at present. Think not that in this arrangement, I have the most distant view to myself, I solemnly assure you that I have not. A Choice is soon to take place, and without the least regret will I resign my seat to whomsoever my country shall appoint to fill it. In accepting the trust originally my end and aim was the publick good. I have held, I yet hold it from that principle only. I will lay it down with Joy to anyone whom my Country may direct to assume it, conscious that many may be found with better capacities and as good inclinations to serve the common Cause. The vast expence which attends living in this City has notwithstanding the great liberality of my Constituents prevented it from being a post of profit. The Honour is surely amply recompensed by the fatigue which attends it. At the Treasury board from 8 oClock am till 12 at noon, in Congress till 4 pm, and in Marine Committee often till ten at night, with the busi ness of the secret Committee of Correspondence to fill up the moments which I have not otherways disposed of. Judge what time I can call my own or what I can give to the Amusement of myself or my Friends. However I repine not, I never thought that the road to liberty was strewed with roses; thorns & thick briars are the growth of it &: happy he who has virtue and perseverance to surmount the obstacles. The reward in value exceeds infinitely the labour which may attend the procuring it. I know not whether I have a seat in your Convention. Should my friends in any of the Counties have thought proper to prefer me to that honour, I shall feel the most sincere gratitude for such a mark of their respect. I am aware of the intentions of my friends in Wake and (Chowan) Perquimans County, and have some reason to believe that I have been named in New Hanover, to these or any of these the reasons I have assigned for my stay here will I am well assured serve as a sufficient apology; if they have intended to make use of my poor abilities; that I am not upon the spot to exert them. Mr Penn will inform you of the check which we have received at the lakes, it is unfortunate but not dishonourable, it was a well con-


[Page 444]
410 October 27, 1776 tested field & even our enemies do us the justice to confess that they never saw examples of more determined heroism. Every moment we expect an attack at Ticonderoga. We shall I hope 8c trust play a winning game and repair our late loss. What an eventful period! My doubts have greatly vanished as to Eastern courage. Give them good officers, I am now convinced that they will not dishonour them or our Cause. I inclose you the Constitutions of several states for the speculation of yourself and friends. That of Pennsylvania which came into the world when Mr. Hewes was here, has since made its solemn exit in this City. The People at large have met, arraigned the proceedings of the last convention, resolved that they have exceeded the powers with which they were intrusted and disclaim obedience to any acts of theirs. The Monster which they called a Government has expired with the political existence of those who created it, and Cannon 8c Matlack with some other factious demagogues have slunk into their pristine obscurity—but unhappily not till this measure had given general dissatisfaction and like leaven in the political mass had caused a general fermentation, 8c like a contagion diffused its bane ful effects far 8c near. It made more tories than the whole treasury of Britain could have done in the same space of time. Its subversion will I hope in a great measure work a cure of the evil. This presents an example of the ill effects of a single branch of legislature, 8c points out Rocks which I hope no other state will split upon. The Constitu tion of the Jersies has its full Energy and gives general satisfaction. That of Delaware is much commended. They are determined to adopt in this one as nearly similar as possible to the old one, abolish ing little else but the regal 8c proprietary powers and deriving all power from the people. Adieu, I have much to write 8c but little time to do it in, this must serve as the communication of my sentiments to several of my friends to whom my good friend Mr Hewes may think proper to disclose it. Mr Skinner 8c the Messrs Harveys, Mr Rand 8c my Wake friends will please to consider themselves as addressed by the letter 8c Mr Hewes will to them, Mr Johnston 8c Maclaine 8c Gen Jones save me the necessity of any further apologies. I have had an attack of a bilious Cholic a few days ago, I still feel the effects of it in a relaxation which I must so far indulge as not to trespass longer upon your Patience than to conclude myself Gentlemen, with great respect, Your Obedt Hum Sert, Will Hooper [P.S.] Remember me kindly to Col Caswell. Show him this. RC (CSmH). Addressed: “To Joseph Hewes esquire. In his Absence to Samuel Johnston esqr at Halifax. By favor of Mr. Penn.” 1 When the North Carolina Provincial Congress selected new delegates on December 20, 1776, it ignored Hooper’s advice to enlarge the state’s delegation


[Page 445]
October 27, 1776 411 and again appointed only three men to represent the state in Congress. A T.C. Colonial Records, 10:977-78. Richard Henry Lee to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 27th October 1776 I congratulate you sincerely on the several advantages your Troops have lately gained over the enemy, for tho each has been but small, yet in the whole they are considerable, and will certainly have the effect of inspiriting our army, whilst it wastes and discourages the other. May the great Dispenser of justice to Mankind put it in your power before this campaign ends, to give these foes to human kind, the stroke, their wicked intentions entitles them to. ‘Tis amazing with what force, and infamous perseverance the Devils of despotism with their corrupted Agents pursue the purpose of enslaving this great Continent! Their system of policy has been evident for some time past. They mean to keep their own people in G.B. quiet, and the other powers of Europe still for this campaign, by an infinite number of falsehoods touching the progress of their arms, and the consequent probable submission of the colonies, whilst they endeavor by an extraordinary exertion of force to put things realy into such a situation this year, as to terrify foreigners from interfering, and encourage with hope their own deluded people. Pursuing this idea, Europe will be made to ring with sounding accounts of their immense successes in Canada and at New York, when in fact, considering the greatness of their force both by sea and land with the amazing expence these will create, what they have done is meer nothing. But should fortune favor us so, as that any considerable impression could be made on Gen. Howes army this Campaign, the high hopes they have raised, and the numberless lies they have told will disgrace and ruin them with the whole world. I have the pleasure to assure you the train is so la [id] that we have the fairest prospect of being soon supplied and copiously too, with military stores of all kind and with clothing fit for the soldiers. Immediately to be sure we are much pressed for want of the latter, but if we can brush thro this crisis, we shall be secure. The French court has given us so many unequivocal proofs of their friendship, that I can entertain no doubt of their full exertions in our favor, and as little that a war between them and G.B. is not far distant. I sincerely wish you health sir, and that you may be happy in the success you are so eminently intitled to. I am with, perfect esteem, dear Sir your most affectionate and obedient servant, Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC).


[Page 446]
412 October 27, 1776 Robert Morris to Horatio Gates Dear Sir Philada. October 27th. 1776 I find by your letter of the 5th Inst, you had not received one of my letters wrote in Answer to one of yours. I kept no Copy of it which you’l say is unusual for a merchant. I acknowledge it and only plead in excuse, that I did not write to you in that Character. The letter for Mrs. Gates is gone forward by Post as I cou’d not meet any other Conveyance altho I kept it here some days in expectation of one. Mr. Johnston and indeed all the Maryland Delegates are at home forming a Constitution. This seems to be the present business of all America, except the Army, it is the fruits of a certain prema ture declaration which you know I always opposed. My opposition was founded on the evil consequences I foresaw or thought I fore saw and the present State of Several Colonies justifys my apprehen sions. We are disputing about Liberties, Priviledges, Posts, & places at the very time we ought to have nothing in View but the securing those objects, & placing them on such a footing as to make them worth Contending for amongst ourselves hereafter but instead of that the Vigour of this & several other States is lost in Intestine division, and, unless this spirit of Contention is checked by some means or other, I fear it will have banefull influence on the general measures of America. I am not one of those Testy Politicians that run resty when my own plans are not adopted, for I think it the duty of a good Citizen to follow when he cannot lead, & happy wou’d it be for America if all her Inhabitants wou’d adopt this Maxim, and make it an invaria ble Rule during this great Contest for the Minority on every question to Submit to & cooperate with the Majority; but alas this cannot be. It is not to be expected from Human Nature. We must take Men as we find them, and do the best we can. You tell me the Congress are bad Correspondents, and I fear you have too much truth on your side. Was you here I cou’d explain this in a Tete a Tete but I have neither time nor inclination to commit that explanation to paper. You may depend there is no intentional Neglect or Slight meant to you or the department You Act in. It is deemed of the utmost importance, and all the Members of Congress wish that & every other department was duly attended to, but the Fact is they have too many objects & retain too much executive business in their own hands for their Members to effect with that vigor & dispatch that is necessary. You say I must tell you good News. I will if you will repay me in kind for of late we have had nothing but very bad News from both our Armys. We expect daily to hear of your being attacked & have sanguine hopes of a Vigorous and successfull defence on your part— much depends on it. If you keep your Ground I think Genl. Wash ington will keep his and if both do this for the present Fall & ensuing Winter, the Good News I mean to tell you will be verifyed.


[Page 448]
414 October 27, 1776 Martinico, Hispaniola or to the Mole the place She was first charterd for. A letter was likewise orderd to be wrote to the Come, of Salem to assist sd. Agent in this business. MS (MH-H). 1 Not found. 2 The committee’s letter to John Bradford has not been found, but for Brad ford’s November 26 letter to the committee regarding the James, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:291. John Hancock to Jacob Duche Sir, Philada. Octr. 28th. 1776. I do myself the Pleasure, in the Name of the Congress, and by their Direction, to return you the Thanks of that House for the devout and acceptable Manner in which you discharged your Duty during the Time you officiated as Chaplain to it. In Obedience to their Commands I send the enclosed one Hundred and fifty Dollars, which they have ordered me to present to you as an Acknowledgment for your Services. 1 With sincere Wishes for your Health and Happiness, I am, Sir, your most hble Ser. J. H. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 6:886-87. Duche wrote a letter to Hancock on October 29, asking him to apply this $150 to the relief of the widows and orphans of Pennsylvania officers who have “fallen in battle.” PCC, item 78, 7:75; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1280; and JCC, 6:911. On the back of Duchy’s letter Hancock wrote this note: "Nov. 7. Wrote the Council of Safety of Penna & Sent them that 150 Dolls to be dispos’d of agreeable to the request of Mr Duch^ & the Resolve of Congress of Octo. 30th. 1776.” Hancock’s letter to the council of safety has not been found. For information about Duchy’s appointment as chaplain of Congress, see Hancock to Duch^, July 9, 1776. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Monday Eveng. 11 O’Clock, 28th Octor. 1776 This moment Dodd the Express from the State of Massachusetts, who Took your Dispatches to Congress on Saturday last, arriv’d at my house, and informs me that this Day about 12 oClock he put up at one Bissinett’s a publick house in Bristol, where he open’d his Bundle to deliver a Letter to be forwarded over the Ferry to Mrs. Reed, & leaving his Bundle in the Barr Room, while he Stept out, on his return the whole of his Letters were carried off, & no person could give any Accott. of them, and after Enquiring and getting all


[Page 451]
October 29, 1776 417 William Hooper to the North Carolina Provincial Convention Honoured Sir Philadelphia Oct 29. 1776 By my worthy Colleague Mr Penn, I do myself the honour to trans mit a resolution of the continental Congress which bears immediate relation to the State of North Carolina. The Congress having been informed that the Armed vessels belonging to the Enemy have lately quitted the River of Cape Fear, and have proceeded to the North ward, have bestowed their thoughts upon the practicability of forti fying that entrance into your state, and excluding the British Men of War. 1 The importance of such a measure must weigh as power fully with you as with them, 8c I am well assured that nothing will be wanting on your part to carry it into Execution with all possible dispatch. As this is the only Port in the State of North Carolina, into which the Enemies can introduce ships of any considerable force, should they be prevented here, we shall have nothing to fear from any forces which they may send against us in the insuing Winter. The Harbour of Cape Fear will furnish a secure receptacle for our own trading Vessels and those of foreigners who from this Advantage may be induced to prefer ours to the ports of other states. The privateers of the several states, as well as the Continental armed Vessels will carry any prizes which they make to the Southward, into No Carolina when they are apprized of the protection which they and their Captures will receive, and by these means we shall be sup plied with the many articles of which we now feel the most pressing necessity. We are aware of the scarcity of heavy Cannon in your state 8c have therefore procured a recommendation to you to apply to South Carolina to aid you in that respect. We flatter ourselves that it may produce the effect we wish, as it will be nothing but a recipro cal Civility and what North Carolina is well entitled to for the ready and ample succour afforded to South Carolina when in imminent danger from its Enemies. Our own Guns small as they are may be made useful and I know not how more essentially. The Continental Troops will be employed in this service, 8c the Expence arising from the hire of negroes to perform the most laborious part of the opera tion will be considerable, but must appear contemptible when weighed against the publick emolument which will result from it. You will observe that this is to be executed at the Expence of your own particular state; a recommendation of a similar kind went to South Carolina, in consequence of which they have erected very great 8c very expensive fortifications at their own cost. 2 It becomes (Economy in you to bear this Expence yourself, rather than by making it Continental, expose yourself to pay your proportion of the large fortifications which have been or may hereafter be erected in the Eastern States. Your proportion only of the Connecticut forts


[Page 457]
October 1776 423 their merchants and manufacturers, who will therefore incline to the accommodation, even though the monopoly is not continued, since it can be easily made appear their share of our growing trade, will soon be greater than the whole has been heretofore. Then for the landed interest, who wish an alleviation of taxes, it is demonstrable by figures that if we should agree to pay suppose ten millions in one hundred years, viz £100,000 per annum for that term, it would being faithfully employed [as] a sinking fund more than pay off all their present national debt. It is besides a prevailing opinion in England, that they must in the nature of things sooner or later lose the Colonies, and may think they had better be without the government of them, so that the Proposition will on that account have more supporters and fewer opposers. 3. As the having such propositions to make; or any powers to treat of peace, will furnish a pretence for BF’s going to England, where he has many friends and acquaintances, particularly among the best writers and ablest speakers in both Houses of Parliament, he thinks he shall be able when there if the terms are not accepted, to work up such a division of sentiments in the nation as greatly to weaken its exertions against the United States and lessen its credit in foreign countries. 4. The knowledge of there being powers given to the Commis sioners to treat with England, may have some effect in facilitating and expediting the proposed treaty with France. 5. It is worth our while to offer such a gum for the countries to be ceded, since the vacant lands will in time sell for a great part of what we shall give, if not more; and if we are to obtain them by conquest, after perhaps a long war, they will probably cost us more than that sum. It is absolutely necessary for us to have them for our own security, and though the sum may seem large to the present generation, in less than half the term, it will be to the whole United States, a mere trifle. MS (DLC). In an unidentified hand. The MS is among the papers Benjamin Franklin left to his grandson William Temple Franklin, but otherwise Franklin’s connection with the document is conjectural. Temple is the source of the tradi tion that Franklin drafted it. When he published his memoirs on his grandfather, Temple introduced the document with a brief, one-paragraph statement, and following the "Sketch” he added a two-paragraph note, which is also found at the foot of the last page of the MS. Temple’s explanation is as follows. “Previous to Dr. Franklin’s departure [for France], he conceived it would be advisable, on many accounts, to be the bearer of propositions for peace with Great Britain; and with this view he drew up, and submitted to the secret committee of congress, the following paper [the "Sketch" follows]. “It is uncertain to what extent this Plan was adopted by Congress. The Propositions were certainly not such as the British Ministry would have listen’d to a Moment, at that period of the Revolutionary War, whatever they might have been disposed to have done in a more advanced state of it. “It is possible, however, that this or some other Proposals for Peace with


[Page 458]
424 October 1776 Great Britain may have been furnish’d to Dr. Franklin by the Secret Committee of Congress, to serve him in some Measure as a Protection in Case of his Capture at Sea; of which there was at that time the most imminent Danger.” William Temple Franklin, Memoirs of the Life and Writings of Benjamin Franklin . . ., (Philadelphia: T. S. Manning, 1818), pp. 372-75. In the note to the document appearing in his edition of Franklin’s works, Sparks seems merely to have taken his information from Temple; and Smyth simply reprinted Sparks’ note when he published the document. Benjamin Franklin, The Works of Benjamin Franklin, ed. Jared Sparks, 10 vols (Boston: Hilliard, Gray, and Co., 1836-40), 5:113; Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 6:452. No contemporary evidence has been found, however, to confirm that the document originated with Franklin or was discussed in the Committee of Secret Correspondence or in Congress. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Hewes November 1. 1776 I thank you for your friendly Attention to me on your way from this to Carolina. I acknowledge the receipt of two letters from you, one from Maryland, the other from Williamsburgh. I refer you for the state of this city to Mr Penn. He has a pretty general acquaintance here and can inform you of any material changes which have taken place since you left this. The circle of my acquaintance you know is much confined, it becomes more so every day. A man whose appointment is for the express purpose of sup porting the liberties of America, with a very ill grace associates with those who are constantly employed in decrying and attempting to bring into contempt the measures of Congress. And believe me Dear Hewes, it flows from me like my heart’s blood (but this is not a time to palliate). The growth of Tories exceeds all comprehension. It is a weed that lately discovers itself in soils where I the least ex pected it. But the least success on our part will instantly extinguish it. The Council of Safety is become a poor, vapid set of insignificant beings, is rather the pageantry than the reality of power. They have made a most violent effort to confine a man in jail for refusing the Continental Currency, and after a week’s struggle have stropped him. I expect to hear in a few days that they have taken him out again, for there is nothing too absurd for their fears or Ignorance to effect. 1 On the 29th Instant Howe’s Army made a grand movement in three Columns in the front of our Army & when it was expected that they would attack in our Center, they made a sudden Wheel to our right and brought up their cannon and began a violent and incessant fire upon a party of 1500 Men which were stationed upon a hill by G Washington and were beginning to throw up lines. Our Men sustained their whole fire for a considerable time when being


[Page 463]
November 3, 1776 429 You have also Blank Warrants to be fill’d with proper officers to be Appointed in the same manner. You will return to me a List of the Names of all the officers both Commission & Warrant as soon as possible after they are fix’d. You have also Inclos’d the Books, & some new Regulations. 2 I Refer you to your Brother [Simeon Deane] who takes Charge of this for every other Instruction relative to the Frigate. I wish you happy & am with Respect, Sir, Your very hum set, John Hancock Prest [P.S.] You have Blank Commisss. for Marine officers, which are to be appointed in same manner as mention’d before; of these you will also return a List. Take care of the spare Warrants & Commisss.; either Return them to me or destroy them. I think there has been neither Capt. nor Lieutenants for the Compa. of Marines appointed, that you must appoint the whole. RC (CtHi). 1 These officers had been appointed by Congress on August 22, ]CC, 5:696-97. Deane, a Wethersfield, Conn., merchant and brother of former delegate Silas Deane, had been in charge of the construction of the Trumbull, which was launched early in September 1776. See Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr., August 22, 1776. ’These may have been the resolutions on marine affairs passed by Congress on October 29 and 30. ]CC, 6:909, 913. John Hancock to Thomas Cushing Dr Sir Philada. 3d Novr. 1776 By Capt. Manly I Sent you the Warrants for the Officers. 1 I now Inclose you the Commisss. for the Officers of the Ships & of Marines. I have not fill’d in the Names, you will therefore please to fill in the Names of such as have been already Appointed, but in case they Decline you will fill them with such as you & the Captn. &: Mr Agent Bradford shall Judge proper. As it will not answer to Delay, you will Send me a List of all the Officers to these Ships as soon as compleat. Inclos’d are Capt. Manly’s orders open for your perusal, 2 do hurry them on as fast as possible. Inclos’d you have some new regulations respectg Prizes. The Inclos’d Letters please to order to be Deliver’d. You will Remember that Mr Palmer, Brown, Thomp son &c have been Appointed. The Money will come as soon as it is safe for an Express to Travel with it, which I hope will be in a day or two. We are now at a very critical moment, God grant us Success. I Beg you will please immediately on Rec[eip]t of this to Inform our Honable Assembly that the Dispatches they Sent by Dod the


[Page 464]
430 November 3, 1776 Express were all Stole from him at Bristol last Tuesday 20 miles from this City. 3 He had also Dispatches from Genl Washington, all which are no doubt by this time in the possession of Genl How. We are very uneasy to know the Contents of the Dispatches from the Assembly. The Express Says he had a large Packet from them. He cannot well Account for the Loss of them, he is in Confinement. The original Express was taken Sick at Hartford & Sent his Brother on. I intreat you to Request the Assembly to order Copies of their Dispatches immediately to be forwarded, as it will be a great Relief to Congress to receive early Advice. Do Apologize to the Assembly for my not writing them by this, it is now late at Night & tho’ Sunday I have been the whole Day busily employ’d at my Pen. This goes by a Connecticutt Gentn. who promises to forward it to you. I will Send your Money the first Opening, when I shall write you fully. If any thing else be needful for the Ships let me know by Express, if no other way, but I think I have sent you every thing necessary. Adieu. God Bless you. I am very truly, Your Obedt sert, John Hancock RC (MHi). ’See Hancock to Cushing, October 24, 1776. 2 See Marine Committee to John Manley, Hector McNeill, and Thomas Thomp son, October 23, 1776. 3 On this point, see also Hancock to Washington, October 28, 1776. John Hancock to John Langdon Sir Philada. November 3d. 1776 My constant attention to the Business of Congress has prevented my writing you so often as I could have wish’d. I have forwarded the Commission for Capt Thompson; 1 and now Inclose you the Commisss. for the Lieuts. of the Raleigh, &: for the officers of Marines. You will please to fill them with the Names of such Persons as have been already Appointed, or in case any of them decline you will with Capt. Thompson Appoint such Persons as you Judge proper, & return to me a List of the Commissions & Warrant Officers as soon as Compleat. I inclose you some New regulations respectg prizes, 2 & a few Warrants lest Col Whipple should not have Carried you a sufficiency. You will be careful of the spare Warrants & either Send them to me or destroy them. The necessary orders respectg the Cruize of the Ships go by this Con veyance to Capt Manly, who will Send them to Capt Thompson. 3 I shall write you by an Express soon, I improve this Oppory. by


[Page 465]
November 3, 1776 431 Mr Dean late on Sunday Eveng. 8c hope will Reach you, tho’ the Rout is doubtfull. I wish you happy 8c am, Your very humi Servt, John Hancock Prest. RC (Universiteitsbibliotheek van Amsterdam). ’See JCC, 6:861. 2 See JCC, 6:913. 3 See Marine Committee to John Manley, Hector McNeill, and Thomas Thomp son, October 23, 1776. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Philadelphia 3d. Novr. 1776 Dear Sir As I have received no answer to the letter I wrote you by the Express from Congress I conclude it has miscarried. 1 I heared with much regret that you had declined both the voyage, and your seat in Congress. No Man feels more deeply than I do, the love of, and the loss of, private enjoyments; but let attention to these be uni versal, and we are gone, beyond redemption lost in the deep perdi tion of slavery. By every account from lake Champlain we had reason to think ourselves in no danger on that water for this Cam paign. Nor did Gen. Arnold seem to apprehend any until he was defeated by an enemy four times as strong as himself. 2 This Officer, fiery, hot and impetuous, but without discretion, never thought of informing himself how the enemy went on, and he had no idea of retiring when he saw them coming, tho so much superior to his force! Since his defeat, our people evacuated Crown point, and joined their whole strength at Ticonderoga. We do not hear the enemy have thought proper to visit them there, and the Season must now stop operations on the Lake. On the [borders of] the Sound it has been a war of skirmishes, in which I [think we] have gained 5 out of 6. Never was a Ship more mauled [than] a Frigate that lately attempted Fort Washington, she had [26] eighteen pounders thro her and most of the guns double s[hotted.] At the same time an attack on the same place by land w[as] repelled, but the day fol lowing the enemy gained an eminefnce] from our people near the white plains, on the sound, about 10 miles above Kingsbridge. The loss on our part in killed, wounded, and Missing, between 3 and 400, the enemies loss considerable but numbers not fixt. Our troops fought well and retired in order before a much superior force. This was McDougals brigade consisting of York, Maryland, and I believe some Eastern Troops. 3 In a skirmish the next day We learn the enemy were defeated. By London papers middle of August it seems quite probable that the quarrel between Spain and Portugal with


[Page 472]
438 November 5, 1776 pose write to such of the States as have any Militia in the Govern ment of New York requesting their Assistance in the Business. The Commissions for such Officers as you shall please to appoint by Warrant in Consequence of the enclosed Resolves, shall be for warded as soon as possible. The Resolves herewith transmitted, I am to inform you, do not extend to the Maryland Troops, as the Commissioners from that State are on their Way to Head Quarters to appoint Officers agree ably to the former Resolves of Congress. You will therefore be pleased to suspend any appointment of Officers for that State, until you shall hear further from Congress, or until the arrival of those Gentlemen shall make it unnecessary. 2 The enclosed Commission of Brigadier General you will please to have delivered to Genl. Smallwood. 3 With every Sentiment of Esteem & Respect, I am Sir your very hble Set. John Hancock Presidt. [P.S.] I send some Commissions, & shall send others immediately. Mr Harrisons Letters to 3rd Inst, are come to hand. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and last sentence of postscript by Hancock. 'See ]CC, 6:920-21. 2 See Hancock to the Maryland Convention, November 4, 1776, note 1. 3 See JCC, 6:898. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes Philadelphia November 5th 1776 This, my dear Hewes, is truly confidential and intended for the perusal of yourself & my friend Samuel Johnston only. I refer you to Penn and the Gentleman who bears this for a state of political and military occurrences so far as they have fallen under their Ob servation, and whatever may have escaped them you will learn particularly from newspapers. I have no inclination to transcribe when you can so easily have recourse to originals. What may be the event of an engagement betwixt Genl. Howe and Genl. Washington I am not bold enough to pronounce, it is known only to the Lord of hosts. Should we succeed I think the stroke will be decisive with respect to Britain. Should we be de feated, judge yourself what effects it will operate upon the tempers of the Inhabitants of America. It may discourage the future Enlist ment of an army and leave us unprepared to meet the efforts of Great Britain in the Spring. We shall under the best of Circum-


[Page 474]
440 November 5, 1776 taken the hint & with Israel Pemberton at their head openly and avowedly decry the Currency and refuse to take it in payment of their debts. The prejudice is becoming general & timid whigs are catching the infection. I have heard that half Joes have lately sold for six pounds. This is striking radically at our struggle and unless vigorous & immediate steps are taken to cure the evil we are a ruined Country. The Council of Safety here are the mere pageantry not the reality of what they should be. Instead of striking a bold stroke and making an example of some character of consequence, they seize only the small fry and let Characters of importance escape with Impunity. A Poor Shoemaker has felt their resentment while men of fortune every day commit the same offences and triumph in their baseness. The Continental Congress cannot interfere lest they should violate the rights of the state and break in upon its internal policy. This points to you the immediate necessity of pro viding in every state laws and ordinances to secure the Credit of colonial & Continental Currency against Counterfeiting, or deprecia tion from other Causes. Nothing lately from France. As to any measures taken by Congress for foreign Alliances I refer you to Mr Penn. I will not trust a thought on this subject to paper least it should by any accident miscarry. Genl. Washington is now at White Plains near New Rochelle with about 20,000 men. Col. Magaw at Mount Washington with 1000. Green at fort Lee & Mercer at Amboy together have about 6000. 2 Virginia Regiments are at Trenton—the German battalion here. The Enemy are in possession of Kings bridge. Our Army are in good Spirits. I have just reed, a letter from Rob. R. Livingston at Albany, I have from him that Carlton with his Army are at Crown Point. Gates with his at Ticon are in good Spirits. We have lately received thro Schuyler a Supply of 6 Weeks provision in that Garrison so that we are well off in that respect. 2 This is Election day for the City and County of Philad, the Altercation is like to be warm, Matlack & Cannon for the conven tion and the oath to be taken by Electors—Dickinson & his friends against it. The issue is yet uncertain tho’ I believe fc wish that the latter may succeed. Adieu for the present, Yr [P.S.] Pray deliver the several letters which I have addressed to the Convention as soon as they are pretty generally assembled. RC (Hayes Collection, NcU microfilm). Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 See Congress’ September 16 resolution on this issue in JCC, 5:763. 2 Remainder of letter taken from Tr.


[Page 475]
November 6, 1776 441 Secret Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir Philadelphia Novr. 5th. 1776 The Inclosed Letter was sent up from the Council of Safety of Maryland with some others to us, it came by a Brig arrived there from Martinique and was enclosed under Cover to your Friends Messr. Thomas & Isaac Wharton who gave it back that we might forward it to you free of Postage. 1 In the Brig at Maryland is also arrived 133 bbs. & 20 Casks of Powder for you which we suppose to be on Continental Account, and shall give the Board of War an Order to receive the same, but if we are mistaken & this should be private property you will set us right and we will either pay you powder or Money for it. We are sir your Hb servts. For & on behalf of the Secret Com mittee, Signed, Robert Morris, Chairman [P.S.] The within mentioned Powder is marked in the Bill Lading, as follows— LI 60 Barrels MP 16 do. AR 18 do. LC 39 do. 20 Keggs Bill Lading Dated St. Pierre, Martinico 9th Septr 1776. Signed John Martin. On Accot. Nathl. Shaw Junr. to the Address of Messrs. Thos. 8e Isaac Wharton. Tr (CtY). 'A transcript of the enclosed October 12 letters from William Constant, Jr., of Pointe-a-Pitre, Guadeloupe, which informed Shaw that Constant had sent 12,950 pounds of powder to Fort Royal, Martinique, for shipment by Capt. John Martin, is in the Shaw Papers, CtY. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada. Nov 6 1776 I just now receivd your obliging Letter of the 24 of Octobr by the Post. I am exceedingly pleasd with the patriotick Spirit which prevails in our Genl Assembly. Indeed it does them great Honor. I hope the Increase of Pay will be confind to the Militia to induce them to continue in the Army till a full Inlistment of our Quota for a new Army shall be compleated on the Encouragement offerd by Congress which I have found since I left you is increasd by a Suit of Cloaths annually. Congress could not account for the Delay of the Assemblies to send Committees to the Camp agreable to their


[Page 476]
442 November 6, 1776 Recommendation but by your Letter I am led to believe that the Answer of our Assembly was among those letters which were lately stolen from an Express on the Road. The Necessity of immediate Application to the important Business of inlisting a new Army indued Congress to direct the Commander in Cheif to give orders for that Purpose even though the Committees should not have arrivd. I am glad however that your Committee is gone to Head Quarters, for I am perswaded they will be very usefull. 1 I hear with Pleasure that you have appointed a Committee of War. 2 It has ever appeard to me to be necessary and it must be attended with happy Effects. While we are taking such Measures as I trust will be effec tual! to put a Stop to and totally defeat the Designs of the open Invaders of our Rights, are we not too inatentive to the Machina tions of our secret & perhaps more inveterate Enemies? Beleive me, it is my opinion that of the two, the Latter are by far the more dangerous. I hope you have not many of these among you, Some I know you have. Measures are taking here to suppress them. 3 RC (MHi). 1 The Massachusetts General Court actually appointed two committees to appoint field officers and reenlist troops—one for the camp at New York City and the other for the army at Ticonderoga. The former consisted of Timothy Danielson, George Partridge, Josiah Sartel, Jonathan Gardner, and Seth Wash burn; the latter of Abraham Watson, Nathaniel Leonard, Jacob Davis, Elisha Cranston, and William Page. Massachusetts Council Minutes, October 16, 1776, pp. 32-33. DLC(ESR). For the ensuing difficulties related to the committee at the New York camp and to Massachusetts’ decision to pay a bounty to soldiers extending their term of service, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 9, 1776. The Massachusetts resolve of October 24 granting the soldiers a temporary bounty of 20 shillings a month is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:409. 2 A Board of War was established by the Massachusetts General Court on October 26, 1776. The original slate of members was appointed on October 30, but follow ing several resignations, five new members, including James Warren, were ap pointed on November 16. Massachusetts Council Minutes, pp. 109, 187. DLC (ESR). 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Warren, November 9, 1776. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes and Samuel Johnston Philadelphia November 6th [1776] My dear friends, for this is addressed both to you and Mr Johns ton, I thank you for your kind favours by Mr. Bondfield, who this moment called me out of Congress, and as Capt Maclaine is unex pectedly delayed, it gives me an opportunity to acknowledge the obligations I am under to you, for your friendly attention. Mr


[Page 477]
November 6, 1776 443 Maclaine has two large packages inclosing letters for you both, as well as many of my other friends whom I imagine he will find at the Convention. There you will find the causes of my detention here and other Circumstances which I think it unnecessary to repeat. The Constitution of Pennsylvania, so far as it affects the City and County of Philadelphia, expired yesterday in the State house yard. Dickinson, Rob Morris, Christian Sami Morris, Clymer, Shubler [Shubert], Parker were elected and now ride triumphant upon the ruins of the Constitution (which Mr. Johnston thinks I condemn too freely) and upon the Characters of Matlack & Cannon who are now consigned to insignificance as they merit. Two fine frigates are afloat from Rhode Island. 32 prizes lately carried in there—a few days ago into Salem a Turkey Ship taken in the British Channel, the Invoice of her Cargoe amounts in first Cost to 36,000 Sterling. All well at Ticonderoga the 27th of October. Carleton at Crown Point. Schuyler in a letter this moment says that we are well sup plied with provisions and there is some doubt whether Carleton will come further on. We are formidable at Tyonderoga. 1 This moment arrived 12 Waldeckers 8c 8 British prisoners sent hither by Genl Washington. I must conclude. I am called to my duty in Congress. Yours truly, W H [P.S.] Mr R Morris wrote Mr Hewes two letters by post which will explain the nature of the Capture of the Tobacco Vessels. 2 No change lately as to Genl Washington. RC (Nc-Ar). ’Schuyler’s October 30 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 153, 2:471-76, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 2:1296-97. 2 These two letters have not been found. Hooper also wrote a letter this day to Gov. William Livingston of New Jersey, discussing, among other things, a November 5 resolve of Congress relating to that state. This letter, which is badly damaged, is located in the William Livingston Papers, MHi. See also JCC, 6:925-26; and John Hancock to William Livingston, November 7, 1776. William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention Sir Philadelphia November 6th 1776 By a letter which the Congress have this moment received from their Genls Secretary at New York no change of any consequence has taken place since I last wrote you. 1 By a letter received at the same time from General Schuyler we


[Page 488]
454 November 8, 1776 detained in Maryland contrary to their inclinations.” Ibid., p. 447; and PCC, item 70, fol. 85. Schuyler’s letters to Hancock on the subject of the Nanticokes, written on August 18 and September 14, 1776, are in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 1:1030-31, 2:333-34. See also Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, November 30, 1776. “Apparently a reference to Thomas Stone to the Maryland Convention, Septem ber 4, 1776. ’The council of safety sent the board such a "list” along with its November 15 letter. Md. Archives, 12:447. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office Novr. 8th. 1776 Mr. Lewis (a Brother Delegate) has given Congress Information that Application had been made to your Excellency by a Flag from Genl. Howe to permit Mrs. Watts & Mrs. Barrow the Pay Masters Wife to go to their Husbands in New York and at the same Time requested Congress to assist him with their Authority to obtain the Release of his Lady whom the Enemy would not permit to come out. The House having refer’d the Matter to the Board of War, we beg Leave to represent to your Excellency the Propriety of ob taining Mrs. Lewis & Mrs. Robinson her Daughter with her Chil dren in exchange for Mrs. Watts & Mrs. Barrow; and, if you have not already permitted those Ladies to go into York or give Genl. Howe a Promise to that effect, that you will make the Release of our Ladies, if we may be allowed the expression, a necessary requisite. Indeed should you have complied with Genl. How’s Request, we submit it to your Excellency whether Mrs. Lewis & Mrs. Robinson may not be asked for in Return. We do not imagine that you will be refused, but should you, we must recur to the unhappy Ex pedient of with-holding in future every simular Indulgence to those Ladies in our Power, who may desire to visit their Connections in the Army. 1 We are very sorry that our Enemies have compelled us to resolve upon any Thing which looks like severity, or indeed to lay any Restraint upon the fair Sex, but tho’ we cannot approve the Prac tice, we shall be obliged to follow the Example of his Britannic Majesty’s Commanders. We have the Honour to be with the most perfect Esteem, Your very obedt Servants, Benja Harrison James Wilson Edward Rutledge P.S. Should Mrs. Watts & Mrs. Barrow carry in their Baggage, Mrs. Lewis and Mrs. Robinson must have the same Indulgence. Perhaps


[Page 491]
November 9, 1776 457 the Army, you must be sensible of the want of Cloathing Sc as you know what was done in Congress respecting that matter no doubt you’ll use your influence to draw the attention of the Executive Power of our state to that Subject. I find the Genl. Court of the Massachusetts have increas’d the pay of their Soldiers & have sent a committee to camp to inlist the men, but Genl. Washington wod not consent to their giving out Orders till the matter was lay’d before Congress. One of the Gentn arriv’d Yesterday. What will be done in the affair I know not. We really have a Choice of Diffi culties which I am in no doubt we shall get over, but the thing is to make advantages of those difficulties. The Massachuts. have in creas’d the pay of their Soldiers to 10 Dols, per Month for the new army. If that shod be come into, the charge of the army will be so great that it will discourage many & undoubtedly will cause some heartburnings in a certain assembly. On the other hand, if the matter has taken air among the Soldiers Sc shod not be agree’d to there is great danger that we shall have no Army. This affair is referr’d to a Committee who I suppose will report tomorrow. Shall be able to give you a more perticular accot. of the matter in my next. In the meantime I hope every measure is 8c will be taken to raise our Proportion 8c as many more as possible. 2 I shod have speculated this side down but have a most violent head ake which has increas’d within a few Minutes to such a degree that it deprives me of the power of thinking. Must therefore bid you Adieu. Yours 8cc, W Whipple 9th Just receiv’d advice that the Enemy had retreated from Crown Point 8c expect an express every hour that will give the perticulars. 3 Genl. Howe has suddenly remov’d from White Plains it is conjectur’d with a design to cross the North River. 4000 of our army have cross’d above him ready to attack him on this side. RC (NhD). 1 Matthew Thornton presented his credentials to Congress on November 4. JCC, 6:920. 2 On this question, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 9, 1776, note. “The journals do not indicate how this information was transmitted to Con gress. Gen. Horatio Gates’ November 5 letter to Hancock “advising the retreat of General Carleton from Crown Point” was not received and read in Congress until November 15. JCC, 6:951; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:526-27. Samuel Adams to James Warren Novr 9th [1776] Mr Partridge arrivd in this City the last Evening, having been dispatchd by your Committee at Genl Washingtons Head Quarters who have consulted with the General concerning the Augmentation


[Page 494]
460 November 9, 1776 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Novr, 9th. 1776 You will perceive from the enclosed Resolve, that Congress having reconsidered their Vote of the 14th of Octr., have agreed to give the former Allowance of one Dollar 8c one Third of a Dollar to the Officers on the Reinlistment of every Soldier in the Camp. The com- pleating the Army being at present an Object of the utmost Im portance, the Congress are desirous of adopting every Means in their Power, to induce the Officers to fill up their respective Companies, as soon as possible. 1 You will please to take the most effectual Steps for punishing in an exemplary Manner, as far as the Articles of War will admit, all Deserters from the Army at this Time of Trial and Danger. The Baseness of those Officers and Soldiers who can turn their Backs upon their Country in her present Situation, merits the severest Chastise ment. 2 The enclosed Letter from Col. Miles to Mr. Wister of this City, I am directed by Congress to transmit to you, that you may take such Steps relative to the Exchange of the Gentlemen therein mentioned, as you may judge proper. 3 Mr. Partridge, one of the Committee from the State of Massa chusetts Bay, having laid before Congress sundry Resolves of that State concerning the Pay of their Troops beyond what the Congress had given, they have come to a Resolution disapproving of that Measure; and have agreed that the Troops in the American Army may be enlisted for three years, or during the War, as shall be most agreeable to them, subject to the Terms mentioned in the enclosed Resolves. 4 I have the Honour to be with every Sentiment of Esteem &: Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Sert. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand o£ Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 6:874, 932. “See JCC, 6:933. 3 In this letter Col. Samuel Miles of Pennsylvania, who had been captured at the battle of Long Island, proposed that he be exchanged for John Foxcroft, the royal postmaster in New York who apparently had been sent to Philadelphia by that state’s council of safety. Washington authorized Miles to make this proposal to General Howe, but he was pessimistic about the colonel’s chances for success “as by the Terms of our Cartel, Officers of equal Rank are only to be proposed for each other," and in fact Miles was not exchanged until 1778. JCC, 6:933; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:294n.58, 308. Foxcroft, who was then in Philadelphia, had submitted a letter to Congress on October 15, requesting permission to return to his wife and family in New York. Congress granted his request on the same day. Foxcroft’s letter, which ordinarily would be in PCC, is located instead among the papers of Elias Boudinot (later commissary of prisoners), at DLC. It is endorsed by Secretary Thomson: "Letter


[Page 495]
November 9, 1776 461 from John Foxcroft praying leave to go to New York. Read in Congress Octr. 15. 1776. Leave granted, he giving his parole to the board of war & not setting out on his Journey before next week.” Immediately below Thomson’s endorsement is the following notation in the hand of Edward Rutledge, a member of the Board of War: “Mr. Foxcroft to give a Parole not to disclose any thing which may have come to his Knowledge respecting the political State of Affairs of this or any other Colony. And further to return as soon as he can conveniently bring off his Family.” See also JCC, 6:875-76. * This paragraph must have been written on November 12, the day Congress passed the "enclosed Resolves” referred to by Hancock. See JCC, 6:944-45; and Samuel Adams to James Warren, this date, note. William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention Sir Philadelphia Nov 9th 1776 I inclose to you and beg you would communicate to the Conven tion a petition from John Smith of Anson Country [County] praying to be relieved from his present confinement & to be restored to his afflicted Family and friends. His age, Indisposition, sincere contrition for the past, and engagements for his future conduct plead warmly in his behalf, and have so far interested me in his petition as to induce me to wish that if you should entertain the same sentiments of him which I do, the Journey of his Son hither and back again may not be without effect. 1 I am, With great Respect, Sir, Your’s & the Convention’s Most Obed Humble Sert. 2 Will Hooper RC (Nc-Ar). 1 Smith was a loyalist soldier who had been captured at the battle of Moore’s Creek Bridge in February 1776 and subsequently sent to Philadelphia. His peti tion to the convention, dated November 9, is in N.C. Colonial Records, 10:900- 901. It was referred to the convention’s committee of inquiry on November 25, but no further action on it appears in the convention’s journal. Ibid., p. 936. a This day Hooper also sent the convention “a plan of the present Seat of War in America. The topical & very particular description of the places where anything interesting has happened,” he went on to explain, “will no doubt afford you much Amusement, & put it in your power to read with much greater satis faction the accounts you receive of the military in New York & its vicinities.” Secretary of State Papers, Nc-Ar. The enclosure has not been identified, but it was undoubtedly the same item Richard Henry Lee sent to a friend the following day. See the postscript to Richard Henry Lee to Robert Carter, November 10, 1776. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Landon Carter My dear Colonel, Philadelphia Novr. 9th. 1776 Mr. Dye having been hurried away a day or two sooner than he expected, prevented my writing to you by him. He will not probably


[Page 497]
November 10, 1776 463 some private hand wou’d have done it, but alass! Constitutions employ every pen. I have not yet been able to meet with Doctr. Bond, when I do, shall confer upon the subject of your Letter, 8c let you know the results. The two mighty British armies are not likely to effect much in the State of N. York this year; when we heard last from Ticonderoga, Carlton was at Crown Point, un certain whether he wou’d retire into Canada, or make an attempt upon Ticonderoga; if the latter, Gates thinks he can drub him. As to Genl. Howe, after long attempting to get by our Army 8c pene trate into the Country, we this moment learn by express from Genl. W. that he decamped the other night with precipitation, 8c is mak ing his way toward the City of N. York. The Genl, is uncertain what the Enemy means to do next, but thinks he will either cross the North River 8c endeavor to come thro' the Jerseys to this City; or will move to the Southward. If his Ships prevent our Army from crossing the North river, we shall be in a bad pickle. I hope the Southern states will be able to keep him at bay, till they are re inforced. But your Convention must really give a truce to every consideration, but warlike preparations. Tis vain to sow the feild, unless it is fenced against the spoiler. Our best respects to our friends of Sabine Hall. I am with much esteem Dear Col., Yr. afft. hble Sevt. Francis Lightfoot Lee [P.S.] Inclosed is the apothecary’s bill for the medicines. I reed. £14 from Dye. RC (NN). •See JCC, 5:765-66. Samuel Adams to Artemas Ward My dear Sir Philada Novr 10th 1776 Early after my Arrival in this City, I made mention in Congress of the Affair we were talking of when I last saw you in Boston, and upon a Motion obtaind an order that you should receive the Pay of a Major General commanding in a seperate Department from the 26th of April being the Day on which Congress dischargd you of your Trust agreeable to your Request, until another shod be ap pointed to command in your Stead or it shall be otherwise orderd. The Pay of a Major General, you know, is one hundred and Sixty Dollars per month, and while he commands in a seperate Depart ment it is double that Sum. If shall not have receivd the before mentioned letter from the President before this reaches you, you will soon after, and then you will conduct your self accordingly. 1 I am with cordial Esteem, Your Friend 8c very humble Servt, Sami Adams


[Page 498]
464 November 10, 1776 RC (DLC photostat). 1 Congress took this action on November 7. See ]CC, 6:931; and John Hancock to Artemas Ward, November 8, 1776. Committee to Ticonderoga to John Hancock Sir, Albany Novr. 10th 1776 1 We did ourselves the honor of writing you on the 26th of last month from Saratoga; and after waiting, in vain, a few days, in expectation of advice from Genl. Gates, agreeably to his letter to us of the 24th we thought it our duty, nevertheless, to proceed on to Tyonderoga. We continued there during the first two days in hourly expectation of sharing in the glory of our Army in a successful op position to the attack of Genl. Carlton: but we were disappointed— and instead thereof, had the pleasure of knowing that he had totally evacuated Crown Point. Of this great event, you will have received authentic accounts before this can reach you. We returned here the morning before the last, and this morning we received from Genl. Gates the inclosed letter, together with some dispatches for our selves—the letter he requested might be immediately forwarded to you by express. We are acquainted with the contents of it, and had a conference with the Commissioners from the Massachusetts Bay, in company with Genl. Gates before we left Tyonderoga. We did not fail to represent to them, in the strongest terms, our ap prehensions of the fatal consequences of the measure adopted by their General Court; and advised them, by all means, to suspend the declaration of their powers untill Congress shou’d be advised of this extraordinary step. We left them apparently undetermined; and as to what has followed Genl. Gates’s letter will fully inform you. 2 Having gone thro’ the business committed to us by Congress, as far as it has been in our power, we propose to set out to morrow on our return, if the weather shall permit. In the meantime, with the greatest respect, we have the honor to be, Sir, Your most obedient and most humble Servants, Richd. Stockton Geo Clymer P.S. This moment fresh accts, from Genl. Gates inform us, 3 that he had sent Boats 40 miles down Lake Champlain, and no appearance of the Enemy. 4 RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Stockton and signed by Stockton and Clymer. Read in Congress on November 18. JCC, 6:957. 1 This day Clymer and Stockton also wrote a letter to Commissary General Joseph Trumbull, complaining that his deputies at Albany and Ticonderoga had been disposing of hides at a fraction of their value and ordering him to direct them to stop the practice immediately. PCC, item 21, fols. 109-10; and Am.


[Page 508]
474 November 11, 1776 Marine Committee to Elisha Warner Si r November 11th 1776 We have received intelligence that our enemies at New York are about to embarque 15000 Men on board their Transports, but where they are bound remains to be found out. The station assigned you makes it probable that we may best discover their destination by your means for it will be impossible this fleet of Transports can get out of Sandy Hook without your seeing them; and we par ticularly direct you to take such station as will prevent a probability of their passing you unseen. The Wasp must act in conjunction with you, and for that purpose you will concert with Lieutenant Baldwin what is best to be done and give him orders Accordingly. When you discover this fleet watch their motions and the moment they get out to Sea and shape their course send your boat on Shore with a Letter to be dispatched by express informing us what course they steer, how many sail they consist of if you can ascertain their numbers and how many Ships of war attend them. We expect this Letter will be sent off to you by Mr. James Searle who is at Shrews- berry and he will either receive your letters and send them off to us by express or get some proper person to do it. If this fleet steer to the Southward either the Fly or Wasp which ever sails fastest must preceede the fleet, keeping in shore and ahead of them, and if you find they are bound into the Capes of Delaware, run into some of the Inlets on the Jersey Shore, and send one of your officers or some proper person to us instantly with an Account thereof. The dullest sailer of the Fly or Wasp must follow after this fleet and watch their motions, and when ever you make discovery of their destination so as to know it with certainty put in for the Land and send us the information by Express. Thus you must watch this fleet one before and the other after them until you can inform us where they are bound. Should they go for Cheseapeak Bay, put into some of the Inlets on the Coast and give advice to the Council of Safety of Virginia and Maryland by express. If they go for North Carolina, South Carolina or Georgia observe the same conduct, and if they go to the Northward do the like. In short we think you may by a Spirited execution of these orders prevent them from coming by Surprize on any part of this Continent, and be assured you cannot recommend yourself more effectually to our freindship. If you could find an opportunity of attacking and taking one of the fleet on their coming out it might be the means of giving us ample intelligence, in such case send all the papers and prisoners here expeditiously. 1 We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).


[Page 509]
November 12, 1776 475 ’Elisha Warner was commander of the Continental sloop Fly. JCC, 6:861. In the course of carrying out her mission the Fly was severely damaged in an encounter with the British, leading the Marine Committee to write Warner on November 29: “We have sent Doctor Smith to take charge of the wounded men belonging to the Fly, and since the Vessel is no longer in condition for prosecut ing her Cruize, you are to return with her into this Port as quickly as you can, bringing with you the wounded men, and the Surgeon now sent to take care of them.” PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, fol. 47; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 1:56-57. George Wythe to Thomas Jefferson 11 Nov. 1776 The resolutions describing treasons are inclosed. 1 The report for ascertaining the value of coins, &c. remains in the same state of repose as you left it in, 2 among several others that are, as the presi dent says, not acted upon. I gave Col. Harrison an extract of that part of your letter which related to him, and asked him what answer I should make? He told me he would do what you desired so soon as he could. The enemy’s army we are credibly informed have left their camp at Whiteplains and retreated towards New- york. I just now hear that Carleton, on the 28th of last month evacuated Crown point, and is retiring to Quebec. Tell the speaker 3 I will endeavour soon to discharge my arrears to him. Adieu. RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:597-98. 1 Probably the resolves of June 24, which Jefferson may have requested in con nection with his recent appointment to a committee to draft a treason statute for Virginia. JCC, 5:475-76. ’Jefferson’s notes and his revised report on the value of gold and silver coins that had been tabled on September 2 are in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:511-18. 3 Edmund Pendleton. John Hancock to Patrick Henry Sir, Philada. Novr. 12th. 1776. The Secret Committee of Congress having chartered and loaded in the State of Virginia, the Aurora, on Account of the Continent, and the Voyage on which she is bound being a most important one, I have it in Charge from Congress to request, you will give all the Assistance in your Power to expedite her Sailing, by issuing such Orders as you shall judge proper, for manning and dispatching her with the greatest Expedition. 1 I have the Honour to be with the utmost Esteem, Sir, your most obedt. and very hble Sert. J. H. Presidt.


[Page 510]
476 November 12, 1776 LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “His Excellcy. Govr. Henry, Virginia.” 1 Congress had originally instructed Hancock to write this letter on October 7. JCC, 5:850-51. See also Secret Committee to Thomas Morris, October 25, 1776, note 2. John Hancock to William Livingstcn Philada. Novr. 12th. 1776. Sir, I am directed by Congress to transmit you the enclosed Resolve, and to request your Attention to it. 1 The dangerous Intercourse be tween our Enemies in New York and Staten Island, and the internal Enemies of America in Different Parts of New Jersey, calls for the immediate Interposition of Government to suppress it. You will therefore be pleased, in Conjunction with your Council & Assembly, to take such Measures for this End, as you shall judge most expedient. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J. H. Presidt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See Congress’ November 9 resolution on the communication of intelligence to the British “from Elizabethtown, Newark and the parts adjacent.” JCC, 6:939. Edward Rutledge to Michael Hillegas? [November 12? 1776] 1 If Mr. Peters has not already sent forward the 50,000 Dollars ordered by Congress some Day last Week (Friday I think) you will be pleased to comply with Mr Dallams Request & have it sent to him immediately. The Order for the money was sent to the Treasury. E. Rutledge RC (PHi). 1 Rutledge wrote this note at the foot of a November 10 letter to John Han cock from Richard Dallam, the deputy paymaster general of the flying camp, who stated that he was “out of Cash" and requested “a supply as soon as possible—As the demands on me are very pressing.” Congress, which received this letter on November 12, had already ordered $50,000 to be sent to Dallam three days earlier. JCC, 6:937, 940. Rutledge’s note was apparently intended for the Continental treasurer, Michael Hillegas. Matthew Thornton to Meshech Weare Philadelphia Novr. 12th 1776. Hond Sir, The 3d Instant we arived Safe in this City, 8c the 8th innoculated for the Small Pox. I have Attended the Congress every day yet. The


[Page 511]
November 13, 1776 477 ferries over North River ware so Obstructed by the enemie we ware Obliged to Cross at a place called Peekskill whare I see Col. Tash, who used me Exceeding well. This day the Congress was informed by his Excellency General Washington that the Enemie Decampt from White Plains, & ware Landing on the Jursie shore, & he was taking every precaution, to prevent them from penetrating into the Country. 1 By a letter from General Gates, Dated the 31st of Octr., the enemie a few days before, appear’d in Order of Battle, & on his preparing to Receive them Return’d to their Camp. For better, &: further information, & news I must Refere you to the News papers, & you wont find more falshood in them then is passing through this City. Before my arrival the Honble. Col. Bartlet was Set off, & I had not the pleasure to meet him, the Honble. Col. Whipple is well. Please to take the trouble to present my Compliments, to every member of the Honourable Council, & House & Except the Same from him who has the Honour to be your most Obedient Hble Sert., Matthew Thornton N.B. No Danger by this letter. RC (MeHi). 1 General Washington’s November 9 letter to President Hancock, which was read this day in Congress, is in PCC, item 152, 3:219, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:261-62. JCC, 6:944. John Hancock to the Maryland Commissioners Gentlemen Philada. Novr. 13th. 1776 In Consequence of a Letter to Congress this day Rec’d from The Honl. Convention of Maryland, inclosing sundry Resolutions of that Body relative to the Raising their Quota of the New Levies, I have it in Charge to furnish you with the Resolutions of Congress pass’d yesterday admitting the New Levies to inlist for three years, & at the same time to inform you that if the Inhabitants of the State of Maryland will Inlist to serve during the continuance of the present war, they already have the Faith of the United States of America pledged for the Land to be granted to such Soldiers. 1 The Resolu tions Referr’d to, you have inclos’d, & contain the Sense of Congress as to the mode of the new Inlistments. 2 I am with Esteem, Gentn., Your very hum servt. J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Honl Commissioners from Maryland, for Appointg officers & promotg Inlistmts. in the Army at Camp.” ’See JCC 6:944-45, 947. The Maryland Convention’s November 10 letter to Hancock and enclosed resolves about the grant of lands to soldiers who enlisted


[Page 513]
November 13, 1776 479 Our Instructions run that they are to be inlisted during the War, of Course when our State accedes to it we can proceed. Congress has got rid of the Difficulty with Respect to the Land and has not closed in with either of the Propositions made by our State nor receded intirely from their own Resolutions. But if they have escaped they embarrass Us. What can We do with our Regulars? They are inlisted during the War: Must we inlist them again in the Service of the States for three years? I imagine our State will not incline to do so, if they do we ought to have Instructions on that Head. 3 King brought only One of the Bundles of Commissions up, there are not more than enough for four Battallions, there are five of the flying Camp and two of the Regulars. The German and Rifle Com panies will make the eighth, surely then you have not sent Com- misssions enough. I should be obliged to you to send up a Copy also of the Resolves of Congress relative to the raising the eighty eight Battallions as We have not got it and would be as little troublesome as possible to the Congress. Four Thousand of our Troops under General Putnam have crossed the North River to reinforce Genl. Green who has six Thousand under his Command to prevent the Enemy’s plundering the Jerseys or penetrating to this place and I suppose they will be followed by a more considerable Number if the Enemy pass that River. Very little of the Transactions of Convention have transpired here, You are exceedingly concise on that head. You tell me they are still engaged about the Constitution. 1 should naturally have con cluded they were so but pray what Sort of a Constitution have they framed? how far monarchical, aristocratick or democratick? how far a Mixture? how Balanced each power? It is a Matter of great Impor tance to a Subject of a State that Power should be well and equally balanced. I am Sir, Your most humble Servt. Benjamin Rumsey [P.S.] If we stay much longer here the flying Camp will come near Us or to Us. 4 RC (MdAA). Although Rumsey was elected a delegate to Congress on Novem ber 10, he wrote this letter in his capacity as a commissioner appointed on October 9 by the Maryland Convention to assist in raising the state’s new quota of troops. It was undoubtedly directed to the president of the Maryland Council of Safety, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer. 1 See John Hancock to the Maryland Commissioners, this day. ’The commissioners’ November 14 letter to Matthew Tilghman, president of the Maryland Convention, enclosing Congress’ resolutions of November 12, is in the Red Books, MdAA, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:673. “The Maryland Council of Safety’s response of November 17 to this letter is in Md. Archives, 12:454. * For a second letter Rumsey wrote this day to Jenifer, on the subject of prospects for obtaining 50 reams of paper for Maryland, see ibid., p. 443.


[Page 514]
480 November 13, 1770 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings Novr. 13, 1776. Come. met. Present Messrs. Morris, Lee, Lewis, Livingston. Chat ter party lor ship Mary & Elizabeth was signd by the Come. Order on Mr. Morris in favor of Ths. McKean for the use of Mr. Js. Sterret for 133 1/3 dlls being lor 6 months service of his son Andrew Sterret dec[ease]d as Clerk to the Come. A letter to Messrs. Levinns Clarkson & J. Dorsius of Chs. town S. Carolina authorising them to charter & purchase vessels &: load them with the produce of that State on acct, of the Continent. 1 MS (MH-H). 'Not found, but see Marine Committee to Levinus Clarkson and John Dorsius, November 17, and Secret Committee to William Bingham, November 22, 1776. Secret Committee to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentn In Secret Committee of Congress. Philada. Novr. 13th. 1776 As this Committee is charged with the management of the Com merce carried on for the Continental Service, We think it our duty to represent to your Board the Necessity there is for an Armed Vessell of some kind to be stationed at Cape May for the protection of the Trade to & from this Port. At present there is none of the Conti nental armed Vessells fit or ready for this Service, being all employed on other important pursuits, besides it has been judged the proper object of every State on this Continent to protect their own Ports to the utmost of their Power. We understand You have a large Galley intended to Cruize in the Bay. If this Vessell is ordered down to Cape May immediately she may render Important Service to the private Trade of this port as well as to the Continental interest, and if any thing in the power of this or the Marine Committee is wanted to compleat your Galley depend on a ready Concurrence with Your desires. 1 We have the honor to be, Gentn, Your obedt hble servts, Robt. Morris Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston Fras. Lewis P.S. Mr Bridges informs us his Brige Cornelia &: Molly is detained for want of a Pilot. The Continent are interested & We wish for her dispatch. RC (PHi). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Lee, Lewis, and Livingston. ' In response to this request, the Pennsylvania Council of Safety on November 18 ordered Capt. John Rice of the Pennsylvania row galley Convention down to Cape May. Pa. Council Minutes, 11:8-9.


[Page 515]
November 14, 1776 481 Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philada Novr 14th 1776 I wrote you within a Day or two after my Arrival here by an Express. I cannot say that 1 was not disappointed in not receiving a line from you by the last Post, as I thought I had Reason to expect. While I am absent from you I am continually anxious to know the State of your Health. I must therefore beg you to write to me often. I have not for many years enjoyd a greater Share of that invalueable Blessing than 1 have since 1 left Boston. I beleive the Journey on Horseback has been greatly beneficial to me. We have lately received Intelligence from the Northern Army of certain Movements of the Enemy in that Quarter, of which you will see an Account in the inclosd News Paper. This day we have further Intelligence that they have totally abandoned Crown Point & re treated into Canada. 1 We have also just receivd a Letter from a Gentleman living on the Sea Coast of New Jersey informing us that near 100 Sail of the Enemies Ships with two Frigates &: a fifty Gun Ship were seen steering to the Eastward. It is supposed they are bound to England. We had before heard that the whole Force of the Enemy had marchd unexpectedly & precipitately into the City of New York. This Evening an Express is come in from General Green who commands on this Side the North River in the Jerseys with Advice that ten thousand of the Enemies Troops were embarkd, and that it was given out that they were destind to South Carolina. 2 This may be a Feint. Possibly they may be coming to this City, which in my opinion is rather to be desired, because the People of this State are more numerous than that of South Carolina. In either Case however I dare say that a good Account will be given of them. It is said that Lord Dunmore is to take the Command. If this be true, it looks as if they were going to Virginia. Be it as it may, the withdraw ing so great a Part of these Troops from New York, it is hoped, will make it an easy Matter for our Army to conquer the Remainder. It has not been usual for me to write to you of War or Politicks— but I know how deeply you have always interested your self in the Welfare of our Country and I am disposed to gratify your Curiosity. Besides you will hope that from these Movements of our Enemies a Communication between Boston and Philadelphia will be more safe and we may the more frequently hear from each other. 3 RC (NN). ’Probably Horatio Gates’ November 5 letter to John Hancock, which was read in Congress on November 15, 1776. JCC, 6:951; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:526. “Nathanael Greene’s November 12 letter to John Hancock is in Greene, Papers (Showman), 1:348-49. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Elizabeth Adams, Novem ber 17, 1776.


[Page 524]
490 November 15, 1776 and have the Command. This information has induced Congress to send dispatches to your & the other Southern states, that you may take measures immediately to counteract the design of the Enemy. I cannot imagine that the Enemy, infatuated as their Councils have hitherto been, are yet so far lost to every Idea of propriety as to en trust such an important Command to Ld Dunmore. He no doubt with Gov Martin & Ld William Campbell will go in the fleet, and give every assistance they may be capable of but Clinton I imagine will conduct the land forces. I cannot take upon me to direct what measures it will be prudent for you to pursue. Whether Virginia, North or South Carolina will be the first object it is yet impossible to decide. It would become you to hold all the Militia and regular troops of your state in readiness to repel the British troops whether they should attempt to land upon your own coast or whether it should be necessary to afford Succour to South Carolina or Virginia. Upon this important occasion when the fate of our Southern Country is perhaps to be decided and those liberties which we have been long gloriously struggling for are to be fixed upon a permanent foundation or lost forever I trust‘in God no man will deny his Aid, but that all as one man will step forth to meet the foes of America to liberty to Heaven, for our’s is the cause of God. I have ordered three tons of Gunpowder to Charlestown by an armed Vessell bound thither. 1 She will probably sail in the course of the next Week. I will apprize you of it as soon as it takes place & if you have not a plentiful supply upon hand of that article you can have recourse then to supply yourself. Should you have occasion for more let me have your commands seasonably as at present our Maga zines are tolerably full. I enclose you the last newspapers from which you will perceive General Washingtons late operations, as well as the sudden retreat of General Sir Guy Carleton from Tionderoga. I sincerely congratu late you upon the latter as an event of much Importance to these states & Am, Gentlemen, With the greatest respect, Your most Obedient, Humble Servant, Will Hooper RC (Nc-Ar). ’See JCC, 6:952. William Hooper to the North Carolina Convention Sir Philadelphia, Nov 15, 1776. I omitted to mention in the letter which I have closed and accompanies this, that the Enemy are scant of provisions & may have


[Page 525]
November 15, 1776 491 some dependance upon the Cattle on the Sea Coast of the southern States for a supply. In that Case you will perhaps think it prudent to drive back the Stock from the low Country as soon as possible. Horses are much an Object with them for their Waggons—& there fore must be kept out of their way. It may be worth while to spend a thought upon a mode of securing our Negroes, and preventing any Communication between the Enemy & any who may be disaffected amongst you whether of the late Insurgents or others. I am, Gentlemen, With great Respect, Your Obed Serv, AVill Hooper RC (Nc-Ar). Secret Committee to Nicholas Cooke Sir In Secret Committee of Congress. Philada. Novr. 15th 1776 We received a letter last week from Capt. Samuel Smith junr. Com mander of the Ship Hancock & Adams belonging to Mr. Blair McClenachan of this City informing us of his arrival with that Ship and Cargo at the port of Bedford in Massachusetts. His letter is dated the 19th instant and he Says that in Latitude 38.29 and Longitude 65.23 he fell in with the Game Cock Privateer of Rhode Island Commanded by Capt Timothy Pierce of Providence, who brought him too, examined his papers and finally determined to make Prize of his Ship and cargo, under pretence of her having two or three Sets of Papers, and accordingly he put a prize Master and men onboard the Ship taking out Captain Smith, his officers and men, also Some passengers, but Capt Smith after intreating him for thirteen hours got Liberty to go onboard his Ship again and was Sent in with her to the Port of Bedford where he now is. We Char tered this Ship in Feby last to perform a Voyage from hence to Lisbon thence to France and back to this Port on account and risque of the United States (then Colonies) of America. 1 The Ship had the voyage before narrowly escaped being Seized in Ireland in Conse quence of an attempt to take in Gun Powder to be brought hither and Mr. McClenachans Friends found it necessary to take out a New Register for her there in order to screen her from the intended Seizure. When we Chartered her this Irish Register was deemed a fortunate circumstance as the Restraining Act of Parliament was not then known to us, and having her cleared from the Custom house here for Falmouth Under that Register, with Bills, Loading Invoice and letters suited thereto, it was presumed wou’d carry her clear of Seizure by British Men of War Should any of them meet her on the outward passage. Our Instructions to Captain Smith are dated the 22nd Feby 1776 & recapitulate all these Circumstances, after which


[Page 526]
492 November 15, 1776 they direct him peremtorily to proceed lor Lisbon and there deliver his Cargo to Messrs. Pasley & Co. of that place, unless they direct him to a better Market, after which he was ordered to proceed to Nantes and receive from our Agent a Cargo of Arms, ammunition and other Goods or Merchandize and then to return to this Port with that Cargo on Accot. of the United Colonies. It seems that when Captain Smith first fell in with the Game Cock he feared She was his Enemy as no Letters of Marque were granted by Congress when he departed from hence, he therefore on his first examination produced to Capt Peirce only his Irish Register and Shipping Paper, but when he Saw the Commission Signed by Mr Hancock he then produced All his Papers and amongst the Rest our Orders to Captain Smith which must have fully and clearly explained to any man of Common Sense and Common honesty the Nature of the Voyage, and if the love of Plunder had not prevailed over every other consideration Capt Peirce would have released the Ship, especially as there were on board Four French Gentlemen and their Domesticks, two of whom We suppose to be officers, and two Manufacturers with their people whom we wrote for by order of Congress, and there can be little doubt but they would make Capt Peirce Sensible that this ship was in the Continental Service. In Short we have laid this matter before Congress and Capt Peirces Conduct is judged to be extreamly Crimi nal, but it is a just and commendable Maxim not to condemn any Man unheard and the Congress passed on this occasion the Resolve of which you will [find] a Copy inclosed. 2 Now Sir, it is our duty to inform You, that the public Service is exceedingly injured by this transaction, for every article of this Ships Cargo (which belongs to the Continent) is and has been much wanted for some time past. If Capt. Peirce had not interupted the Ships voyage She would in all probabillity been Safe in this port some weeks Since, and the Several articles before now have been with the Army, instead of which they are now onboard Ship at a Port distant from the Army, and the delay, danger, and expence of transporting them will be very Great. 3 Indeed the public are also insurers on the Ship and obliged to deliver her to the owner in this Port at their Risque. We cannot help mentioning that this is the Second or third instance of the Kind, and unless Such practices are discouraged in the beginning there is no knowing what lengths the Privateers may go, in short it is laying the foundation for breaking the union of America and opening the door to prey upon each other. We do therefore most earnestly intreat you, to order the Strictest Scrutiny into the Conduct of this same Capt Peirce, discover what reasons he can offer in his justification, and if they are not satisfactory we shall order him to be prosecuted for the penalty of his Bond and sued for damages. We observe by a Copy of his letter to his Owners he acknowledges Capt Smiths orders were signed by Some Members of Congress, but he objects that they are


[Page 527]
November 16, 1776 493 interlined with different hand Whiting and different Ink and without any Seal or permit from the President, but all this will not avail, he must give much Stronger reasons than these or those he calls a Foible before he will be justifyed in the Eyes of the Publick. We think it of the utmost importance to check this improper Itch for Plunder, and hope You will exert yourself in Support of So Salutary a measure. We have the honor to remain, Your Honors Most obedt &: most hble servls, Robt Morris Phil. Livingston Richard Henry Lee Fra. Lewis RC (R-Ar). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Lewis, Livingston, and Moriis. ’Sec Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, February 23, 1776. 3 See JCC, 6:943, 949-50. 3 For orders regarding the delivery of the cargo, sec JCC, 6:952-53; and Hoard of War to George Washington, November 18, 1776. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philada Novr 16th 1776 I have already wrote to you by this Conveyance. The Express having been delay’d till this Time affords me an opportunity of congratulating you and my other Friends on the Retreat of General Carleton with his whole Force from Crown Point into Canada, an Account of which we had the day before yesterday in a Letter from General Gates. Yesterday we had a Letter from a Gentleman living on the Sea Coasts of New Jersey acquainting us that near 100 Sail of the Enemies Transports with a 50 or 60 Gun Ship & two Frigates were seen coming from Sandy Hook & steering Eastward. We had also a Letter from Genl Green who informs that he had Intelligence by a Gentleman of good Credit who came from Staten Island that Ten Thousand of the Enemies Troops were embarqed, and it was given out that they were destind to South Carolina. It is said that Lord Dunmore is to take the Command, from whence one would suppose they are bound to Virginia. Some think they are coming to this City, which I confess as an American I would chuse. The People here are preparing to give them a proper Reception. Wherever they may make the Attack, I flatter my self a good Account will be given of them. If so great a Part of the Enemies Army is withdrawn from New York may we not reasonably expect that the Remainder will be easily conquerd this Winter. I am earnestly sollicitous that they may have a handsome Drubbing. We must not however suffer any flat tering Prospect to abate our Zeal in procuring a Sufficient Army. We know not what Game our Enemies may play. There is no Reason to believe they will quit their darling Plan of Subduing if possible the


[Page 530]
496 November 16, 1776 Periods and what Interest. The sooner I receive the much desired Information the better. I continue to be with the sincerest Regard your Honors and my Country’s Friend and humble Servant, William Ellery P.S. Mr. W. Hooper One of the Delegates for No. Carolina fre quently writes to his Brother in Law Mr. Clarke, and may mention some News that I may not know or recollect. 2 RC (R-Ar). 1 See JCC, 6:944—45. This issue led to a mildly amusing poetical exchange between Ellery and George Wythe of Virginia. Wythe, assuming the title of “A member of the antinovanglian faction to W.E.,” initiated the exchange with this verse: "To works of supererogation By others, some owe their salvation. To what the good yankees are doing Their duty beyond, we owe ruin!” To these lines, which he subtitled "Epigram by the ingenious George Wythe Esqr,” Ellery added this explanation: "In the two first Lines the Author alludes to the Roman Catholicks. In the two last to the Additional Pay, and Bounty given to the Soldiers by the Eastern States.” Then, not to be outdone by his colleague from Virginia, he composed the following lines and entitled them “A Novanglian to G.W.”: "As by Works supererogatory Rom. Caths, are saved from Purgatory; So by what the yankees good are doing Buckskins will save from utter Ruin.” Both these poems are in the Mellen Chamberlain Collection, MB. “None of William Hooper’s letters to Thomas Clark has been found. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Novr. 16th 1776 I should be glad to be informed immediately whether Two Frigates can be built in Providence to be launched about the same Time the next as the other were the last Spring; and whether the same Committee would undertake again to collect Materials, and undertake the Building of them &C. 1 I could wish to serve the State I belong to; but in Order to [do] this your Honor is sensible that I ought to have every necessary In formation. I have thrown this upon a distinct Peice of Paper, because I did not think it would be proper in a Letter to the State. Please to present my Regards to Govr. Hopkins & the Secretary, and be lieve me to be, Yrs sincerely & respectfully, Willm Ellery RC (R-Ar). 1 Cooke informed Ellery that the Rhode Island Frigate Committee had refused to undertake this task because of a shortage of building materials and the high cost of labor. William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), p. 104.


[Page 531]
November 16, 1776 497 John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Novr. 16th. 1776. Since my last Nothing material has occurred here, nor have I any Thing in Charge from Congress, except to request you will negotiate an Exchange of the Hessian Prisoners at Elizabeth Town under the Care of Mr. Ludwick as soon as possible. 1 They have been treated in such a Manner during their Stay in this City, that it is apprehended their going back among their Countrymen will be attended with some good Consequences. Your Favour of the 11th of Novr. came duely to Hand and was laid before Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the most perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. 3 John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 6:955. “This letter is in PCC, item 152, 3:245-47, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:271-73. 3 Hancock also wrote a letter this day to Thomas Cushing which has not been found, but for some indication of its contents see Cushing’s December 16 reply in Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:492-93. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes My dear Hewes [November 16? 1776] 1 I intended to have postponed writing to you till Monday but as the Express is unexpectedly detained till this afternoon I make use of it as it will move more expeditiously than Mr. Walker. I lament the late changes in your Convention. To what strange infatuation has been owing the removal of Mr Johnston from your Councils. At a time when the Abilities of the first Characters in the State are necessary to give you a Constitution which will secure hap piness, Life, liberty & property to the Inhabitants, you have deprived yourself of the most able head in North Carolina and as good a heart as God ever made. Is it become criminal then to stretch forth the hand of compassion, & shed the tear of pity upon suffering weak ness. Is not liberty the same to one Class of beings as to another, or are a few of us Gods Elect who have a right to think & act as we please, without suffering any others to step within the pale of our Privileges. I confess there are few incidents which have taken place since my entrance into publick life which have given me equal dis tress. Past services seem to be no security for future preferment & a life far exhausted in promoting the publick good is to close under the greatest Example of Ingratitude that ever marked a people. In


[Page 538]
504 November 16, 1776 the passage of 9 Frenchmen from Martinique in his Brige Cornelia &: Molly who were put on board by Mr. Bingham Agt. for this Come, as a politic measure to screen the vessel from capture by the Enemy, as She was insurd by the Contint. 1 Orderd that the Sum be pd. by Mr. Morris. An Acct, of Robt. Morris Esqr. for 216 lb powdr. at 5s per lb amt £54 deliverd the Commissy. per receit was laid before the Come. Orderd that Mr. Morris charge the same to Acct, of the Come. Agreed that Mr. Morris receive the Cargo brought into this place by Capt. Ord from the Missisippi & that he deliver to Mr. Js. Mease, any part thereof that may be wanted for the use of the Army; 2 the remaindr. to be disposed of by public sale & pay the freight of the whole out of the nett proceeds &: credit this Come, with the balance. Resd. that Mr. Morris pay to Capt. Ord fifty pounds as a reward from this Come, for his faithful &: good conduct in transactg. their business. MS (MH-H), 1 See Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, July 11 and October 31, 1776. 2 For Oliver Pollock’s October 10 letter regarding George Ord’s voyage to New Orleans, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 6:1210. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 16th Novr. 1776 The Sudden & freequent movments of the Armies renders it impossible to give a just accot of their Scituation. Howe has Re treated from White Plains, by the last accots was encamped on the Bank of the River below Dobbs’s ferry & by the disposition of his army it is judg’d intends making a desent on New-Jersey. In order to counteract him, part of Genl Washington Army (about 4 or 5000) have crossed the River above him & are now on this side ready to receive him. They are continually Skirmishing in small parties, in which we always have the advantage. By some accots from de serters it is conjectured by some that a large detachment say 10,000 will go to South Carolina. I wish it may be true; let them divide if they dare. A fleet of about 100 sail left Sandy Hook last Wednes day supposed to be bound for Europe. A Committee from the Massachusetts Genl Court arriv’d at the Camp about a fortnight ago to Commission the Officers &c. As that Genl Court had raised the pay of their Soldiers 20s per month the Genl, choose the Matter should be layed before Congress before they proceeded to business. Accordingly one of Committee came here. This affair has perplext congress exceedingly. All the Southern states think the Incouragement to the Soldiers much too great be fore Sc if this committee are permitted to follow their Instructions the pay of the whole army must be raised, this by no means could


[Page 539]
November 16, 1776 505 be consented to. Congress have therefore revoked their Resolution for Inlisting the army during the war, 8c recommend the inlistment for three years only, as you’ll see by the Resolution transmitted by the President. I Heartily wish this may have the desired effect, I really think they (the Massachusetts) were very wrong in raising the Monthly pay. If they supposed the encouragment given by Congress insufficient why could they not have increased the Bounty, or have persued some measure, that would not have effected the whole Army. This affair has caused more perplexity & uneasiness then any thing that has happen’d in my time. 1 One vessel has arriv’d here from France since your departure with arms 8c amunition only, several others will soon follow her, with such articles as are at this time more wanted. Harrison is arriv’d from Verginia. There has been a new Election in Delaware. McKean & Rodney are left out & the Farmer 2 is elected instead of one of them, but he has not yet taken his seat. Our Colleague is as well as can be expected, the operation of the small pox has kept him two days from Congress. 3 I hope he will be able to attend in a few days. Please to present my most Respectful Regards to Col. Weare, Dr. Thompson, the Genl. &c &c &c. I will trouble either of them with a letter when ever they’ll give me an opportunity. I want very much to hear from you, perticularly as to your health, tho’ I am in no doubt the Northern air & a sight of Your Family will do great things. I hear a great number of Torys are sent into our state from that of New-York. I hope proper care will be taken of them, as well as those in and of our state. What think you of transporting them. This I wod like exceedingly, but then I’m puzle’d for a place bad Enough to send them to. Scotland indeed might do, but the difficulty is, how to keep them there, but to be serious, I think some very spirited Measure must be speedily taken with those people 8c I know of none that will answer the purpose so effectually as clearing the United states of them by some means or other. I can think of but two ways of effecting this, that is death or transporta tion, 8c Humanity inclines me to the latter. Indeed we had better send them to the Enemys army then let them continue among us. On the whole I dont know but this wod be a good peice of policy, to send not only the avow’d Torys but all those who are not active in their Countrys Cause with their Families, to Lord Howe, and let him make the most of them. I have run on to a much greater length then I expected to, when I took up my pen by which means I shall loose the benefit of a Sermon, this forenoon, which I shod charge to your accot. If I thought you could possibly reap any benifit from this lengthey Scrawl but as that cannot be the case, I must put up with the loss 8c bid you Adieu, assureing you that I am very Sincerely, Yours, Wm Whipple


[Page 544]
510 November 17, 1776 that when I was at Head Quarters I mentioned to the General the Treatment your Brother had met with. 1 He told me that he would have him state the Matter to him in Writing and that he would endeavor to have Justice done to him. The Letter your Brother formerly wrote to me I left at Boston. If he will give me a full Account of the Matter in another Letter, I will State it to General Mifflin, but the Circumstances of things are such at present that I would not have him depend upon it being immediately attended to. I will however do all in my Power to serve him. Our Friend Mr Lovel is at last exchangd. 2 We received a Letter from him two or three days ago. Probably before this reaches you he will have arrivd at Boston. Pray remember me to my Daughter, Sister Polly with the rest of my Family & Friends, and be assured that I am most sincerely & affectionately, Your, S A RC (NN). A continuation of Adams to Elizabeth Adams, November 14, 1776. 1 That is, Samuel Wells. ’For further information on the complicated exchange of James Lovell, see John Hancock to George Washington, January 6, 1776, note 1. Marine Committee to Levinus Clarkson and John Dorsius Gentlemen November 17th 1776 Upon the recommendation of your freinds here we have ap pointed you Continental Agents in the State of South Carolina. As such you are to supply any of the Ships or Cruizers with whatever Provisions, Stores or necessarys they may be in want of when they put into or arrive in any of your ports. If repairs are necessary we depend on you to employ the best Tradesmen and see that the busi ness is done with dispatch. You will in short do all things in this department that you think will serve the Continent and promote the service of the Navy and you must send us proper Certificates Signed by the Captain or principle officer of each Ship or Vessel of your expenditure and your drafts on this board for the amount will be duely honored. It is a Standing order to all our men of war and Cruizers to send their prizes address to the Continental Agents at the ports where they arrive. If any such come into South Carolina, you must receive the same into your charge, prosecute them in the Admiralty to condemnation, make the sale of them at Public ven due, pay all charges justly attending each Prize, and credit us for such part as appertains to the Continent agreeable to the Rules and Regulations of Congress, a book of which shall be sent you. The shares belonging to the officers and Crews of the Captors you must divide amongst them agreeable to the said Rules and Regula-


[Page 545]
November 17, 1776 511 tions, and to do this justly and equitably the Commanders must furnish you with compleat and certified list of the officers and men intitled to a Share of each prize and the share or shares they are respectively intitled to, and you are to pay all persons concerned their shares as soon after Sale is made as you possibly can, and re turn to this Board duplicates of all your accounts and proceedings. We are Gentlemen, Your very hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). John Witherspoon to Benjamin Rush Dr Sir Princeton Nov 17. 1776 On coming home here I found a Letter from a very good friend in the State of Massachusetts which I thought of so much Conse quence that I send an extract from it to you but for a certain reason or rather on Acct of a certain Expression in it I conceal his Name. 1 My son 2 without knowing any thing of that Letter con firmed it in every part as to the Sick. Oh the want of public Spirit & detestable selfishness in some Persons. I hope you will make a prudent if any use at all of it. Perhaps you may guess the Author; if so do not express it to any one. D[octor] M[organ] seems very unfit for his Charge & seems set upon nothing but making Money. The Bearer will more fully inform you. 3 If John wants a Set of Instruments please to direct & assist him. I am glad to find by all Accts from different hands that he has been pretty active. As soon after the Trustees meeting as the Business of the. College will permit I propose to return being anxious for the public Cause. I am with compliments to Mrs Rush, Sir your &c, Jno Witherspoon P.S. Please Show the Extract to Col. Lee. RC (CtY). 1 Witherspoon’s Massachusetts correspondent has not been identified, but see Elbridge Gerry to Unknown, November 27, 1776. “John Witherspoon, Jr. (1757-95?), was a medical student who served under Dr. John Morgan at the general hospital in New York in July and August 1776. Varnum L. Collins, President Witherspoon: A Biography, 2 vols. (Prince ton, N.J.: Princeton University Press, 1925), 2:49n.35. 3 For some indication of the growing disenchantment with Dr. Morgan, culminating in his abrupt dismissal as director general and physician in chief of the Continental Army on January 9, 1777, see John Hancock to John Morgan and William Shippen, December 1, 1776; and Samuel Adams to John Adams, January 9, 1777.


[Page 546]
512 November 18, 1776 Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office 18th Novr. 1776 The Hancock and Adams, loaded from France with military Stores and other Articles for the Use of the Continent, was taken by a Rhode Island Privateer, and carried into the Port of Dart mouth in New England. The Muskets, Powder, Lead and Gunflints are to be delivered, by Virtue of the enclos’d Resolution of Con gress, to the Order of this Board. We have wrote to the Committee of Bedford, in whose District Dartmouth Lies, to deliver to your Order such of the before-mentioned Articles as you shall direct. 1 We have the Honour to be, with great Esteem, Sir, Your very humble Servants, Benja Harrison James Wilson Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (DLC). Written by Wilson and signed by Wilson, Harrison, and Lee. 1 See JCC, 6:952-53. On November 30 Washington informed the board that in view of the uncertain military situation ‘‘I would advise, that you give di rections to have the whole Cargo removed from Dartmouth to some secure place in the Neighbourhood of Philadelphia, and there deposited till call’d for.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:316-17. The board’s letter to the Bedford committee has not been found. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary November 18, 1776 Fair. Heard that Fort Washington surrendered on Saturday last. 1 MS (MHi). ’News of the fall of Fort Washington was brought by George Washington’s November 16 letter to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on Novem ber 19. See JCC, 6:963; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:284-87. Charles Thomson to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentlemen, [ca. November 18, 1776] The bearer 1 has a scheme to propose of fire rafts for burning Vessels. I have, therefore, referred him to you for examination of his plans. Chas. Thomson. Reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:68. ’Apparently Jacob Giesling of Reading, Pa. He had been recommended to Thomson by James Read of Reading, who explained in a November 16 letter to


[Page 547]
November 18, 1776 513 Thomson that Giesling “has something of the utmost moment to the Service of the States to communicate to Congress.” Instead of introducing him to Congress, however, Thomson sent him to the council of safety with this brief introduction and Read's letter. On November 21 the council ordered payment of £10 “in favour of Jacob Kisling . . . for services rendered to the State, in producing a Model for a Fire-Ship.” See ibid.; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:11. Oliver Wolcott to Matthew Griswold Sir, Philidelpa. 18 Nov. 1776 The establishing the New Army is a Subject of the most interesting Nature, and I fear will be attended with much Dificulty, notwith standing all the Encouragement Offerd the men for inlisting. The Service the People have been calld to has been hard. They have suffered much for the Want of Many Things, and have been too much exposed to the Oppressions of Harpys who for Triffles have stript them of their Wages. These Evils I hope in future will in a good Measure be remedied, as the Men are to be cloathed, and it is now the Deliberation of Congress how they shall be regularly and in the cheapest Manner supplyed in the suttling Way, 1 and I hope also the Medical Department will undergo a Reform of Men at least, if not of Measures, that not so much complaint which I fear has been too well grounded, may be heard respecting the Conduct of that Department. But after all that can be done I still fear that the in listing Business will go on slowly and sorry I am that the late Encouragement for that purpose was not earlier made. Congress Apprehend this Matter may become more embarrassed by what the Massachusetts have done in raising the pay, and which I now under stand has been adopted by Connecticut. 2 It is the opinion of Gentle men here, and so of Genl. Washington and of all the other Genl. Officers, that no Army can subsist together under different continen tal pay, and also, if the Massachusetts Plan had been adopted by Congress (and which would entrench an Expence which it is tho’t We are not well able to bear) they could not be certain that any Other plan would take Effect, if particular States might at their pleasure offer Troops other pay. In a Word they say that such Conduct must immediately Subvert any continental Regulation for this purpose, and if therefore permitted it would be altogether ineffectual to make any military Establishment whatsoever. One of the Gentlemen of Massachusetts, appointed to assist in providing their Quota, was sent by Genl. Washington here before he entered on the Business of his appointment. 3 You will perceive that the Measure Adopted by Massachusetts has been reprobated by Con gress. The Gentleman has gone back with this Errand to Genl. Washington where I understand the Gentlemen from Connecticut are upon this Business. I think it is Very unhappy that the Massa-


[Page 552]
518 November 19, 1776 if your Excellency could be furnished with Lists of all the Prisoners that you might at one View be enabled to settle the arrangement of the Exchange; but altho frequent Attempts have been made by the Board to obtain such Lists from the several States their endeavours have hitherto been for the most part ineffectual. Such Accts, of Prisoners as are in the possession of the Board shall be sent im perfect as they are. Measures are taken to restore Major Stuarts Servant Peter Jack. 3 He was permitted to go to Princetown with Doctr. Witherspoon who has been wrote to on the Subject 4 and desired to send the Man to your Excellency at Hackinsack. Many Prisoners have been desirous to enlist and some have been accepted in our Service. Is it your Opinion that these People should return? or will it not be dangerous for them so to do? 5 The Enemy have enlisted great Numbers of our People who were Prisoners & it is but Justice that we should retaliate. Offers however from Prisoners to engage in our Service have in General been refused. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, your very obedt & most humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy P.S. An Officer from Camp informs that Fort Lee is about being evacuated. If so your Excellency will no Doubt alter the Place of Destination of the Prisoners. RC (DLC). In a clerical hand, with signature and postscript by Peters. 1 For Washington’s recent suggestions on an exchange of prisoners, see his November 14 letter to President Hancock, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:282-84. For Peters’ letters to Pennsylvania and Maryland, this date, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:778; and Md. Archives, 12:456. 3 On November 23 the board wrote Washington that in view of the reported evacuation of Fort Lee they had ordered these prisoners to "be sent to Brunswick” instead. Washington Papers, DLC; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:820. 3 On this point, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:676-78; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:284. * Not found. '“As to the propriety of inlisting prisoners of War,” Washington wrote to the board on November 22, “I would just observe, that in my opinion, it is neither consistent with the Rules of War, nor politic, nor can I think that because our Enemies have committed an unjustifiable action by inticing and in some instances intimidating our men into their service, we ought to follow their Example.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:317. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia. Nov 19th. 1776 I arrived here yesterday afternoon. I have seen our Commissioners. Congress in Answer to the three Propositions from our State for Raising our Quota have given a Copy of a Resolve, 1 relative to the


[Page 554]
520 November 19, 1776 no cause to triumph. It is however a disappointment as we have lost stores of considerable consequence, but this in the course of War must be expected for uniform success never was & never will be the portion of man, & we have little pretensions to deserving liberty if small defeats discourage us in the glorious pursuit. From the many difficulties which attend the raising an Army here and to the Eastward I cannot too earnestly press upon you the neces sity of forwarding by every possible method the recruiting Service. The Bounty & pay are both enormous & I hope will secure us success in recruiting 8c to the Southward tho the Eastern Gentry are not yet satisfied 8c wish to screw us up a few pegs higher—but they will be disappointed for in my opinion matters are now come to this. Give way to the extortion of the Army 8c you part with the property of the Continent to them and become Slaves to their Avarice 8c Caprice. Disband your Army 8c you are Slaves to a British Tyrant. Your Slavery differs only in the name of the Superiour, if I am a Slave let me have one rather than 60,000 Masters. However these Gentry will soon I hope be brought to reason 8c we shall have a formidable force on reasonable Terms. It is absolutely necessary that you should have a press established amongst you for the publication of a newspaper, you suffer in your significance with other states from the want of such a Channell of Communication, and your own people are kept in ignorance of what passes abroad; 8c the political papers which tend to explain the Con troversy and confirm them in the Justice and necessity of the Oppo sition in which they are engaged. I would propose that the Convention immediately order the delegates to employ a printer here and send him properly accoutred to Carolina to carry on the Work. Albertson has not yet arrived here. 2 I wish no accident has hap pened to him. Upon his return I will endeavour to procure a quan tity of Military Stores, I mean Shot 8c Powder 8c send it by him. We have plenty of both 8c may afford to run the risque of the Sea rather than pay the horrid Expence of Waggonage. Pray cast your thoughts to the encouragement of the Iron Works & Salt making. The Salvation of Carolina depends upon it. I cannot get Salt pans here, therefore you must look elsewhere for them. I lament the clashing exertions of Genl Moore 8c General Ashe, I tremble lest they should so far counteract the publick Service as to produce the most dreadful consequences. I wish General Moore would sollicit to come this way. I am averse to urging it lest it should disgust him but sure I am a Command here would be less irksome to him 8c then Congress might order some officer there who might be more agreeable to the people. I love Moore 8c wish him happy 8c think I could not serve him better than by bringing him to the Eastward. Pray request the Convention to write me fully of what they wish


[Page 556]
522 November 19, 1776 the navy, under the direction of the Marine Committee.” JCC, 6:929, 958. As a result, the New Jersey General Assembly left Hopkinson out of the new delega tion chosen on November 30. See JCC, 6:1002. Hopkinson also wrote a brief letter this day to Gov. William Livingston re questing permission to resign from Congress. William Livingston Papers, MHi. Robert Treat Paine’s Diary November 19, 1776 Fair. I went in Co. with a Comttee of Council of Safety, Genl. Armstrong & Genl. Roche Fermoi & some other French Engineers to the Forts down the River. 1 MS (MHi). 1 Paine was not a member of either the Board of War or the Marine Committee, the two standing committees recently concerned with the defense of Philadelphia and environs. He probably undertook this trip as a consequence of his chairman ship of the Cannon Committee. Sec JCC, 6:951, 1064. Elbridge Gerry to John Morgan Sir 1 Philada. Novr 20. 1776 With respect to regimental Hospitals, I cannot but think them an unnecessary and dangerous Institution, for upon every removal of such regiments, these Hospitals are a dead Weight, & must be re moved, or exposed to the Enemy. The latter you will agree is by no means adviseable, and the removing such Hospitals is attended with Hardships to the diseased, and prevents them from an early recovery. As to regimental Surgeons, being otherwise wholly useless, I have always supposed that they were never intended to answer any other Purpose, in time of War, than to cure in Camp, slight Wounds & diseases, by which the Patients were not confined, and to attend the regiments in time of Action, to dress the wounded Soldiers, untill they can be removed to the General Hospital. 2 E Gerry I received your favour of the 7 Inst, with Respect to the meaning of the Resolve (viz of Octor. 9) ordering the Directors to take Care of the sick of the Army, 3 as they may be on the East or West Side of the River, it appears to me to be this; that whatever sick of the army shall happen to be on the East side, they shall be under the Care of yourself, and the others under Direction of Dr. Shippen. Your Medi cines ir Surgeons are undoubtedly under your own Command. E. Gerry. Tr (DNA: PCC, item 63). This entry consists of two extracts from a Gerry letter quoted in Morgan’s manuscript “Vindication,” dated February 1, 1779, which


[Page 564]
530 November 23, 1776 On yesterday 1 procured a State of our Treasury—as [of] a few days ago: Dollars Emitted 20,000,000 Expended 16,817,737 In Treasury 3,182,263 This is for your private Information, & not to be made public. The Congress have resolved to encrease their Navy—two frigates of 36 Guns are to be built in our State. Many of the Congress, some true Friends, are uneasy at the Powers to the Delegates of Maryland, they are apprehensive, if made known, they will reach Lord Howe, and encourage him, and if the Courts of Europe should see them, it would prevent a foreign alliance. Some Reasons are given to countenance this opinion. I do not see why they should be published in the Journall. The powers relate to Peace & War, and can be of no Service to the public. I wish You would consider this Subject. 3 In eight Days the Enlistment of the far greater part of our Army expires. I greatly doubt if We shall be able to prevail on the Troops to enter into the Service. I have some Hopes of obtaining our Wish from Congress. Our Commissioners will proceed on tomorrow I believe. However whether they do or not is a Secret. I am, Gent., with Respect & Regard, Your obedt. Servt., Sami. Chase RC (MdAA). 1 For Chase’s brief letter of November 22, which deals entirely with military subjects, see Md. Archives, 12:473. 2 Thomas Mifflin’s letter to Robert Morris, dated “Elisabeth Town, 21 Novr. 1776, 8 O’Clock A.M.,” is at the James S. Copley Library, La Jolla, Calif. 3 For the delegates’ credentials, which had been presented to Congress on November 19, see JCC, 6:962. The Maryland Convention had authorized the Maryland delegates to concur with the other states "in forming a Confederation, and in making foreign Alliances; provided that such Confederation, when formed, be not binding upon this State without the Assent of the General Assembly.” The prospect that individual states would determine what congressional decisions they would or would not honor threatened Congress’ authority to speak with one voice for the United States, leading delegates to fear that the Howes would exploit Maryland’s action to undermine American unity and that France would be reluctant to negotiate an alliance if individual states might subsequently with hold their assent from treaties negotiated by commissioners appointed by Con gress. The delegates’ credentials would be made public with the forthcoming publication of the proceedings of the recently adjourned Maryland Convention. For the council of safety’s response to this and Chase’s two preceding letters of November 21 and 22, see Md. Archives, 12:490-91. See also Matthew Tilghman to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 3, 1776, note.


[Page 565]
November 23, 1776 531 John Hancock to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentn. Novr. 23. 1776 The foregoing Extract I Send you by Desire of Congress, & is the whole Information Congress are possess’d of relative to the De signs of the Enemy. 1 I am Gentn, Your very humi Servt. John Hancock Prst RC (InU). 1 Hancock sent the council of safety an extract of a November 20 letter from Gen. Hugh Mercer, the commander of the flying camp, stating that “the enemy intend to reduce Fort Lee, and then to march through the Jerseys to attack the city of Philadelphia.” See JCC, 6:971; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:778-79. For the council’s response to this intelligence, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:196. Richard Henry Lee to Unknown Philadelphia, 23rd November, 1776. . . You may observe by the letter accompanying this, that I had paid my respects to you some time ago, but Mr. Coulston disappointed me in not calling for my letter. 1 The enemy have been lately amazingly active on the banks of the North river, both forts Washington & Lee having be come theirs. We have not had the particulars of either from author ity, but you will see by the paper that they have paid a good price for the former, and report says our troops had evacuated the latter before they came up, but had not time to remove their stores. Indeed it had been determined to abandon Fort Lee as no longer useful after Mount Washington was lost. It is most clear, upon every view of things, that Gen. Howe must exert every nerve to effect something more than he has yet done with a land and marine force that all Europe had been taught to believe would in one Campaign crush America. Our enemies must become the laughing stock of Europe and the contempt even of their own nation if much, very much more than has yet been done is not expected before they go into winter quarters. Upon these principles it is said Gen. Howe proposes to endeavor to get to this City thro the Jersies—I think he will find this a difficult & dangerous enterprize—But I should have very little objections to his plundering the Quakers, if we can get the public stores removed, because they have taken such true pains to get him & his Hessians here. . . . “The late proceedings of Portugal will probably produce a rup ture between us & them. This foolish Court, that cannot injure us, that has every thing to loose on the water, dependent in Com merce, and cannot gain by war, has shut its ports to us, and, as


[Page 566]
532 November 23, 1776 some suppose, confiscated our Vessels. 2 If this last is done, it will not be long before we hear of some Brazelemen being brought into our ports. . . Extract reprinted from Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog. The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (May 13, 1947), pp. 11-12. 1 Although Samuel T. Freeman & Co. suggested Landon Carter as the probable recipient of this letter, his nephew Robert Carter of Nomini Hall, Westmoreland County, may have been the actual recipient, since Lee originally expected that his November 10 letter to Robert Carter would be delivered by “Mr. Coulston.” See Richard Henry Lee to Robert Carter, November 10, 1776, document note. “See William Hooper to Joseph Hewes, November 16, 1776, note 8; and JCC, 6:1035-36. Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston My dear Robert Philada. Novr 23. 1776. The Movements of the Enemy being entirely changed, and having great Reason to believe that ten thousand of General Howe’s Army will in a few Days bend their Way to South Carolina I have de termined to proceed to my native Home with all possible Expedi tion; to render my Country that Assistance in the Field which she will have a Right to expect. The Reverse of our Affairs within the few Days last past, should have taught us, had we been ignorant of it, that the Fortune of War is precarious indeed! As I mean to share every Danger in common with my Countrymen, Sc as the Number of the Enemy will be vastly superior to any Force which we shall be able to bring against them, it is far from being improbable that we shall never meet again; be this however as it may, I could not think of quitting Philadelphia before I had given you my best Wishes for every Happiness which human Nature is capable of receiving. May you enjoy a large portion of domestic Comfort, and public Esteem, & may you be able to establish the Independency of these States upon a firm & lasting Foundation! As the Enemy have removed their Forces into Canada 8c every Reason to fear a junction of the two Armies, or an Attack from the North is now at an End, I wish you would immediately prevail upon Schuyler to come down to Congress. After embracing the first opportunity which may offer to clear up his Character, he will proceed to explain to the House the Steps which are necessary for preventing Carlton from making any Impression from Canada; 8c having obtained full powers for that purpose let him return to his Command to carry those Measures into Execution. By all Means obstruct the Navigation of Hudson’s River, it surely may be done by the Forts in the Highlands. If it is not your Country will be lost, if it is, it will be safe. Pray establish in your own State as soon as possible a good Government. Let the Executive be strong, 8c set


[Page 571]
November 24, 1776 537 This has been expressly named as the Mode as to 6 Millions of Dollars. As to 14 more the same Declaration is made as in the Article of Land that the proportion of sinking it shall be adjusted here after on each State and that Nothing heretofore done shall strengthen or weaken such Enquiry or Questions. Our Province having in some Measure obtained a Satisfaction on those two Heads Nothing now remains but to consider whether the Convention having impowered Us to proceed and inlist for and during the War on the 20 Dollars We can go on the Terms of three Years and the same Bounty being for a less Term and in this point we are pretty generally agreed to depart from the Letter to preserve the Spirit. Fort Lee has followed the same Fate as Fort Washington except that our Powder and Men with two 12 Pounders escaped. We lost 1000 Barrells of Flour & 300 Tents, better than 400 of the Maryland Troops were taken in and about Fort Washington where Major Price writes our Brother Commissioner’s Son fell as well as Colo. Williams of the Rifle Battailion bravely fighting in his Country’s Cause. I am greatly surprised that these Britons are so bent on surprising and that we should be so often so Surprised in Long Island, York Island, White Plains, Fort Washington and now Fort Lee; ’tho’ the Enemy crossed at Dobbs Ferry they became not visible ’till within Sight of the Fort. In Short there are so many of them that I shall be all Wonder and Surprise or learn in the Poets Phrase Nil admirari. I am Sir, Your most humble Servt., Benjamin Rumsey [P.S.] I am afraid You have not sent Commissions enough. Wrote in the Midst of Company. RC (MdAA). Addressed: “The Honble Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer Esqr. at Annapolis.” 1 Rumsey clearly wrote this letter in his capacity as one of the commissioners appointed by the Maryland Convention to promote the enlistment of Maryland troops. He did not attend Congress until December 12, although he had been elected a delegate on November 10 and was regarded by his fellow delegates as one of the members of the Maryland delegation. He had been in Philadelphia since October 19 conferring and negotiating over terms to be offered troops recruited into the Maryland Continental battalions; after mid-November it is pointless to attempt to establish precisely under what authority he was operating at particular moments. See JCC, 6:962; John Hancock to the Maryland Conven tion, November 4, note 1; Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety, November 23; and Benjamin Rumsey to John Hall?, December 19, 1776.


[Page 573]
November 24, 1776 539 to my native home; where I shall endeavour to render my Country more Service in the Field that I have been able to render her in the Cabinet. I have therefore very little time to write, & have to lengthen this Letter. I could not however think of quitting this part of the Continent without writing you what appeared to me of Consequence, especially when I consider that it is probable, or at least possible, that this may be the last time I may have it in my power to give you any Evidence of my Affection. I shall add no more than that you have my best Wishes for your Happiness & that if I fall in the Defence of my Country, it will alleviate my Misfortune to think that it is in support of the best of Causes, & that I am esteem’d by one of the best of Men. God bless you. Adieu my Friend. Yours Sincerely. E. Rutledge RC (NNC). Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpa 24t Novr. 1776 I Wrote to you the 12 inst by Col Williams which you have probably reed. On the 16t I put a Letter for you into the Post office, also one to Mr Adams and Lyman which I hope will go safe. 1 Mr Lyman favour of the 16 has come to hand, by which I had the Pleasure of being informed of your and Family’s Wellfare. By the Blessing of God I am well, and think I have obtained a radical Cure of those bilious disorders which have for so long a time troubled me. Nothing but perserverance in a Course of Medicine will free a Person from those Disorders when they are once pretty deeply rooted. The Loss of Fort Lee you have or will hear of. The Enemy have now a free Passage up the N River—whether they will improve it this Season to endeavour to get Possession of the highlands or Make an attempt for this City, or perform any Other Enterprize Time must discover. I have been alone in the Connecticut Delegation since Col Williams went home. Mr Sherman is dayly expected, but I suppose he finds a good deal of Dificullty in executing his Business which he was employed in by the Colony, with the Army. 2 Unless Col Williams tho’t the present times less difficult, than when his Presence here was first tho’t to be so Very essential I can assign no Reason why he went off, except what he himself gave, which was that he did not know wheither he should do any good if he staid. A most puzzling Question, and which probably will be a Matter of ever lasting Doupt—but the true Reason of his Re-


[Page 576]
542 November 25, 1776 upon which they have requested that all the Militia of the Counties of Pennsylvania nearest to Delaware should be called forth. We sub mit the Propriety of adopting similar Measures in New Jersey. We are Sir with the greatest Regard, Your most obedt hum Servants, James Wilson Geo Clymer Samuel Chase RC (NHi). Written by Clymer and signed by Clymer, Chase, and Wilson. 1 On November 23 Congress appointed Samuel Chase, George Clymer, James Smith, Richard Stockton, and James Wilson as a committee “to devise and execute measures for effectually reinforcing General Washington, and obstruct ing the progress of General Howe’s army.” Accordingly, the committee met the following day with the members of the Pennsylvania Assembly and Council of Safety that were immediately available, after which they issued a series of resolutions for mobilizing the militia and distributed them as a broadside to the commanding officers of the various battalions of Pennsylvania associators. For these resolutions, which carried the force of congressional resolves and embodied a Continental fiscal commitment but were never entered on the journals, see illustration. They were accompanied by an order by the Pennsylvania Council of Safety and were reprinted in several newspapers. See also JCC, 6:975-76; PCC, item 69, fol. 265; and Pa. Council Minutes, 11:14. Committee of Congress to George Read Sir Philada. Novr. 25th. 1776 The enclosed Resolutions will inform You of the Steps adopted in this State for the immediate reinforcement of the Army under the command of General Washington. 1 We wish for Assistance from the State of Delaware, & cannot doubt their alacrity in furnishing every Aid in their Power, in this Hour of common Danger. We know not to whom our Application ought to be made but we earnestly intreat your Influence & Exertions with the proper Authority of your State to send a speedy Assistance of 500 Volun teers if possible, on the same Terms Sc Times of Service with the Volunteers from this State. We are Sir, with great Regard, Your most obedt. hum Servs, James Wilson Co Py Geo Clymer Sami Chase Tr (Facsimile, Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, May 16, 1967, item 8). 1 For these resolutions, see the note to the committee’s letter in the preceding entry and accompanying illustration. The writer of the present letter used an asterisk to note, at the foot of the document, that the enclosures were “published in all the Newspapers.”


[Page 578]
544 November 26, 1776 Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia Novr. 26th. 1776 Tuesday Morning In my last I expressed some Hopes of prevailing on Congress to give our State some Satisfaction as to the back Lands, and the Mode by which the Proportion of the Expences of the War was to be paid by each State. In this Expectation I was delayed & disap pointed for two Days, by Mr. Jenifers mentioning that our Commis sioners had your orders to proceed. By an obstinate perseverance the enclosed Resolve was obtained last Saturday; 1 on Sunday afternoon our Commissioners left this City. On yesterday the Com missioners from Congress, of which Mr. Paca is one, also sett off for the Camps. Much depends on their Success. The Reduction of fort Washington and easy Possession obtained of fort Lee has greatly encouraged General Howe, and probably induced him to carry on the Campain much longer than he would otherwise have done. There is great Reason to beleive his Views extend to this City. On Sunday Evening General Mifflin arrived in this City. Our Army, under the Command of General Washing ton in the Jerseys are about 6,000, of which the Service of about 1500 expires on Sunday next. General Lee has about 11000 effectives on the west Side of North River, of which the Enlistment of about 3000 expires on the same Day. The Enemy have about 21,000 effec tives. They can spare about 16,000 & leave a sufficient Garrison to maintain New York. Genl. Howe has 6,000 in the Jerseys opposite to Newark. In this State it is proposed to call out all the Militia of four Countys & this City immediately for Six Weeks. Chester, Bucks, Northampton and Philadelphia Counties are the nearest to the Jerseys, & it is also proposed to call out a Company of Volun teers from each Battalion in this state to enroll ’till 10th March next. The preservation of this State & the Jerseys and, in great Measure, the common Safety will depend on the Success of this Requisition. New Jersey is also called on for Aid, Delaware is solicitted, and if our State could afford any assistance in Time an application would also be made to her. If the present Cloud should be happily dispersed, the new Levies will be the first object of your attention. We can neither prosecute the War, nor obtain honorable Terms of Peace without an Army. The Enlistment will be only for three years, on the bounty of 20 Dollars, and the annual Cloathing, or the 20 Dollars in Lieu thereof. 2 By the Resolves of Congress, I am informed, the recruiting officers are intitled to 10s for each man inlisted &: passed, and 10s per week for provisions till the Recruits arrive to some Place where they can be furnished by the Continental Commissaries. 3


[Page 582]
548 November 27, 1776 shall think proper to make an Establishment, It may be convenient to have a Recommendation from the Director, in which I think the Names of the five or six Gentlemen who have officiated as hospital Surgeons should be mentioned. I have conferred with Doctor Foster & he will communicate the substance of the Inter view. I remain sir in Haste your Friend & hum ser, E Gerry RC (CtY). ’Although the intended recipient of this letter cannot be positively identified, it is possible that Gerry directed it to John Warren. Warren (1753-1815), a brother of the slain revolutionary leader Joseph Warren and a Salem, Mass., physician who was currently surgeon general of the Continental hospital at Hackensack, N.J., subsequently wrote a letter to Gerry in which he discussed the reorganization of the medical department and mentioned the possibility of his appointment as an “Assistant Director.” John Warren to Elbridge Gerry, Febru ary 26, 1777, RG 27, PHarH. Later in the war Warren served as senior surgeon of the Continental hospital in Boston. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 17:655-69. Francis Lewis to the New York Convention Gentlemen Phila. 27th Novr. 1776. Upon the information given to the marine committee by Capt. Patrick Dennis, of the then state of the frigates built at Poughkeepsie, the said committee desired me to inform you that it was their opinion, those ships being launched should as soon as possible be sent up to Esopus creek, to be there laid up for the winter, as there appears at present no prospect of bringing them into service for this year. And it is their opinion that a lieutenant of marines be appointed, with orders given him to immediately enlist thirty marines to guard those frigates during winter, and that all such stores that are remaining, together with those belonging to such vessels as were ordered to be sunk in the North and East rivers, be also put under the care of said lieutenant of marines. That Capt. Dennis, who has at present the custody of all the rig ging, &c. belonging to the vessels so sunk, be directed to deliver the same to said lieutenant, furnishing him with an inventory of the particulars; a copy thereof to be signed by the lieutenant, and trans mitted to the marine committee, who apprehend the stores aforesaid will be this winter wanted by Genl. Schuyler. In regard to the destination of the frigates for the winter, if you see any likelihood of their being brought into use, they are sub mitted entirely to your direction. Upon your nominating the lieuten ant, his commission will be sent up to you as you, are more im mediately upon the spot. In regard to the frigates, the marine


[Page 583]
November 28, 1776 549 committee refers it to your judgment to direct what may be necessary to be done with them, and desires you would advise them thereof. 1 I am respectfully, sirs, Your very hble. servt. F. Lewis. MS not found; reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:730. 1 For the convention’s December 4 resolves respecting the frigates at Pough keepsie and December 5 reply to Lewis, sec Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:355, 357. Elbridge Gerry to James Warren Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia 28th. Nov. 1776 In addition to what I wrote you by Mr. Chamberlain give me leave to inform you that I shall order such a part of the amount of the Schooner Rockingham & Cargo as may be saved by Mess. Gardoque & Sons, to be remitted in Military Stores if the Honorable Assembly approve thereof. 2 I shall be glad to know their sentiments on the matter 3 & remain, Sir, Yours Sincerely, E Gerry Tr (DLC). 1 Although the copyist who made this transcript wrote “Hon James Bowdoin Esq” for the inside address, the recipient is clearly James Warren. The printed journals of the Massachusetts House of Representatives note that on December 24, 1776—the date this letter was first read in the House—“A letter from Elbridge- Gerry to Mr. Speaker Warren read and committed to Mr. Gardner, Mr. Perry and Judge Cushing.” Massachusetts House Journal, December 24, 1776, p. 198. DLC (ESR). 2 For “what I wrote you by Mr. Chamberlain,” see Gerry to James Warren, November 26, 1776. 2 On December 30, 1776, the general court recommended that the proceeds of the Rockingham be “vested in Military Stores.” Massachusetts General Court Resolves, Force Papers, DLC. However, the Massachusetts Board of War sub sequently requested that the proceeds of the Rockingham be invested in “Duck, Cordage, and Blankets” rather than military stores, a decision the board com municated to Gerry on January 14, 1777. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:949-50. See also Gerry to the Massachusetts Board of War, February 2, 1777. George Ross to James Wilson Dear Wilson Eliza. Town 28th Novr. 1776 I met the Genl, this morning retreating from Newark to this Place with about 2000 Men at Most and another division of not quite that Number are expected in half an hour. They continue their March through this place to Brunswick where we are again to make a Stand in hopes of a reinforcemt. The Enemy are now at Newark & about 8000 Strong and tis Supposed intend for Philada. I hope we shall rouse from our Lethergy & play the part of men who merit freedom. We have it in our power if we will exert our


[Page 585]
November 29, 1776 551 one Campaign more; and its over with them. I am with every Sen timent of Respect, Your Most Obt Sert, Wm. Whipple P.S. My Colleague 2 is now confin’d with the small Pox but is on the recovery & I Expect will be out in a very few days. RC (Nh-Ar). ’The November 27 resolve calling on the New England states to procure 10,000 pairs of shoes and stockings for Washington’s army. JCC, 6:984. On Decem ber 16, Meshech Weare responded that if the Congress would forward money “Very considerable Quantities of Shoes, Leather-Breeches, and some other Articles Can be procured here.” N.H. State Papers, 8:420. 2 Matthew Thornton. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philadelphia Novr 29 1776 I take this opportunity by Mr Chamberlain to acquaint you that I am in good health & Spirits. This Intelligence, I flatter myself, will not be disagreable to you. I have not receivd a line from you since I left Boston which gives me Reason to suspect that your Letters may have fallen into wrong hands. Traveling, it seems, is of late become somewhat dangerous; should this be intercepted and be seen by the two Brothers, they will have an opportunity of know ing that I am still most firmly attached to the best Cause that vir tuous Men contend for, and that I am animated with the full Perswasion that righteous Heaven will support the Americans if they persevere in their manly Struggles for their Liberty. I have no Reason to suspect the Virtue of the Generality of my Country men. There are indeed Poltroons & Trayters everywhere. I do not therefore think it strange that some such Characters are to be found in this City—but the Indignation of the People kindles at the ex pected approach of the Enemies Army, and every proper Measure is taking to meet them on the Road and stop their wild Career. I am told that Lord Howe has lately issued a Proclamation of fering a general Pardon with the Exception of only four Persons viz Dr Franklin, Coll Richard Henry Lee, Mr John Adams 8c myself. 1 I am not certain of the Truth of this Report. If it be a Fact I am greatly oblig’d to his Lordship for the flattering opinion he has given me of myself as being a Person obnoxious to those who are desolat ing a once happy Country for the sake of extinguishing the remain ing Lamp of Liberty, and for the singular Honor he does me in ranking me with Men so eminently patriotick. I hope you will write to me by every opportunity. Pay my due Respects to my Family and Friends and be assured that I am most affectionately, your, S Adams


[Page 590]
556 November 29, 1776 to have done. I meant before now to have Wrote him upon the Subject, but for the general Reasons which have prevented me from answered your Favour earlier has hindered me I cannot think it a Crime to have mentioned the affair to Col Francis as I have no Apprehension that the Commissioners meant to keep the matter secret. If they did, I have been ignorantly faulty. I Was sorry to be informed by you of the unhappy State of your County. In these unhappy Times ignorant and ambitious Men are too apt, by a great apparent Zeal, to acquire an Importance which they are but little intituled to, and every Necessitous Man will join the Wicked Designs of these Men in suppressing Justice. But their Influence being founded in Delusion must be temporary only, and a People will soon recover a Love of order and Justice, so that I hope the personal Injuries which you now sustain will be but of a short Duration, and that you will be repaid by such a Re ward, as a good Man ought to expect, who maintains his Integrity in the Hour of severe Tryal and Adversity. For News refer you to Mr Sergeant. My best Compliments to your Lady, and Gentlemen of my Acquaintance in your Town. I am sir, your most Obedient, humble Servant, Oliver Wolcott RC (NN). 1 Both Wolcott and Timothy Edwards (1738-1813), a Stockbridge, Mass., judge, were Indian commissioners for the northern department. Appleton’s Cyclopaedia of American Biography; and JCC, 2:183. a The Indians visited Congress on December 5, 7, and 9. JCC, 6:1006, 1010-11, 1013. For an account of their first appearance in Congress, see Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Proceedings in Congress, December 5, 1776. 3 For further information about the Indian commissioners dispute with their colleague Turbutt Francis, see Oliver Wolcott to Philip Schuyler, January 22, 1776, note 2. * Probably Turbutt Francis’ April 23 letter to Philip Schuyler and Volkert P. Douw. See Susquehannah Co. Papers, 7:11-12. 3 For a later deposition by Thomas Fulmer summarizing this entire affair, see ibid., pp. 26-28. Samuel Chase to the Maryland Council of Safety Gentlemen, Philadelphia Novr. 30th. 1776. Saturday Morning By a Resolve of Congress of the 12th of October 1775, “each Captain & other commissioned officer, while in the recruiting Ser vice of this Continent, or on their March to join the Army shall be allowed two Dollars & two thirds per Week for their Subsistance; and that the Men who enlist shall each of them, whilst in Quarters, be allowed one Dollar per week, & one Dollar & one third of a Dollar, when on their March, to join the Army for the same Pur pose.”


[Page 592]
558 November 30, 1776 about 6000 with him, but alas this night the Enlistment of one half of them expires & they will go home! The Enemy know this from an intercepted letter R: are preparing to advantage themselves of the Misfortune. Cornwallis it is said commands on this side of Hudson River. His army may be about 6000. He is now at Eliz Town, will no doubt advance to Amboy. There a number of Trans ports whose destination has been long a matter of Speculation will probably join them, or rather the Enemy from these Ships will land at South Amboy R: penetrate up Raritan River to Brunswick while Cornwallis with his Brigades will attempt to force a passage at some other place thereby to distract and divide our little army. Where the Eastern Army is, or how employed God only knows. Lee is with them & may possibly hereafter explain their Movements. Oh how I feel for Washington that best of men. The difficulties which he has now to encounter are beyond the power of language to describe but to be unfortunate is to be wrong & there are men, you know who, who are villains enough to brand him. There are some long faces here, & the Hero from M cl who disavowed his Allegiance to G.B. 6 months ago & frightend poor parson Zubly home shakes in his shoes, now talks of accommodation, Conciliation, reconcilia tion, Peace on honourable terms. This man had the impudence to call those tories who talked thus when the Scheme was practicable & when I thought R: when I still think that if America could have had her terms, it was the best bargain she could have made. I hate such puffing. Such as these if America falls have ruined her by giving vain hopes, & lying without Compunction or restraint. 1 Still this City might be saved if the Inhabitants of Jersey & Pennsylvania would move. Mifflin came here to try his powers, a few are dragged in to follow him, their motions I fear will be very slow, and retrogade some of them. We have heard that an attack is begun in the Highlands upon Fort Montg[omer]y, we yet have not the Event. In Lat. 32, Long. 70, A man just arrived at Baltimore saw 160 large Vessells steering S.W. & W.S.W. Were these intended for Chas town, you know before this. It is suspected that they are a fleet which Burgoyne with Men is carrying to the Southward. Rise my dear Carolina Men—Rise to a Man. To the Southern Provinces is reserved for aught I know the glorious task of rescuing America from Slavery here Re hereafter. Pray compleat your new Enlistments, Succour your Sister S Caro lina. From whence I shall write you next I know not. Perhaps from this—perhaps Lancaster—perhaps Baltimore—Perhaps Heaven. Was it not for my family, I could wish the latter. Adieu. This Letter is confidential—to you, Penn, & J[ohnsto]n. RC (Nc-Ar). In Hooper’s hand, though not signed. 1 These cryptic comments about Samuel Chase add not only to an understand ing of the evolution of his views in the autumn of 1776 but also provide con-


[Page 595]
December 1, 1776 561 at Head Quarters or at any of the Camps, should be given to those Soldiers who stand most in Need of them. The Secret Committee will order one or two Persons to set out immediately to the Eastern States, to see that the Cloathing & Stores which have been purchased in that Quarter, be sent to the Army with all possible Dispatch. 3 I have the Honour to be, with Sentiments of perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 Washington’s November 30 letter to Hancock, announcing that his army had retreated from Newark to Brunswick and was in desperate need of reinforce ments, is in PCC, item 152, 3:279-80, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:314-16. For the resolves passed this day in response to it, during a rare Sunday session, see JCC, 6:997-98. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:323. 3 See Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 4, 1776. On December 2 Hancock also wrote a brief note to Governor Cooke of Rhode Island in which he stated: “The Inclos’d Resolutions I transmitt by order of Congress, your Attachment to the common Cause & great Zeal to promote the Service tenders any further Recommendation unnecessary.” Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog, The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (February 17, 1947), p. 11. One of these enclosures was probably the December 1 resolve on the purchase of “cloathing and stores” in “the eastern states.” JCC, 6:997. The others have not been identified. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes Dear Hewes Philadelphia Deer. 1. 1776. I wrote you yesterday and the day before. This is intended to close the packet by Bondfield who proposes to leave this early to morrow morning. This is Sunday, the Congress is now setting, you will conclude that matters are growing very critical. Your conclusions will be just. By a letter from General Washington this day received We find that he is at Brunswick with about 4000 Men; before night I fear this number will be much reduced. By the Capture of Ft Lee & Washington they have lost Tents, Blankets & Baggage; of course they are half naked & greatly dispirited. Cornwallis is at Eliz. Town & part of his troops about 5 miles on this side. We have ordered Housacker’s German Battalion & such of the City Associators as can be prevailed upon to leave this to march immediately under the Command of Genl Mifflin. 1 Very few of the Jersey Militia have turned out, few or none here. From the difficulty of getting men for our frigates We have formed Artillery Companies amounting in the whole to about 400 under Command of Barry 8c Reid 8c other of the Masters of the Vessells who with 12 field pieces march this


[Page 598]
564 December 1, 1776 he spent most of his time at his Fairhill estate, limiting his political activity to writing sporadically in opposition to the new Pennsylvania constitution and refus ing to take the seat to which he had been elected in the first assembly convened under that instrument of government. On December 10, at the continued ap proach of British troops and almost simultaneously with the general evacuation of Philadelphia by Congress and most active whig leaders, Dickinson retired with his family to his estate in Kent, near Dover, Delaware. See Charles J. Stills, The Life and Times of John Dickinson, 1732-1808 (1891; reprint ed.. New York: Burt Franklin, 1969), pp. 201-15, 383-93. William Hooper to Joseph Hewes Philadelphia Deer. 3. [1776] The Enemy move rapidly this way. On Sunday 7 oClock p.m. they advanced in sight of Brunswick. 1 Our little Army reduced to about 3000 by the Expiration of Enlistments upon their arrival at the fording place kept up a Cannonade till our Men were paraded, the effect was nothing. It was impossible with such a handful to make a stand against this superiour force. Gen Washington re treated, is before this at Trenton, intends immediately to cross the River where Putman has been providing boats for them. The Asso- ciators here come out very slowly, I fear they will be too late to be very useful. Dear Hewes, I have been much indisposed, my Constitution is not equal to the fatigue I undergo. I have had my share of it. I beg that the Convention would send on some one to relieve me. I can not bear a longer absence from my family. I think myself ne glected. Where is Penn? I give this notice that I may not be culpable in case the State of No Carolina should not soon send me relief. Yours truly, Wm Hooper RC (PHi). A continuation of Hooper to Hewes, December 1, 1776. 1 Robert Treat Paine made the following entry in his diary under the date December 2: "Alarmed with the approach of Genl Howes forces commanded by Genl Cornwallis to Brunswick.” MHi. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3 Deer. 1776 The present moment is critical in the American war. The enemy have taken vigorous advantage of the space between the old and the new inlistments, and have rushed like a Torrent thru the Jersies, our little army of no more than 5000 men under the com mand of Genl. Washington, being compelled to retreat rapidly before them. The object is this City, and they were on Sunday last


[Page 599]
December 3, 1776 565 at Brunswick, about 60 miles off in the Jersies. The Associators are at length alarmed and turning out to reenforce the General, but they move rather slower that the important stake demands. We hear that Gen. Lee has crossed North river and is following quickly after the enemy, but we are not sure that his numbers are sufficient for anything decisive. However, if the people here have any title to the freedom they claim, Mr. Howe will not be gratified with the possession of this City. And if he gained 20 such Cities, still he would be short of gaining the point meditated over America. You remember Sir, we told them from the beginning, that we lookt on our Cities & Sea Coasts as devoted to destruction, but that ample resources were still left for a numerous, brave, and free people to contend with. Our latest accounts from the French W. Indies tell us that war between G.B. & France & Spain is inevitable and must be immediate. I hope our winter councils will be every where devoted solely to the purpose of carrying on a vigorous, active, and early Campaign. For this purpose the recruiting Officers in all quarters should be often called upon by the respective governments to know how they go on, and to urge them to a quick and effectual execution of the business. Everything my dear Sir, depends upon the new Levies being nearly ready. Colo. Charles Harrison leaves this place today, with 250,000 dollars under his care for the use of our forces in Virginia, and for paying the bounties. Your recommendation of this Gentlemen, seconded by his real merit, has procured him the com mand of a Regiment of Artillery to be raised in Virginia, Congress having resolved to keep the Artillery & Engineers departments under immediate Continental inspection. 1 The other day we dispatched for the Head of Elk to the care of Mr. Hollingsworth there, the Arms taken from our Soldiers here that better might be put in their hands. They are between 7 & 8 hundred in number and may be had from thence when you are pleased to send for them. With some repair they will do tolerably for the new Levies. I am extremely pleased to hear that you have recovered your health. May it long continue good. I am, with great regard, dear Sir Your most affectionate and obedient, Richard Henry Lee [P.S.] Business and alarm press so constantly that we have scarce one moment to spare. RC (ViStrR). ’See JCC, 6:981, 983, 995.


[Page 601]
December 4, 1776 567 Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia December 4, 1776] I receivd your obliging Letter [. . .] by Mr Brown. 1 It affords me singular pleasure to be informd that our Assembly is now sitting in Boston. It has ever been my opinion that the publick Business can be done with more Dispatch there than elsewhere. “You have ap pointed a Committee of War,” “with very extensive Powers,” and “appropriated to their Disposition £200,000 to purchase every thing necessary to carry on the War with Vigour the next year.” 2 I am heartily rejoycd to hear this. I hope the Committee are Men of Business and will make a good Use of the Power and Monies they are entrusted with. Let me tell you that every Nerve must be straind to resist the British Tyrant, who in Despair of availing himself of his own Strength which lately he so much prided him self in, is now summoning the Powers of Earth & Hell to subjugate America. The Lamp of Liberty bums there 8c there only. He sees it, and is impatient even to Madness to extinguish it. It is our Duty, at all Hazards to prevent it. But I am sensible I need not write to you in this Stile. You and the rest of my Countrymen have hitherto done and I have no Doubt will continue to do your Duty in Defence of a Cause as interesting to Mankind. It is with in expressible Pleasure that I reflect, that the mercenary Forces of the Tyrant have for two years in vain attempted to penetrate the Eastern Colonies. There, our Enemies themselves and those who even hate us, acknowledge that the Rights of Men have been defended with Bravery. And did not South Carolina nobly withstand the Efforts of Tyranny 8c defeat them. She did. Virginia too 8c North Carolina have in their Turns acted with a Spirit becoming the Character of Americans. But what will be said of Pennsylvania 8c the Jerseys? Have they not disgracd themselves by standing the idle Spectators while the Enemy overran a great Part of their Country? They have seen our Army, unfortunately seperated by the river, retreating to Hakinsack—to Newark—to Elisabeth Town, Woodbridge, Bruns wick 8c Princeton. The [. . .] is about 40 miles from this [....] The enemy’s Army by the last Accounts were within an 60 Miles March to this place. If they were as near Boston, would not our hardy Countrymen cut them all to Pieces or take them Prisoners. But by the unaccountable Stupor which seems to have pervaded these States, The Enemy have gaind a Tryumph, which they did not themselves expect—A Tryumph indeed! Without a Victory—without one Laurel to boast of—For Bunkers Hill they fought & bled. They lost their bravest officers, and we wishd them twenty such Victories. But the People of the Jersys have sufferd them to run thro’ their Coun try without the Risque of even a private soldier. They expended their Ammunition at the Trees and Bushes as they marchd. But I


[Page 602]
568 December 4, 1776 hear the Sound of a Drum. The People of Pennsylvania say of themselves that they are usually slow in determining, but vigorous in executing. I hope we shall find both Parts of this Predication to be just. They say they are now determind; and promise to bring General Howe to a hearty Repentance for venturing his Troops so near them. I have the Pleasure to tell you that within a few days past they have made a spirited Appearance. In Spite of Quakers, Proprietarians, timid Whigs, Tories, Pettit Maitres & Trimmers, there are a sufficient Number in Arms resolvd to defend their Coun try. Many are now on the March. Heaven grant they may be the honorable Instruments to retrieve the Reputation of their Country men and reduce Britain to a contemptible Figure at the End of this Campaign. I am glad to hear that our harbor looks so brilliant. I hope it is fortified against every Attempt of the Enemy the next Spring. In your Letter you ask me two very important Questions. I dare not repeat them. 3 With regard to the last you will understand what I mean when I say Let not your Mind be any more troubled about it. I am in good health & Spirits. Adieu. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. Endorsed: “Deer. 4. 1776.” William V. Wells, The Life and Public Services of Samuel Adams . . . , 3 vols. (Boston: Little, Brown, and Co., 1865), 2:452-54. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 See James Warren’s November 18 letter to Samuel Adams in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:440-41. 2 For the appointment of the Massachusetts Board of War, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 6, 1776, note 2. 3 Warren had asked Adams: “Where is your Confederation. Are your Embas sadors gone, etc., etc.” Warren-Adams, 2:441. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 4th 1776. It is long since I received a Letter from the Assembly notwith standing my repeated Requests. I should rejoice by the Return of the Express, who will take the Charge of this, to receive the Informa tion I have desired. I am uninformed with Regard to the Force actually muster’d in the Colony for its Defence, and what Number the Militia, now employed in that Service, consists of. Whether We have any Powder Mills agoing, what Quantity of Money our State hath issued, at what Periods the several Emissions are redeemable, and what Interest is allowed on any of them? Whether any Cloath- ing hath been purchased for the Army and sent forward, 8cc &c &c. In short I know nothing about the affairs of our State but what I collect from the private Letters and News Papers, which I now and then receive. In Addition to the Information before prayed for I


[Page 604]
570 December 4, 1776 could wish to know whether the Assembly have appointed a Com missioner of the Loan-Office for our State. 1 Certificates will soon be ready to be transmitted to the several States, and it is a Matter of great Importance that Commrs should be appointed to exchange them with those who may be disposed to let Money on Loan. Please to advise Me what Sum you think may be hired in our State. I hope the Loan Office & State Lottery will be encouraged in the respective United States; for upon the Success thereof, very much depends the Supply of the Treasury in such a Manner as will check the Depretiation of the public Medium. Tickets will in a short Time be transmitted by the Managers of the Lottery to Agents appointed by them in the several States, and I think the Lottery is so well calculated that with the Countenance which may be given to it by the States the Tickets will soon be purchased. Every Step ought to be taken that can be taken to retard, to put a full Stop to the Career of Depretiation otherwise such Floods of Money must issue as can never be sunk. 2 The Prices of all the Necessaries of Life, by the Depretiation, owing very much to the great Quantity of Paper Money in Circula tion, by the Limitation of Commerce, and by a vile sordid Practice of monopolizing, which some wealthy Men here have got into, have been raised within a year or Two, One hundred per Cent. I hope that the Necessaries of Life have not arisen in their Value, in the same rapid and extravagant Manner in our State; if they have the Poor especially must be in a most deplorable Situation. I am told that the Genii. Assembly at their Novr. Session fixed the Salary of their Delegates at four Dollars a Day. 3 I believe they did not at that Time think of the enhanced Price of every Article of Living since the first Congress; otherwise they must have known that four Dollars a Day now, were not equal to the three Dollars which were allowed them then, and untill the Session referred to, exclusive of their Expences; and I think would not have fixed their Salary at less than five Dollars a Day, which was the Sum I had mentioned in my Letters. I hope the General Assembly will reconsider their Resolve. If Three Dollars were not inadequate to the Service of the Delegates, exclusive of Expences, in the first Congress, most certainly four Dollars, which will not purchase now more than Two would then, cannot be adequate, and beside this, out of these four Dollars, the Delegates must pay their Expences, which let them be as frugal as they can will amount to a very large Sum, and leave nothing behind as a Reward for their Service. I should be extremely glad that the Additional Delegate who may be appointed this Deer. Session might proceed as soon as pos sible. I have scracely had a Minute for Relaxation since Govr. Hop kins returned Home. I am obliged to attend Committees Morning and Evening, and Congress from 10’ until 3 every Day, Sundays


[Page 605]
December 4, 1776 571 sometimes not excepted. Such constant Attention without any Op portunity for Exercise is too much for Humanity. Since the Enemy took Possession of Fort Lee, our little Army under Genl. Washington have been constantly on the Retreat. He is now at Trenton with the main Body, having left at Prince-Town Two Brigades under Genl. Stirling. The Associators of this State are turning out to reinforce him, and stop the further Progress of the Enemy. By a Letter from G.W. of the 3d Instant dated at Trenton he informs that the Enemy had not passed the Rariton to Brunswick the 2d at 9 o’Clock in the Morning, but that there was an Account that a Fleet of upwards of 100 Sail were turning out at the Hook last Sunday. Some suppose that they were destined for this River, and that the Enemy mean to attack this Place both by Sea and Land. I believe they will not be able to pass the Delaware with an Army, and I should think they would not attempt the River with their Ships at this Season, for although the Weather is now warm, yet We may expect a Frost every Day. I hope that our Battalions will be raised in Season, and that We shall be able to bring a large Army into the Field the next Spring; otherwise they will be able to carry Fire and Sword into our States, in which Case the private Property which hath been so fortunately amassed by privateering in some of the Eastern States, as well as other Property, will be destroyed. We should take Care to preserve what We collect; and the Preservation of our Property, our Wives Sc Children, our Lives and Liberties depends upon our being able to face the Enemy in the Spring with a respectable Army. I said in the first Part of this Letter that you would receive this by Express, you will receive it by Commissioners appointed by the Secret Committee to collect and transmit to the Army the Cloathing collected by the several States, and to make further Purchases of Cloathing. They will not return till they have visited each of the Eastern States. Give me Leave Sir to expect an Answer by the very first safe Opportunity. I continue to be with the utmost Respect, Your Honor’s most obedient, humble Servant, William Ellery P.S. Since I wrote the above I am told that the Number of Loan- Office Certificates will be sent off to Morrow to our State. I write in Congress and find I have wrote on a dirty Table. I have not Time to copy. Your Honor I hope will excuse every Imperfection. W E RC (R-Ar). 1 Governor Cooke had already provided the answers to many of these questions in a November 30 letter to Ellery that had obviously not yet reached Philadel phia. William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 101-4. 2 For various resolves on the lottery passed between November 18 and 30, see


[Page 610]
576 December 4, 1776 1 Congress passed these resolves on November 30. JCC, 6:994. A November 23 letter from the New York Committee of Safety to Hancock on the subject of raising an additional Continental battalion in New York is in Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:317-18. Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly In Secret Committee of Congress Philada. Deer. 4th. 1776 Gen tn. A Committee of Congress was appointed the 25th Septr. last to procure Cloathing in all the States on this Continent for the use of our Army & we find they wrote to you on the 10th Octr. requesting the favour of you to employ proper persons to purchase what cou’d be obtained in your State. 1 To this letter they have not reed any answer, and the Congress being very anxious & impatient to have this important business duely attended to & executed have directed us to send one or more trusty persons into the Eastern States to Collect what has been bought & to make such further purchases of suitable Articles as they can accomplish. 2 We have engaged Messrs. Abm. Livingston and Wm. Turnbull bearers hereof to go upon this Service. You will be pleased to direct them to the persons who have made purchases on Continental acct by order, 8c let the Goods be delivered to these Gentlemen or their order. We have also by direc tion of Congress authorized them to make further purchases 8c must beg the favour of your advice 8c assistance to them in the prosecution of that business or that you will desire your Committee to give them such assistance. We have judged it dangerous to send a large Sum of money with them at this time on acct of the situation of our Enemy, neither cou’d we well judge what Sum might be sufficient, therefore we request you will order them to be supplyed out of your Publick Treasury if needfull. Their drafts on this Committee for the Amount shall be paid, 8c if desired the money shall be sent by express. 3 Your Zeal to serve the general Cause on all occasions makes us satisfyed of your Concurrence with our desires 8c we re main with the utmost respect Gentn., Your most Obedt 8c most hble servts, Robt. Morris Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston Wm. Whipple Fras. Lewis RC (PPRF). Written by Morris and signed by Morris, Lee, Lewis, Livingston, and Whipple. ’See Committee on Clothing to Nicholas Cooke, October 11, 1776, note 2. 2 See the resolve of December 1, JCC, 6:997. On December 5 the Massachusetts General Court voted £7,000 for the purchase of clothing and on January 10, 1777, it authorized an additional £4,000 to be used for that purpose. Minutes of the Massachusetts Council, pp. 287, 452-53, DLC(ESR).


[Page 612]
578 December 5, 1776 “Brothers. We received your commissioners at the little counsel fire at Fort Pitt. We wiped the sweat from their bodies. We cleansed the dirt from their ankles. We pulled the thorns from [their] feet. We took their staffs from their hands, and leaned them agt the tree of peace, we took their belts from their waists, and conducted them to the seats of peace.” 2 MS (PPL). In the hand of Benjamin Rush. 1 These notes appear in a small booklet of miscellaneous notes, sandwiched be tween a discussion of the American people (divided into five classes according to their political opinons) and notes dated April 8, 1777, speculating on General Howe’s designs and General Washington’s probable responses. The bulk of the material contained in the notebook was published by S. Weir Mitchell, “Historical Notes of Dr. Benjamin Rush, 1777,” PMHB 21 (April 1903): 129-50. For additional notes taken from this booklet, see Benjamin Rush’s Notes of Debates, February 4, 10, 14, 19, 20, and 26, 1777. Although the section printed here bears no identifying information, Rush’s reference to the arrival of an Indian delegation “in Novr 1776” and entries in the journals pertaining to the appearance of Indians in Congress on December 5, 7, and 9 suggest that the remarks he recorded were those delivered on the fifth. See JCC, 6:1003, 1006, 1010-11, 1013. 3 Rush also discussed this episode in his autobiography, where he recorded this speech in a shy' .ly revised form. In the MS printed here, Rush inserted super script numerals “2” and “1” before the sentences beginning “We wiped” and “We took their Staffs,” perhaps indicating an intent to transpose the passages when he transferred them to his autobiography. No such transposition was made in the latter version, however, which has been published as follows: “During my attendance in Congress in Philadelphia I had the pleasure of being present at an interview between some chiefs of the Six Nations and Congress in their hall in the State House. After a pause of about ten minutes one of the chiefs rose from his seat, and pointing to the Sun said ‘The business of this day will end well. Yonder Sun rose clear this morning. The great Spirit is propitious to us. Brothers, we received the commissioners you sent us at the little council fire at Pittsburgh. We wiped the sweat from their bodies. We cleaned the dust from their legs. We pulled the thorns from their feet. We took their staffs from their hands, and placed them against the tree of peace. We took their belts from their waists, and afterwards conducted them to the seats of peace.’ In retiring, they all shook hands with every member of Congress.” Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophical Society by Princeton University Press, 1948), pp. 121-22. Oliver Wolcott to Laura Wolcott My Dear, Philidelpha. 5th Deer 1776 I Wrote to you the 16 and 24t last which I hope you have reed. My Letter of the 12t Col Williams tells me he delivered and I most Sincerely rejoiced to be informed by him that you was then well. By the Blessing of God I am in Health, and which now appears to be as much confirmed to Me, as it has been at any time the year


[Page 614]
580 December 6, 1776 that has been done to regulate it, so that we can seldom get Intelli gence from our Constituents, while the Gentlemen of other States have Advice from theirs, either by Post or Express at least every Week. Would you believe it, we had but one Post from the East ward since my last Arrival here on the 24 th of October. I wish we could hear often from you. Much is to be done this Winter to pre pare for the ensuing Spring. The Enemy, it is now said, are in retreating order from Brunswick. By the last Accounts from the Northward we are informd that the Ice begins to make on the Lakes. A few choice Friends have conceivd it very practicable when the Enemies Vessels are closd in the Ice, to destroy them by burning. Could this be done, it woud exceedingly distress the Enemy and confound them. I confess I am enthusiastical in this Matter. I wish you could consult a few concerning it. If it is a Proposal worth your Notice, and I hardly doubt you will think it so, it must be communicated to a very few. I should think it would be best set on foot & executed by the New England People and I daresay there are trusty Men in our State who thoroughly understand such kind of Business. Sat Verbum Sapienti. Think seriously of it. Adieu. RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 For further discussion about the collection of clothing and supplies, see Samuel Adams to James Warren, November 29; and Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 4, 1776. Robert Treat Paine to David Cobb My dear Sir, Philada. Deer. 6th. 1776 I have not heard from you a long time, owing I suppose to your unsettled state of Body which I understand has been vibrating be tween Boston & Taunton till I find you have at last decided in favour of the latter. 1 I can assure you that the Expectation of your Removing from Taunton gave me much uneasiness & if ever I am able to spend my days there it will be an Addition to any happiness that you are with me. Our public affairs have been exceedingly agi tated Since I wrote you last. The loss of Fort Washington made way for that of Fort Lee & the dissolution of our army hapning at the same time threw us into a most disagreable Scituation. The interception of an Express gave the Enemy full assurance of what they must have had Some Knowledge of before, the State of our Army, & they took the Advantage of it; in two days after their possession of Fort Lee on the 20th ult Where we lost much Bag gage & the Chief of our battering Cannon, they march’d to Hacken sack a pretty Town, from thence to Newark driving Genl. Washing-


[Page 616]
582 December 6, 1776 of. When we first heard it We expected it was designed for an Attack on Philada. by Water while the first Party penetrated by Land, but we are now apprehensive for So. Carolina, Virginia, some say Newport. The Enemy are in Possession of a very large & valuable part of N Jersey & the remaining part is greatly distressed by his Approach, but I hope this affair will rouse them from that lethargy which Occasioned this excursion, for had their militia been alert & resolute & given Genl Washington the support they might have done, these Evils had not happened, but stupidity & carelessness have been the Lord of our ascendants this last month. Tis to no purpose to scold, let us carefully ascertain our past Errors & amend them. 2 FC (MHi). 1 David Cobb (1748-1830), Paine’s brother-in-law, was a physician who had just returned to Taunton, Mass., after trying to establish a practice in Boston. He served as a lieutenant colonel and colonel in the Continental Army, 1777-83, and later was elected to the United States Congress. Shipton, Harvard Graduates, 16:337-51. “For the continuation of this letter, see Paine to Cobb, December 8, 1776. George Read to Gertrude Read My dear Gitty Philada. the 6th Deer. 1776 Attendance Night & Morning at Committees and all day at Con gress puts it out of my power to write you so frequently as I ought &: have had Opportunities but I have no chance of A Moment but when I retire out of Congress to the Comittee room where I now am to write to any person. However be assured that if any[Z/zmg] very material occurs you shall hear it. Genl. Washington in his Letter of yesterday mentions the Enemy’s being at Brunswick & Ld. Sterling with 2 Brigades consisting 1200 Men including the Delaware Bat talion at Princetown abot. 15 Miles a part—that Genl. Mercer has marched back from Trenton to Prince Town 1200 more as A Rein- forcemt. & Genl. Washington is to follow this day. 1 Genl. Lee is somewhere in the Neighbourhood but where particularly or what force is not precisely known. The German Battalion belonging to the Continent with the City Militia have Marched from here sup posed more than 3000. I have little doubt that the Progress of the British Army will be stopped if no more. The Troops belonging to Flying Camp whose times of Inlistment had expired left the General in whole Brigades, particularly Jersey & Maryland—as also to Pater son’s Batta. They wod. [not] serve an Hour longer, so that this City is filled with returning Soldiers tho never more wanted in the field. The Delegates of Maryland with Genl Mifflin harangued a great Number perhaps 6 or 700 of them in the State House Yard yester-


[Page 621]
December 7, 1776 587 William Paca


[Page 623]
December 8, 1776 589 great art of making Cannon was the getting the metal to a due temper. What should be the reason that Iron when Cast into a thin Pot or Kettle shall be fine & close grained 8c very Strong 8c tough, & yet when Cast from the same furnace 8c the same Sort of Ore into a large Cannon it is coarse 8c open grained 8c brittle. I think it Shews that some further preparation is wanting for Iron cast into a large body than a small one. Stone lime is found to be a great refiner of Iron, I suppose it is generally used at the furnace, or rather the Lime Stone is used. Mr. Wm. Henry of Lancaster is of Opinion 8c I think with good reason that the Burnt Lime should be put in rather than the Stone, because before the Lime Stone is burnt so as to operate on the Iron the ore is melted 8c gone off. But the Lime operates immediately in absorbing the sulphur [. . .] 8c other [heterogeneous?] matter. He is also of opinion that the quan tity put in is never Sufficient. Some experiments he has tryed of the Effects of Lime in toughening Iron are very Satisfactory. I dont undertake to direct or instruct you in yr business but if I should drop a hint to yr. advantage you will not take it amiss. I wish a thorough tryal was made of the Advantage of putting in very large quantities of I.ime into the furnace. I really believe you would find your [. . .] it. Yrs., RTP FC (MHi). Addresed: “To Dani & Sami Hughes at Antietam Furnace. Per Melchor Saladin.” John Hancock to James Wilson Dear Sir: Sunday Eveg [December 8, 1776] The instant your messenger came in, an Express arrived from the Genl. 8c bro’t the Inclos’d Letter. The General dates his Letter this Day at Mr Berkley’s Sommerset, 1 he has cross’d the Delaware with his whole Army, which he writes was 3500 before the German Battaln 8c Pennsylva Militia came in 8c they about 2000; he begs more force, as he' thinks undoubtedly Philada is their object. He had heard nothing of Genl Lee, wonders much at his slow move ments. We must Exert ourselves now. I hope you will be early at Congress 8c let us do what we can. We must save the Country. I am hurried. Adieu, Yours sincerely, J. Hancock Tr (PSC). Endorsed by Burton A. Konkle: “Original in Papers of Herbert Morris, Esq. of Phila., which formerly belonged to his father, the late Galloway C. Morris of Lake George, N.Y.” 1 Washington’s December 8 letter to President Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 3:327-28, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:335-37.


[Page 625]
December 10, 1776 591 confess it chagrins me greatly to find it so illy suported by the People of Pennsylvania and the Jerseys. They seem to me to be determined to give it up—but I trust that my dear New England will maintain it at the Expence of every thing dear to them in this Life. They know how to prize their Liberties. May Heaven bless them! It is not yet determind to what place to adjourn the Con gress, if it should be necessary to move. Wherever I may be, I shall write to you by every opportunity. Mr Brown who carries this Letter will give you a particular Account of the Circumstances of things here—to him I refer you. Pray remember me to my Daughter, Sister Polly, the rest of my Family & Friends. I hope the Life of our valuable Friend Mrs March will yet be spared. She is indeed a good Woman. Tell my worthy Neighbor Mr Preston, that I rejoyce to hear of his honorable Appointment. I hope & beleive he will use his office well. I wish to have a Letter from you. You cannot imagine how highly I prize such a Favor. My daily Prayer is for your Safety, & Happiness in this Life & a better. Adieu, my dear. You cannot doubt the sincere & most cordial Affection of your, 1 S A. RC (NN). 1 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Elizabeth Adams, December 11, 1776. Matthew Thornton to Meshech Weare Sir Philadelphia Deer. 9th 1776 Please to pay to John Langdon Esqr on order Three Hundred Dollars it being for value receiv’d here of William Whipple and charge the same to my accot with the State of New Hampshire, for which Sum I have drawn two orders of the same Tenor 8c date one of which being paid the other to be void. Your most obt. Sert, Matthew Thornton RC (PPRF). Written by William Whipple and signed by Thornton. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia Deer. 10th 1776 Since the Enemy took Possession of Fort Lee Genl. Washington with the Division under his immediate Command hath been con stantly retreating, until they have at Length passed the Delaware and I suppose mean to make a Stand on the Banks of the River opposite to Trenton. To prevent their being hemmed in at Hakin- sack they passed the River of that Name and the River Posaick, and


[Page 628]
594 December 10, 1776 times that they have sailed for So. Carolina or Rhode Island; but I can’t find that they have ever embarked any Troops, nor do I think they will for either of those Places while they pursue such high Game and mean to secure the Posts & Places they have and may possess. They have not Men enough to spare at present nor do I think they will have them this Winter for any distant Expedition. However as I have often said it is wise and prudent to be on our Guard. Capt. Garzia who will hand you this Letter cannot wait a Moment longer which obliges to close abruptly. I am with great Respect your Honor's most Obedient humble Servant, Wm Ellery RC (R-Ar). "See NYHS Collections, 5 (1872): 277-78, 300. Georgia Delegates to John Hancock Sir, 10th Deer. 1776. We have received accounts of our reappointment to represent the state of Georgia in Congress; and will be ready to take our seats in a day or two. 1 In the meantime we request an order on the Treasury for two thousand dollars on account of the state we are appointed to represent. 2 We are, Sir, your most Obedient Servants, Lyman Hall Geo Walton RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). Written by Walton and signed by Walton and Hall. 1 Although Hall and Walton had remained in Philadelphia, Georgia had not been represented in Congress since their terms expired on November 2. Walton attended Congress on December 12, but Georgia credentials were not read until Congress convened in Baltimore on December 20. See JCC, 6:1025, 1028. ’See JCC, 6:1017. Marine Committee to Elisha Hinman Sir In Marine Committee, Philada. Decemr 10th 1776 We expect this will find the vessel under your Command in readiness for Service and therefore you are hereby directed to pro ceed to Sea with all possible dispatch and in a Cruize of Six Weeks or two Months to intercept as many of the Store Ships and Supply vessels going to the Enemy at New York as you may fall in with. You will in this Cruize do as much injury to the Enemy and service to the United States as it may be in your power to accomplish.


[Page 632]
598 December 11, 1776 Council of Safety, requesting the council’s assistance in this effort, and President Hancock sent a verbal message via Col. Thomas Ewing, commander of a battalion of Maryland militia with the flying camp, requisitioning militia from four Mary land counties to assist in Philadelphia’s defense. However, the decision to send appeals to Maryland by such indirect means, rather than directly to the Maryland Council of Safety, was regarded as an improper and inefficient practice and drew the following protest from the council to its delegates in Congress. "We have not received a script of a Pen either from Congress, our Delegates, or any one of them, relative to the assistance mentioned to Colo. Ewing, Mr Quynn or Captn Nicholson and we cannot help observing to you that applying to individuals who necessarily must apply to the Council of Safety from whom their power must be deputed before they can act is losing of time to say nothing of the want of respect to a Body of men with whom the Executive Powers of the State are entrusted.” Ibid., p. 531. For further evidence that some of the informal steps taken to communicate with various Maryland officials during this unsettled period were resented by members of the convention and the council of safety, see also John Hancock to the Frederick County Committee, December 21, 1776, note 2. Francis Lightfoot Lee to Walter Jones My dear friend Philadelphia Deer. 11. 1776 I have but a moment to thank you for your late letters, & to inform you that I think there is crude Sal Ammoniac among my medicines. This I am pretty certain of but if I shou’d be mistaken, make them send to Chantilly where my bror. says there is plenty. We are all here in confusion, short inlistments has allmost ruined us. Our Army having disbanded before a new one was raised, has enabled Genl. Howe to make considerable progress this way. If the weather dont stop him I hardly think the people will. There is little spirit &[...] Virtue among them in these middle Colonies. Remember me to all friends. Adieu my Friend. Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (DLC). Addressed: “To Doctor Walter Jones, Richmond County, Virginia.” Richard Henry Lee’s Proposed Resolution [December 11? 1776] 1 Congress being informed that Monsr. Weibert a French Gentle man and a Colonel in the Continental service who was lately made prisoner in Fort Washington has been committed to Close confinement contrary to the usage of civilized [nations] where no improper conduct hath marked the character of captive Officers, Resolved that Gen. Washington be directed to send a flag to Gen eral Howe and remonstrate against this severe treatment of Colonel Weibert and desiring to know of General Howe whether he means


[Page 637]
December 12, 1776 603 Members & Men of Business. I believe this will [ac]cord with the Opinion of a certain Friend of ours in Massachusetts. Mr Pain having been absent from the pleasures of domestic Life for a con siderable Time, left this place Yesterday on his Return to his Family. Mr Adams is well & joyns in Regards to Yourself & all Friends with Sir your sincere Friend & hum serv, E Gerry P.S. The Enemy are said to be provided with forty flat Bottom Boats. If they should by this unlucky Circumstance of our Army obtain Philadelphia & even all the middle Colonies, I think with manly Exertions We may soon recover them. N England & New York are able of themselves to keep them at Bay untill assistance comes from Europe, which I cannot doubt of. RC (MHi). New England Delegates to George Washington Sir Philadelphia Deer 12 1776 We are this Moment informd by a Gentleman who is Brother of Collo Griffen and has lately been at New York, that a Body of ten thousand of the Enemies Troops are actually arrivd at Rhode Island. As Congress is now adjournd to Baltimore in Maryland, and the President and the Board of War are not in Town, we think it our Duty to send you this Intelligence; and as there is no General Officer in that Department, we refer it to your Consideration whether the Service does not absolutely require that one be immediately sent, to take the Command of Troops to be raisd there, to repel the Progress of the Enemy. If Major General Green or Gates, who are greatly belovd in that Part of America, with a suitable Number of Brigadiers, could be spared for this Service, it might be attended with another Advantage, that of facilitating the new Inlistments. 1 We intreat your Attention to this important Matter and are with very great Respect, Your Excellcys very humble Servants, Samuel Adams William Ellery Elbridge Gerry Wm. Whipple RC (MH-H). Written by Adams and signed by Adams, Ellery, Gerry, and Whipple. Writing later to the governor of Rhode Island, Ellery explained that this letter was written at his instigation. See Ellery to Nicholas Cooke, December 24, 1776. 1 General Washington ordered Gen. Benedict Arnold and Gen. Joseph Spencer to Rhode Island. Washington to John Hancock, December 20, 1776, Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:407-8.


[Page 638]
604 December 12, 1776 Charles Thomson to George Washington Sir, Philada Deer. 12. 1776 The president being still necessarily engaged with his family I have the honour to inform you that your letter of yesterday was reed. 8c laid before Congress. I enclose you sundry resolutions passed this day 1 and am, Sr., Your obedient humble Serv, Chas Thomson RC (DLC). ’Washington’s December 11 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 3:339-40; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:349-51. Secretary Thomson sent Washington resolves about the use of frigates to defend Philadelphia, the establishment of a cavalry regiment under the command of Elisha Sheldon, the defense of Philadel phia, the decision to move Congress to Baltimore, and the grant to Washington “of full power to order and direct all things relative to the department, and to the operations of war.” ]CC, 6:1024-27. Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada Decemr 13th. 1776 The enclosed letter from the General 1 was delivered to me open by Mr Walton who judged it prudent to examine the Contents before it went forward & in which I concur with him as it was probable some service might result to this place from their being known & I flatter myself that essential service will be rendered to the Continent thereby. As soon as I saw this authentic Account of the Enemy’s design to Cross Delaware above the Falls, I waited on Genl. Putnam & proposed that the Frigate Randolph & Sloop Hornet shou’d be sent to Sea immediately as it was plain to me they wou’d be of no use here & I had received certain advice that there was not any British Men of War in our Bay. The General very readily Con sented 8c I have this afternoon given Capt. Biddle &: Capt Nicholson their Instructions signed by me on behalf of the Marine Committee. 2 They will depart early in the Morning and I entertain the most sanguine hopes of their escape. The Hornet goes for Carolina with the Shot, but part of the flour was landed previous to this new determination. I have presumed to go one step farther in this Navy business and flatter myself I shall be entitled to the approbation of Congress whether I meet it or not, for my intentions are good and I procure myself much trouble with the sole view of serving the Cause. On Viewing the Frigate Delaware, I thought it possible to get her away before Genl Howe cou’d get here. I have therefore set about it stoutly. A number of People scarce as they now are here, are at work on her, the sails will be bent, anchors to the Bows, stores onbd. and every thing in some forwardness tomorrow. I have


[Page 645]
December 16, 1776 611 & Whipple comes under cover & Mr. Peters has desired me to send the letter from the Governor of Virginia. The sudden departure of the Congress from this place seems to be a matter of much speculation & People who judge by events think they have been too precipitate. Be that as it may, many things are thrown into great confusion by it, and I find ample employment in applying remedies wherever I can. The unfinished business of the Marine & Secret Committees I intend to confine myself to, but I hear so many complaints & see so much confusion from other quarters that I am obliged to advise in things not committed to me. Circumstanced as our affairs now are I conceive it better to take libertys & assume some powers than to let the general interest suffer. Much money is wanted for the Publick Service & it must be Sent up immediately, as the Militia of our Country are at length turning out & call for the advance. The lower parts of New Jersey are also in motion & they want Money. The Troops returned from Canada call aloud for their pay & they should have it instantly as they very generally promise to reinlist when they have spent what is due to them. Mr. Smith the loan officer is not here or I believe it woud be in my power to procure a good deal of money through that channell, on his return I will assist all in my power. I suppose Congress will not determine on a hasty return to this place nor do I think it adviseable untill the Enemy are actually gone into Winter Quarters for a severe Frost may in a few hours enable them to Cross Dela ware above the Falls, so that if they remain in that Neighbourhood you cou’d here be subject to perpetual alarms. At the same time it may be depended on, that great inconveniences will arise daily in every department during your absence. To remedy this as much as possible I think a Committee shoud be sent here with such powers as Congress may Judge proper in order that they may regulate the business of the Continent necessary to be done here. 4 There is the greatest Scene of confusion in the management of the Continental Horses, Wagons, & Expresses that ever was exhibited. It was bad enough before Congress departed but is ten times worse now Sc Jacob Hiltziemer a very honest man will run mad soon, if not properly assisted or relieved in this department. 5 In short the Com mittee you send shoud have full powers to do whatever may be necessary to put every department on a Systematic footing. Mr. Clymer, Mr Walton & myself will bestir ourselves 8c advise or assist in such things as we think absolutely necessary untill you appoint a Committee 8c as the Board of War did not leave any orders for their Secy we have desired him to stay 8c assist us untill he receives Orders. We hope the Board will excuse us for taking this liberty as Mr. Peters will be usefull here. 6 The Committee must have the Command of Money to answer Various purposes as the calls for it


[Page 647]
December 18, 1776 613 Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada Decemr 17th. 1776 Mr Walton, Mr Clymer & myself thought it advisable to open the enclosed letter last night that we might judge if the expence of another express shou’d be incurred or detain it for the Post, which we concluded to do as I had wrote you the unfortunate Fate of Genl. Lee before. I am sorry to inform you that the Roebuck &: Falcon Men of War are in Delaware Bay & two Bomb Ketches said to be in the offing. On rect. of this News (which is certain) I hired a Pilot Boat & sent her with a letter to Capt Biddle 8c all the other Vessells outward bound, desiring them to stop or come back, so that my labours appear to be lost 8c sorry I am for the disappointment, however its likely the first smart NoWester may give us an opening to push them out. I have just heard that a party or partys of the Enemie were yesterday at Morris Town 8c Haddon field in the Jerseys opposite to this 8c distant about 7 to 9 Miles. What their Views are I cannot say, but by the appearance of the Men of War below 8c the Bomb Ketches being said to have sailed from N York it woud seem as if these party’s meant to make their way to Red Bank, erect Works to command the Chevaux de Frize 8c then to come up with the Ships. This however is meer matter of speculation. Colo Griffin is I understand gone over with about 800 Men but I fear he will not be Strong enough for them. 1 I have the honor to be very respectfully, sir Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 This day Morris also sent the following message to Gen. William Heath. "Since I saw you I am informed that a person in New York who had an opportu nity of being acquainted with the motions of the Enemy, had advised a friend, to move her effects from Fish Kill to some place of safety. I am not at liberty to mention names, but make no doubt that such message was sent, and that the person sending might be acquainted with their motions. This I understand was before any movement of your Division.” Washington Papers, DLC. For another letter Morris wrote this day, to James Martin and pertaining to the consignment of goods on board the Independence at Chincoteague, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:505. Samuel Chase to William Paca? Annapolis December 18th. 1776 My Dear Sir 1 Wednesday Evening I am just arrived in this City. I am very desirous of staying a few Days with my Family, but if this State is not represented without Me, or if my Attendance can render the least Service I will in stantly come up. I imagine Mr. Tilghman, Mr. Carroll, 8c Mr.


[Page 650]
616 December 18, 1776 peace, and evince the necessity of the most speedy and manly exertions to drive these foes of the human race from this continent. 2 I am, &c., Richard Henry Lee. MS not found; reprinted from William Wirt Henry, Patrick Henry, Life, Corres pondence and Speeches, 3 vols. (New York: Charles Scribner’s Sons, 1891), 3:33-35. 1 For further information on the meeting place and activities of Congress while in Baltimore, see Edith R. Bevan, “The Continental Congress in Baltimore, Dec. 20, 1776 to Feb. 27, 1777,” Md. Hist. Magazine 42 (March 1947): 21-28. a For the handbill from Buck’s County, N.J., describing “scenes of desolation and outrage” resulting from the march of British and Hessian troops through New Jersey, see W. W. Henry, Patrick Henry, 3:35-36; and Evans, Am. Bibli ography, no. 15037. George Ross to the Lancaster Committee of Safety Gentlemen Reading 18th Deer. 1776 General Mifflin at the Request of Congress will be at Lancaster on Saturday to devise with you &: the Associators the best Mode of calling forth the Strength of the Country & on consulting with him This Morning I wrote a circular Letter of which the inclosed is a Copy 1 & have sent Expresses to Cols Grubb, Greenwait, Burd, Green & Galbreath as we thought the Notice this Way would be earlier than to have troubled you to have sent them from Lan- c[aste]r. You will I doubt not procure the Attendance of the Of ficers & Privates from the other Parts of the Country to meet on Saturday & if you please may send my Letter or conduct the Matter in any Manner you think proper. I am with Esteem, Gentlemen, yrs. &c, Geo. Ross RC (DLC). In a clerical hand, with place and dateline and signature by Ross. 1 For Ross’ circular letter to the eleven battalions of the Lancaster County militia, see Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1273. His letter to Col. James Burd is in the Chamberlain Collection, MB. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Baltimore in Maryland Dec 19th 1776 The Day before yesterday I arrivd in this Place which is One hundred Miles from Philadelphia. The Congress had resolvd to adjourn here when it should become absolutely necessary and not before. This sudden Removal may perhaps be wonderd at by some of my Friends, but it was not without the Advice of Generals Put nam & Mifflin, who were at Philadelphia to take Measures for its Preservation from the Enemy. For my own part, I had been used


[Page 651]
December 19, 1776 617 to allarms in my own Country, and did not see the Necessity of removing so soon, but I suppose I misjudgd because it was otherwise ruled. It must be confessd that deliberative Bodies should not sit in Places of Confusion. This was heightned by an unaccountable Backwardness in the People of the Jerseys & Pennsylvania to defend their Country and crush their Enemies when I am satisfied it was in their Power to do it. The British as well as Hessian officers have severely chastisd them for their Folly. We are told that such savage Tragedies have been acted by them without Respect to Age or Sex as have equaled the most barbarous Ages & Nations of the World. Sorry I am that the People so long refusd to hearken to the repeated Calls of their Country. They have already deeply staind the Honor of America, and they must surely be as unfeeling as Rocks if they do not rise with Indignation and revenge the shocking Injuries done to their Wives and Daughters. Great Britain has taught us what to expect from Submission to its Power. No People ever more tamely surrenderd than of that Part of the Jerseys through which the Enemy marchd. No opposition was made—And yet the grossest Insults have been offerd to them, and the rude Soldiery have been sufferd to perpetrate Deeds more horrid than Murder. If Heaven punishes Communities for their Vices, how sore must be the Pun ishment of that Community who think the Rights of human Nature not worth struggling for and patiently submit to Tyranny. I will rely upon it that New England will never incur the Curse of Heaven, for neglecting to defend her Liberties. I pray God to in crease their Virtue and make them happy in the full and quiet Possession of those Liberties they have ever so highly prizd. Your Wellfare, my dear, is ever near my heart. Remember me to my Daughter, Sister Polly & the rest of my Family and friends. I am in high Health & Spirits. Let me hear from you often. Adieu, S A [P.S.] Mr Hancock is just now arrivd with his family—all in good health. RC (NN). Benjamin Rumsey to John Hall? Sir 1 J°PP a 19th Deer. 1776 Engaged in the Commission and the Business thereof in which we met with great Difficulties & Interruption I never attended Congress till this Day Week and should not then as the Business remained unfinished had I not heard Mr. Tilghman and Mr. Carroll had gone Home and left the Province unrepresented. 2


[Page 655]
December 20, 1776 621 with a Force vastly Superior. In this situation he had nothing left for it but to retire directly off the neck of Land on which that Fort Stands, leaving behind him considerable Baggage & Stores with most of our large Cannon & Mortars. He retreated to Hacken sack & was there in hopes of making a stand untill the militia of the Country should come to his assitance, but the vigilence of the enemy did not give him time for this. They pursued and he re treated all the way thro’ the Jerseys to Trenton 8c from thence they forced him across the Delewar, where he still remains to op pose their passage across the River. Lord Cornwallis commanded the British Forces in the Jerseys untill they reach’d Brunswick when Genl Howe join’d them with reinforcements determined to make his way to this City without futher loss of time. You may be sure the Militia of N Jersey 8c this State were call’d upon to turn out 8c defend their Country in this Hour of distress. Alass our internal Enemies had by various arts 8c means frighten’d many, disaffected others 8c caused a general langoor to prevail over the minds of almost all men, not before actually engaged in the war. Many are also exceedingly disaffected with the Constitutions form’d for their respective States, so that from one cause or other no Jersey Militia turn’d out to oppose the march of an Enemy thro the heart of their Country, and it was with the utmost difficulty the associa- tors of this City could be prevail’d on to march agt them. At length however it has been effected. They have been up with the Gen’l about two weeks 8c the example at length is like to produce its effect in the Country, as they are now pretty generally on their march towards Trenton. During Genl Washingtons retreat thro' the Jerseys he wrote for Genl Lee who was left to command on the East Side of the N River with about 10 to 11 thousand men most of whose inlistments are now expired or near it. He obeyed the Summons, 8c brot with about 3000 men. With those he follow’d the Enemys rear, but was obliged to make slow marches as his people were in great want of shoes, stockings, 8c other necessaries which he was obliged to collect from the Tories in the neibourhood of his Rout. After he had pass’d a place call’d Chatham near Elizh Town, he lodged at a Farm House. Last night was a Week some treacherous Villain gave notice to the Enemy 8c the General’s ill fate or some other cause I am not acquainted with delay’d him there untill near 10 oClo on Friday Morning his army having march’d 8c their rear about 3 miles from him, when he was sur prized by about 70 light horse who made prisoner of 8c imm[ediatel]y bore him off in Triumph. This is an event much to be lamented. I sincerely pity Lee 8c I feel for the loss my Country sustains. His abilities had frequently been immensely useful—the want of them will be severely felt. The Command of this party devolved on Genl Sullivan who contined his Rout, fell in with Genl Gates with 500


[Page 658]
624 December 20, 1776 of France open their Eyes to their own Interest and think the Comerce of North America will Compensate them for the Expence & Evil of a War with Brittain, they may readily create a diversion & afford us Succours that will Change the fate of affairs but they must do it Soon. Our Situation is critical & does not admit of Delay. I dont mean by this, that instant Submission must ensue if they do not directly afford us relief—but there is a great difference between the Benefits they will derive from a Comercial Connection with this Country in full health & Vigour & what they can possibly expect after it is exausted by repeated efforts during the precarious process of a tedious War during which its Cities will be destroyed, the Country Ravaged, the inhabitants reduced in Numbers, plun dered of their property and unable to reap the Luxuriant produces of the finest Soil in the World. Neither can they after a tedious delay in negociation expect that Vigourous assistance from us in prosecuting the War, that they may be assured of, if they Join us in the Infancy. If they Join us generously in the day of our distress without attempting undue advantages because we are so, they will find a gratefull people to promote their future glory 8c interest with unabating Zeal and from my Knowledge of the Commerce of this Country with Europe I dare assert that whatever European Power possesses the presumption of it, must of Consequence be come the Richest & most potent in Europe. But alas should time be Lost in tedious negociations 8c succours be withheld, America must sue for peace from her opressors. Our people knew not the hardships 8c Calamities of War when they so boldly dared Brittain to arms. Every man was then a bold Patriot, felt himself equal to the Contest and seemed to wish for an opportunity of evincing his prowess, but now when we are fairly engaged, when Death 8c Ruin stare us in the face and when nothing but the most intrepid Courage can rescue us from Contempt 8c disgrace, sorry I am to Say it, many of those who were foremost in Noise, Shrink coward like from the Danger and are begging pardon without striking a Blow. This however is not general but dejection of spirits is an epidem ical desease and unless Some fortunate event or other gives a turn to the disorder, in time it may prevail through out the Community. No event would give that turn so soon as a Declaration of War on the part of France against Great Brittain and I am sure if they lose this golden oportunity they will never have such another. You will doubtless be Surprized that we have not made better progress with our Navy, because you are unacquainted with the many dificulties 8c Causes of delay that have encountered us. The want of Sea Coal for our Anchor Smiths has been a great Bar to our progress, the disapointments in our first attempts to Cast Cannons has been another, but above all we have been hindered by the Constant calling out of our Militia in a manner that did not admit of


[Page 663]
December 21, 1776 629 P.S. I need not suggest to you the necessity of Secrecy if the Baron’s Scheme is adopted. RC (PPAmP). 1 There is no record indicating that Congress responded to this offer. 3 The three following sentences were omitted from previously published versions of this letter. Lee’s grandson deleted them when he published his grandfather’s correspondence in 1825, and Peter Force subsequently reprinted the younger Lee’s text. See Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . ., 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:159-60; and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1308. 3 Rush somewhat clarified this reference to the threatened arrest of John Dickin son in a letter to Lee the next day when he explained that Gen. Israel Putnam had threatened to confine persons who refused to accept Continental money in payment of debt. Dickinson had come under suspicion because his letter of Decem ber 14 to his brother, Gen. Philemon Dickinson, advising against receiving Con tinental paper money, had been intercepted by the Pennsylvania Council of Safety and made public. For the letter and Dickinson’s personal explanation of the episode, see Charles J. Stills, The Life and Times of John Dickinson, 1732-1808 (1891; reprint ed., New York: Burt Franklin, 1969), pp. 400-406. See also Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1254-55; and Rush to Richard Henry Lee, December 21, 1776. ‘After the adjournment of Congress on December 12, Rush had arranged for his family’s safety with a relative in Maryland and volunteered to serve with Gen. John Cadwalader’s brigade of Philadelphia Associators in the defense of the city. He subsequently tended the troops engaged in the Trenton-Princeton cam paign until mid-January and did not go to Baltimore until January 23 or 24. During the interval Rush wrote several letters to Lee—at least six between January 6 and 15 in addition to this letter and those of December 21, 25, and 30 printed below—sending intelligence and giving advice on what must be done to preserve America from ruin. See Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:124-30; and PMHB, 78 (January 1954): 15-18. Years later Rush described his activities during this period at considerable length in his autobiography. See Benjamin Rush, The Autobiography of Benjamin Rush, ed. George W. Corner (Princeton: Published for the American Philosophi cal Society by Princeton University Press, 1948), pp. 124-30. Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Honourable Gentlemen Baltimore in Maryland Deer 21 1776 1 After expressing our hopes that this will find you all three safely fixed at Paris we proceed with pleasure to acknowledge the Re ceipt of Mr Deane’s Letter of the first of October. 2 When we reflect on the Character & views of the Court of London it ceases to be a Wonder that the British Ambassader & all other British Agents should employ every Means that tended to prevent Euro pean Powers but France more especially from giving America Aid in this War. Prospects of Accommodation it is well known would effectually prevent foreign Interferences and therefore without one


[Page 664]
630 December 21, 1776 serious Design of accommodating on any Principles but the abso lute Submission of America the delusive Idea of Conciliation hath been industriously Suggested on both sides the Water that under cover of this dividing & Aid withholding Prospect the vast British Force sent to America might have the fairest Chance of succeeding. And this Policy hath in fact done considerable Injury to the United States as we shall presently shew by a just Detail of this Campaign for it is not yet ended. You know Gentlemen that at the Moment a potent Land and marine force was preparing to be sent here an Act was passed for appointing Commissioners whom too many expected were to give peace to America. As therefore the War might be soon concluded so were our military Arrangements accommodated & the Troops taken into service the last spring consisting of regular Corps and Bodies of Militia were all engaged for short Periods. With these the Campaign began in various parts of N. America. Dr. Franklin is so well acquainted with the Progress of the War in Canada previous to his Departure that we need only observe the Campaign has ended as favourably for us in that Quarter as we could rea sonably expect. The Enemy having been able to pierce no further than Crown Point after a Short Stay & reconnoitring General Gates’ Army at Ticonderoga thought proper to recross the Lake and leave us in quiet Possession of these Passes. General Gates having left a proper force at Ticonderoga and on the Communica tion retired with the rest of his Troops. New York and its Neighbourhood not being defensible by an army singly against a strong land and sea force acting in Conjunction was of necessity yeilded to the Enemy after some Contest General Washington re tiring until the Situation of the Country above Kingsbridge no longer enabled the Enemy to receive Aid from their ships. General Howe having stopped here and General Carlton at Crown Point effectually disappointed the great Object of joining the two Armies. The latter as we have said returning to Canada & the former re treating from the White Plains towards N. York gave us a favourable Prospect of seeing a happy End put to this dangerous Campaign. However many Causes have concurred in producing an unlucky Reverse of fortune. The Nature of the Country, the uncommon fineness of the Weather even to this day and above all the short Enlistments which gave the soldiery an Opportunity of going home tired as they were with the Operations of an active Summer. When General Howe retreated from the White Plains he halted his whole Army on the N. River between Dobbs’s Ferry and Kingsbridge where he remained for some time. Having effected so little of the great Business that brought him here and the Season allowing him time for it most Men were of Opinion that the next Attempt would be to get Possession of Philadelphia by a March through the


[Page 665]
December 21, 1776 631 Jerseys whilst a Fleet should be sent up the Delaware to facilitate the Enterprize. To guard against such a Manoeuvre Gen Washing ton crossed the North River with all the Battalions that had been raised to the westward of it leaving General Lee with the eastern Troops to guard the pass of the highlands on Hudsons River. In this situation of things Mr Howe made a sudden Attack on Fort Washington with the greatest Part of his Army &: carried it with a Considerable Loss: here he made near 3000 of our Men Prisoners. By this Event it became unnecessary longer to hold Fort Lee or Fort Constitution as it was formerly called which is on the west side of the N. River nearly opposite to Fort Washington. It had therefore been determined to abandon Fort Lee but before the Stores could be all removed the Enemy came suddenly upon it and the Garrison retreated leaving some of their Baggage & Stores behind. About this Time General Howe became possessed of a Letter (by the Agency of some wicked Person who contrived to get it from the Express) written by General Washington to the Board of War in which he had given an exact account when the Time of Service of all our Battalions would expire & his apprehensions that the Men would not reinlist without first going home to see their families and friends. Possessed of this Intelligence the Opportunity was care fully watched &: a vigorous Impression actually made at the very Crisis when our Army in the Jersies was reduced to 3000 men by the retiring of Numbers and the Sickness of others and before our Militia could in this extensive Country be brought up to supply their Places. The Enemy marched rapidly on through the Jersies while our feeble Army was obliged to retreat from Post to Post until it crossed the Delaware at Trenton where about 2500 Militia from the City of Philadelphia joined the General. Since General Howes Arrival on the Borders of the Delaware various Manoeuvres & Stratagems have been practiced to effect a Passage over the River but they have hitherto failed. General Washingtons small Army is placed along the west side of Delaware from above the Corrells Ferry to within 14 Miles of Philadelphia which with the Gondolas, one Frigate of 32 Guns & other Armed vessels in the River above the Cheveaux de Frise cover the Passage of it. General Lee who had crossed the North River with as many of the eastern Troops as could be spared from the Defence of the Highlands (either to join General Washington or to act on the Enemies Rear as occasion might point out) was the other Day unfortunately surprised & made Prisoner by a party of 70 light horse who found him in a house a few miles in the Rear of his army with his Domestics only. This Loss though great will in some Degree be repaired for the present by General Gates who we understand had joined the Army com manded by Genl Lee &: who we have reason to think has by this time effected a junction of his force with that of Genl Washington.


[Page 666]
632 December 21, 1776 As the Militia are marching from various quarters to reinforce the General if the Enemy do not quickly accomplish their wishes of possessing Philadelphia We hope not only to save that City but to see Genl Howe retreat as fast as he advanced through the Jersies. General Clinton with a fleet on which it is said he carried 8000 men has gone from New York through the Sound some suppose for Rhode Island but neither his Distination nor its Consequences are yet certainly known to us. Thus Gentlemen we have given you a true Detail of the Progress and present State of our Affairs which although not in so good a Posture as they were two months ago are by no means in so bad a Way as the Emissaries of the British Court will undoubtedly represent them. If the great Land and Sea force with which we have been attacked be compared with the feeble state in which the Commencement of this War found us with Respect to Military Stores of all kinds, Soldiers Cloathing, Navy & regular force and if the infinite Art be considered with which Great Britain hath endeavored to prevent our getting these Necessaries from foreign parts which has in part prevailed the wonder will rather be that our Enemies have made so little progress than that they have made so much. All views of Accommodation with Great Britain but on Principles of Peace as independent States and in a manner perfectly consistent with the Treaties our Commissioners may make with foreign States being totally at an End since the Declaration of Independence & the Embassy to the Court of France Congress have directed the raising of 94 Battalions of Infantry with some Cavalry. Thirteen Frigates from 24 to 36 Guns are already launched and fitting and two ships of the Line with five more Frigates are ordered to be put on the Stocks. We hear the Levies are going on well in the different States. Until the New Army is Collected the militia must curb the Ene mies Progress. The very considerable Force that Great Britain has already in N. America, the Possibility of recruiting it here within their own Quarters by force and fraud together, added to the Re inforcements that may be sent from Europe and the difficulty of finding Funds in the present depressed State of American Com merce, all conspire to prove incontestibly that if France desires to preclude the Possibility of North America being ever reunited with Great Britain now is the favourable moment for establishing the Glory, Strength and Commercial Greatness of the former Kingdom by the Ruin of her ancient Rival. A decided part now taken by the Court of Versailles and a vigorous Engagement in the War in Union with North America would with Ease sacrifice the fleet and Army of Great Britain at this time cheifly collected about New York. The inevitable Consequence would be the quick Reduction of the British Islands in the West Indies already bared of Defence by the Removal of their Troops to this Continent. For Reasons


[Page 668]
634 December 21, 1776 approve of armed Vessels being fitted out by you on continental Account provided the Court of France dislike not the Measure and blank Commissions for this Purpose will be sent you by the next Opportunity. Private Ships of War or Privateers can not be ad mitted where you are because the Securities necessary in such Cases to prevent irregular Practices cannot be given by the Owners and Commanders of such Privateers. 5 Another Resolve of Congress which we have the honour to inclose you directs the Conduct to be pur sued with Regard to Portugal.® We have nothing further to add at present but to request that you will omit no good Oppertunity of informing us how you suc ceed in your mission, what Events take place in Europe by which these States may be affected and that you continue us in regular succession some of the best London, French & Dutch Newspapers with any valuable political Publications that may concern North America. We have the Honour to be Gentlemen with great Respect & Esteem your most obedient and very humble Servants, Benja. Harrison Will Hooper Richard Henry Lee Jno Witherspoon Robert Morris, at Philada. P.S. The American Captures of British vessels at Sea have not been less Numerous or less valuable than before Dr Franklin left us. The value of these Captures have been esteemed at two Millions. 7 RC (NN). In a clerical hand, and signed by Harrison, Hooper, Lee, Morris, and Witherspoon. Duplicate RCs are at PHC, PPAmP, and ViU; and an intercepted dispatch is in the Auckland MSS, British Museum. For Lee’s draft of this letter, see Richard Henry Lee, The Letters of Richard Henry Lee, ed. James C. Ballagh, 2 vols. (New York: Macmillan Co., 1911-14), 1:231-40. ’Although dated December 21, it is clear that this letter was written over a period of several days, since two of the resolves discussed were not passed by Con gress until December 23, 1776. It was forwarded to Morris for signature on the 25th. See Benjamin Harrison to Robert Morris, December 25, 1776. ’Silas Deane’s October 1 letter to the committee is in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:153-57. “The report of the committee of Congress that met with Lord Howe was pub lished by order of Congress in the fall of 1776. See Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15168. * In his October 1 letter, Deane had said: “I have no doubt but I can obtain a loan for the Colonies if empowered, and on very favorable terms. I have already sounded on the subject, and will be more explicit hereafter, both as to my pro posals, for I can go no further, and the answers I may receive.” See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:157; and JCC, 6:1036-37. “ On December 23 Congress directed the committee to inform the commissioners that they were authorized “to arm and fit for war any number of vessels not exceeding six, at the expence of the United States, to war upon British property, and that commissions and warrants be for this purpose sent to the Commissioners, provided the Commissioners be well satisfied this measure will not be disagreeable to the court of France.” JCC, 6:1036.


[Page 670]
636 December 21, 1776 Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada. Deer. 21st 1776 The Express that carrys you this letter has just called on me, saying that he came from the Convention of New York. I thought it prudent to open the letter and know whether the business it re spected cou’d be done here or whether it must be sent forward 8c finding it must go forward I only detain him to make this apology & to inform you that the Sloop Independance Commanded by Lt Robinson (Capt Young being left behind sick) pushed out from Chincoteague where she first put in, and notwithstanding she was chased by Six of the Enemys Cruizers at our Capes, She got safe up here 8c is now landing the Cargo. I have determined to send 856 Blankets that came in her, to Genl. Washington and have informed him they were imported for the use of the New Recruits, but as the Inclemency of the weather and the exceeding severe duty of the Troops now with him entitle them to every comfort we can afford I submit to him whether to make use of them for their use or not. The Cloths I will deliver to Mr. Mease with orders to have them made up fast as possible. 919 Muskets shall be delivered to Mr. Commissary Towers to wait the orders of Genl. Washington or of the Board of War and I hope one or other of them will send orders soon as possible. 1 The Council of safety want money 8c have sent an express for a Supply. I have borrowed sufficient for the Marine department altho the Disbursements are considerable. Capt Biddle will get more Seamen than we expected. The Delaware is getting ready and I have ordered the Fly, Capt Warner, down the Bay to watch the Enemies Ships 8c bring us word if they should quit that Station. I have sent an express across the Jerseys to Capt Baldwin of the Wasp to Cruize outward of them to give Notice to inward bound Ships, 2 and have Stationed the Hornet, Capt Nicholson, (who attempted to get out to Sea but coud not) in Christeen Creeks Mouth to act in Conjunc tion with a large Galley of this State in defence of that Creek as there are many valuable Stores up it. I shall get the Sloop Inde pendance hove down 8c some little damage she reed at Chincoteague repaired 8c then send her also to watch the Enemys Ships. There are a large number of Waggons in the City and as I fear Genl. Howe does not yet give up his plan of getting possession of it this Winter I will order a good part of the Salt Provisions now in the Com- missarys care to be carried up to Lancaster as we certainly ought to have inland Magazines of Provisions and of military Stores, but I long to hear from you that I may judge whether Congress ap prove of these things which I have undertaken for the sake of serv ing my Country. Mr. Smith is not yet returned and am very sorry


[Page 671]
December 21, 1776 637 for it as I do think a good deal of Money might have been bor rowed by this time. I am very fearfull that this bad Weather will sicken the associators & break up our Campaign whatever may be its effect on the Enemy. There are some Prisoners onboard the Enemies Ships at our Capes that have wrote up to me to procure their release, amongst the rest Capt Morgan of the Bermuda sloop that carried Mr Deane to France who was returning here with dis patches 8c some Goods and was unfortunately taken near Cape May. I will send a letter for Capt Hammond of the Roebuck open to Henry Fisher at Lewis Town to be sent of[f] by a Flag, 3 in which I shall assure him that we have suffered great numbers of Masters, [Mates?] 8c Men belonging to merchant ships taken by our Cruizers to depart, without thinking of detaining them for an exchange 8c recommend his releasing these People or he will oblige us to alter that part of our Conduct, as this is Striktly true in a number of instances that have come under my Notice I hope Congress will approve the design. I am with great Regard 8c Esteem, sir, Your obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 For Washington’s response, see his December 22 letter to Morris in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:420-21. 2 Not found. 3 Not found; but for Capt. Andrew Snape Hamond’s response, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:629. Robert Morris to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety Gentn Philada. Deer. 21st. 1776 Cap Alexander of the Delaware Frigate informs me, that some few of the Tradesmen now at Camp are absolutely necessary to put his ship in a Condition to push down the Bay when the Enemies ships retire. I think it will promote the Publick service very much to order them down immediately. 1 I have sent down a Sloop to watch the Men of War 8c doubt not we shall find an opportunity of gitting these ships to Sea. Cap Alexander will furnish the Council with the names of the Tradesmen wanted 8c I submit to your determination being, Gentn, Your Obedt Servt. Robt Morris RC (NN). 1 Morris had written the following note to the council of safety on the same subject the day before. "I have some hopes of getting the Frigate Delaware away during the Winter & wish to have Mr. Warwick Hale the Boat builder detained from Camp to finish her Boats 8c if one of his hands cou’d be ordered down it wou’d be very useful.” Society Collection, PHi.


[Page 673]
December 21, 1776 639 RC (DLC). ’For a photocopy of Morris’ second letter to Washington this date, which simply covered an invoice and receipt for the 856 blankets mentioned here, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:362-63. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Near Bristol Decemr 21 1776 Wherever I go 1 bear in my mind the small Share of the weight of our dear countrys happiness which the State of Pensylvania hath committed to my care. I wish sometimes to throw my mite into the councils of the congress, but as this is impossible for the present I beg leave to suggest such things as have occurred to me in my passage thro’ Philada to this place, and submit it to your good sense to make any use of them you may think proper. I need not inform you of the general disposition of the people in & near Philada to refuse continental money upon the late pros pect of Genl Howe’s getting possession of the city. Genl Putnam’s threatning to confine such people as refused it, and declaring the debt for which the money was offered to be void produced only a temporary remedy against the evil. People who had goods refused to sell them— and men who had money out at interest either refused to give up bonds or kept out of the way when continental money was offered for them. The legislatures of America look up to Con gress for a remedy equal to the danger of the disease. Suppose you recommend to every state to make a law not only to forfit the debt for which our money is offered, but to fine the person who refuses it severely. This will be more effectual than imprisonment which from becoming so common for tory practices has now lost its in famy. The punishment in this case strikes directly at that principle in human nature which is the source of the contempt in which our money has fallen. I mean avarice and a want of public Spirit. Pray dont let this matter be neglected. Our salvation hangs upon it. I tremble every time I think of the danger of the further progress of the refusal of our money. Connected with the above subject is the state of our loan office. If possible let the resolutions for the emmision of five millions of dollars be concealed. I hope it will be the last resolution of that kind that will appear on our journals. If it is not the whole con tinent must complain of our injustice in allowing only 4 per Cent for the money now deposited in the loan office, unless we can give positive assurances that we shall pay it in hard money. I have learnt from many people and among Others from two New England officers that the 4 Eastern states will find great diffi culty in raising their quota of men owing to that excessive rage for


[Page 676]
642 December 23, 1776 RC (DLC photostat). In the hand of Elbridge Gerry. 1 Although the recipient of this letter can not be identified positively. James Warren, in a letter to Gerry of January 15, 1777, acknowledged having just re ceived a letter “by Mr. Rose.” Alexander Rose, Gerry explains below, was the bearer of this letter. C. Harvey Gardiner, A Study in Dissent, the Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776-1792 (Carbondale, Ill.: Southern Illinois Press, 1968), p. 52. In the absence of additional evidence, any attribution must remain conjectural, but Gerry is also known to have written to Warren with great regularity, and the content of the document indicates that it was directed to a political ally and intimate acquaintance. ’See New England Delegates to George Washington, December 12, 1776. “Gerry also wrote a brief letter of introduction for Rose to Joseph Trumbull, this date: “This will be delivered You by Alexander Rose Esq. of Charlestown in South Carolina, who with his Friend Capt. Abely are on a Tour thro the eastern Governments. Give me Leave to recommend them to Your Acquaintance as Gentle men of established Character & firm Friends to the Cause of America, & to desire that You will make their Journey thro Your Government agreable, by a Line to such of your Friends therein as are on the Road leading to Boston. I shall take an early Oppertunity of writing You on other Matters.” Joseph Trumbull Papers, CtHi. Rose also carried with him a similar letter of introduction written by William Whipple to John Langdon, this date. See Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1369. * Remainder of MS missing. John Hancock to Robert Morris Sir, Baltimore Deer. 23d. 1776 Your Several Favours of the 13th, 14th, 16th, and 17th inst have been duely reed, in the Order of their respective Dates, and laid before Congress. In Consequence of which, I am directed to transmit you the enclosed Resolves. The Intelligence of Genl. Lee’s being taken Prisoner is really alarming in the present State of our Army; and I am afraid his Loss will be severely felt, as he was, in a great Measure, the Idol of the Officers, and possessed still more the Confidence of the Soldiery. As the Fortune of War has made him a Prisoner, the United States are bound by every Tie of Justice and Generosity to afford him all the Relief in their Power. They have accordingly resolved that one Hundred Half Johannes should be sent to Genl. Washington for the Use of Genl. Lee, should it be found practicable to convey Money to him; which the Congress deem a Matter of so much Importance that they have ordered a Flag to be sent to Genl. Howe to know whether he will permit it or not. I am however directed by Congress to request that you will lodge for this Purpose the above mentioned Sum in the Hands of Genl. Washington. 1 The Congress concurring in Opinion with you, that a Committee should be appointed in the City of Philada. to take Care of the public Interest, and at the same Time highly approving of the Zeal and Attention you have particularly discovered to the Welfare of your Country since their Departure from that City, have nominated


[Page 677]
December 23, 1776 643 Mr. Clymer, Mr. Walton, and yourself to execute such Continental Business as it may be necessary to transact in Philadelphia. They have also directed that two Hundred Thousand Dollars be im mediately sent to the Commissary in Pennsylvania, subject to your Draughts, and to be applied as you may judge proper. Should this Sum prove insufficient, you are empowered to draw on the Loan Office for any additional Sum you may think necessary for public Purposes. 2 The enclosed Resolves will inform you, that Congress highly approve of the Conduct of yourself, Mr. Walton, and Mr. Clymer in the Care you have taken of public Business; and particularly of the Attention you have shewn, and the Plan you have laid for pre serving the Continental Frigates. 3 Be pleased to acquaint Mr. Peters, that he is directed by the Board of War to repair to Baltimore as soon as possible, where his Services are judged absolutely necessary by Congress. 4 I have the Honour to be, with very great Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Prest. [P.S.] Pray forward the Inclos’d to the General by Express. 5 RC (DNA: PCC, item 58). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and post script by Hancock. 'See JCC, 6:1029. 2 See JCC, 6:1032. 3 Ibid. ‘See JCC, 6:1033. “See Hancock to Washington, this date. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Baltimore Deer. 23d. 1776. I do myself the Honour to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Favours of the 12th, 13th, and 15th inst. in the Order of their respective Dates, and to inform you that they were duely laid before Congress. 1 As Genl. Lee by the Fortune of War, has become a Prisoner in the Hands of our Enemies, the Congress are anxious to afford him all the Relief in their Power during his Confinement. They have therefore resolved that a Flag be immediately sent to Genl. Howe to know in what Manner Genl. Lee is treated; and have directed Mr. R. Morris (to whom I have written on the Occasion) to for ward to you for his Use, one Hundred Half Johannes. The United States from every Principle of Justice and Generosity, are bound to render the Situation of that Gentleman as easy as possible during his Captivity. His Loss must be extremely regretted by every Friend to this Country. 2


[Page 678]
644 December 23, 1776 The Congress, upon reconsidering the Vote of the 11th inst. have come to a Resolution expressing their Approbation of your Conduct in declining to publish it in general Orders. 3 They also approve of your sending General Armstrong to Pennsylvania, and Genl. Smal- wood to Maryland to stimulate the People to exert themselves on this Occasion. 4 I have the Pleasure to acquaint you that the Militia in the upper Parts of Maryland are in Motion, and seem at last sensible of the Danger which threatens them. The Multiplicity of Business which the Congress left unfinished at the Time of their Departure from Philada. has induced them to appoint a Committee of three Gentlemen with full Powers to per fect the Business in such Manner as they shall judge proper. 5 You will please to pay the Militia who reinforce your Army, in the same Manner as you pay your other Troops, and on their Dis charge allow them a Penny per Mile to bear their Expences on the Way to their respective Homes. 8 The enclosed Resolves of Congress, I transmit by their Order, and beg Leave to request your Attention to them. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem and Respect, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'These letters are in PCC, item 152, 3:343-45, 351-52, 355, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:353-56, 363-65, 376-79. 2 For Congress’ December 20 resolution on General Lee, see JCC, 6:1029. The following draft of this resolve, in the hand of Richard Henry Lee, is in the Lee Family Papers, ViU. "Resolved that General Washington be directed to send a flag to General Howe and to request of him, as the fortune of war hath made Major General Lee his prisoner, that he cause that Gentleman to be treated with the civility due to his rank, and to his emminent personal merit. Taking General Lees parole as has been the humane practice of both Parties since the commence ment of this war, where no improper conduct hath marked the character of cap tive Officers during their Captivity. Also to know of General How if permission will be granted to send General Lee such supplies of money as may be necessary to support him during his confinement in a manner suitable to his rank in the Continental service.” 3 See JCC, 6:1031. This resolve was later erased from the journals. See also Charles Thomson to Washington, December 11, 1776, note. ‘See JCC, 6:1031-32. 6 JCC, 6:1032. 8 JCC, 6:1034. Robert Morris to John Hancock Sir Philada Deer. 23d. 1776 I have the pleasure to inform you that the Continental Fleet in this Port is encreased by the arrival of the Andrew Doria, Capt


[Page 681]
December 23, 1776 647 with great Vigilance & Spirit to affect it. Upon this occasion I can not help saying that I am very uneasy, as I am neither instructed what to do nor vested with proper Powers to act as may appear best, I must therefore request that Congress or the Marine Committee will either instruct me pointedly what to do, or give me proper authority to act for the best for the object is important and if mis fortunes happen which is very probable it wou’d be hard that I shou’d hereafter be blamed when the event is known, for measures that appear previously to be well calculated for the Publick Good. The vessels to be got out are the Randolph, Delaware, Andrew Doria, Independence, Hornet, Fly, & Musquito with many Valuable Merchantmen. The Lexington, Sachem & Wasp may be hourly expected in if they escape the Enemy. Sailors are scarce, Tradesmen at the Camp, and a kind of stupor seems to have seized every body that ought to give us assistance, so that it is inconceivable how slowly all work goes on & with how much difficulty we can get any thing done. I have applyed to the Council of Safety to order down some Tradesmen to finish the Delaware if possible, they wish but fear to Comply and if they do not she must after all remain here. Genl. Washington desires me to remain here as long as possible & promises to give me notice of any immediate danger. He thinks the Enemy are only waiting two events & when they happen, they will prosecute their designs against this City, that is, for Ice to cross the River & for the 1st Jany when most of his Army will disband & he says you might as well attempt to stop the Winds from blowing or the Sun in its diurnal as stop them from going when their time is up. Genl Sullivan brought him about 2000 men, Genl Gates about 600 & his whole Force now Consists of about 5000 men besides the City Militia. Its true the Country Militia are coming in, but I suppose as many will leave him the 1st Jany as will join before that time & if so it will not be possible for him to save this City out of the hands of the Enemy after they cross the Delaware. On this view of things, I think we ought to hazard every thing to get the Ships out & I shall advise Mr Mease, Mr Tod & all others that have Continental Stores to be prepared for removing them. It is very mortifying to me when 1 am obliged to tell you dis- agreable things, but I am compelled to inform Congress that the Continental Currency keeps loosing its Credit, many People refuse openly & avowedly to receive it, and several Citizens that retired into the Country must have starved if their own private Credit had not procured them the common necessarys of life, when nothing cou’d be got for Your Money. Some effectual remedy shou’d be speedily applyed to this evil or the Game will be up. Mr. Com missary Wharton has told the General that the Mills refuse to Grind for him either from disafection or dislike to the Money. Be that as it may the consequences are terrible, for I do Suppose the Army


[Page 682]
648 December 23, 1776 will not consent to Starve. At present I dont recollect any thing to add to this letter but as other occurrences happen I shall give you the trouble of more letters. I think it is time that Mr Pluckrose the Express I sent down with letters to you last Tuesday shou’d return, unless detained for some purpose of Congress. By him I sent a Number of French letters 8cc. I am with great respect, sir, Your obedt Servant, Robt Morris P.S. I am informed by Mr Moylan that Colo. Guyon (I think that is the name) was taken Prisoner with Genl Lee. He is the Colo, that came over in the Hancock & Adams, Capt Smith, from Nantes. RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). Robert Morris to George Washington Sir Philada. Deer. 23d. 1776 I had the honor to receive your obliging favour of Yesterday by Colo Moylan. 1 The Contents give a most mellancholly aspect to our affairs and I wish to Heaven it may be in our power to retrieve them. It is useless at this period to examine into the causes of our present unhappy Situation, unless that examination wou’d be pro ductive of a cure for the evils that surround us. In fact those causes have long been known to such as wou’d open their Eyes. The very consequences of them was often foretold & the measures execrated by some of the best Friends of America but in vain. An obstinate partiality to the habits & Customs of one part of this Continent has predominated in the Publick Councils, and too little attention been paid to others. To Criminate the Authors of our errors wou’d not avail, but we cannot see ruin staring us in the Face without thinking of them. It has been my fate to make an ineffectual oppo sition to all short enlistments, to Colonial appointment of Officers and to many other measures that I thought pregnant with mischiefs, but these things either suited the genius 8c habbits or Squared with the interests of some States that had sufficient influence to prevail and nothing is now left but to extricate ourselves from the diffi culties in which we are involved if we can. Let us try our utmost, man can do no more. I shall Urge Mr Mease to go on as briskly as possible with the Cloathing, but its impossible for him to make much progress as most of the Taylors are at the Camp. The Muskets 8c other Stores shall be sent out of the City, and such papers as I can spare shall be sent away. The Fleet has always been my particu lar care 8: at this time I am exceedingly anxious for its safety, but the difficulty of getting anything done is inconceivable. Most of the


[Page 688]
654 December 24, 1776 the Command of the Division, late under the Command of the unhappy Lee, is devolved, was on the 13th of this Month marching to join him. When they join they will together make a respectable Army, sufficient to prevent Howe’s entering Pennsylvania. Indeed the Armies must before this have formed a Junction; if Genl. Sul livan’s Division hath not been repulsed by Genl. Howe. We expect to hear from Philadelphia every Moment; if any thing New shall arrive before I am obliged to close my Letter. You have doubtless before this heard of the Removal of Congress to this Place. This is the first Opportunity I have had and this is circuitous (via Boston) to inform you of it. The Enemy was so near, and Affairs in the City in such Confusion, that it was improper and unsafe to con tinue there, and for Reasons too long for a Letter Baltimore was fixed upon as the most suitable Place for holding Congress in for the present. I should like the Place well enough if it was less dis tant from the Army, less dirty and less expensive. It is long since I have heard from my Constituents. What is doing and how Matters stand in our State I know no more than an Inhabitant of the Moon; although it would be beneficial to have every necessary Information seasonably. We have an Account that a Fleet with Eight or Ten Thousand Men have gone to Newport, and that the Island was evacuated by the Inhabitants, but that the Enemy had not landed. By a Letter from Genl. Wooster to Congress, of the Eighth of this Instant, We are informed that the Fleet on the Sixth were off New London. 3 If it be true that so large a Force hath gone to Rhode-Island some thing more is intended in my Opinion than the bare taking the Town of Newport for Winter Quarters. I suspect that they mean to take Possession of Providence, and from thence penetrate into the Massachusetts-Bay. If they attack Providence it will be by Land. They will pass up the Bay to Warwick Neck perhaps, there Land and march to the Town. There ought to be a good Redoubt at Warwick Point, to check their landing, and give Time for Troops to be arranged to oppose their Progress. I think that this Division of the Enemy’s Army affords Us a fine Opportunity to make an efficacious Stroke on them. As soon as I had Notice, that I thought I could depend upon I immediately proposed to the New England Delegates to write to Genl. Washington informing him that a Fleet with a large Body of Troops under Clinton had sailed for Rhode- Island, and desiring him to send Genls Gates or Green with such Brigr. Genls as could be spared to take the Command and Direction of the Troops that might be raised in New England to repell the Enemy from the Island; or oppose their making any Inroads into the Country. It was agreed to, and a Letter wrote. 4 The Genl, told Us in Answer that he had received previous Notice, and had sent Orders to Genls Arnold and Spencer who were then at Albany to


[Page 689]
December 24, 1776 655 repair to New-England and take the Command of the yeomanry that should muster on that Occasion. I hope that the Militia will universally turn out and not suffer the Enemy to enter and ravage our State as they have done the Jersy. I hope that they will turn out in such Numbers as to be able to give an effectual Blow to the Enemy in our Quarter. If the Army under Clinton should receive a mortal Wound from the brave New-Englanders it would in my Opinion bring the War to a speedy Close; whereas if this Oppor tunity, of the Division of the British Army, should be neglected or not improved, the War in all Probability will be protracted to a great Length, if not speedily issued in our Destruction, in the De struction of all We hold dear: For We have good Reason to think that a Reinforcement of Twenty thousand Men will be sent over next Spring. By a Letter from an unknown, but I suppose a good Hand, read in Congress this Day, it appears that the Court of Lon don had attempted and were attempting by every Means they could devise to procure Aid from every Power in Europe, or to induce them to a Neutrality; and the Writer of the Letter gave it as his Opinion that what they could collect in Germany together with Recruits raised in England, Scotland and Ireland would amount to about that Number, and that Russia would not furnish them with any Men. 5 From hence the Necessity appears that we should act in every Quarter this Winter with the Spirit of Men contend ing for an invaluable Prize. By Expresses from Philadelphia re ceived this Day it seems that the Militia of that State begin to rouze themselves, and are collecting very fast to reinforce Genl. Washington. 6 I have some hopes that Howe will be drove out off the Jersey this Winter; if this should take Place, and the New- England States should give Clinton a round Drubbing, We then need not Fear what Britain with all her Mercenaries should at tempt. There are brave, enterprizing Spirits in Providence. They burned a Gaspee. They may burn the British Fleet. I hope they will make the Trial and every Effort to destroy both Fleet and Army. I imagin that there are a Number of Seamen in Port, be longing to the Navy of the United States as well as Privateers. These Men I should think could be easily induced to enterprize any thing. They are brave and well know that if the British Fleet is suffered to remain in our Bay there will be an End to privateering, by which they have made immense Gain. What I have wrote on this Head goes on a Supposition, that a Fleet with a large Body of Troops is at Rhode-Island, and flows from that warm Regard I have for the State of Rhode-Island and the glorious Cause in which We are embarked. In this Cause I am willing to exert and have exerted my best abilities; for this I have suffered great Anxiety, have left Wife and Children and the sweetest & closest Connections in Life. Where my Wife and Children are I know not. I hope they


[Page 693]
December 24, 1776 659 directed the Pennsylvania Council to take the parole of Lt. William Jones, late commander of H. M. Sloop Racehorse, whom Robinson had recently taken pris oner, see Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:592. a For the continuation of this letter, see Morris to Bradford, January 12, 1777. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Baltimore, 24th Dec 1776 My last from Philadelphia I think was a day or two before Con gress adjourned from that place which was the 11th inst. They meet here the 20th and are now doing business with spirit. The near approach of the Enemy to that City struck such a panic in all orders of people there except Tories (of which you know there are not a small number) that the contagion seized the nerves of some members of C which caused a removal to this place which I assure you was much against my inclination; however, I hope its all for the best. The main body of the enemy advanced as far as Trenton and a party of 500 to 1000 visited Burlington. Whether any of them remain at the last mentioned place We have not had any late accounts but by the last account they remained at Trenton and at some places farther up the river. Our army, by the loss at Fort Washington and the expiration of inlistments were reduced to a handfull, by no means sufficient to make a stand against the enemy before they reached the Deleware. Gen Washington was there joined by some militia from Philadelphia. His army is daily increased by militia, besides he has been lately joined by the di vision lately commanded by General Lee, also by a body of troops from Ticonderoga under command of Gen Gates, so that they are now pretty strong and I think (if they have got rid of the panic that seized them at the time they lost Fort Washington) they may still give a good account of Howe’s army and be amply revenged for the brutal cruelties and worse than Savage ravages committed by those infernal instruments of Tyranny for the consolation of the Tories these Barbarians seek their vengeance indiscriminately on Whig and Tory. Notwithstanding all this, some are so infatuated as to go and sue for pardon among which are three of the Allens, viz. Andrew, John & Wm. Thus as far as my head will permit me I have given you a state of the army in this quarter. I should be very happy if I could hear the levies for the new army were completed in the Eastern States. I expect there will be a still further requisi tion, it is absolutely necessary that we should have a very formidable army in the field immediately. I hope every friend of America in the several States will forward this business with every possible exertion. The accounts from France which are down to October are very


[Page 696]
662 December 25, 1776 a Hint which I think of great Importance if the Measure proposd be practicable. 5 I hope both these Letters were duly receivd by you. I am expecting Mr J A and my other worthy Colleagues from Boston. We want them much. You cannot, my dear Sir, do me a greater Kindness than by writing to me. I suffer greatly through Want of Intelligence from N. E. I pray you therefore let your Letters to me be very frequent. Believe me to be most cordially, your Friend, S Adams [P.S.] By a late Letter from London written by a Gentleman upon whose Intelligence I greatly rely, a Treaty is on foot with Russia to furnish Britain with twenty or thirty thousand troops. Levies are making with all possible Industry in Germany and in Britain & Ireland from whence it is expected that 20,000 will be raisd. It is indeed to be supposd that as usual a great Appearance will be made on Paper than they will realize. But let us consider that they realizd the last year in America 35,000, and do without Doubt recruit the Numbers they lose, because they are able to do it, we then may set down their actual Force in America by May or June next at least 55 and probably 60,000. We have the pleasure of hearing that a valueable Prize is arrivd at Boston, among the rest of her Cargo 10,000 Suits of Cloaths! c A most fortunate Prize to us, especially as she is said to be the last of Eight Vessells taken bound to Quebec with necessary Supplys for their Troops. However, while we are pleasing our selves with these Acquisitions, we should remember that the Want of these Supplys will be a Strong Stimulus to Charlton, to make a bold Push by the first opportunity over the Lake Champlain in hopes of furnishing himself at Albany; and increases the Necessity of the eastern States sending their troops to Tyonderoga immediately to supply the places of those who will return home when the Time of their In- listments expires—the very next Week! I have good Information from England that a certain Capt Furze who was in Boston the last year & gaind the Confidence 8c received the Civilities of the People, when he returned, gloried in the De ception and carried Intelligence to the British Ministry particularly of the Fortifications in and about Boston. Some of the people may remember him. How careful ought we to be lest while we mean only innocent Civilities to Strangers we expose our Councils & operations to Spies. S. A. RC (MB). 1 Warren’s October 24 and November 16, 1776, letters are in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:439-41. ’ See John Hancock to Certain States, this date. “See New England Delegates to George Washington, December 12, 1776. * It cannot be determined precisely which letter Adams is alluding to, but see Secret Committee to the Massachusetts Assembly, December 4, 1776. “See Samuel Adams to James Warren, December 6, 1776.


[Page 697]
December 25, 1776 663 “This clothing was on the British transport Mellish, which was captured by John Paul Jones, commanding the Continental ship Alfred. See Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:110-11, 183-84; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:356. John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Baltimore Deer. 25th. 1776. Since I did myself the Honour of addressing you last on the Subject of the enclosed Resolve, 1 the Congress have received fresh Intelligence from Generals Schuyler & Gates, urging the Necessity of an immediate Compliance therewith. In Consequence of which they have ordered me to represent to you that without your im mediate Aid and Assistance the important Fortress of Ticonderoga will unavoidably fall into the Hands of our Enemies, the Troops who at present garrison that and the adjacent Posts having de termined not to continue there after the Term of their Inlistment expires. 2 It is needless to use Arguments on the Occasion, or to point the dreadful Consequences, to Gentlemen already fully acquainted with them, of leaving the back Settlements of the New England States open to the Ravages of our merciless Foes. If any Thing can add to your Exertions at this Time, it must be the Reflection that your own most immediate Safety calls upon you to strain every Nerve. Should we heedlessly abandon the Post of Ticonderoga, we give up inconceiveable Advantages. Should we resolutely maintain it (and it is extremely capable of Defence) we may bid Defiance to Genl. Carlton and the Northern Army under his Command. But our Ex ertions for this Purpose must be immediate, or they will not avail any Thing. The thirty first of this Inst, the Time will expire for which the Troops in that important Garrison were enlisted, and Lake Champlain will, in all Probability be frozen over soon after. For the Sake therefore of all that is dear to Freemen, be entreated to pay immediate Attention to this Requisition of Congress, and let Nothing divert you from it. The Affairs of our Country are -in a Situation to admit of no Delay. They may still be retrieved, but not without the greatest Expedition and Vigour. If Nothing was at Stake but your own Peace and Security, I should not be so earnest on the Occasion. It is the Fate of Posterity (which depends on our Conduct) that stamps a Value on the present Cause. I beseech you therefore by all that is sacred—by that Love of Liberty and your Country, which you have always manifested— by those Ties of Honour which bind you to the Common Cause— by that Love of Virtue and Happiness which animates all good Men, and finally—by your Regard for succeeding Generations, that you will, without a Moment’s Delay, exert yourselves to forward the Troops for Ticonderoga from your States agreeably to the en closed Requisition of Congress.


[Page 698]
664 December 25, 1776 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed to the assemblies of New Hampshire, Mas sachusetts, and Connecticut. ’Apparently a reference to Hancock to Certain States, November 20, 1776. a See JCC, 6:1038. Schuyler’s December 10 letter to Hancock, dealing with the critical need for reinforcements at Ticonderoga, is in PCC, item 153, 509-12, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1160-61. Another letter on this subject from Gates to Hancock, written on November 27 and read in Congress on December 6, is in PCC, item 154, 1:121-24, and Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:874-75. Benjamin Harrison to the Maryland Council of Safety Sir Baltimore Deer. 25th. 1776 Congress are in immediate Want of a fast sailing Vessell. Every Endeavor has been used to procure one without Success nor have they the least Chance left of getting one unless your honorable Board will spare Capt. Martin’s Brig. I should by no Means ask the Favor, knowing how necessary this Vessel is to the State of Maryland, if the Occasion was not of the most pressing Nature. Should the Board be so obliging as to part with her, Congress ex pect to pay what the Vessel & Cargo cost with every Charge of Wages & Outfit. You’l please to lay this matter before the Board and favor me with their Answer by the Express. 1 I have the Honor to be, your obedt. Servant, Benja. Harrison Tr (DNA: PCC, item 37). 1 Harrison was probably writing on behalf of the Committee of Secret Correspon dence. In their reply of the 26th the Maryland Council of Safety explained their reluctance to part with Martin’s brig, the Friendship, and on the 30th they agreed to sell Congress the armed schooner Jenifer instead. Md. Archives, 12:553, 560-61. See also Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Maryland Council of Safety, December 29, 1776. Benjamin Harrison to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Baltimore Deer 25. 1776 Inclosed you have a Letter from the Committee of Secret Corres. to the Commissioners in France which youl please to Sign and send with the other Papers to those Gentn by the first opp[ortunit]y with proper orders for their being Destroyd rather than the Enemy should get them. 1 I need not suggest to you the Prejudice it would be to us if they should fall into their Hands.


[Page 699]
December 25, 1776 665 Mr Deanes Letter is also enclosed that you may answer the mer cantile parts of it. This would have been done sooner but you will see there were many Parts of it on which the advice of Congress was necessary, this occasiond the Delay. Binghams [letter] we have not had time to answer but hope to do it tomorrow. As soon as we do it shall be returnd. 2 For Gods sake send us some News; we have none here but what a Purviance or a Rush Deal out to us. If you wish to please your Friends Come soon to us, but if you desire to keep out of the Damdest Hole in the World come not here. My Complimts. to my Friends. I wish you and them a Happy Xmass; a merry one you can not have Divided so far and on such on occasion from those you Love. I am, your affect. & Obedt Servt, Benja Harrison RC (MdBJ-G). 1 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris, Decem ber 21, 1776. See also Morris to Harrison, December 29, 1776. 3 These letters had been enclosed in Robert Morris to the Committee of Secret Correspondence, December 16, 1776. Marine Committee to John Nicholson Sir December 25th. 1776 As this severe weather is like to make ice, Captain Biddle will try to make a push with the Randolph and as it is of the utmost consequence that you should get to Carolina if possible I think it most for the public service that you should go down the Bay in company with him and I hope this will find you in readiness. 1 You will see the Ship as she comes down, and must join her as soon as you can, and you must concert with Captain Biddle the best plan you can think of for getting out. I am fearful an expedition is gone or will soon go against Charles Town, therefore you must proceed cautiously and get into the first safe harbour in that state that you can & give immediate notice to the president and the Continental Agents of your Arrival. I am Sir by Order of the M. Committee, your hble servant, Robert Morris V.P. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Nicholson was captain of the Continental sloop Hornet. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Bristol Decemr 25. 1776 My letters I fear will prove troublesome to you but I cannot help


[Page 708]
674 December 26, 1776 does but follow up the blow & pursue them downwards I think this will prove a Mortal Stroke to the Enemies intended expedition against this City. Colo Griffin is returned from his Expedition after a little Skirmishing as the Enemy brought too powerfull a body against him. However about 400 Jersey Militia remain at Mount Holly & I think Genl Putnam shoud reinforce them as here are lately come in a considerable number of Militia, indeed I believe he has sent over a reinforcement but tomorrow Morning I will speak to him on this subject. It is now too late at night. Mr Sherman arrived here yesterday. I have not seen him but am told he brings an Acct that Genl. Heath has Crossed the No River, retaken Fort Lee & Hackensack with all the baggage & Stores at those places & 130 Prisoners 8c that he was employing Waggons to remove the Stores into places of greater safety and from another quarter I am told Genl Washington previous to his Attack on Trentown had given Genl. Heath suitable orders. You will observe I am not perfectly master of Genl. Washingtons plan but it appears to me, that if he has directed Genl. Heath to continue his March in the Enemies Rear, those that are between Hackensack 8c Trenton will be drawn off from Genl Washington and leave him to pursue the flying Hero’s towards Burlington where I expect Colo Cadwallader will cut of[f] the Communication be tween them 8c about 200 Hessians 8c Highlanders that came to Moors Town against Griffin. If this is the plan, I think it well laid & if the General is properly supported in the Execution, why shall we not put a glorious end to the Campaigne of 1776. It must I had like to say it shall be so. Capt Robison of the Andrew Doria tells me just now that he hears his Prize Sloop is got up to the Cheveaux de Frize. I hope it is true 8c as this is the first of King George’s own Vessells that we have taken, I shou’d be glad the Congress wou’d Order her into their service and give the Command to Lieutt Dun of the Andw Doria who has been in the service from the first & is said to be an officer of Merit. Shou’d Genl Washington follow up his blow we may get time to fit out all these Vessells, but if Howe comes here we cannot do it for want of Tradesmen. The letter for Genl Washington from Congress shall be sent to him in the Morning by Major Pierce and a Copy of the Resolves you enclosed. 1 I suppose there is a Copy in the letter to him but as you do not mention it I think it best to send them. I am happy to find the attention Congress have paid to Genl Lee and flatter myself they will be well pleased to learn that I had wrote a letter to him enclosing a bill drawn by two Officers of the Royal Highland Emigrants on Major Small for £116 Sterlg that had been supplyed them by my Friends in Carolina where they are Prisoners. This letter 2 I sent open to Genl Washington who promised to send


[Page 709]
December 26, 1776 675 it in with a Flag & in that letter I told Genl Lee I hoped he wou’d be permitted to write me when he wanted more Money & he might depend on receiving it. Notwithstanding the supply sent in I shall desire Genl Washington to send a Flag to know if the Gold will be admitted and I will make a point to Collect it. Mr Walton is now here, we have sent for Mr Clymer & tomorrow we shall enter on business as Committee Men and if our best endeavours to serve the Publick can procure the approbation of Congress we shall have it. The enclosed letter from the Genl, to your Honor being directed to you here I judged it best to open it, supposing he meant it. The Contents of it I shall keep to myself, as indeed I shall of all other letters of that kind, but I mentioned to the General what I deemed good News from France & it had a good Effect. I am most truely Sir, Your obed Servt, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). ’See Hancock to Washington, December 23, 1776. a Not found. Robert Morris to George Washington Dear Sir Philada. Deer. 26th. 1776 I have just received yours of yesterday and will duely attend to those things you recommend to my consideration. 1 At present I have to enclose you a letter from Congress which I suppose Contains their resolves of the 20th Inst, but as the President does not say in his letter to me that they are enclosed to you & as it is necessary you shou’d have them I take the liberty to send herewith a Copy of them. I am well pleased to see the attention they pay Genl Lee and I shall make a point to Collect & send your Excellency soon as possible the one hundred half Johannes they order. Youl observe Mr. Clymer, Mr. Walton & myself are appointed a Committee to transact the Continental business here that may be necessary & proper, and I apprehend it will frequently be necessary that we shou’d know the substance of your Correspondence with Congress. Your letters to the President if sent open under our Cover shall always meet dispatch & their Contents kept secret, & when you think it improper we shou’d see them before the Congress Seal them & they shall go forward untouched & if you dont approve of submitting them to our inspection at all write us freely & your wishes in that respect shall be complyed with. 2 We have just heard of your Success at Trenton. The acct is but imperfect but we learn you are master of that place 8c of all the bag age 8c Stores our Enemies had there 8c of 300 Prisoners and that your


[Page 710]
676 December 26, 1776 Troops were still in pursuit of the flying Enemy. I have just wrote to Congress & told them thus much .as the substance of an Acct just come down & I told them further I had been informed that you had executed in this matter your part of a well Concerted plan, that Genl Heath at Hackensack had orders from you, & that Genl Ewing & Colo Cadwallader also had orders to Cross Delaware at the same time you did, but had been prevented by Driving Ice. Good News sets all the Animal Spirits to Work, the immagination is heated & I cou’d not help adding, that I expected Genl Heath was to Continue his march towards Brunswick which woud draw the attention of any Troops posted there & at Prince Town, while you wou’d pursue the flying Hero’s to Bordenton & Burlington where Ewing & Cadwallader woud stop them & cut of their Communication with the 2000 Hessians & Highlanders that came after Griffin, nay I almost promised them that you shoud by following up this first blow, finish the Campaigne of 1776 with that eclat that your numerous Friends & admirers have long wished for. I Congratulate you most heartily on what is done & am with perfect esteem, Dr sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedt servt, Robt Morris RC (DLC). ’Washington’s December 25 letter to Morris is in Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 6:436-38. 2 For Washington’s reply, see ibid., p. 441. Executive Committee to Thomas Fleming Sir December 27th 1776. We have just received your letter of the 27th instant to the Secre tary of the Board of war and are glad to find your Regiment on their March this way; but we cannot conceive it necessary to Send tents or Arms to the Head of Elk, as the Troops can quarter in Houses on their March or may come by Water from Christiana Bridge. Arms are not necessary as there is no Enemy in the way. Blankets, Shoes and Stockings we will provide if possible under our present circumstances. Genl. Washington has Struck an unexpected Stroke at Trentown where he now reigns master. We hope to drive the Enemy out of New Jersey and if you haste up you’l come in for a Share of the Glory. Mr Benjamin Hogeland at Christianna Bridge will supply you with Two thousand dollars which you’l please to Send a proper officer to receive and give a Receipt for it. 1 The amount will be charged to your Account therefore you must render an Accot. of the expenditure of it. On Behalf of the Committee of Congress left in this City to transact Continental business, I am Sir, Your very hble Sert. Robt Morris


[Page 711]
December 27, 1776 677 LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). Addressed: “To Colo. Flemming of the 9th Virginia Regt, or the Commanding Officer.” 1 Morris’ letter to Hogeland of this date, ordering him to pay Fleming $2,000 at Head of Elk, is in PCC, item 133, fols. 12-13, and Am. Archives, 5th ser, 3:1439. Executive Committee to Thomas Smith Sir, 1 Philada. Decemr. 27th 1776 The Congress have thought proper to appoint us a Committee to transact all Continental business in this City that may be necessary and proper, and they have empowered us to draw on the Loan Office for Such Sums of money as may be wanted, little Suspecting there was no such Office or Officer to be found in Philadelphia. For our parts we have been impatiently waiting your return, and are Sorry to say the public Service has Suffered by your absence. Had we been possessed of the Notes we could have borrowed considerable Sums which may probably be Otherways disposed of by this time. We expect your immediate attendance and are sir. Your hble Servts. Robert Morris Geo Clymer Geo Walton LB (DNA: PCC, item 133). 1 Thomas Smith (d. 1793) had been appointed Continental loan officer for Pennsylvania on December 5, 1776. Journals and Proceedings of the General As sembly of the Common-Wealth of Pennsylvania (Philadelphia: John Dunlap, 1777), p. 7. John Hancock to Robert Morris Sir, Baltimore Deer. 27th. 1776. The enclosed Resolves, which I do myself the Honour of for warding, will inform you of the Steps taken by Congress in the present critical State of our Affairs. 1 Your Favor of the 23d inst. came to Hand, and was immediately laid before Congress. The Uneasiness you mention therein, with Regard to your Want of proper Powers, is, no Doubt, by this Time removed, Congress having authorized the Committee in Philada. to adopt such Measures in the Business of the Continent as they shall judge proper. 2 You will therefore, in Conjunction with Mr. Clymer and Mr. Walton, act, not only in marine Matters, but in all others, as you shall think necessary and most conducive to the public Good. I wrote you some Time ago per Express, informing you that Con gress had appointed a Committee in Philada. to conduct all public


[Page 714]
680 December 27, 1776 States for both Arms and Ammunition. 2 The Commissions necessary in Pursuance of the enclosed Resolves, shall be forwarded as soon as possible. I have only Time to add, that I am with the most perfect Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. and very hble Sert. John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 'For the resolutions of this date which significantly augmented Washington’s authority and were passed in response to the report of the “committee on the state of the army,” see ]CC, 6:1043-46. Hancock explained the rationale behind them more fully in his circular letter to the states, December 30, 1776, printed below. See also Washington to Hancock, December 20, and Nathanael Greene to Hancock, December 21, 1776, in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:400-409; and Greene, Papers (Showman), 1:370-74. “See Hancock to the Massachusetts Council, December 28, 1776. Francis Lewis to the New York Committee of Safety Gentlemen, Baltimore, 27th Decemr. 1776 Your favour of the 5th instant, per Lieut. Brit, I have received, with your resolves relative to the frigate in Hudson’s river, which I this day laid before the marine committee, and meet their entire approbation. They are of opinion that whatever vessels belonging to the Continent, and are now in Hudson’s river, should be also secured in Esopus creek, or some other place of safety. The people belonging to the brigantine and sloop may be disposed of at the discretion of your Convention. 1 Congress approves of your recommendation of Lieut. Victor Bicker, Junr. for the marines, and as soon as the blank commisions are re ceived from Philadelphia, one shall be filled up for him and for warded to you. 2 Your letter, directed to Captain Dennis, I thought it proper to return you; his last place of residence was in Brunswick, which is now in General Howe’s possession. Perhaps you may hear of Captain Dennis some where in your State. The rigging, &c. that belonged to those vessels sunk into the North and East river, and now in the possession of Captain Dennis, it is imagined may be of singular service at Ticonderoga, of which General Schuyler should be in formed. I am also directed to inform you that Congress much ap proves of the frigates being fitted out against the spring, and of your directing a sufficient number of cannon to be cast at Salsbury, as none for your purposes can be procured from these parts. I must also beg that you would represent my present disagreeable situation to the Honourable Convention, which is that of being the only


[Page 718]
684 December 28, 1776 his dispatches to Congress through our hands unless when they might be of such a Nature as he wou’d not choose any persons shou’d see them before Congress. He approves this plan as it will ease his Correspondence with us &: at the same time we shall receive infor mation that will be necessary for our government in many affairs that will most probably come under our consideration. 2 You have enclosed herewith the Generals Account of the Action at Trentown with a return of the Prisoners &c. Allow us to congratulate Congress on this Success, &: to presage that if our good Fortune is well followed up our affairs will very speedily wear a pleasing Coun tenance. We take the liberty to enclose also an extract of a letter from Genl Cadwallader to Genl Putnam, by which it appears that our Enemies are Pannic-Struck. We hope our Troops will follow them up & not give them time to recover, & shall write in this Strain to Genl Washington with an assurance that every Man shall follow to his assistance that can be prevailed on to move from this State and we have not a doubt but their Spirits will now be up, and what they have before thought dangers will vanish before them like a Vision. You’l observe sir that Mr. Cadwallader is now a Brigadier General made so by our Council of Safety & you cannot conceive what gen eral Satisfaction it gives. He is a Gentn of amiable private Character, fine Fortune, Numerous Connections, has a martial Spirit & has taken infinite pains to qualify himself for Command. He is beloved by his Troops & gains their confidence wherever he goes. Genl. Washington in a letter to Congress sometime past recommended their appointing this Gentn a Brigadier Genl, in the Continental service. His having recommended him for that purpose & our knowledge of his merits and a Conviction that it wou’d be vastly pleasing to all the asso- ciators of this State, prompts us to recommend to Congress to do it immediately. He now commands the Continental Colonels & they cannot complain that he is put over their heads. He is now leading on a valuable band of men in your service & the appointment will give Spirit & Vigour to their operations. The present Success will induce you to make other promotions & we hope this will not be neglected. We are sorry to inform you that Capt Robisons information re specting his Prize was premature. She is not arrived nor have we heard further from below, altho the Fly has been sent down some days to reconnoitre. The Wasp is gone to Cruize outside the British Fleet, she retook a Schooner with Mollasses & Rum that had been taken by the Roebuck & has sent her into Egg Harbour. We have the honor to remain, sir, Your obedt hble servts, Robt Morris Geo Walton Geo Clymer


[Page 724]
690 December 28, 1776 [P.S.] Carter Braxton has lost his house & Furniture by fire. RC (MdBJ-G). 1 Not found. 3 Thomas Irving, the royal receiver general of South Carolina who had been captured during Esek Hopkins’ assault on New Providence in March 1776, received permission from Congress on January 2, 1777, to return to South Carolina “under his present parole” and place himself “under the direction of Governor Rutledge, or the executive power of that state.” JCC, 7:9; and Am. Archives, 4th ser. 5:823, 867, 5th ser. 3:619, 791, 878, 899. 8 For Congress’ continuing efforts to lay down the outlines of a foreign policy, see JCC, 6:1039, 1049-50, 1054-58. ‘See JCC, 6:1043-46. 8 For the appointment of this committee on December 26, see JCC, 6:1041-42. Support for the creation of executive boards consisting of persons not members of Congress had also been voiced a few days earlier by Samuel Chase—who had not yet returned to Congress since their departure from Philadelphia—writing to General Sullivan from Annapolis. See Samuel Chase to John Sullivan, December 18, 1776, note 2. For further information on the results of the committee’s deliberations, see Samuel Adams to John Adams, January 9, 1777, note 4. 8 Robert Treat Paine. ’The report of John Dickinson’s defection to the British was false, but the news of Andrew Allen’s was true. Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1230, 1377, 1434. See also Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee, December 20, 1776, note 3. James Wilson to Robert Morris Dear Sir Baltimore 28th Deer. 1776 The Committee of Congress at Philadelphia are directed by a late Resolution of Congress to contract for erecting a Magazine at Carlisle. 1 I shall be at that Place in a short Time; and will give every Assistance in my Power to those whom you employ. You are much wanted in Congress; tho’ I know you are of essential Service at Philadelphia. I am, Dear Sir, Yours sincerely, James Wilson RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). ’For this resolution of December 27, see JCC, 6:1044. Board of War to Robert Morris Sir, Board of War Deer. 29th. 1776 Be so kind as to order the muskets imported for the Continent in the Sloop and the Andria Doria down to the Head of Elk to the Care of Mr Rudolph, this is directed by order of Congress, to arm three Virga Regiments that are order’d up without their arms. 1 You have Inclosed a List of Necessaries wanted to fit out the Virga. Horse, you’l please to order Towers to have them immediately pro-


[Page 725]
December 29, 1776 691 vided all the other military Stores that came in the Vessels above, you’l plan to send to any place where you shall think they will be safe. We gave Mease orders to send Cloaths 8c Blankets to Elk for Colo Flemings Regt. I have wrote to him again on the subject 2 but for fear he should neglect it, wish you would Speak to him. Congress have given up most of their Power to the General for the Term of six Months, 3 if this don’t save your City nothing we can do will. They have also agreed to Establish Boards of War, Admiralty, Treasury 8c a Chamber of Commerce to be Composed of members out of Congress. 4 I had you Named to assist in forming the Plan 8c wish it was possible you could be here particularly to form the Latter. I can’t indeed see the use of such a Chamber as it can have the Direction of nothing but the Congress Trade and that I think has been as well managed as it could be. Make my Compliments to my Friends. I wish most Heartily to be with them to Day at the Hill instead of attending Congress to hear what I am quite tired with. I forgot to tell you Poor Braxtons fine House is Burnt to the Ground with all his Liquors and a Quantity of Furniture. I am, your affect servt, Benja Harrison RC (MH-H). 'See JCC, 6:1044. 2 Not found. “See JCC, 6:1045-46. 4 In reality Congress had done nothing more than appoint a committee to consider these innovations. JCC, 6:1041-42. Charles Carroll, Barrister to the Maryland Council of Safety Dear Sir Mount Clare Deer 29t 1776 By Direction of the Congress I Send you the Inclosed Resolves. 1 The Last Letters Bring us a Peice of Intelligence that it May be Material for you to Know. 2 One Mr Bevan a Person that May be Depended on Who was Taken by Capt Hammond Informed Mr Morriss that Hammond told him they were now Determin’d to Put a Total Stop to Our Trade and for that Purpose 6 frigates were to be stationed off Georgia 8c the Carolinas, 6 off the Capes of Virginia, and Six off Delaware. Their Signals and their Stations were fixed so as to form a Compleat Line along the Coast 8c that they were Determin’d to Keep their Stations During the Whole Winter. This I fancy it will be Difficult for them to do. However I thought it necessary yr. Board should Know their Plan. I am with Most Sin cere Respects to you all, Dear Sir, Yr Obedt Hble Sert, Chas Carroll


[Page 727]
December 29, 1776 693 Ben is to lay it out in Tobacco Concerning which I wrote him two posts ago. 1 I shall write additions to the letter to our Commissioners suited to our present Circumstances 8c send you Copies in due time. I detained this express untill this morning hoping to give you some news from Genl Cadwallader but no Accounts are yet come in. I wrote to Genl Washington & said every thing 1 cou’d say with decency to encourage a pursuit of our Enemies with his whole Force. Our Militia are daily coming in and I really hope to see him strong enough to drive these invaders out of New Jersey & then Congress may come back here. I believe it wou’d have an excellent effect were they to return immediately. Our Friends wou’d be in spirited & our external & internal Foes wou’d form favourable judgements of our supports & Strength from it. A few days more will determine whether it will be proper or not and soon as I can I will write a Publick letter on that Subject. Your Invitation to join you is very Civil, but you know I have always been satisfyed with Philadelphia 8c the Hills, and I have throughout this alarm been determined not to quit untill fairly drove off. At the same time I have been constantly prepared, my things Packed up, Horses & Carriage ready at any moment & constant means of intelligence had they approached. I beg my Compts to all Friends 8c tell Ben Levy I expect he will be a very great Politician now the Great Council have removed to his quarters. We had a Merry Christmas at Smiths in spite of the times. The absence of my Family sits grievously hard on me as I never parted with them before, but my time is too much employed to dwell much upon any Subject and I am now pleasing myself with the thoughts of bringing them back. I dine at the Hills to day 8c have done so every Sunday. Thus you see I continue my old practice of mixing business 8c pleasure and ever found them usefull to each other. I am with great affection your Friend 8c Servant, Robt Morris RC (DNA: PCC, item 137). 1 Morris’ letter to Benjamin Harrison, Jr., has not been found. Robert Morris to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Philada. Deer. 29. 1776 I have now to acknowledge the Rect. of your second letter of the 24th Inst, continuing the quotation from your London letter of the 21st Septr. for which I am much obliged. 1 The papers of the Secret Committee are sent away with my [own] 8c are now under care of one of my Clerks at Christiana Bridge but I very well re member that the propriety 8c necessity of sorting the Tobacco’s


[Page 728]
694 December 29, 1776 Shipped to Europe so as to suit the different Markets, struck me so forcibly that in one of the Committees letters to my Brother he was desired to employ proper persons to Inspect every Cargo that ar rives & sort it in the manner I have mentioned. This you may [well?] remember if you think of it a little &[...] you’l see we have neither discovered ignorance nor inattention in this point. I shou’d have been glad you had mentioned the Gentns. Name that you wish to have joined with My Brother in this business. I shall readily Consent to every measure that tends to promote the Publick Good but it is necessary you will agree that I know who is to be joined to my Brother in a business of this kind, and if the Man meets my approbation there will be no difficulty in agreeing on the Measure. I wish the Secret Committee to buy the Ships you mention & hope they may be had reasonably. If the purchase is made there is Tobacco already bought to load them & I dont think you shou’d undertake any fresh purchases at this time because great Numbers of our People that had Continental Money on hand have gone down to buy Tobacco on the prospect of this City falling into the hands of the Enemy and I am fearfull they will raise prices. If we set up New purchases at this time it will assist in raising prices and if we remain quiet during the present alarm, we shall have an op portunity by & by of rebuying all the Tobacco now bought up on Speculation as none of the purchasers can export it & they will either grow tired or fearfull of keeping it long on hand. I have borrowed a good deal of Money here for the Service of the Secret Committee & must draw some orders on them to repay it, therefore you’l please to be prepared for these drafts and I shall Account for the Amount. You cannot conceive how I am vexed & mortifyed to find after the deal of pains & trouble I have taken that the Randolph Frigate is still at the Piers &: Ice making in the River but the Officers of that Ship show great reluctance to go away without being com- pleatly manned & that is not possible. She might have been at Sea before now had they exerted themselves for that purpose but they have had constantly in view to wait for more Men. This has its foundation in a Noble principle which has hindered me from com plaining to the Marine Committee, altho I have scolded the officers like a Gutter-Whore for their dilatoriness; they say they wish to Fight & not to run. I tell them they must run untill they can fight. There are a Number of Soldiers in the two New England Regi ments now with Genl Washington whose time expire with this year & will not reinlist. They are chiefly Fishermen or Seafaring Peoples and I have wrote the General to prevail on all that will not Continue with him to come down here to Man our Frigates & they shall carry them home. I think [this] a good plan as we shall by that me[ans get] some of the Frigates Manned for [Sea] & before they


[Page 729]
December 30, 1776 695 carry the others home they may pick up Seamen from Prizes &c. I have little time but remain, Dr sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris P.S. I have just seen Mr. David Franks. He says Doctr Lee & Arthur Lee Esqr. had quitted London. 2 RC (ViU). 'Not found. a Morris apparently forgot which of Lee’s brothers was the doctor; he should have written "Doctor Lee & William Lee.’’ Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris Honble. Gentlemen Baltimore 30 Decemr. 1776 You will be pleased to receive herewith copies of our letter of the 21st instant, and of it’s inclosures, which we recommend to your attention. Since that letter was written, General Washington, having been reinforced by the Troops lately commanded by General Lee & by some Corps of Militia, crossed the Delaware with 2500 Men, and attacked a body of the enemy, posted at Trenton, with the success that you will see related in the inclosed hand bill. 1 We hope this blow will be followed by others that may leave the enemy not so much to boast of, as they some days ago expected, and we had reason to apprehend. Upon mature deliberation of all circumstances, Congress deem the Speedy declaration of France and European Assistance so in- dispensibly necessary to secure the Independence of these States, that they have authorized you to make such tenders to France & Spain, as, they hope, will prevent any longer delay of an event that is judged so essential to the well being of North America. 2 Your Wisdom, we know, will direct you to make such use of these powers as will procure the thing desired on terms as much short of the concessions now offered as possible; but no advantages of this kind are proposed at the risk of a delay that may prove dangerous to the end in view. It must be very obvious to the Court of France that if Great Britain should succeed in her design of subjugating these States, their Inhabitants, now well trained to arms, might be com pelled to become Instruments for making conquest of the French Possessions in the West Indies; which would be a sad contrast to that security & commercial benefit that would result to France from the Independence of North America. By some accident, in removing the papers from Philadelphia to this place, the Secretary of Congress has mislaid the additional in-


[Page 735]
December 30, 1776 701 every Attention to the Situation of the Northern Army, which the Circumstances of it required. On the 25th inst. they passed sundry Resolves urging the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay and Connecticut to send forward to Ticonderoga with the utmost Expedition a Body of four thousand five Hundred Troops. These Resolves I dispatched immediately accompanied with Letters wherein I informed them of the very critical Situation of that Fortress, as the Troops who at present garrison it, were resolved not to stay after the 31t of Decembr. the Day on which their Time expired. 1 Every Con sideration that had a Tendency to induce them to comply imme diately with the Requisition of Congress, I endeavoured to hold up to them in the most striking View. To the same Effect also I wrote them before Congress removed from Philada in Consequence of your representing that you wished Congress would stimulate them to a Compliance with your Letter on that Subject. These Measures, I trust will prove successful, and be attended with the Preservation of Ticonderoga during the Winter. In Pursuance of the enclosed Resolve, 2 I have wrote to Govr. Trumbull desiring him to have twenty Eighteen Pounders cast with all possible Expedition and transported to Ticonderoga, 3 for which you will please to provide Carriages. I have likewise wrote to the Commissary General to procure Provisions for five thousand Men for eight Months to be sent to Fort Ann, and an equal Quantity to be lodged in Albany, and to be occasionally removed as Circum stances may make it necessary. He is also directed to send a suffi cient Quantity of Salt to cure the Provisions, & by all Means to supply the Northern Army with Vegetables and Vinegar this Winter. 4 The Congress have resolved that the present Mode of supplying that Army by the Commissary General under the Direction of the Commander in Chief, is more advantageous than that by a Con tractor could possibly be. As a General Hospital is to be erected on Mount Independence, the Congress are desirous that a Garden should be enclosed in the Neighbourhood of the same, that the Army may be the better sup plied with Vegetables the ensuing Winter. You will therefore be pleased to appoint some suitable Person as an Overseer to see this Resolve carefully complied with. The many Disorders that have crept into the Hospitals render it absolutely necessary that the strictest Enquiry should be made into the Conduct of the Directors, their officers, & Dependents, & that the offenders should be punished. You will please to order the Commanding Officer of every Regi ment to pay the greatest Attention to the Health of the Men under his Command, and to report any Misconduct or Neglect of the Surgeons to the General 8c likewise to the Congress. I shall transmit to the State of Massachusetts Bay the enclosed


[Page 736]
702 December 30, 1776 Resolve, by which they are requested to procure such a Quantity of Oakum and other Articles as you shall think proper to write for. In Consequence of your Favour of the 10th inst which was laid before Congress, the Committee appointed to consider the same, are directed to send some Persons to Mr. Livingston, Govr. Trum bull, and to the State of Massachusetts Bay, to procure the Cannon & Ordnance Stores you mentioned in your Letter of that Date, as being immediately necessary for the Northern Department. 5 The Congress have the firmest Reliance on your best Exertions to carry the enclosed Resolves into that Effect, and depend much on your Assistance in accomplishing their Views in that Quarter. Should we succeed in our Attempts to prevent the Incursions of the Enemy into the back Settlements of the New England & New York States, by a vigorous Defence of Ticonderoga and the adjacent Posts, the happiest Consequences to America must result from it—and the Glory of compleating this great Work, I trust will be reserved for you. As your Inclinations at all Times prompts you to undertake whatever has a Prospect of advancing the Good of your Country, so your Wisdom and Abilities will certainly enable you to execute the Task. Genl. Gates arrived in this Town the Day before yesterday in a very poor State of Health, but is since much recovered. The enclosed Copy of Resolves vesting Genl. Washington with very large and important Powers, the Congress were induced to pass in Hopes of retrieving thereby the present unfavourable Situation of our Affairs. 6 To them I beg Leave to refer you, and have the Honour to be with great Esteem and Respect, Sir, your most obed. hble. Sert. J. H. Presid. P.S. I most sincerely congratulate you on the Success of Genl. Washington. The enclosed printed Acct, will give you all the Par ticulars we are possessed of. 7 This may give a different Face to our Affairs and be productive of very happy Consequences. I have not Time to add, only to beg your Attention to the several Resolves enclosed. You will observe, Congress have laid an Embargo on the Exportation of Salted Provisions, and some other Necessaries. 8 Should any Thing material occur, you may depend, I will give you the earliest Notice of it. Wishing you the Compliments of the Sea son, I am your very hb Ser. J.H. Presid. [P.S.] I never have heard any thing of my Band of Musick, since I wrote you. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 'See Hancock to Certain States, December 25, 1776. ’All the resolves mentioned in the next six paragraphs were passed on Novem ber 28 and 29 and December 28 in response to the recommendations of the committee to which George Clymer’s and Richard Stockton’s report on the state of the northern army and accompanying documents had been referred. See JCC, 6:988-91, 1047-49; and Hancock to Schuyler, September 27, 1776, note 4.


[Page 739]
December 30, 1776 705 I had long since parted with very Considerable Sums of hard money to Congress, therefore must Collect from others & as matters now stand it is no easy matter. I mean to borrow Silver & promise payment in Gold & will then Collect the Gold in the best manner I can. Whilst on this Subject let me inform you that there is up wards of 20,000 Dollars in Silver at Tyconderoga. They have no particular use for it & I think you might as well send a party to bring it away & lodge it in a safe place Convenient for any purposes for which it may hereafter be wanted. I gave Mr Commissary Wharton an order for 40 thousand Dollars this morning & pressed him to attend most dilligently to your supplys. I will send for him again [to] know what is done & add Springs to his Movements if I can. I wish he was more silent, prudent &c but I fancy he is active. Whatever I can do shall be done for the good of the Service. I ever am, Dr sir, Your Excellencys Obedt hble servant, Robt Morris P.S. Hearing that you are in Want of a Q[uarte]r Cask of Wine, I have procured a good one which Mr Commissary Wharton will send up. 3 RC (DLC). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 6:457. a At the foot of the LB of this letter the following note appears. “Accot. of hard Money sent: 410 Milled Dollars, 2 Eng. Crowns, 16 French Do., 1016 Eng. Shillgs.” PCC, item 133, fol. 14. See also Morris to Washington, August 16, 1777. 8 Morris also wrote the following brief note to Washington this day. “I have reed your favour of Yesterday & will duely forward your dispatches to Congress & the other letters by Post. I am desired to put the enclosed letters in the way of being sent into New York and make no doubt Your Excellency will readily forward them by the first Flag after they reach Your hands. I am impatiently waiting for further News from Genl. Cadwallader & with constant wishes for Success remain sir Your Obedt Servt.” Washington Papers, DLC. Benjamin Rush to Richard Henry Lee My dear sir, Crossicks 1 Decern. 30. 1776 There is no Soil so dear to a Soldier as that which is marked with the footsteps of a flying enemy. Every thing looks well. Our army increases daily, and our troops are impatient to avenge the injuries done to the state of New Jersey. The tories fly with the precipitation peculiar to guilty fear to Genl. Howe. A detachment from our body yesterday took four of them and kill’d one. Two of the former were officers in Howes new militia establishment. We suffer much from the want of intelligence which can only procured by money that will pass in both camps. Howe owes the superiority & regularity of his intelligence above ours not so much to the voluntary information of the tories as to the influence of his gold. Pray send two or three thousand pounds in hard money im-


[Page 740]
706 December 30, 1776 mediately to Gen Washington. It will do you more service than 20 new regiments. Let not this matter be debated, &: posponed in the usual way for two or three weeks. The salvation of America under God depends upon its being done in an instant. I beg leave for a moment to call off your Attention from the Af fairs of the public to inform you that I have heard from good Authority that my much hond father in law who is now a prisoner with Gen Howe suffers many indignities & hardships from the enemy from which not only his rank, but his being a man ought to exempt him. I wish you would propose to Congress to pass a resolution in his favor similar to that they have passed in favor of Gen. Lee. 2 They owe it to their own honor as well as to a member of their body. I did not want this intelligence to rouse my resentment against the enemy. But it has encreased it. Every particle of my blood is electrified with revenge—and if justice cannot be done to him in any other way, I declare I will in defiance of the Authority of the congress, & the power of the army drive the first rascally tory I meet with a hundred miles bare footed thro the first deep Snow that falls in our country. Two small brigades of New England troops have consented to serve a month after the time of their enlistment expires. There is reason to believe all the New England troops in their predicament will follow their example. We have just heard that the enemy are preparing to retreat from Princeton. Advice. Gen Washington must be invested with dictatorial power for a few months or we are undone. The vis inertia of the congress has almost ruined this country. Yours, B. Rush 3 RC (PPAmP). 1 Crosswicks, N.J., a village southeast of Trenton where Gen. John Cadwalader’s troops were quartered from December 29 through January 1. 2 For Congress’ response to this request, see the resolution of January 3, 1777, concerning the treatment of Richard Stockton. JCC, 7:12-13. Stockton was the first delegate to Congress to have the misfortune of falling into British hands, and he suffered uncustomarily harsh treatment. Before obtaining his parole, he was apparently forced to sign an oath of allegiance which later cast a shadow on his reputation. For additional information on this subject, see John Witherspoon to David Witherspoon, March 17, 1777, note 1. a The following day Rush also wrote a letter to his wife describing the recent depredations of the Hessians. Parke-Bernet Galleries Catalog, no. 2661 (March 6, 1968), item 76. George Walton to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia, Monday Evening, 30th Deer. 1776 I take it for granted that the Committee will write to Congress in the morning, touching several matters of public concern. In the


[Page 741]
December 30, 1776 707 mean time, as I am no. sleepy, permit me to obtrude two or three observations on your patience which I have made since I have had the pleasure of seeing you. Our soldiers, which have been taken pris oners by the enemy, are closely imprisoned in New-York; a miserable pittance to subsist upon; plundered of the better part of a most scanty apparel; and suffered to remain in that condition at this most inclement season. It is immaterial whether this treatment proceeds from an opinion that it is proper for rebels, or whether it is to starve the unfortunate into the humour of enlisting with the enemies of their country. Surely Congress is bound, indispensibly bound, to comfort and protect them as far as it is in its power. If we turn our eyes to those who have fallen into our hands, we shall find them free from almost the forms of restraint; fed on the fat of the land, in full possession of their all and quartered in our best barracks. This is lenity, gentleness, and humanity: but our enemies call it timidity. Congress threatens with the voice of thunder; but executes its purposes with the mildness of a Lamb. But could we once begin to act with spirit, and persevere with firmness, we should much sooner become more formidable to our enemies than by any other means. It is very far from my intention to insinuate that the unfortunate in our power should be made to suffer more than their situation necessarily creates; all I mean to suggest is, that Con gress has taken no steps sufficient to remedy an inhuman pernicious evil. Suppose, for the present, a Commissary of prisoners was ap pointed and sent to New York, with power to purchase Cloathing & necessaries, & to give provisions in payment. To this Power Howe would not object. Besides the obligations of duty and humanity, and the frightful example to our new army, which prompt the necessity of something of this kind, it might be worked into an es sential benefit. It is possible that such Commissary might prevail on these unfortunate people to re-enlist upon the prospect of being well cloathed. In this case the Continent would profit by their service as soon as an Exchange could take place. If we exchange them with out trying this expedient, we give an army [....] 1 The enemy’s force is now divided, and probably cannot be easily collected until the spring; but if you furnish them with two thousand effective men [it would?] at this time, be the ruin of our [. . .] 2 game is now in our hands; [. . .] 2 injured people obliges us to play it. If I am not mistaken in my conjectures, their conduct respecting General Lee will amount to a justification of any thing that it may be necessary to do on our part. I am Dear Sir, you most Obedient Servant, Geo Walton P.S. 31st Deer. The resolutions of Congress have just come to hand. 3 The Committee are pleased with them. Our great & good General will I have no doubt remedy these evils.


[Page 743]
December 31, 1776 709 Winter. If you cannot oe supplyd with the whole of the Stores in New York or Connecticutt, we desire you to apply to the Council of the Massachusetts Bay to make up the Compliment; to whom we have written as well as to Governor Trumbull requesting them to afford you all the Advice and Assistance you shall need in the Prosecution of this Business. We doubt not but you will provide these Necessaries with all possible Dispatch and at reasonable Rates and see that they are in a Way of being forwarded to General Schuyler, to whom you will give Notice, and to us, of the Success you may meet with in your several Applications. 3 We would mention for your Information, that Congress has con tracted for Cannon to be cast in this State at the Rate of Thirty six Pounds ten Shillings per Ton. And the highest Price that has been given in Pennsylvania is Forty Pounds. We expect however that you will purchase them as the best Terms you can. The Proof of the Cannon must be according to the Practice in Woolwich. We wish you a prosperous Journey and are very cordially, your Freinds & humble Servants, Samuel Adams Wm. Whipple Richard Henry Lee Benja Harrison Ths. Heyward Junr. RC (NHi). Written by Adams and signed by Adams, Harrison, Heyward, Lee, and Whipple. 1 On December 29 Congress directed this committee to send a person to New York, Connecticut, and Massachusetts "to procure such cannon and ordnance stores” as were requested by Gen. Philip Schuyler in his December 10 letter to President Hancock. JCC, 6:1048-50; Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1160-61. Maj. Walter Stewart (ca. 1756-96), who was selected by the committee, was serving as aide-de- camp to Gen. Horatio Gates. In 1777 he was promoted to a regimental command, where he served until 1783. Cyclopaedia of American Biography. 3 The committee wrote to Robert Livingston this day, soliciting his aid in procuring the supplies “on just and equitable terms, and timely enough to be transported to General Schuyler before the Winter.” The RC of this letter is in the Livingston-Redmond Papers, NHpR; Adams’ draft of it is in the Adams Papers, NN. The committee also sent nearly identical letters this day to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull of Connecticut and to the Massachusetts Council. See Am. Archives, 5th ser. 3:1505-6; and the Adams Papers, NN. 3 For some of Col. Stewart’s subsequent difficulties in fulfilling this mission, see Committee of Congress to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., February 12, 1777. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Baltimore Deer. 31st. 1776. I received your Letter of the 30th of November and laid it before


[Page 751]
December 31, 1776 717 “Enoch Poor was promoted to brigadier general on February 21, 1777. JCC, 7:141. 4 See Committee of Secret Correspondence to the Commissioners at Paris, December 30, 1776. e See John Hancock to Robert Morris, January 2, and Secret Committee to Robert Morris, January 4, 1777.


[Page 753]
INDEX In this index descriptive subentries are arranged chronologically and in ascending order of the initial page reference. They may be preceded, however, by the subentry “identified” and by document subentries arranged alphabetically—diary entries, letters, notes, resolu tions, and speeches. An ornament (^-) separates the subentry “identi fied” and document subentries from descriptive subentries. Inclusive page references are supplied for descriptive subentries; for a docu ment, only the page on which it begins is given. Eighteenth-century printed works are indexed both by author and by short title. Other printed works are indexed when they have been cited to document a substantive point discussed in the notes, but not when cited merely as the location of a document mentioned. Delegates who attended Con gress during the period covered by this volume appear in boldface type. Abbey, Kathryn, "Efforts of Spain," 367 Abely, Capt., 641, 642 Accommodation; see Reconciliation Accounts: delegate, 188, 233, 345, 449, 465; state, 188-89, 285, 451, 521; secret com mittee, 206, 251-52, 413, 503-4, 528; treasury, 283; Georgia agent’s, 387; prison, 712 Adams, Mr., 200 Adams, Abigail Smith (Mrs. John): letters to, 17, 29, 39, 58, 85, 86, 100, 107, 113, 158, 176, 211, 220, 237, 269, 302, 311, 318, 333; mentioned, 13, 41, 307 Adams, Andrew, 507, 508 Adams, Charles, 58, 85 Adams, Elizabeth Wells (Mrs. Samuel): letters to, 481, 509, 551, 590, 596, 616, 669; mentioned, 107 Adams, John: letters from, 3, 11, 12, 17, 18, 22, 27, 29, 39, 40, 42, 53, 54, 58, 60, 62, 69, 82, 85, 86, 90, 100, 101, 102, 107, 113, 121, 122, 158, 159, 176, 200, 211, 220, 237, 240, 260, 269, 270, 271, 286, 302, 306, 311, 318, 333; letters to, 51, 75; ft elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; proposes rotating Massa chusetts delegates to Congress, 3; on unicameral legislatures, 3-4; requests mili tary information, 4, 12-13, 19, 27-28, 62, 84; criticizes New Jersey elections, 11; opposes Negro militia battalion, 11; on New England’s military service, 11, 240-41, 306; requests replacement as delegate, 12, 19, 211; requests horses, 13, 43, 85; on achieving popularity, 17; criticizes John Hancock and Robert Treat Paine, 18; favors military bounties, 23; on military duty, 23, 54-55, 61, 241-43; committee on spies, 26-27; on promoting Massachusetts officers, 28-29, 53, 60-61; praises Gen. Mifflin, 28-29; visits Charles Willson Peale, 39-40; describes Francis 719


[Page 754]
720 Index Hopkinson, 40; unable to aid Harriet Temple, 42; committee on foreign mercenaries, 50; collects maps, 55-56; on women’s education, 59; on popular elections, 61, 64-65; on liberty, 61-62; on crime and punishment, 66; on need for accurate intelligence, 82-83; on Lord Howe’s reconciliation proposal, 90, 102-3, 113; delays return home, 100, 102, 107; on battle of Long Island, 101-2; committee to meet with Lord Howe, 114, 120-24, 126-29, 137-44, 158-63, 168, 172, 175, 181, 183; autobiography quoted, 122, 143, 221; describes Lord Howe, 159; praised by Benjamin Rush, 183; on military discipline, 260-61, 271-72; criticizes Continental Army, 286-87; wishes to return home, 302, 306-7; leave of absence, 333; expected in Baltimore, 662; mentioned, xxiv, xxv, xxviii, 218, 262, 303, 551, 601 Adams, John, Diary (Butterfield, ed.), 19, 27, 122 Adams, John, Thoughts on Government, 3 Adams, John Quincy, 319 Adams, Nathan, 151 Adams, Samuel: letters from, 389, 441, 457, 463, 481, 493, 509, 551, 552, 567, 579, 590, 596, 600, 603, 616, 660, 669, 708; letters to, 18, 121, 159, 302; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; returns home, 102; arrives at Phila delphia, 389; on Massachusetts proposed military pay increase, 458; on public spirit, 551, 600-601, 617; on liberty, 567; urges burning of British vessels, 580; arrives at Baltimore, 616; recommends Rhode Island commander, 641, 661; on British movements, 661; praises Samuel Purviance, 670; mentioned, xxviii, 123, 603, 703 Adams, Samuel, Jr., 670 Adams, Samuel (of Conn.): identified, 508; letter to, 507; mentioned 539, 579, 669 Address to the People of America, illustrated, xxviii, 593 Address to the People of Great Britain (1775), 141, 143 Admiralty, board of; see Board of Admiralty Agricultural products: exportation, 352-53, 361, 376, 381, 388-89, 421, 528-29, 533, 607, 612, 626, 657, 693-94; interstate trade, 585-86 Albany, N.Y., Indian conference, 554-55 Albany, N.Y., Committee of Correspondence: opposes Gen. Schuyler’s resignation, 227; mentioned, 470 Albertson, Thomas: letter to, 282; mentioned, 298, 299, 520 Alexander, Capt., 360 Alexander, Charles, 605, 612, 625, 637, 673 Alexander, Robert, elected to Congress, xviii Alexander, William: exchange, 89-92, 94, 124, 126-27, 144; mentioned, 81, 98, 149, 278,318, 389, 571,582, 592 Alfred (Continental ship), 45, 331, 372, 612, 625, 663 Alison, Francis, 535 Allain, Capt., reports intelligence from Canada, 32-34 Allen, Andrew, joins British, 628, 641, 659, 689-90 Allen, Charles, recommended by Gen. Lee, 713 Allen, John, joins British, 628, 659 Allen, William: joins British, 628, 659; mentioned 234 Alliances, foreign: plan of treaties debate delayed, 27; plan of treaties debated, 70-71, 132; expected with France, 183, 288-89, 546, 661; plan of treaties adopted, 257-58, 302-3; commissioners to France appointed, 257-58, 264-65, 288, 302-3, 365, 368, 378, 380; plan of treaties sent to Silas Deane, 288-89, 368-69, 378; Maryland seeks to retain right of approval, 530, 566; share of Newfoundland fisheries offered to France, 688; needed with France and Spain, 695-97; men tioned, 183, 406, 440, 633 Alsop, John, resignation as delegate accepted, 5 Anderson, James, 352, 413 Andover, Mass., powder mill, 239


[Page 759]
Index 725 Campbell, Donald: court-martial, 44; mentioned, 30 Campbell, George, 314 Campbell, William, 490 Canada: Continental regiment to be raised, 5; officers join Continental Army, 10; inhabitants dislike British, 32; Indians maintain neutrality, 33; Guy Carleton retreats to, 464, 470, 473, 475, 484, 489-90, 493-94, 507 Canada, American invasion of: failure discussed, 391; mentioned, 15, 234, 448, 467 Cannon, James, 410, 425, 440, 443 Cannon: price, 21, 58, 205, 312, 709; for frigates, 21, 217-19, 263-64, 312-13, 326-29, 339, 348, 387-88, 406, 451-52; casting, 48-49, 57-58, 196-97, 204-6, 283, 306, 326-29, 387-88, 403, 432-33, 437, 451, 524, 588-89, 625, 671-72; materials scarce, 62; manufacturers sought by North Carolina, 84; Rhode Island-New Hampshire dispute, 312-13, 326-29, 339; proof, 387-88, 709; for North Carolina, 417; re quested by Gen. Schuyler, 708-9; mentioned, 93, 175, 195, 360, 403, 607, 680, 701-2 Cannon committee: letter from, 708; -fr contracts for cannon, 58; seeks cannon manufacturers, 671-73; orders cannon purchase, 708-9; mentioned, 204 Canvas; see Duck Cape Fear, N.C.: naval expedition to, 331, 370-72, 418; defense, 417, 498, 502; strategic importance, 417; mentioned, 335, 370, 371, 402 Cape Francois, Saint-Domingue: sent American Declaration of Independence, 87; mentioned, 367 Capley, John, letter to, 311 Carleton, Guy: at Valcour Island, 364-65; at Crown Point, 440, 443-44, 446, 463; retreats to Canada, 464, 470, 473, 475, 484, 489-90, 493-94, 507; mentioned, 15, 32, 33, 73, 291, 447, 466, 482, 507, 509, 532, 630, 661, 662, 663 Carlisle, Pa., arms magazine, 690 Carpenters: for Lakes fleet, 33; for Delaware vessels, 43 Carr, Robert, 469 Carriages, price, 133 Carroll, Charles (barrister): letters from, 584, 691; -ft elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; absent from Congress, 617, 620; mentioned, 583, 613 Carroll, Charles of Carrollton: elected to Congress, xviii; mentioned, 262 Carsons, Thomas, 239, 240 Carter, Frances Ann Tasker (Mrs. Robert, of Nomini Hall), 468 Carter, Landon: letters to, 173, 461; mentioned, 532 Carter, Robert (of Nomini Hall): letter to, 467; mentioned, 532 Cartridges, 360, 362, 384 Cary, Col., 53, 61 Cary, Simeon, 11 Casdrop, Capt., 678 Cashula; see Kayashuta Caswell, Richard, 410 Cathalan, Etienne, 299 Cattle: price, 67; protection, 490-91 Cavalry, 607 Cavan, Richard Lambart, 6th earl of, New System of Military Discipline, 36 Cedars, The, 15 Ceronio, Stephen: letter to, 366; sent to Hispaniola, 37; contacts Spanish officials, 367; authorized to receive imported supplies, 367; forwards dispatches, 379; mentioned, 148, 258, 368 Chamber of Commerce, 689, 691 Chamberlain, Mr., 546, 549, 551 Chamberlaine, James Lloyd, Maryland committee on officers and troops, 566 Chance (privateer), 117 Chapman, James: promoted to major, 24, 39; mentioned, 22, 30


[Page 760]
726 Index Chapman, John, 99 Charleston, S.C.: strategic importance, 501; attack expected, 501-2 Charpentier, Victor Th^r^se, comte d’Ennery, letter to, 36 Chase, Samuel: letters from, 203, 211, 217, 261, 262, 518, 525, 529, 540, 542, 544, 556, 597, 613, 614; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; recom mends Arthur St. Clair, 212; seeks John Dickinson’s comments on Maryland constitution, 261-62; attends Maryland Convention, 262; leaves Philadelphia, 265; meets with Maryland commissioners, 518-19; on Maryland delegate instruc tions, 530, 566; on military exercise, 545; hopes for reconciliation, 558; alarms John Zubly, 558-59; asks James Nicholson to take Continental frigates to Balti more, 597; arrives in Annapolis, 613; recommends Annapolis as seat of govern ment, 614; aids evacuation of Philadelphia, 619-20; urges creation of executive boards, 690; mentioned, 528, 588 Chatham, 1st earl of (William Pitt), 117 Chauncy, Charles, 390 Cherokee Indians: defeated, 320, 323-24, 335, 387; mentioned, 80, 507 Chester, Pa., 63 Chester County, Pa.: elections, 302, 310; sheriff arrested, 310 Chevaux-de-frise, 336, 342, 346 Chew, Samuel, 47 Chitwood, Oliver Perry, Richard Henry Lee, 433 Choiseul, Etienne Francois, due de, 13 Civil rights: offered to mercenaries for enlisting in Continental Army, 50; crime and punishment discussed by John Adams, 66; Richard Price’s Observations distributed, 76-77; oath to Pennsylvania constitution opposed, 302, 440; see also Elections Clark, Abraham: letters from 51, 391, 392; letter to, 415; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; elected to New Jersey Assembly, 391; on Gen. Schuyler, 391; health, 391-92; unable to attend Congress, 391-92 Clark, Thomas, 496 Clark, William Bell, Lambert Wickes, 378 Clarke, John Innis, 218 Clarkson, Livinus: letters to, 349, 510; appointed Continental prize agent for South Carolina, 510-11; mentioned, 480, 529 Clergymen: mentioned, 406; see also Duch£, Jacob Cleveland, Stephen, 7 Clinton, George: letter to, 456; elected to Congress, xx; mentioned, 25, 26, 357 Clinton, Henry: at Rhode Island, 605, 610, 623, 661; mentioned, 7, 22, 72, 291, 490, 632, 654, 655 Clones, John, 151 Cloth, price, 258 Clothing: for army, 313, 324-25, 332-34, 339-11, 404, 449, 533, 550, 552, 559-61, 571, 576, 579, 649, 661, 681; needed in northern military department, 348, 415-16; scarcity, 355, 390, 394, 416, 452, 457; imported, 367; price, 623; men tioned, 444; see also Committee on clothing Clymer, George: letters from, 358, 392, 464, 540, 542, 677, 683, 685, 697, 713; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; committee to Ticonderoga, 252-53, 255-56, 324; elected to Pennsylvania Assembly, 443, 446; committee to reinforce Washington, 542; conducts Continental business in Philadelphia, 611, 613; executive committee at Philadelphia, 642-43, 675, 677, 683-85; mentioned, xxix, 285, 612, 620, 702 Coal, 338, 353, 624, 672 Cobb, David: identified, 582; letters to, 580, 590 Cocke, James, 99 Coleaux, Monsr., 612 Coleman, John M., Thomas McKean, 56


[Page 761]
Index 727 Colerus, Chretien de, 201 Collins, John, 16 Collins, Varnum L., President Witherspoon, 420, 511 Colston, William, 467, 468, 531, 532 Colt, Mr., 39 Columbus (Continental ship), 45, 331, 372, 625 Commissary general’s department: Joseph Trumbull’s authority confirmed, 144— 46, 155-56, 179; orders fish for army, 243^44; report of committee on state of army, 245; method of supplying army, 252-53, 256, 319-20, 324, 347, 363, 667, 701; directed to procure provisions, 291, 332, 679; Joseph Trumbull considers resigning, 315-16, 319, 347; returns requested, 344; Joseph Trumbull requests salary increase, 362-63, 585-86; deputies criticized, 464; instructed on provision ing, 473; sent funds, 670-71; food magazines recommended, 697-98, 701; men tioned, 116, 303, 647; see also Trumbull, Joseph Commissioners to France: letters to, 375, 620, 629, 695; appointed, 257-58, 264- 65, 288, 302-3, 365, 368, 378, 380; instructed, 368-69, 378-79, 381, 389, 629-35, 695-97; sail for France, 375-76, 378-79, 381; mentioned, 388, 431, 664 Committee of Congresss (for reinforcing Washington): letters from, 540, 542; resolves illustrated, xxvi, 541; solicits aid, 540-42; members appointed, 542; mentioned, 534 Committee of secret correspondence: letters from, 213, 275, 277, 288, 297, 358, 366, 367, 368, 375, 378, 380, 629, 692, 695; letter to, 609; statement, 272; receives Arthur Lee’s report, 272-73; delays communicating news from France, 273-74; directs importation of military supplies, 273-77, 281-82, 289; members ap pointed, 274-75, 379-80, 627; suggests French attack on British navy, 276-78; advises Silas Deane on American needs, 277-81; instructs commissioners to France, 288-89, 368-69, 629-35, 695-97; instructs William Hodge, 297-98; in structs Stephen Ceronio, 366-67; seeks French protection for American vessels, 376-78, 381; instructs Lambert Wickes, 380-81; papers sent to Christiana, Del., 612; seeks armed schooner from Maryland, 692; mentioned, 207, 409, 424, 651, 664 Committee on clothing: letters from, 313, 334, 449; appointed, 284-85, 313; requests purchase of clothing for army, 313, 334; mentioned, 342, 394, 415, 576, 579 Committee to Ticonderoga: letters from, 358, 392, 464; appointed, 252-53, 255- 56, 267; authorized to make supply contracts, 320, 324; confers with Joseph Trumbull, 342, 392; confers with Gen. Schuyler, 342, 358, 392; resented by Gen. Schuyler, 356-57; seeks conference with Gen. Gates, 358, 392-93; inspects site for barracks at Saratoga, 392; inspects hospital at Fort George, 393; confers with Gen. Gates, 464; rebukes Massachusetts commissioners, 464; criticizes deputy commissary generals, 464-65; mentioned, 309, 316, 335, 347, 472, 702 Confederation: reservations on Maryland consent, 566; mentioned, 19, 568 Confederation, Articles of: debate delayed, 27, 295-96; draft amended, 70; provi sions described, 183; redrafted, 266; mentioned, 20, 21, 128, 163, 181, 302 Congress: chronology, xiii-xv; settles Horatio Gates-Philip Schuyler dispute, 15-16; approves funds for Rhode Island, 16; censures Esek Hopkins, 16, 19-20, 26; orders prisoner exchange, 20; promotes officers, 24, 39, 166, 201, 304; debates articles of war, 26-27, 54-55, 70-71; asks Artemas Ward to continue in command of eastern department, 29, 42, 64; committee on foreign mercenaries, 50; offers rewards to mercenaries, 50, 56, 76, 628; approves Washington’s reproof of Lord Drummond, 57, 71; amends draft articles of confederation, 70; debates plan of treaties, 70-71, 131-32; recommends James McHenry for hospital appointment, 75; continues George Measam as commisssary, 76; quorum requirements, 80, 620; authorizes Hudson River obstructions, 88; considers Lord Howe’s reconcilia tion meeting proposal, 89-95, 102-5, 108-14, 119-20; recommends powder inspec tors, 91, 239; attendance thin, 94, 268, 295, 356, 395, 405, 462, 499, 508, 514, 519,


[Page 773]
Index 739 Hollingsworth, Levi, 565 Holman, Jonathan, 11, 53, 61 Hooper, Henry, 557 Hooper, William: letters from, 14, 35, 78, 79, 84, 92, 99, 132, 146, 191, 193, 225, 237, 245, 249, 347, 354, 366, 367, 370, 372, 375, 378, 380, 396, 404, 407, 417, 418, 424, 426, 438, 442, 443, 444, 455, 461, 484, 489, 490, 497, 500, 519, 552, 557, 561, 564, 629, 687, 695, 713; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; house burned by Josiah Martin, 14; capture attempted, 14; on military discipline, 92; committee on Joseph Trumbull’s letter, 146; committee on Gen. Schuyler, 227, 259; committee of secret correspondence, 274-75, 409, 627; criticizes military actions, 246-48; on Pennsylvania constitution, 248; supports salary increase for commissary general, 362-63; on decision to remain in Congress, 396-98; praises Washington, 398; on government, 400-402, 410; on North Carolina defenses, 402-3, 417; on duty as delegate, 407-9; suggests enlargement of North Carolina delegation, 409; marine committee, 409; board of treasury, 409; criticizes Penn sylvania Council of Safety, 424, 440, 499; on Continental Army, 438-39; sends war map to North Carolina, 461; on North Carolina elections, 497-98; on re cruiting measures, 520; urges North Carolina printing press, 520; on American support of war, 553; health, 553, 564; mentioned, 41, 181, 315, 316, 331, 496, 532, 534, 536, 542, 585 Hope & Co. (Amsterdam), alleged British agents, 657 Hopkins, Mr., 265, 633 Hopkins, David, 335 Hopkins, Esek: letters to, 44, 330, 370, 418, 595; censured by Congress, 16, 19-20, 26-27; ordered to prepare fleet for cruise, 44-47; Newfoundland expedition aborted, 330-31; expedition to North Carolina, 331, 334-35, 370-72, 418; in structed by marine committee, 418, 595; mentioned, 42, 690 Hopkins, John Buroughs, quoted, 332 Hopkins, Stephen: letters from, 15, 46, 218; letter to, 326; elected to Congress, xxii; attends Congress, xxii; defers seeking appointment of brigadier general, 16; returns home, 117-18; asked to resolve cannon dispute, 326; mentioned, 26, 57, 216, 327, 339, 451, 496, 570 Hopkins (Continental schooner), 47 Hopkinson, Ann Borden (Mrs. Francis), 39 Hopkinson, Francis: letters from, 6, 130, 346, 347, 363, 370, 372, 521; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; described by John Adams, 40; recom mends seal design for New Jersey, 130-31; appointed New Jersey associate justice, 131; marine committee, 363; appointed to middle navy board, 500, 521; resigns as delegate, 521-22 Hornet (Continental sloop), 6, 73, 604, 607, 608, 609, 625, 636, 647, 649 Hortalez (Roderique) & Cie; see Beaumarchais, Pierre Augustin Caron de Hosmer, Titus, elected to Congress, xvi Hospitals, military; see Medical department Houston, William Churchill, 285, 289 Houstoun, John, elected to Congress, xvii Howe, George Augustus, 3d viscount, 138, 143, 157 Howe, Richard, 4th viscount: letter to, 123; writes Benjamin Franklin, 71; seeks reconciliation meeting with delegates, 89-90, 92-95, 102-5, 108-16, 119-21; confers with committee of Congress, 121-29, 134-35, 137-44, 154-55, 157-63, 168, 171-75, 180, 183, 186-87, 292, 295-96, 633; letter quoted, 142-43; described, 159; publishes declaration, 286, 323; issues pardon proclamation, 551-52, 622; mentioned, 7, 15, 19, 29, 31, 42, 57, 70, 72, 101, 167, 170, 189, 214, 250, 252, 266, 277, 278, 291, 302, 307, 317, 365, 397, 450, 462, 530, 605 Howe, William: publishes declaration, 286; military strategy, 349, 455-56; reported wounded, 396, 400; retreats from White Plains, N.Y., 457, 504; belittled by Richard Henry Lee, 531; issues pardon proclamation, 551-52, 606; confines


[Page 774]
740 Index American prisoner, 598-99; mentioned, 14, 15, 19, 29, 41, 51, 56, 69, 72, 73, 98, 101, 134, 138, 143, 144, 149, 181, 182, 183, 192, 197, 198, 212, 214, 224, 237, 238, 246, 247, 248, 251, 263, 277, 278, 286, 291, 294, 312, 314, 315, 394, 398, 408, 411, 424, 438, 452, 454, 460, 463, 467, 468, 469, 470, 472, 494, 495, 498, 499, 500, 519, 543, 544, 550, 553, 564, 565, 568, 579, 584, 590, 596, 597, 598, 604, 608, 618, 621, 630, 631, 636, 639, 642, 643, 644, 653, 654, 655, 659, 666, 680, 698, 705, 707 Hudson, Jonathan, 206, 683 Hudson River: obstructions authorized, 88; British naval operations, 336, 342; defense, 357; mentioned, 5, 9, 337, 356, 532 Hughes, Daniel; letters to, 57, 283, 524, 588; mentioned, 58, 205, 326, 387 Hughes, Isaac, elected to Pennsylvania Assembly, 446 Hughes, Samuel: letters to, 57, 283, 524, 588; mentioned, 58, 205, 326, 336, 387 Hunter, Alexander, reports intelligence on British in Canada, 31-32 Hunter, James, 314 Huntington, Jabez: letters to, 30, 266; mentioned, 120, 323, 332 Huntington, Joshua, 428 Huntington, Samuel: letters from, 30, 44, 86, 119, 217, 347; elected to Congress, xvi, 269, 508; attends Congress, xvi; on Indian affairs, 86-87; health, 407; re turns home, 447, 449; accounts, 449; mentioned, 157, 267, 579 Hutchinson, Thomas, 114, 390 Imbert, Jean Louis, 201 Income: wagon master, 35; seaman, 185, 625; loan office commissioner, 308; quar termaster general, 308; officer pay, 320, 332; merchant commissions, 321; delegate remuneration, 345-46, 465, 570; chaplain of Congress, 414; naval commissioner, 453; major general, 463; recruiter allowance, 556; laborer, 623 Indemnity: Robert Temple paid for damage to farm, 41, 102-3; unavailable to Rhode Island, 449 Independence: peace propositions, 422-23; mentioned, 472; see also Declaration of Independence Independence (Continental sloop), 201, 207, 214, 236, 273, 276, 297, 300, 358, 361, 378, 609, 613, 625, 636, 638, 647, 649, 650, 651 Indian affairs, middle department: conference postponed, 33; Pittsburgh conference, 86-87, 184, 577-78; war feared, 146, 170, 172; sent flints, 184 Indian affairs, northern department: German Flats conference, 15-16, 68, 72, 87, 554; commissioners’ expenses, 554; commissioners’ dispute with Turbutt Francis, 554-56; Albany conference, 554-55 Indians: treat with Massachusetts, 5; hostilities in southern department, 31, 80, 86, 145; maintain neutrality in northern department, 31, 38, 68, 87, 554; main tain neutrality in middle department, 31, 38, 87; Nanticokes allegedly detained in Maryland, 106, 453, 459, 557; goods for, 147, 373; subdued in southern de partment, 279, 309, 320, 323-24, 335, 387; hostilities in northern department, 393; visit Congress, 554, 556, 577-78, 588; mentioned, 72, 167, 185, 231, 555 Indigo, exported, 147-48, 207, 258, 376, 381, 388-89, 421, 528-29, 607-8, 626 Inglis, Alexander, 650 Ingram, James, released, 583 Ink, invisible, used by Silas Deane, 224-25 Innis, James, 34 Insurance, maritime, 108, 147, 389 Intelligence gathering: by British, 656-57, 662; mentioned, 31, 32, 348 Interest, Continental Ioan office certificates, 349, 639 Iredell, James, 249, 426 Ireland, trade with America, 353 Iron: for cannon, 62; North Carolina works, 84, 195-96, 226, 403; Pennsylvania works, 196-97; exported, 207, 626; for Massachusetts, 577; mentioned, 546, 660 Iroquois, League of; see Six Nations


[Page 775]
Index 741 Irvine (Erwin), Janies, 263 Irvine, William, 708 Irving, Thomas, paroled to South Carolina, 687-88, 690 Isle aux Noix, Quebec, 32, 33 Jack, Peter, 518 Jackson & Stewart; see Stewart & Jackson James (sloop), 108, 413-14, 421-22 Jameson, J. Franklin, “St. Eustatius in the American Revolution,” 276-77 Jay, John: letters to, 125, 224, 538; elected to Congress, xx; develops messages in invisible ink, 224-25; urged to attend Congress, 355-57, 533, 538; committee of secret correspondence, 379-80; mentioned, xxiv, 27, 226, 294, 295 Jefferson, Martha Wayles Skelton (Mrs. Thomas), 517 Jefferson, Thomas: letters from, 31, 64; letters to, 185, 265, 431, 475, 515; elected to Congress, xxii; attends Congress, xxii; committee on spies, 26-27; drafts amended letter to foreign mercenaries, 50; committee on foreign mercenaries, 50; absent from Congress, 94; appointed commissioner to France, 257-58, 264-65, 288, 302-3; declines appointment as commissioner to France, 265, 368, 378-79, 431; purchases Richard Bland’s library, 433; Virginia law revision committee, 515, 517; mentioned, xxvi, 190, 316, 317 Jefferys, Thomas, General Topography, xxiv Jenifer, Col., 608 Jenifer, Daniel of St. Thomas: letters to, 478, 536, 584; mentioned, 544, 614, 619 Jenifer (Maryland schooner), 664 Jensen, Merrill, Articles of Confederation, 436 Jewell, Robert, 712 Johnson, Thomas: letter from, 203; -fr elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; committee of secret correspondence, 379-80; asked to attend Congress, 584, mentioned, 412 Johnston, Francis, 263 Johnston, Samuel: letters to, 245, 257, 442; mentioned, 410, 426, 438, 443, 497, 498, 499, 558 Jones, Allen, 410 Jones, John Paul: letter to, 6; captures Mellish, 663; mentioned, 368, 370, 595, 612 Jones, Noble Wimberly, 387 Jones, Walter, letter to, 598 Jones, William, 645, 649, 659 Joseph (brigantine), 713, 714 Josiah, James, 649 Journals of Congress: sent to North Carolina, 355, 404; resolve deleted, 599; men tioned, 214, 515, 639 Joy, Daniel, 196, 204, 360 Kauffman, Angelica, xxvii Kayashuta (Cashula), Seneca chief, visits Philadelphia, 554, 556 Kelsey, Mr., 527 Kempe, Grace Coxe (Mrs. John), exchange proposed, 455 Kennedy, Mr., 314 Kennedy, Thomas, 216, 352 Kent County, Del., elections, 43 Kermorvan, Giles-Jean Barazer de, 184 Keys, Miss, 40 Killen, William, 133, 134 Kingsbridge, N.Y.: American army at, 170, 185, 197, 214, 278, 364-65, 389-90, 394, 405; controlled by British, 440; mentioned, 469


[Page 785]
Index 751 155-56, 179; John Trumbull appointed deputy adjutant, 179; supplies for, 184, 415-16, 472, 547; committee to Ticonderoga, 252-53, 255-56, 267, 309, 316, 320, 324, 335, 342, 356-58, 464; smallpox, 291; state of described, 342-43, 630; attack expected, 358; Valcour Island battle, 360, 364-65, 392-94, 399-100, 409-10, 420, 431; officers promoted, 420; Massachusetts committee on officers and troops, 442; needs reinforcements, 652-53, 663-64, 700-701, 716; needs cannon, 708-9; men tioned, 10, 68, 149, 165, 185, 214, 235, 312, 355, 363, 405, 440, 443, 444, 446, 448, 459, 481, 494, 509, 525, 532, 533, 580; see also Gates, Horatio; Schuyler, Philip; Ticonderoga, N.Y. Northumberland County, Pa., 38 Norton, John Hatley, 528 Norwich, Conn., 672 Oaths of allegiance, disputed in Pennsylvania, 302, 440 Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty (Richard Price), 76, 77, 214 Ochquaque Indians, protest Maryland detention of Nanticokes, 106 Ocracoke, N.C., 370 Olive Branch (ship), 152 Olive Branch Petition, 141, 143 Oneida Indians: protest Maryland detention of Nanticokes, 106; neutrality, 554 Onondaga Indians, 555 Ord, George, 504, 572 Orpheus (H.M.S.), 152, 300 Paca, William: letters from, 203, 586; letter to, 613; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii, 526; portrait, xxviii, 587; leaves Philadelphia, 265; com mittee to headquarters, 534, 544, 547, 550; mentioned, 545 Page, Mr., 40 Page, John: letters to, 31, 97, 187, 317, 436, 543; mentioned, 517 Page, Mann, elected to Congress, xxiii Page, William, Massachusetts committee on officers and troops, 442 Paine, Robert Treat: diary, 81, 115, 128, 180, 189, 256, 360, 406, 458, 512, 522, 528, 564, 577, 588, 590, 596, 601; letters from, 48, 57, 196, 204, 205, 238, 283, 284, 313, 334, 387, 433, 434, 449, 524, 577, 580, 588, 590; letter to, 284; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; criticized by John Adams, 18; health, 58; committee on schooner Thistle, 180-81; committee on clothing, 284-85; cannon committee, 522; examines Delaware River forts, 522; orders cannon, 524; describes military movements, 580-81; meets with Indians, 588; obtains leave, 590; returns home, 596, 601, 603; mentioned, 19, 388, 671, 689 Paine, Thomas, Crisis, 711 Palfrey, William, 145 Palmer, Mr., 429 Palmer, John, 374 Palmer, Joseph, letter to, 69 Palsits, Victor Hugo, “Use of Invisible Ink," 225 Paper currency: for northern department, 8-9; emissions, 21, 639; Continental re fused, 295, 424, 439-40, 623, 628-29, 639, 648, 678; loan office certificates, 308, 472; public drafts preferred to private, 349-51; depreciates, 439-40, 570, 623, 681; mentioned, 250, 259, 495, 526, 545 Parke, Mr., 43, 134 Parke, Theophilus, 189 Parker, Joseph, elected to Pennsylvania Assembly, 443, 446 Parker, Sir Peter, 291 Parker, William, 667 Parliament, 143 Parsons, Samuel H.: letters to, 22, 286; mentioned, 197, 200, 212, 241, 306


[Page 788]
754 Index Preston, Mr., 591 Price, Richard, Observations on the Nature of Civil Liberty, 76-77, 214 Price, Thomas, 537 Prices: cannon, 21, 58, 205, 312, 709; sheep, 67; cattle, 67; setting of discussed, 74; shoes, 80, 623; tea, 107; powder, 108, 206, 504; drawings for seal engraving, 131; carriages, 133; flour, 222; cloth, 258; madeira, 322; insurance premiums, 389; ship charter commissions, 421; inflation, 462, 570; wood, 468; hay, 468; beef, 468; clothing, 623; butter, 623, 681; ships, 626; boarding costs, 656; loaf sugar, 681; lodging, 681; wagon hire, 681 Princeton, N.J., 571, 577, 592 Principles of the English Constitution, 36 Pringle, John, Jr., 108 Prisoners, commissary of, Washington to appoint, 708 Prisoners, political: John Baldwin jailed for refusing paper money, 424, 426; ex change of women proposed, 454-55; William Franklin exchange suspended, 572; James Ingram released, 583; treatment, 586, 588, 706; see also Loyalists Prisoners of war: exchanges, 19-20, 89-92, 94, 124-27, 144, 294, 314, 460, 497, 510, 517-18, 649; in battle on Long Island, 98; paroles, 296, 304, 460-61, 487, 645, 659, 688, 690; treatment, 354, 377, 598-99, 686, 698, 700, 706-7; Moore’s Creek Bridge prisoners seek to return home, 404, 426, 461; Lawrence Bowden petition, 452-53, 471; enlist in military, 518; returns, 518, 696, 711-12; John Cadwalader released by British, 525; disposition, 586, 637, 646; money for Charles Lee, 642-44, 650, 674-75; mentioned, 14, 46, 52, 83, 188, 196, 218, 263, 278, 318, 345, 390, 443, 446, 453, 572, 595, 631 Prisons, accounts, 712 Privateering: condemnation of Thistle reversed, 180-81; French protection sought, 376-78; in New England, 425; illegal seizure of American vessels, 491-93, 512, 713-14; Robert Morris venture, 573-75; curtailment proposed, 640; mentioned, 8, 24, 42, 43, 99, 147, 165, 188, 216, 248, 321, 322, 385, 444, 625, 626, 634, 656, 712 Prize agents, Continental: letters to, 349, 704; Nathaniel Shaw ordered to purchase schooner Hawke, 47; Daniel Tillinghast ordered to receive goods, 93—94; listed, 347; ordered to account with marine committee, 349-50; ordered to handle James salvage, 413-14, 421-22; John Wereat appointed for Georgia, 485; appointed for South Carolina, 510-11; authorized to purchase ships, 533; John Langdon instructed by marine committee, 595-96; mentioned, 46, 52, 116, 202, 217, 219, 220, 270, 299, 301, 338, 339, 341, 419, 421, 429, 528, 529, 574, 665, 673; see also Bradford, John Prize agents, Washington’s: letter to, 350; ordered to account with marine committee, 350-51 Prizes: condemnation, 213-14, 510-11; accounting of ordered, 349-51; quick distri bution ordered, 350-51; sale in France, 376-78, 389; French protection sought, 381; seamen’s shares 425; Hancock & Adams seized, 491-92; specie captured, 543; disposition in West Indies, 607-8; value, 634; Portuguese prizes to be sold in Spain, 671; mentioned, 8, 13, 22, 24, 45, 46, 74, 76, 99, 127, 202, 206, 220, 267, 269, 270, 292, 301, 321, 322, 338, 348, 354, 371, 394, 419, 429, 430, 443, 485, 575, 622, 625, 645, 649, 674, 684, 715 Propositions for Peace, 422 Providence, R.I.: shipbuilding, 21, 312-13, 326-29; asked to supply canvas, 406; mentioned, 654 Providence (Continental sloop), 6, 370, 372, 625 Prussia, commissioner to appointed, 696 Purviance, Mr., 641 Purviance, Robert: letter to, 577; mentioned, 180, 185 Purviance, Samuel, Jr.: letters to, 180, 185, 336, 535, 577; praised by Samuel Adams, 670; mentioned, 155, 597, 628, 665 Putnam, Bartholomew, letter to, 421


[Page 789]
Index 755 Putnam, Israel: plans Philadelphia defense, 604, 622: recommends Congress leave Philadelphia, 615-16, 640, 660; seeks arrest of persons refusing Continental cur rency, 628-29, 639; mentioned, 81, 98, 197, 198, 389, 468, 479, 564, 592, 599, 602, 606, 612, 646, 674, 682, 684, 685, 704 Quakers, 295, 514, 531, 600, 622 Quartermaster general’s department: resident assistant for Philadelphia, 14; Gen. Mifflin reappointed, 254, 294, 308, 390, 509-10; ordered to supply army with clothing, 340-41; mentioned, 312, 527, 534 Quebec; see Canada Quincy, Katherine, 58 Quorum requirements: Delaware, 80; Maryland, 620 Quynn, Allen, 597 Racehorse (H.M. sloop), 659 Raffelin, Antonio, 367 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 219, 220, 224, 326, 327, 328, 329, 339, 371, 419, 430, 451, 595, 625 Rall, Johann Gottlieb, 711 Ramsay, Thomas, 525 Rand, Mr., 410 Randolph (Continental frigate), 535, 604, 609, 625, 645, 647, 649, 665, 694 Ranger (Continental sloop), 347, 348 Raven (H.M.S.), 335, 370 Read, George: letters from, 44, 582; letters to, 104, 154, 197, 445, 542; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; attends Delaware constitutional conven tion, 43; letter quoted, 445; protests Congress’ intervention in Delaware affairs, 445; mentioned, 120, 150, 293 Read, Gertrude Ross (Mrs. George), letter to, 582 Read, James: letter quoted, 512; mentioned, 583 Read, Thomas, 561, 583, 686 Reading, Pa., 171 Reconciliation: declared impossible by Benjamin Franklin, 29; Lord Drummond seeks mediator role, 57, 70; Lord Howe proposes meeting, 89-90, 92-95, 102-5, 108-16, 119-21; committee of Congress meets with Lord Howe, 121-29, 134-35, 137-44; meeting with Lord Howe nonproductive, 154-55, 157-63, 168, 171-75, 180-81, 183, 186-87, 292, 296, 633; Howe brothers publish declaration, 286, 323; pardons offered to Americans, 551-52, 606, 622; supported by Samuel Chase, 558; design of British attempts, 629-30; mentioned, 601, 632 Reed, Mrs., 414 Reed, Joseph, 14, 23 Reeve, Tapping, 509 Religious freedom: offered to mercenaries for enlisting in Continental Army, 50; nonbelievers excluded from Pennsylvania Assembly, 248 Reprisal (Continental brig), 67, 71, 99, 145, 163, 207, 214, 220, 375, 376, 380, 388, 625 Repulse (H.M.S.), 433 Reynolds, Sir Joshua, 39 Rhode Island: service to army discussed by John Adams, 11; shipbuilding, 21, 326-29, 338-39, 496; Continental troops, 118, 165; funds for, 164; Continental Army quota, 215; militia, 395; coastal defense, 395; charter criticized by William Hooper, 402; inhabitants seek indemnity, 449; privateers seize American vessel, 491-93, 512; authorizes military pay increase, 503, 514; British invasion, 592, 594, 603, 605, 610, 623, 654, 661, 672; appointment of commander for, 603, 641, 654-55, 661; see also Providence, R.I. Rhode Island Assembly: letters to, 96, 290, 324, 488, 523, 703; seeks funds for


[Page 790]
756 Index recruiting expenses, 16; asked to increase Rhode Island delegation to Congress, 119, 395; asked to purchase clothing for army, 334 Rhode Island delegates: letter from, 15; -ft defer seeking appointment of brigadier general, 16; oppose meeting with Lord Howe, 115 Rhode Island Frigate Committee: letters to, 327, 328, 339; cannon dispute with New Hampshire, 312-13, 326-29, 339; mentioned, 453, 496 Rice, John, 480 Rice: exportation, 258, 528-29, 533, 607; mentioned, 147, 148, 207, 585, 608, 626, 679 Richardson, William, 203, 204 Richmond, William, 395 Ridgely, Charles, 150 Rittenhouse, David, 130, 190 Ritzema, Rudolphus, 425 Roberdeau, Daniel, commands flying camp, 8 Roberts, Charles, 181 Robertson, Charles, 638 Robertson, James, 609, 636, 651 Robertson, John, 149 Robinson, Mrs., exchange proposed, 454 Robinson, Ichabod, letter to, 317 Robinson, Isaiah: letter to, 348; instructed by marine committee, 348; men tioned, 220, 352, 359, 367, 645, 649, 658, 674, 684 Robinson, James, 348, 352, 358, 361 Roche, John: identified, 348; plan for constructing sloop approved, 347-48; mentioned, 177, 223, 344, 354 Rochefermoy, Mathieu Alexis de, examines Delaware River forts, 522 RocAingham (schooner), 549 Rodney, Caesar: letters from, 43, 80, 120, 133, 150, 154, 189, 197, 222, 239, 293, 310, 311; letter to, 104; -fa elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii; on Dela ware quorum requirement, 80; on Delaware politics, 133-34, 311; on power of Delaware convention, 150-51; on service as delegate, 151, 311; orders to sloop sold, 189, 222; on New England troops, 239; returns home, 310-11; not reelected delegate, 311, 555 Rodney, Thomas, letters to, 43, 80, 133, 189, 222, 239, 293 Roebuck (H.M.S.), 613, 646, 684 Rogers, Robert, 390, 396, 465 Rose, Alexander, 641, 642, 704 Rose (H.M.S.), 34 Rose (schooner), 413 Ross, Mr., 148, 305 Ross, George: letters from, 313, 384, 385, 446, 449, 547, 549, 616; elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; on Pennsylvania constitution, 446; com mittee to headquarters, 534, 547, 549-50; mobilizes Pennsylvania militia, 616; mentioned, 56, 646 Ross, James, 290 Ross, John: identified, 259; letter to, 258; mentioned, 169, 299 Rossie, Jonathan G., Politics of Command, 227, 357 Rudolph, Mr., 690 Rumsey, Benjamin: letters from, 478, 536, 617; elected to Congress, xviii, 537; attends Congress, xviii, 617; letter quoted, 435-36; Maryland committee on officers and troops, 479, 536-37, 618; on enlistment bounties, 479; on impending attack on Philadelphia, 618; plans to march with Maryland militia, 619; affirms dignity of Maryland Council of Safety, 619; mentioned, 526, 602, 614 Rush, Benjamin: letters from, 75, 168, 182, 198, 234, 262, 337, 365, 428, 563, 628, 639, 665, 705; letters to, 342, 511; notes, 577; elected to Congress, xxi; attends


[Page 793]
Index 759 535, 562-63; Massachusetts, 217-19, 535, 687; New Hampshire, 312, 326-29, 347^18, 354, 406, 535, 660; Maryland, 336-37, 535; New York, 360; Connecticut, 419, 428-29; state assignments listed, 535; Pennsylvania, 535, 637; mentioned, 280 Shippen, William, Jr., letter to, 559; conflicts with John Morgan, 559; men tioned, xxvii, 104, 522 Shirley, William, 41 Shoes: price, 80, 623; for army, 550-51, 579; requested from New England, 552 Shubert (Shubler), Michael, elected to Pennsylvania Assembly, 443, 446 Silver, 705 Simes, Thomas, Military Guide, 35-36 Six Nations: German Flats, N.Y., conference, 15-16, 68, 72, 87, 554; allege Mary ¬ land detention of Nanticokes, 106, 453, 459, 557 Skinner, Courtlandt, 499 Skinner, William, 410, 426 Slaves; see Blacks Small, John, 650, 674 Smallpox, 11, 19, 78, 291, 307, 391, 467, 476, 505, 506, 551 Smallwood, William: appointed brigadier general, 435, 438; sent to Maryland, 644; mentioned, 105, 425 Smith, Col., 53, 61 Smith, Dr., 475 Smith, Mr., 346 Smith, Devereux, 172 Smith, Eleanor Armor (Mrs. James), letters to, 296, 314, 714 Smith, Isaac, 11 Smith, James: letters from, 296, 314, 714; -ft elected to Congress, xxi; attends Con ¬ gress, xxi; on duty as delegate, 296; committee to reinforce Washington, 542 Smith, John, 68, 461 Smith, Richard (of Boston), 205 Smith, Richard (of New Jersey): letter to, 130 Smith, Robert: letters to, 298, 349; commercial transactions, 108, 282-83, 298-99, 330; vessels seized, 413, 421-22, 713-14; mentioned, 40, 69, 574, 708 Smith, Mrs. Robert, 69 Smith, Samuel, Jr., 491, 492, 493, 648 Smith, Samuel Stanhope, 68 Smith, Thomas: identified, 677; letter to, 677; mentioned, 611, 636, 697 Smith, William, 68 Soper, Edmund, 319 South Carolina: Indians in, 145, 279; Continental Army quota, 215, 230; attack expected, 481, 487, 490, 493, 501-2, 504, 514, 532, 538-39; Continental prize agents appointed, 510-11 South Carolina Assembly, letters to, 290, 483, 487, 523, 703 Southern military department: supplies for, 298-99; invasion of East Florida fore stalled, 335; recruiting, 499 Spain: relations with America, 131-32, 671, 695; war preparations, 145, 175, 472, 565; trade with America, 367, 671; American commissioner to be appointed, 696 Specie, 8, 93, 472, 475, 543, 623, 698, 704, 705 Spencer, Joseph, appointed to Rhode Island command, 603, 641, 654-55, 661 Sphynx (H.M.S.), 335, 370 Spies: committee reports articles of war to Congress, 26-27; mentioned, 44 Spy (Connecticut schooner), 31, 269 Sprague, Joseph, letter to, 422 Stanton, Mr., 669 Staples, William R„ Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 496 Staten Island, N.Y.: British army at, 7, 9, 21-22, 30-31, 67, 72, 149; committee of


[Page 794]
760 Index Congress meets with Lord Howe, 121-29, 134-35, 137-44, 154-55, 157-63, 168, 171-75, 180, 183, 186-87, 292, 295-96, 633; loyalists, 476; mentioned, 76, 278, 287, 291, 312, 318, 399 States rights: under draft articles of confederation, 183; authority to set military pay, 441-42, 457-59, 464-65, 478, 488, 494, 498, 503-5, 507-8, 513-14, 518-19; Continental interference in Delaware, 445; economic power, 462; division of military expenses, 526, 544; authority to form foreign alliances, 530, 566; western land ownership, 536-37; tax assessments, 536-37 Stephen, Adam, 375, 432, 437, 536, 562, 640 Stephens (Stevens), William, 236, 252, 361 Stephenson, Hugh, 304 Sterret, Andrew, 352, 480 Sterret, James, 352 Sterret, Joseph, 480 Stevens, John, 528 Stevens, William; see Stephens, William Stevenson, Cornelius, 148, 258, 380 Stevenson, Henry, 577 Stewart, Capt., 68 Stewart, Alexander, 106, 150 Stewart, Charles, 518 Stewart, David, 155, 574 Stewart, James, 5 Stewart, Walter: identified, 709; letter to, 708 Stewart & Jackson, contract with secret committee, 421 Stills, Charles J., Life and Times of John Dickinson, 629 Stirling, Lord; see Alexander, William Stival, (P.) & Son, 298, 299, 322, 376, 381, 382 Stockton, Richard: letters from, 228, 284, 342, 358, 392, 415, 464; letter to, 527; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; committee on foreign merce naries, 50; chief justice of New Jersey, 106; committee to Ticonderoga, 252-53, 255-56, 324, 342-43; committee on clothing, 284-85, 415-16; on building bar racks, 342; on state of northern department, 342-43; on clothing scarcity, 416; accounts, 465; committee to reinforce Washington, 542; reportedly seeks pardon, 641; treatment as prisoner, 706; mentioned, 128, 263, 486, 702 Stone, Thomas: letters from, 106, 203, 265, 334; elected to Congress, xviii; at tends Congress, xviii; sends Indian speech to Maryland Convention, 106-7; favors meeting Lord Howe, 113; health, 265; asked to attend Congress, 585; men tioned, 27, 535 Stone, William, letter to, 73 Stormont, 7th viscount (David Murray), 378 Story, Thomas: reports to committee of secret correspondence, 272-74; mentioned, 369 Strachey, Henry: identified, 142; notes, 137 Stringer, Samuel, 75 Strong, Jedediah, 88 Stuart, Lt., 294 Stuart, John, 279 Success (ship), 352, 413, 528 Sugar, 8, 320, 681 Sullivan, James, 3 Sullivan, John: letter to, 614; conveys Lord Howe’s reconciliation proposal, 89-95, 102-5, 109, 113, 115, 119, 127, 181; exchange, 89-92, 94, 124, 126-27, 144; replaces Gen. Lee, 653-54; reinforces Washington, 710; mentioned, 67, 81, 98, 106, 120, 121, 123, 125, 134, 149, 153, 154, 158, 160, 163, 171, 185, 234, 278, 295, 318, 621, 647, 715


[Page 797]
Index 763 Van Doren, Carl, Secret History of the American Revolution, 79 Van Dyke, Nicholas, 311 Van Lear, William, 8 Van Sweeten and Jones, Cures for Armies, 36 Van Zandt, Jacobus: letter to, 349; mentioned, 347 Varnum, James, 26, 53 Vergennes, comte de (Charles Gravier), 272, 366, 378 Vernejous, Jean Louis de, 201 Vernon, William (1719-1806): identified, 450; letters to, 449, 469 Vernon, William H. (1759-1833), 449 Vienna, American commissioner to be appointed, 696 Vindication of His Public Character (John Morgan), 523 Virginia: Continental troops, 21-22, 78, 86, 222, 291, 295, 317, 375, 428, 440, 445, 565, 676, 686, 690-91; arms for, 34, 565, 690; boundary dispute with Pennsyl vania, 66, 152-53, 190; troops attack loyalists in Georgia, 80; ships ordered to cruise, 99; Continental Army quota, 173, 188-89, 215, 473; coastal defense, 175, 418, 432, 436-37; shipbuilding, 175, 535, 562-63; Continental accounts ordered audited, 188-89, 451, 521; Indians quiet, 279; seal, 317, 517; child bondage, 432; cannon casting, 432, 437; attack expected, 481, 488, 490, 493; asked to build arms magazine, 687 Virginia (Continental frigate), 336,535, 597 Virginia Assembly, letters to, 290, 324, 483, 487, 523, 703 Virginia delegates: letters from, 153, 190, 451; present credentials, 164 Virginia House of Delegates: elects Benjamin Harrison to Congress, 316; accusa tions against Richard Henry Lee, 432-33; law revision committee, 515, 517 Virginia Navy Board, 432, 433, 562, 563 Voting: in Congress, 80-81, 620; under draft articles of confederation, 183; oath to Pennsylvania constitution as prerequisite opposed, 302 Wages; see Income Wagons, price, 681 Waldeckers, 443, 446, 499 Walker, Mr., 489, 497 Wallace, James, 120 Walton, George: letters from, 44, 347, 418, 594, 677, 683, 685, 697, 706, 713; -fr elected to Congress, xvii, 594; attends Congress, xvii, 594; recommends John Wereat as Continental prize agent in Georgia, 485; conducts Continental busi ness in Philadelphia, 611, 613; executive committee at Philadelphia, 642-43, 675, 677, 683-85; on treatment of American prisoners, 706-7; mentioned, xxix, 168, 604, 608, 610, 612, 620 War office; see Board of war Ward, Andrew, 316 Ward, Artemas: letters to, 64, 218, 455, 463; asked to continue in command of eastern department, 29, 42, 64; paid for keeping command of eastern depart ment, 455, 463; mentioned, 28, 44, 86, 270,478 Ward, Henry, 307 Ward, Joseph, letter to, 27 Ward, Samuel, 17, 164 Ward, Samuel (of Salem, Mass.), letter to, 422 Warner, Elisha: letters to, 427, 474, 475; instructed by marine committee, 427- 28, 474-75; ship damaged, 475; mentioned, 636 Warner, Seth, 9, 448, 449 Warren, James: letters to, 12, 42, 102,. 122, 237, 306, 441, 457, 493, 545, 549, 552, 567, 579, 600, 640, 660; Massachusetts board of war, 442; letter quoted, 568; mentioned, 3, 17, 19 Warren, John, identified, 548


[Page 799]
Index 765 Independence, 36, 87; forward military supplies to America, 272-77, 352, 358-59, 361, 367; threatened by British, 695; mentioned, 441, 573, 608 Westmoreland, Pa. (Conn.), raises troops for frontier protection, 38, 87-88 Whale products, 626 Wharton, Carpenter, 647, 697, 704 Wharton, Isaac, 441 Wharton, John, appointed to middle navy board, 498 Wharton, Thomas: letter to, 337; yy described, 499-500; mentioned, 441 Wharton & Falconer, 299 Wheat, 352, 353, 626 Wheelright, Mr., 223 Whipple, Abraham, 42 Whipple, Catherine Moffatt (Mrs. William), 451 Whipple, William: letters from, 405, 406, 418, 451, 456, 468, 504, 506, 528, 550, 576, 594, 595, 603, 650, 652, 659, 708, 715; letters to, 20, 70, 94, 162; elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix; letter quoted, 21; criticizes New Hampshire paper money, 21; seeks clergyman for New Hampshire, 406; arrives in Phila delphia, 406; on Massachusetts reenlistment plan, 504-5; on loyalists, 505; chides John Langdon, 506; secret committee, 528, 533; recommends Rhode Island commander, 641, 661; mentioned, 24, 89, 127, 176, 177, 178, 223, 224, 264, 312, 343, 354, 430, 471, 477, 611, 667 Whitcomb, John, 28, 64 White Plains, N.Y.: American army at, 431, 433, 440, 465; British army with draws, 457, 468 Wickes, Lambert: letter to, 380; sails for France, 375-78; instructed by com mittee of secret correspondence, 380-81; mentioned, 67, 68, 71, 99, 163, 165, 207, 213, 214, 215, 220, 236, 388, 389, 651 Willard, Aaron, 53 Williams, Eliphalet, 596 Williams, Otho Holland, 537 Williams, William: letters from, 38, 121, 155, 157, 208, 252, 259, 266, 269, 313, 315, 317, 332, 334, 447, 449; elected to Congress, xvii, 269, 508; attends Congress, xvii; on necessity for faith, 208-10; on Lord Howe’s reconciliation proposal, 266; on delegates, 267-68, 315-16; wishes to return home, 267-68; on forms of gov ernment, 268; opposes Joseph Trumbull’s resignation, 315-16; requests commis sary general salary increase, 362; criticized by Elbridge Gerry, 362-63; on granting soldiers back pay, 448; accounts, 448; committee on clothing, 449; returns home, 508-9, 514, 539-40; mentioned, 144, 323, 407, 578 Williamson, Hugh, 633 Willing, Morris & Co.: letter from, 169; commercial transactions, 74-75, 146-50, 608; mentioned, 108, 120, 204, 206, 298, 352, 573, 651, 657 Wilmerding, Lucius, Jr., “United States Lottery,” 572 Wilson, James: letters from, 50, 170, 454, 469, 482, 483, 486, 512, 540, 542, 690, 708; letters to, 547, 549, 589; -ft elected to Congress, xxi; attends Congress, xxi; opposes promotion of Samuel Miles, 9-11; committee on foreign mercenaries, 50; travels to New Jersey, 50; committee on plan of treaties, 132; on choosing retreat, 170-71; committee to reinforce Washington, 542; mentioned, 296, 315, 602, 688, 703, 714 Winthrop, John, 3, 102 Wisner, Henry: elected to Congress, xx; powder manufacture, 340; mentioned, 345 Wister, Mr., 460 Witherspoon, David: letter to, 68; mentioned, 486 Witherspoon, James: identified, 420; mentioned, 68, 419 Witherspoon, John: letters from, 68, 334, 366, 367, 375, 378, 380, 419, 486, 511, 527, 550, 583, 629, 695; speech, 108; elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx; sermons sent to North Carolina, 36; on teaching, 68; on Lord Howe’s reconcilia-


[Page 800]
766 Index tion proposal, 108-13; committee of secret correspondence, 275, 379-80, 627; committee to headquarters, 534, 547, 550; mentioned, xxviii, 51, 72, 518 Witherspoon, John, Jr., identified, 511; mentioned, 68 Woedtke, Frederic William, baron de, death, 4, 34, 183-84 Wolcott, Frederic, 599, 605 Wolcott, Laura Collins (Mrs. Oliver): letters to, 285, 322, 349, 509, 539, 578, 599, 605, 667; mentioned, 407 Wolcott, Oliver: letters from, 285, 322, 349, 407, 507, 509, 513, 539, 554, 578, 599, 605, 667; elected to Congress, xvii, 269, 508; attends Congress, xvii, 269; portrait, xxviii, 668; arrives in Philadelphia, 269, 285; health, 323, 349, 407, 509, 515; on Gen. Howe’s strategy, 349; on setting military pay, 507-8; on William Williams, 508, 539-40; on military regulations, 513-14; committee on regulating sutlers, 515; on Indian neutrality, 554; summarizes Indian commissioners’ dispute with Turbutt Francis, 554-56; complains of lack of Connecticut news, 579; criticizes Gen. Howe’s proclamation, 606; mentioned, 449 Wolcott, Oliver, Jr., 286, 323, 509, 579, 599, 605 Wolfe (schooner), 658 Wood, Joseph, 234 Wood, price, 468 Woodbridge, N.J., 592 Woodcock, Orne, 43 Woodhull, Nathaniel, 314 Wooster, David: cleared of misconduct in Canada, 391; mentioned, 14, 19, 20, 26, 76, 610, 641, 654, 661 Woolwich, England, cannon foundry, 388 Wrixon, Elias, 4 Wuibert (Weibert), Antoine Felix, 5, 598, 599 Wyandot Indians: war with feared, 146; dubious friendship, 554 Wythe George: letters from, 190, 313, 317, 334, 449, 451, 475, 515; poem, 496; elected to Congress, xxiii; attends Congress, xxiii; portrait, xxvi, 516; committee on plan of treaties, 132; arrives in Philadelphia, 164; on reconciliation meeting with Lord Howe, 317; Virginia law revision committee, 515, 517 Yard, Sarah, 107 Yates, Abraham, Jr., letter to, 88 Yeates, Jasper, letter to, 170 Yeaton, Hopley, 223 York, Thomas, contracts with secret committee, 340 Young, James, 163, 213, 215 Young, John: letter to, 201; mentioned, 207, 213, 273, 276, 297, 358, 361, 378, 574, 609, 636 Young, Peter, 421 Zedwitz, Herman, cashiered, 79, 93 Zubly, John, alarmed by Samuel Chase, 558-59


[Page 801]
Advisory Committee Library of Congress American Revolution Bicentennial Program John R. Alden James B. Duke Professor of History Emeritus, Duke University Julian P. Boyd Editor of The Papers of Thomas Jefferson, Princeton University Lyman H. Butterfield Editor in Chief Emeritus of The Adams Papers, Massachusetts His torical Society Jack P. Greene Andrew W. Mellon Professor in the Humanities, The Johns Hopkins University Merrill Jensen Editor of The Documentary History of the Ratification of the Consti tution, University of Wisconsin Cecelia M. Kenyon Charles N. Clark Professor of Government, Smith College Aubrey C. Land University Research Professor, University of Georgia Edmund S. Morgan Sterling Professor of History, Yale University Richard B. Morris Gouverneur Morris Professor of History Emeritus, Columbia Univer sity George C. Rogers, Jr. Yates Snowden Professor of American History, University of South Carolina ☆ U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE! 1979 0-252-741 767
