Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 13, June 1, 1779 to September 30, 1779
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_13/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 4]
J


[Page 5]
June 1 —September 30, 1779 Paul H. Smith, Editor Gerard W. Gawalt and Ronald M. Gephart Associate Editors LIBRARY OF CONGRESS WASHINGTON 1986


[Page 6]
This volume is printed on permanent/durable paper. J* Library of Congress Cataloging-in-Publication Data (Revised for vol. 13) Letters of delegates to Congress, 1774—1789. Includes bibliographical references and indexes. Supt. of Docs, no.: LC 1.34:13 1. United States. Continental Congress—History— Sources—Collected works. I. Smith, Paul Hubert, 1931 — JK1033.L47 973.3’12 76-2592 ISBN 0-8444-0177-3 (set) ISBN 0-8444-0524-8 (vol. 13) For sale by the Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office Washington, D.C. 20402


[Page 8]
iv Editorial Method and Apparatus endorsements or addresses are quoted when they contain more than routine information. Other editorial practices employed in this work are explained in the sections on editorial apparatus which follow. TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [roman] [italic] (italic) One or two words missing and not conjecturable. More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. Number or part of a number missing or illegible. Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub joined footnote. Conjectural reading for missing or illegible mat ter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. Editorial insertion in the text. Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the descriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed docu ments) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manu scripts printed in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 12th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1980). Each volume of this edition will contain a revised list. CCamarSJ CSmH Ct CtHi CtLHi CtY Saint John’s Seminary, Camarillo, Calif. Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. Connecticut State Library, Hartford Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford Litchfield Historical Society, Litchfield, Conn. Yale University, New Haven


[Page 9]
Editorial Method and Apparatus V DLC DLC(ESR) DNA DeHi G-Ar ICHi ION InU-Li M-Ar MB MDaAr MH-H MHi MdAA MdBJ-G MdHi MeHi MiU-C N NCooHi NHi NN NNC NNPM NRom Nc—Ar NcU Nh-Ar NhD NhHi Nj NjMoHP NjR OCIWHi PCarlD PHC PHi PPAmP PPRF PPiU PU R-Ar RPJCB Library of Congress Library of Congress, Early State Records Collection National Archives and Records Administration Historical Society of Delaware, Wilmington Georgia State Archives, Atlanta Chicago Historical Society Newberry Library, Chicago Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington Massachusetts Archives, Boston Boston Public Library Danvers Historical Society, Danvers, Mass. Harvard University, Houghton Library Massachusetts Historical Society, Boston Maryland Hall of Records, Annapolis John Work Garrett Library, Johns Hopkins Univer sity, Baltimore, Md. Maryland Historical Society, Baltimore Maine Historical Society, Portland William L. Clements Library, Ann Arbor, Mich. New York State Library, Albany New York State Historical Association, Cooperstown New-York Historical Society, New York New York Public Library, New York Columbia University, New York Pierpont Morgan Library, New York Jervis Library Association, Rome, N.Y. North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, Raleigh University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill New Hampshire Division of Archives and Records Management, Concord Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H. New Hampshire Historical Society, Concord New Jersey State Library, Trenton Morristown National Historical Park, Morristown, NJ- Rutgers University, New Brunswick, N.J. Western Reserve Historical Society, Cleveland, Ohio Dickinson College, Carlisle, Pa. Haverford College, Haverford, Pa. Historical Society of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia American Philosophical Society, Philadelphia Rosenbach Foundation, Philadelphia University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa. University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia Rhode Island State Archives, Providence John Carter Brown Library, Providence


[Page 11]
Editorial Method and Apparatus vii 1745 — 1780. Edited by Richard B. Morris et al. New York: Harper & Row, 1975. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd) Jefferson, Thomas. The Papers of Thomas Jefferson. Edited by Julian P. Boyd et al. Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1950—. JCC U.S. Continental Congress. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774 — 1789. 34 vols. Edited by Worthington C. Ford et al. Wash ington: Library of Congress, 1904 — 37. Lee, Letters (Ballagh) Lee, Richard Henry. The Letters of Richard Henry Lee. Edited by James C. Ballagh. 2 vols. New York: Macmillan Co., 1911 — 14. Md. Archives Archives of Maryland. Edited by William H. Browne et al. Baltimore: Maryland Historical Society, 1883 — . Meng, Gerard Despatches Gerard, Conrad Alexandre. Despatches and Instructions of Conrad Alexandre Gerard. Edited by John J. Meng. Baltimore: Johns Hop kins Press, 1939. N.C. State Records North Carolina. The State Records of North Carolina. Edited by Wal ter Clark. Vols. 11 — 26. Winston and Goldsboro, N.C.: N.I. and J.C. Stewart et al., 1895—1914. N.H. State Papers New Hampshire. Provincial and State Papers. 40 vols. Concord, 1867-1943. N.J. Archives New Jersey Historical Society. Documents Relating to the Colonial, Revolutionary, and Post-Revolutionary History of the State of New Jersey. Archives of the State of New Jersey. 1st series. 42 vols. Newark and Paterson, N.J., 1880—1949. Pa. Archives Pennsylvania Archives. 9 series, 119 vols. in 120. Philadelphia: J. Severns & Co., 1852 — 56; Harrisburg: State printer, 1874—1935. Pa. Council Minutes Pennsylvania. Minutes of the Supreme Executive Council of Pennsylvania, from Its Organization to the Revolution. 6 vols. [Colonial Records of Pennsylvania, vols. 11 — 16]. Harrisburg: Theo. Fenn & Co., 1852 — 53. Paine, Writings (Foner) Paine, Thomas. The Complete Writings of Thomas Paine. Edited by Philip S. Foner. 2 vols. New York: Citadel Press, 1945. Paullin, Marine Committee Letters Paullin, Charles O., ed. Out-Letters of the Continental Marine Commit tee and Board of Admiralty, 1776—1780. 2 vols. New York: Printed for the Naval History Society by the De Vinne Press, 1914.


[Page 12]
viii Editorial Method and Apparatus PCC Papers of the Continental Congress. National Archives and Records Administration. Washington, D.C. PRO Public Record Office. London. Risch, Supplying Washington’s Army Risch, Erna. Supplying Washington’s Army. Washington: Govern ment Printing Office, 1981. Rodney, Letters (Ryden) Rodney, Caesar. Letters to and from Caesar Rodney, 1756—1784. Edited by George H. Ryden. Philadelphia: University of Pennsyl vania Press, 1933. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick) Washington, George. The Writings of George Washington. Edited by John C. Fitzpatrick. 39 vols. Washington: U.S. Government Print ing Office, 1931—44. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence Wharton, Francis, ed. The Revolutionary Diplomatic Correspondence of the United States. 6 vols. Washington: Government Printing Office, 1889. Wright, The Continental Army Wright, Robert K., Jr. The Continental Army. Washington: Center of Military History, United States Army, Government Printing Office, 1983.


[Page 14]
X Acknowledgments York State Library, North Carolina State Department of Archives and History, University of North Carolina, Historical Society of Pennsylvania, University of Pennsylvania, University of Pittsburgh, Public Record Office (London), Rhode Island State Archives, Rosenbach Foundation, Rutgers University, Saint John’s Seminary, South Carolina Historical Society, Virginia Historical Society, Vir ginia State Library, University of Virginia, Western Reserve Histori cal Society, State Historical Society of Wisconsin, and Yale University. And in addition we express our thanks and appreciation to the following persons: Mr. Sol Feinstone, Mr. John F. Reed, and Capt. J. G. M. Stone. This work has benefited not only from Edmund C. Burnett’s path finding eight-volume edition of Letters of Members of the Continental Congress but also from the generous cooperation of the editors of several other documentary publications with a common focus on the revolutionary era. From them the Library has borrowed heavily and to them it owes a debt it can never adequately acknowledge. It is a pleasure to give special thanks to the editors of the papers of John Adams, Benjamin Franklin, Thomas Jefferson, Henry Laurens, James Madison, and George Washington. Finally we owe thanks to the historians who served on the Advisory Committee on the Library’s American Revolution Bicentennial Program, and especially to Mr. Julian P. Boyd, Mr. Lyman H. Butterfield, and Mr. Merrill Jensen, who generously acted as an advisory committee for the Letters project. Paul H. Smith Historical Publications Office Manuscript Division


[Page 16]
xii June 21 June 23 June 24 June 25 June 28 July 1 July 2 July 6 July 7 July 9 July 12 July 13 July 14 July 15 July 16 July 17 Chronology of Congress Reverses plan to enlist German deserters; de bates financial reform. Debates financial reform. Debates peace terms (fisheries). Debates financial reform. Rejects quartermaster appeal for relief from state taxes. Debates peace terms (fisheries). Sets procedures for exchanging withdrawn emissions of Continental currency. Approves export of provisions for French fleet; debates peace terms (fisheries). Debates financial reform. Orders investigation of commissary and quar termaster purchasing practices. Confers with French Minister Gerard; re ceives report from two members of Vermont Committee. Receives report from other two members of Vermont Committee. Debates substance of conference with French minister. Orders retaliation for British mistreatment of naval prisoners. Receives Arthur Lee’s response to charges by Silas Deane. Resolves to emit additional $15 million; threat ens retaliation for British mistreatment of Capt. Gustavus Conyngham; debates peace terms (fisheries).


[Page 23]
List of Delegates to Congress xix George Frost Elected: August 18, 1778 Did not attend June to September 1779 Woodbury Langdon Elected: April 3, 1779 Attended: September 3—17, 27 — 30, 1779 Nathaniel Peabody Elected: March 25, 1779 Attended: June 22 to September 30, 1779 Joshua Wentworth Elected: April 1, 1779 Did not attend Congress William Whipple Elected: August 18, 1778 Attended: June 1 to September 24? 1779 new jersey Abraham Clark Elected: May 25, 1779 Did not attend in 1779 John Fell Elected: November 6, 1778 Attended: June 1 to August 17; August 30 to September 30, 1779 William C. Houston Elected: May 25, 1779 Attended: July 9 to September 30, 1779 Nathaniel Scudder Elected: November 6, 1778 Attended: June 1 to July 10; August 5 to September 17, 1779 John Witherspoon Elected: November 6, 1778 Attended: June 1 to July 16?; August 25—30?; September 17? 1779 (on mission with Vermont Committee, ca. June 4 to July 9, 1779) NEW YORK James Duane Elected: October 16, 1778 Attended: June 1 to August 16, 1779 William Floyd Elected: October 16, 1778 Attended: June 1—9, 1779 John Jay Elected: February 4, 1779; August 26, 1779 Attended: June 1 to September 28, 1779


[Page 26]
xxii List of Delegates to Congress VIRGINIA William Fitzhugh Elected: June 18, 1779 Attended: September 13 — 30, 1779 William Fleming Elected: December 14, 1778 Attended: June 1 to September 28, 1779 Cyrus Griffin Elected: May 29, 1778; June 18, 1779 Attended: June 1 to September 30, 1779 Patrick Henry Elected: June 18, 1779 Did not attend in 1779 Gabriel Jones Elected: June 18, 1779 Did not attend Congress James Mercer Elected: June 18, 1779 Attended: September 9 — 30, 1779 Edmund Randolph Elected: June 18, 1779 Attended: July 22 to August 17? 1779 Meriwether Smith Elected: May 29, 1778; June 18, 1779 Attended: June 1 to September 28, 1779


[Page 40]
8 June 1, 1779 it will be wise to abstain from Hostilities for the present and rather suffer a little than shed blood. If the Members of Congress are really as much in earnest as they appear to be all will be well. We are very much disposed to credit their Declarations on the subject & have ground to hope that this and every other Cause of Jealousy may be done away and Mutual Confidence, Harmony & good Understand ing take place between New York & her sister States to the eastward. These are essential to their common Prosperity & must give sincere pleasure to every well wisher of the American Cause. Be assured that our attention to the Rights of our Constituents on the present important occasion shall not cease and that we are with great Respect and Esteem Your Excellency’s most obt. Servts. Wm. Floyd, John Jay, Gouv’r Morris, 4 James Duane. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:9—10. 1 In his May 29 letter to the New York delegates, Governor Clinton had cited new disturbances in Cumberland County as evidence that “the Vermont Business is now arrived at a Crisis” and that Congress must act “without Delay.” Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:859. 2 See John Jay to Clinton, this date. 3 See John Jay to Timothy Edwards et al., June 2; and Jay to Clinton, June 3, 1779. 4 A few days later Gouverneur Morris wrote a personal letter to Clinton urging moderation in the Vermont controversy even if it was “not agreeable to our Legislature.” Only a badly burned fragment of the letter survives. It is preserved under the date June 6, 1779, in the Clinton Papers, N. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir Philadelphia June 1st. 1779 We received your Excellency’s letter of the 13th May yesterday, and in answer to it be pleased to be informed that Mr. Ellery was favoured in February last with two letters One from Col. Greene, the other from Lt Col. Ward, both inclosing similar arrangements of the first battalion of Continental Troops raised by our State. On the 14th of February Mr. Ellery wrote a letter to Genl. Washington to whom was committed the Arrangement of the Army, inclosing Col. Greene’s letter and his list of Arrangement for his battalion, in answer to which Genl. Washington writes thus “Head Quarters Middle Brook 22d April 1779. Sir your favour dated 14th February only reached me yesterday. The Arrangment of the two Rhode Island Regiments has been settled, and the Commissions are now in my hands waiting an opportunity for forwarding them. 1 The dates for the commissions in Mr. Ward’s list, which is before Us, agrees with the dates in the Resolution of Assembly, and the


[Page 41]
June 1, 1779 9 names differ only in this respect: The Assembly’s list hath not so many names in it as Mr. Ward’s, and it contains the name Daniel Dexter which is not in the other. Genl. Washington hath doubtless sent forward Commissions for all the Officers mentioned in the resolution of Assembly excepting One for Daniel Dexter, and upon Col. Greene’s sending to him a copy of the Act of Assembly he will doubtless transmit a commmission for Mr Dexter. Christopher Greene Sami. Ward Ebenezer Flagg Elijah Lewis Thomas Cole John S. Dexter Thoms. Arnold John Holden Edwd Slocum Jos. Arnold Daniel Peirce Zephanh. Brown Robt. Rogers David Johnson Elias Thompson Enoch Stanton Charles Peirce John Cooke Mr. Ward’s List Col. Lt Col. vacancy 26th May 1778 Major do. 26 do Capt. do. do. do. do. do. 10th Oct. 1777 do. do. 26th May 1778 Capt Lt. 1st June Lieut. do. do. do. do. do. do. do. 10th Octr. 1777 do. do. Istjune 1778 It would be exceedingly agreeable to your delegates to be fur nished with the Acts of Assembly they have frequently tho’ fruit lessly wrote for. The Letter we last wrote to your excellency and which had not reached you when you wrote last, we hope will give you satisfaction as to the Post’s route through our State. 2 Mr. Hazard, who will be in the eastern States before you will receive this, promised me that he would rectify any error which had taken place through misconstruc tion or otherwise of his letters, and see that the post should pass backwards and forwards on his old route. The last accounts from Virginia say that they had collected a con siderable body of militia to oppose the enemy, and that they were embarking with great precipitation. The papers contain the last authentic advices from So. Carolina. The Account by way of New- Providence we wish may turn out to be true. We are sorry to find that any inhabitant of our State should be so foolish and so wicked as to go over to the enemy, and that there should be any among us that are so abandoned as to supply the enemy with provisions, and hope that they will be brought to con-


[Page 42]
10 June 1, 1779 dign punishment. As, it is impossible to guard the whole extent of our Shores would it not be adviseable to remove the Stock from such parts thereof as we cannot defend? Would it not be adviseable to pass an Act for confiscating the Estates of Tories? Is it not just that traitors to their country should loose their estates? And might not such an Act intimidate persons from furnishing the enemy in future with provisions and intelligence? We submit these queries to the wisdom of Government, and are with the greatest respect, your Excellency’s most obedt. hble Servants, William Ellery John Collins P.S. The resolution of Congress for an additl. tax of forty five mil lions & the address of Congress will reach you before this. 3 In a short time the whole plan of finance will be completed & transmitted. RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery and Collins. 1 General Washington’s April 22 letter to Ellery is in the Washington Papers, DLC. For further information on the arrangement of the Rhode Island regiments, see Ellery to Washington, February 14, 1779, note. 2 See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, May 25, 1779. 3 See John Jay to the States, May 22 and 28, 1779. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 1st June 1779 Your favor of the 27th ulto came to hand last evening. The enclosed address will show you part of a plan for putting the paper medium on a better footing. 1 I hope it will have it’s desired effect—if the people will do their part I have no doubt the evils, so loudly com plained of will be in a great measure speedily remedied. By the last authentic accounts from South Carolina there was great reason to be apprehensive that Charlestown would soon be in the hands of the enemy. We had last evening a report which gains great credit here, that an action happened on the 15th inst. in which the enemy were entirely routed; this account comes in such a way and related with such circumstances, that I am called an infidel for only saying wish it true—however I hope I shall be able to give it you per next post in full tale. The enemy are in motion at New York, but we are not yet able to investigate their designs. It is yet uncertain when I shall set out for home—my anxiety for the determination of some important matters will keep me longer than I should otherwise incline to tarry—however, I shall inform you of my departure from hence some weeks before I take my leave—in the mean time accept my best wishes and believe me to be your very affectionate friend, and humble servant. Wm Whipple


[Page 43]
June 2, 1779 11 Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Whipple undoubtedly enclosed a copy of “An Address to the Inhabitants of the United States of America” that had been adopted by Congress on May 26. See JCC, 14:649-57. Committee for Indian Affairs to the Board of War Gentlemen Philad. 2d June 1779 I am directed by the Committee of Congress on Indian Affairs to inform you that we have this Evening finished our Conference with the Deputies from the Delaware Tribe, and dismissed them. 1 You will be pleasd to deliver them the proposal mentiond in the Note sent by Col. Morgan & procede in the most prudent manner for their safe Return, consulting with Col. Morgan & Col. Gibson. We are sorry to inform you that from various Intelligence we are appre hensive this will be no easy Task: at the same time that any ill Treat ment to them woud be a great Reproach to the United States, Under law protected And by the Jurisdiction of whose Agent they have ingresd to this place. We must to enquire whether it may be more Secure for them to Join General Sullivan’s Troops or proceed under the present Rout on the Road they Came, & to apprize them of their danger if you think it necessary. In behalf of the Committee, I am, Sir, your huml obed Sevt &c. Jas. Duane Chr of the Committee on Ind. Afairs FC (DNA: PCC, item 166). Written by James Duane. 1 For the recent activities of the Delaware Indian chiefs and the Committee for Indian Affairs, see Committee for Indian Affairs Speech to the Delaware Indians, May 25 and 26; Henry Laurens’ Notes on the Conference with the Delaware Indians, May 26; and Duane to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, May 29, 1779. On June 1 Congress had authorized $5,333.33 to defray the expenses of the “Indian Chiefs now in town.” JCC, 14:676. Duane assigned the settlement of the accounts to Col. George Morgan in a brief note of June 3, 1779: “Colo. Morgan is desired to liquidate the expences of the Deputies from the Delaware Tribes, on their Visit to Congress, continuance at Philadelphia, and their return &ca.” PCC, item 136, 4:357. 2 Col. Daniel Brodhead had warned General Washington in a May 3 letter that “Several parties have been assembled to Murder the Delaware Chiefs now on their way to Philadelphia,” and Washington had relayed the warning to George Morgan. Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:113. 3 The board immediately responded to Duane “that the guard which came from fort pitt are about returning; so that the Indian Chiefs may take advantage of their convoy. If this is not done, the Board have no other means of providing a guard for them.” PCC, item 166, fol. 469.


[Page 44]
12 June 2, 1779 James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philad. 2d June 1779. Be pleased to accept my Thanks for your Excellency’s very friendly and obliging Letter of the 15” ult. 1 Sensible of the Embarrasments of Government under the multitude of Cares which surround you, I can easily conceive of your want of Leisure for friendly correspon dence. Your Excellency is no stranger to the part I have acted for General Schuyler; considering his abilities and high military Rank to be of the most essential Importance to our State; after defeating all the attempts for his destruction, and seeing him honorably acquitted, he has disappointed all my Labours by persevering in, or rather reiterating, his Resignation in Terms the most absolute. It is true he has many Provocations; but by this step he has equally hurt the feelings of his Friends, & gratified his Enemies. I shall long impatiently to hear how the new Tax of 45 millions is relished in our state. It is a great Effort but nothing less coud pre vent the total Loss of our publick credit? Does the address tend to produce a Confidence that the money will be ultimately secure? I take that to be the cardinal point. I thank your Excellency for your particular attention to me, & I hope the same favourable sentiments of my attention to duty will pervade the Legislature. I am confident if application, assiduous application, entitle me to Indulgence it will not be withheld. There are a few things I wish to see accomplished, & then to be permitted to visit my Family & look after the shatterd Ruins of my Fortune. The power of fixing the Rotine of the Delegates ought doubtless to be vested in your Excellency. Without this it will never be equal, or indeed tolerable to any Man who is not wholly divested of domestic Feelings. I recollect that for the period of 28 months, I was in the whole only four with my Family. Is not this beyond any Rate of proportion? Your Excellency will receive the acts of Congress respecting the Revolt from our State by this Conveyance. On this subject I refer you to our publick Letter. 2 It is my opinion that if the proposed Committee act with propriety, they may influence a great Majority to return to their Duty; But I am equally perswaded that if they please they can fix them forever in their opposition. This is not a desirable Hazard, altho’ it is preferable to the Effusion of American Blood. In short, Sir, much depends on the Candour of the New England Delegates, some of whom have fomented this seperation. Now the Property is secure to their Friends, they may be contented. They are loud in their professions, and I am disposed to meet them with some degree of Confidence; Indeed to bury all animosities in everlasting oblivion.


[Page 49]
June 3, 1779 17 not heard the parties they have carefully avoided giving any opinion as to the Merit of any of their Claims. A judicious Committee is appointed to inquire into the Matter and endeavour an accommoda tion, who will repair to the place as soon as may be. I doubt not but that you will use your Authority and Influence to preserve the pub lic tranquility in the meantime. I am with great Esteem and Regard, your humble Servant, Roger Sherman Tr (NNC: Jay Papers). In the hand of John Jay. Enclosed in John Jay to George Clinton, June 3, 1779. 1 Thomas Chittenden (1730—97), a former Connecticut public official, had moved to the New Hampshire Grants in 1774. He became governor of Vermont in 1778, a position he continued to hold, with the exception of the year 1789—90, until 1797. DAB. 2 See John Jay to George Clinton, June 1; and Jay to Timothy Edwards et al., June 2, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Thursday June 3d [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. After the Letters were Read, The Order of the day relating to the ultimatom on the Fishery. MS (DLC). John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir Pha. 3d June 1779 It will doubtless give you Pleasure to hear that the York Delegates voted for each of the Members of the Committee mentioned in the Letter herewith enclosed four of them were unanimously appointed and there were but two Ballots which did not contain the name of Mr. Root. The Unananimity of Congress on this occasion is an agreable Circumstance. Mr Laurens moved that Vermont shd. be desired to send Deputies to represent their case to Congress, but nobody seconded him. He denies Allens Report, so far as it respects him, to be true. He confesses often to have seen Allen & to have promised that he shd be heard before Congress Did anything in the matter. The few dissenting voices on the Question disliked the mod eration of the Resolutions & were for coercive measures in the first Instance. Their future Conduct however (should the Controversy continue) will be influenced greatly by the Report of the Committee who are not ill disposed towards us at present. Care shd be taken that they return with favorable Impressions. I wish General Schuyler would interest himself a little in this Matter—his Address, Acquaint-


[Page 51]
June 3, 1779 19 towards him (which I did with great sincerity) & added I was sorry he had been so very severe upon particular characters, it did not in the least degree help his cause—that a plain state of what appeared to him to be facts, would have left Congress unbiased judges, whereas such language as he had adopted would at least seem to have been calculated for prejudicing the minds of the Members of Congress. Dr. Morgan replied he had struck out those parts which he sup posed I alluded to—I was amazed but gave no answer. About two Weeks after I saw Mr. Drayton at the Table in Con gress take the Report of the Committee of which Dr. Morgan’s memo rial is a part, & having a paper in his left hand as a director for his proceeding, obliterate several parts of the Memorial—which I remarked to two Members then in Congress. The 3d June ’79 Mr. Searle moved in very affecting terms for assuming the consideration of the forementioned Report. Mr. Drayton warmly seconded him. 2 Mr. Laurens rose and said he knew of no Report respecting Dr. Morgan before the House, that there had been one, but, that, that, had undergone such alterations & obliterations since it had been deliv ered to the House, as in his opinion, destroyed its original character “the Report of the Committee.” The President expressed surprize & ask’d, “Since it was delivered in, to the House?” Mr. Laurens replied, “Yes Sir, since & some parts long since”. Mr. M. Smith & Mr. Penn said Doctor Morgan with permission of the Committee had struck out some parts of his memorial which had been thought to contain too severe reflections against particular persons. Mr. Laurens rose and said he knew of no Report respecting Dr. Morgan before the House, that there had been one, but that, that, had obliterated several parts. Mr. Drayton arose & said he had— “that there were some severe epithets which had been struck out (or expunged) in order to make it go down the better”. These were his very (foolish) words. The President said to him— “after the Paper was delivered to the house you had no right to strike out or alter a single Iota. I am clear in this.” Mr. Drayton was proceeding to justify his practice or to extenuate the fault, when Mr. Laurens said, that (meaning the practice) should be considered at a proper time & he hoped in a proper manner, & called for the Order of the day, Vizt. the Report on Mr. Girard’s communication which was accordingly brought forward. The same Morning Vizt. 3d June—Mr. Drayton came to me in the House & said “Huger & Hutson are come to Town & intend to go to Charles Town in a day or two have we any thing to write by them officially?” I answered, “if you recollect any thing, it will be proper, I thought to have transmitted General Washington’s orders to Gen eral Scott as we had agreed to do in an official Letter but as I found


[Page 55]
June 4, 1779 23 referral of the controversy to the commander in chief, see the Medical Committee to George Washington, November 15, 1779. 2 Holten also wrote the following brief note this day to Henry Gardner, Massachusetts’ treasurer: “Please to pay, Mr. John Lowell, three hundred pounds, in part of the warrant, you have in your office, in my favor, and you’l oblige your humble servant.” Holten Papers, DLC. John Jay to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 4 June 1779 I have the Honor of transmitting herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 3d Inst, authorizing your Excellency to make such and so many parole Exchanges as you may judge expedient. 1 Various Reports respecting the Enemy’s Movements in West Ches ter County have lately reached us, but we know not what Degree of Credit is due to them. The Report of a victory near Charlstown still continues and is believed—no direct Intelligence from that Quarter has yet arrived. Two Dozen printed Copies of the Report of our Commissioners for settling a Cartel are herewith sent. 2 It is the wish of Congress that they may be conveyed to our Prisoners with the Enemy. I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most obedt Servant, John Jay. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 For the background of this resolve, see John Fell’s Diary, May 21, 1779, note 2. 2 Congress had endorsed this report on May 10, for which see Jay’s second letter to Washington, May 10, 1779, note 2. For the enclosed copies of the report printed by David C. Claypoole, “Printer to the Honorable the Congress of the United States,” see Evans, Am. Bibliography, No. 16,631. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir: June 4th, 1779. The letter to which this may be considered as an addition, was to have been sent by the post, but was too late for that conveyance. 1 Since that time we have had reports several ways, and attended with some circumstances of probability, that Gen. Lincoln had defeated the enemy in South Carolina. We are in anxious hourly expectation to receive some authentic advice from that quarter. Our last advices are as old as the 5th of May, and have been printed. The Assistant Quartermaster General, Mr. Pettit, received a letter this morning from a Deputy Quartermaster General, at the head of Elk river, dated June 3d, informing him that the day before, two of the enemy’s ships were seen off Pawtuxet river, sounding the Bay, and that they


[Page 57]
June 4, 1779 25 1 New Hampshire did send Ebenezer Thompson to confer with the congressional committee in Vermont, but for the frustrating results see Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, June 20; and Whipple to Ebenezer Thompson, July 19, 1779. William Whipple to Joseph Whipple My Dear Bror. Philadelphia 4th June 1779 Looking over my papers I find four letters from you, viz. 19th March, 5th, 12th & 19th Api. which I believe I have neglected to answer. This neglect I flatter myself You’ll pardon when you con sider the very small portion of time I have to devote to the purposes of private Friendship, it was my intention through the whole course of the winter to have been at home by this time but my great anxiety for the determination of some important matters will not yet suffer me to take my leave, how long this cause will remain is impossible for me to say. 1 I have been several weeks in expectation of a Colleague why I am left so long without one, I suppose will some time or other be explained. Three days in the week are appropriated to the impor tant business of Finance, this order will continue till some measures are adopted to put a stop to emissions, untill that is done every other means to reestablish the credit of the money will be ineffectual. The requisition for 45 million is part of the present plan, that with other measures which I hope will speedily be adopted, afford flattering prospects of success in this very difficult business. Forreign affairs is the important object but of this I can say nothing to you at present. A detachment of the Enemy from N-York have committed consid erable ravages on the shores of Cheasepeack Bay and returned to their former station, they are now gone in force up Hudson River where our army is collecting to oppose them the event of this expedi tion is in the womb of fate. More than a week past we have been amused with very Flattering Reports from the Southward. These reports come different ways and all agree in this, that the British army is totally destroyed, the action was on the 12th of May near Charlestown, we are daily expecting with great anxiety, a particular authentic accot of this glorious event perhaps it may arrive before I close this. 2 RC (MH —H: Sturgis Papers). 1 The “cause” was probably the fisheries issue, which continued to detain Whipple at Philadelphia until September. See also Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett, July 3, 1779, note 2. 2 For the continuation of this letter, see Whipple to Joseph Whipple, June 8, 1779.


[Page 61]
June 5, 1779 29 4 For the “list of the Contents,” see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:426. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear Sir June 5th. 1779. I conversed again with yr. Lady before she sat off yesterday, and found she entertained an Idea that a certain Letter had not reached Congress. I went to the several Offices and found that Deer. 5th was the one in Question; 1 and that the Board of War had reported on several Parts, but had omitted to say any thing upon the Postscript as they must have given an Opinion, against it having withstood Genl. Green’s & Genl. Washingtons Testimonies in Regard to Blodget & other Aids. It is true that several Inadvertencies are on file respecting Brevets, but they only produced strong Resolutions to prevent their being Precedents implicative of disreputation to others who might be refused on after applications. I wish the Correction of a single Slip or two may not induce us to stop in the Work of Reformation so essential on many Points of the Proceedings of Congress. As to per sonal Slight of you, be assured I hear & see Changes every day in those who have not formerly done Justice to your Character. You will not indeed find such a complaisant Return to yr. Letters by way of acknowledgement, as heretofore, but your Case is not singular; the Manners of the Man differ. One was flush of Pen & Ink the other quite the Reverse; one was with his Candle burning in the Morning almost thro the year, the other has a lovely Wife to amuse him in these Hours. 2 Pray let me have opportunity to inform you on Points wch. are neglected by others, if the Journals do not answer as they come out: I am pushing them so that the Work shall come out weekly: 3 and will see that you have then: as I shall also the former Parts when they are finished. 1777 & Feb. & March 79 will in a few Weeks be ready to be forwarded. 4 Your Friend sincerely, and humb. Servt. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 General Gates’ Decembers, 1778, letter was read in Congress on January 1, 1779, and referred to the Board of War.JCC, 13:10. Gates’ letter is not in PCC or the Gates Papers microfilm. 2 Lovell was contrasting the work habits of President Jay with those of his predecessor, Henry Laurens. 3 For Congress’ March 31 decision to publish the journals weekly, which it was unable to fulfill although the committee appointed to prepare them for publication struggled to do so, see John Fell’s Diary, March 31, 1779, note 1. Lovell had been a member of the committee since 1777. JCC, 7:101. 4 Lovell did, however, enclose with this letter copies of Congress’ resolves of June 1


[Page 62]
30 June 6, 1779 and 2 on the Vermont controversy and the appointment of a committee to visit the strife-torn area. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir Philadelphia 6th June 1779 This will be handed you by Col McNutt of Nova Scotia. 1 This gentleman being very desirous of uniting his country with the Con federacy has formed some plans for that purpose, which he wished to communicate to some persons in New Hampshire who he may consult on the subject, for this purpose I beg leave to recommend him to your notice and confidence. I am with much respect, your most obt hble servt, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 Col. Alexander McNutt’s plans to foment a revolution in Nova Scotia are dis cussed in John Fell’s Diary, April 7, note; and James Lovell to Horatio Gates, April 5 and June 3, 1779. Committee of Congress to the Continental Boards and Departments Gentlemen, 1 Philadelphia June [7th] 2 1779 The Congress having appointed Us a Committee “to make strict Inquiry into the Establishments and contingent Expences of the respective Boards & Departments, and to consider & report the Retrenchments & Reformations which shall appear to be practicable & expedient, with power to call for Returns from the Offices, & for Information from the Officers of any Department” &c We desire You will please to furnish us with an Account of the Establishment & contingent Expences of your Department, & of all other Depart ments depending thereon, or by which Returns have been usually made to your Departments, also with such Information as may enable Us most effectually to answer the purposes of our Appointment. We are with great Regard, Gentlemen, your very hble Servants. 3 To (The Board of Treasury) (The Letter to the Board of War, to be the same with the foregoing, with this Addition after the last Word “Appointment”—We further request an Account of the Returns made to your Board of all supplies in the Quarter Master General’s & Commissary General’s Departments for one Year from the Day of 1778 to this Time, 4 specifying the sorts, Number or Quantity, and Quality of the Articles supplied.) FC (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of John Dickinson.


[Page 67]
June 8, 1779 35 Trade, and we expect in a few days that the Deane will be able to follow them. We desire that you will give directions to the Command ers of the Ships of War in your Department to forbear the fireing of their Cannon morning or evening or by way of salute within the Ports or harbours of these United States unless in return of A like compliment from a foreign Vessel or by Special Order of Congress. We are Gentn, Your hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Eastern Navy Board’s May 18 and 19 letters to the Marine Committee oppos ing the construction of a 74-gun ship and reporting the replacement of Capt. Richard Palmes by Capt. John Welch as commander of the marines on the Warren are in Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday June 8th [1779]. Com. Committee. Congress. Order of the Day of the Report of Recalling Mr Izard. 7 ayes, 4 Naes, 1 divided. Willm Lee 7 do. 4 do. 1 do. 1 MS (DLC). 1 For further information on the recall of commissioners Ralph Izard and William Lee, see the letters of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to Izard and to Lee, July 17, 1779. John Jay to Ebenezer Hancock Sir Philadelphia 8th June—1779 From the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 4th Inst, You will perceive that You are to take charge of the military Chest at Providence, & that the Sums requisite for the Service at Boston are to be supplied out of it. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedient, And Humble Servant. John Jay. Presidt. 2 RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.5). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 For this resolve combining the military chests of the Eastern Department main tained at Boston and at Providence, see JCC, 14:686. 2 Jay also wrote the following letter this day to clothier general James Mease con cerning clothing furnished Rhode Island troops in 1777. “You will perceive from the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of the 7th Inst, that they have ordered a Sum of Money due to John Donnel for Cloathing to be paid out of the Treasury, & charged to Captains Beall, Dickenson & Avery who received it.” See PCC, item 14, fol. 128; and JCC, 14:698-99.


[Page 70]
38 June 8, 1779 [P.S.] Present my Compliments to the Council. RC (MdAA: Red Books). 1 For Sir Henry Clinton’s move up the Hudson at the beginning of June, and the American response to the British occupation of strategic positions at Verplanck’s and Stony Point, see Freeman, Washington, 5:106—21. 2 Jenifer doubtless meant May. 3 For Virginia’s most recent response to Maryland’s refusal to ratify the Articles of Confederation because the Continental government would not be vested with author ity over western lands, see the letters of the Virginia Delegates to Patrick Henry of May 17, and to the Virginia House of Delegates of May 22, 1779. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia, June 8th, 1779. I had the honour of addressing you under the 1st instant. 1 From that day to our yesterday’s adjournment, we have made no progress in the treasury business, nor in our foreign affairs—none at all. This morning is appointed for resuming the latter. Mr. Deane sent a letter yesterday, which he intimates will be his last: he requests an adjustment of his expenses; and, if I remember right, his salary— the letter was committed to the board of treasury. Colonel Wadsworth has laid before Congress an alarming state of his department, and again declares his intention to resign. No less alarming is an explana tion from the board of war, respecting essential articles within their sphere. America trusts to ... . and .... to the chapter of accidents; 2 that mere accident which lately happened in South Carolina, will prove an excellent interposition in our favour—we shall turn t’other side, and go to sleep again. Enclosed with this you will receive a letter which Mr.Lovell delivered me yesterday; I suppose it came by the post; and also Dunlap’s paper of this morning. I am, with very great esteem and regard, Dear sir, your obedient and humble servant, Henry Laurens. MS not found; reprinted from Richard H. Lee, Memoir of the Life of Richard Henry Lee . . . , 2 vols. (Philadelphia: H. C. Carey and I. Lea, 1825), 2:233. 1 Not found. 2 Ellipses in tr. Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Philadela. June the 8th. 1779 Your Letter of the 4th of June we had the Honour of receiving yesterday. 1 We shall prepare by the next post a Summary of the returns of the Army for the inspection of the General Assembly. We have consulted the Board of War upon the latter part of your Letter,


[Page 72]
40 June 9, 1779 John Collins’ Plan for Commissioners of Marine [post June 9, 1779] 1 The United States to be divided into two districts 1. Northward & Eastward of New Jersey 2. Southward & Westward of Newjersey in each district, a Board of Commissioners— Each Board to Consist of three— Each Board to be allowd. one Clerk & one Superintend, of Stores which they shall appoint and displace at their Pleasure, Commis sioner to receive no Salary but 5 per ct on the neet proceeds of the Sales of all Prizes as agents & the 20 per Ct Reserved for the Com mand [. . .] untill Appont. Power of the Commrs. To give orders for the Sailing, Cruizing, destina[tio]n and Con duct of all Ships Within Their District. To order the fitting, Repairing, Manning and Victualing of all Such Ships. To Suspend all officers for Breach of orders or male Conduct, order trials, Constitute Court Martial and Confirm Sentance unless in Capital cases. To frame Rules and Regulations for the Navy from time to time which Shall be transmitted to Congress for their approbation. Duty of the Commrs. To make Quarterly Returns to Congress of the Navy, Containing the names of the Ships in Port, their State and Condition, the names of the Ships at Sea, their Destination and the object of their Cruize. That they Settle their Accounts annually at the farthest and from time to time return Estimates of the arms which may be wanted for the Current Service—that all imbezzelments of publick Stores or publick moneys be Dearth. Regulations That no Ship be detained in port by Reason of the holding of any Court Martial nor for any other purpose of that kind. That all old Accounts be Settled by the Several Navy Boards with the Marine Committee. That all Ships partly fitted for the Sea be Completely fitted by the said Boards. That the Said Boards deliver over by Inventory and take Receipts from the Said Commrs. or their Store keepers for all Stores which may be in their Possession. That the Said Board deliver over to the Said Commrs. all Receipts and Checks by them taken from the officers of the Navy or others for Stores by them formerly Delivered. That the Commrs. Reside at such place as Congress from time to time Direct.


[Page 73]
June 9, 1779 41 That all officers be Examined by the Comm befor they Receive a Commission from Congress. MS (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of John Collins, and endorsed by John Dickinson: “Plan for Commissioners of Marine.” 1 On June 9, 1779, Congress adopted John Dickinson’s motion “that the manage ment of all business relating to the marine of these United States, be vested in commissioners” and appointed a committee consisting of Dickinson, John Collins, and William Whipple “to prepare a plan for conducting the marine business of the United States and ascertaining the duties and powers of the commissioners.” It is unclear whether Congress ever directly considered this “plan,” but four months later it adopted a report of the Marine Committee and on October 28, 1779, created a Board of Admiralty consisting of three nondelegate commissioners who were to “superintend the naval and marine affairs of these United States.” See JCC, 14:708, 15:1216—18; and Jennings B. Sanders, Evolution of Executive Departments of the Continen tal Congress, 1774—1789 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1935), pp. 32-33. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday June 9th [1779]. Com. Committee. Congress. After reading the Letters, the Order of the Day on Finance, was taken up, and several Proposals Read, all which were agreed to be left to a Committee of 6 to Report on Friday. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary [June 9-10, 1779] 9. Wednesday. Congress proceed upon Finance—The showers very heavy & the thunder & lighting frequent. 10. Thursday. I dined with Dr. Shippen and spent the eveng. with Genl. Whipple, Dr. Scudder, Mr. Ellery & Mr. Adams. MS (MDaAr). John Jay to Benjamin Franklin Sir, In Congress Philadelphia, June 9, 1779. I enclose you an act of Congress of the 8th of this Instant June, directing that Bills should be drawn upon you to the amount of three hundred and sixty thousand Livres Tournois for the purpose


[Page 75]
June 10, 1779 43 R. H. Lee is gone home resigned. Mr. S. Adams goes on Monday, 1 to resign. But there are yet some hardy Watchmen in this political Camp, besides the veteran Sherman. Your affectionate humb Servt. J.L. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee, June 13, 1779, note 4. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, June 10th. 1779. I have the pleasure to inform You, that the News of our Success in South Carolina, is so far confirmed, 1 tho We have not yet received any Express, as to put the Truth of it beyond all Doubt. The Enemy attack’d our Lines at Charlestown, and were bravely repulsed. They attacked a second time, & while the Action was well maintain’d on both sides, a Column of Lincoln’s Army appear’d in the Rear of the Enemy, & immediately falling upon them, put them to a total Rout, with a very great loss of kill’d & taken on the spot—and then pur sued them as they were scattered in small parties to make their Escape, which perhaps is the Reason, that we have not yet had any Express from him. It is said, the Enemy’s Numbers were 4000 British, & 3000 Tories, the latter of which made little or no Resistance. In short, tho the particulars cannot be authentically ascertained, Congress is convinc’d that the Affair is another Bourgoiynade—and every successive Blow of that kind, must be more severely felt than the preceding, because it is striking upon a Place already sore & weakened. Let Us all at this important Crisis intensely recollect our Duties to Heaven & our Country—cooperate in our several Stations with the Efforts of our gallant Brethren in the field, and after vanquishing Lions in fair fight, not suffer ourselves to be ruined in our internal & domestic Affairs by the most contemptible Vermin that ever crept upon the Earth. I saw a Letter Yesterday from the Quarter Master General. He mentions the Enemy’s having gone up in Force to West point on North River, 2 an important Post of ours well situated, fortified, and garrisoned. After viewing it some time, part of them return’d down the River, & from Circumstances it is believ’d, an Irruption into New Jersey is intended. My Brother came to town last night, from Gen eral Cadwalader’s, & tells Me he came up in Consequence of an Express, to collect the Jersey Militia with all possible Expedition. It is supposed, but without any Evidence that can be depended on, that Genl. Clinton may take the Field with 8 or 10000 Men. Such a Force will not be able to accomplish any great Matter.


[Page 76]
44 June 10, 1779 If We baffle the Attempts of our Invaders this Campaign, & con vince them, that our Finances are not in an utterly irrecoverable Disorder, I hope this Year will crown our Labours with peace, Liberty, & Safety. John Dickinson I am, Sir, your very hble Servt, [P. S.] I sent down by Jo, 19 Copies or setts of the Journals & Min utes of Congress for the Council & Assembly, but have never heard, whether they were receiv’d.—I now send down 19 setts more—from the 17th of April to the 22d Inst! Thomas Smith will deliver them. RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 For this premature report, see John Jay to Washington, June 7, 1779, note 3. 2 See Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Thomas Johnson, June 8, 1779, note 1. John Fell’s Diary Thursday June 10 [1779]. C[ommercial] Committee Congress. Order of the Day on the Com mittee of 13, 1 long debates concerning the detaining S Deane and Recalling Wm. L., Arthur Lee. &c. MS (DLC). 1 That is, the Foreign Affairs Inquiry Committee. In the edited journal for this day Worthington C. Ford intruded a series of undated draft motions by John Jay and Richard Henry Lee relating to the committee’s report. See JCC, 14:715; and PCC, item 36, 4:589-91. The first, third, fourth, and sixth paragraphs are in Jay’s hand, the second and fifth in Lee’s. Ford mistakenly attributed the third and fourth to Lee. These motions were apparently made and defeated on the floor of Congress between March 24, when the committee submitted its report, and May 25, when Lee departed for Virginia. The last motion, which was made by Lee and seconded by John Witherspoon, would have been offered on a day that Witherspoon was in attendance, i. e., March 31 to April 9, April 15 to 19, April 26 to May 9, or May 19 to 21. Although a matter of conjecture, it seems more likely that the successive motions were drafted in early April during the first stages of maneuver over the committee’s report. For further information on the “recall debate,” see John Fell’s Diary, April 6, 1779, note 2. For Lee’s resignation and departure from Congress, see Lee to the Virginia House of Delegates, May 4, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates [JunelO—11, 1779] 10th June. A Member of Congress (Mr. Scudder) said in the course of debate, “the question which was formerly lost for recalling Ar. Lee Esquire.” The President hastily and in my opinion very rudely replied, “that question was not lost & I will contradict it as often as I hear it said.”


[Page 80]
48 June 11, 1779 from a hope of securing a vote for recalling Mr. Lee. When this should have been effected, Mr. Deane was to have obtained “the special permission of Congress for departing from the United States,” or it might be that he would depart without the “special permission,” “for who could control him” (said Mr. S. and J. P.). 2 Such sentiments were expressed by both parties, which warrant this suggestion. To these and similar expressions I replied in Congress: “If Mr. Deane in defiance of the order of Congress shall depart the United States, it will be pleading guilty, and upon Mr. Lee’s appearance before Congress and giving evidence against Mr. Deane, judgment will go against him by his default; and I believe neither this nor a future Congress will hazard that public resentment which would follow a permission to Mr. Deane to depart, before the appearance of Mr. Lee, unless from captivity or other extraordinary accident he should be detained an unreasonable length of time.” On the other hand, those who could not bear the idea of recalling a faithful servant, and subjecting him to the risk of being captured and carried into England, whose king and ministers of state are exceedingly exasperated against him, and who also suspected the designs of the opposite party, therefore voted against their wishes to detain Mr. Deane, because the recall of Mr. Lee was tacked to that article as an express condition. Thus were votes given by all, three or four excepted, against the principles of the voters. My sole motive in bringing forward the proposition for detaining Mr. Deane and ordering Mr. Lee to appear and support his charges, was for obtaining justice— 1st. To my much injured Country. 2d. To individuals. The proposition originally sprung from myself, although Mr. Burke reduced it afterwards to writing, in order, as he said, to try if gentlemen were in ernest. He never found me otherwise. Before I had voted against the recall of Mr. Lee (on the [8th June, 1779], 3 see the journal), I had repeatedly declared in Congress that I would vote for his recall, provided Congress would detain Mr. Deane, and this opinion I have invariably supported in private conversation with Mr. Lee’s brother, and other particular friends, in opposition to their sentiments; “fiatjustitia ruat coelum,” 4 was my governing principle. Thank God, I have acted agreeably to the dictates of my conscience, without respect to persons, and I trust my country will not condemn my conduct. MS not found; reprinted from Papers in Relation to the Case of Silas Deane, ed. Edward D. Ingraham (Philadelphia: Printed for the Seventy-six Society, 1855), pp. 98-99. Labeled by the editor: “Note by Mr. Laurens.” 1 For the “foregoing” June 10 debate over Laurens’ effort to tie the recall of Arthur Lee to a congressional order requiring Silas Deane to remain in America until Lee could return from France to respond to charges leveled against him, see JCC, 14:711-14.


[Page 81]
June 12, 1779 49 2 Meriwether Smith and John Penn. 3 This bracketed date, which may have been inserted editorially by Ingraham, is in error. It should actually read June 10. See JCC, 14:711-14. 4 A motto often quoted by Laurens in support of his independent stance and which he explained more fully in his letter to Richard Caswell of April 4, 1779. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Bingham Sir Philada. June 12th 1779 I inclose to yr Care Letters & pamphlets & Gazettes which, I doubt not, you will forward, according to their Superscriptions, with Care & Dispatch. The Opportunity being good to your Island, I have sent Duplicates of some which you will please to send on by a second Chance. I have not written a Line to you since the 29 & 30th of Janry. except to cover Gazettes Via Boston & Baltimore as a Return to your attentions of that Kind. It is proper therefore that I now inform you of the safe Arrival of yr. various Dispatches Origls. Duplictes. or Triplictes. Feby. 2, 17, Mar. 27, Apr. 13/20. 1 I hope the commercial Comtee. have not been so silent, as your Business was almost altogether in their Line. They have, I know, been under some Embarrassments as to making Remittances duely, arising partly from an Embargo and partly from other Causes, but I look for a Speedy great Change in our Affairs both as to Money and the Freedom of Navigation. Rest assured of my Regard for you, and expect to hear shortly from me in a more minute Way respecting your personal Concerns. I am Sir Your Friend and humb. Servt. James Lovell P. S. Please to send my Compliments to Messrs Curson & Gouv erneur, with the Pamphletts marked for them. I thought the Vessel was bound to St. Eustatius, when I put up the Papers to their Care, as you will perceive by the Superscriptions. I have reed, their Favr. of Apr. 1st? RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). 1 Bingham’s letters to the committee, dated February 2, 17, March 27, and April 13, with a postscript of April 20, are in PCC, item 90, fols. 33—38, 55—66, 77—86. 2 Samuel Curson and Isaac Gouverneur’s April 1, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs is in PCC, item 78, 5:341—42. In a personal letter from Secretary Charles Thomson of June 9, Bingham was also sent “a letter and bill” for purchasing some articles from “Messrs Curson & Co” for Thomson’s personal use. In addition, Thomson appended the following paragraph to keep Bingham abreast of current intelligence. “The armies have taken the field, Clinton is directing his force up the north river,


[Page 85]
June 12, 1779 53 Kiss and bless our dear Children for me. Reconcile your Health and Spirits to meet me soon with Joy & Satisfaction: And believe me to be with all possible Attachment and Affection, My dearest Polly, Your ever faithful Husband, Jas. Duane RC ( NHi: Duane Papers). 1 That is, Robert R. Livingston. 2 Robert C. Livingston. 3 Robert Livingston, Jr., third lord of Livingston Manor. John Fell’s Diary [June 12-13, 1779] Saturday June 12th. Com. Committee. NB. Did not goe to Con gress. Dr. Morgon’s 1 affair decided. P.M. Commercial Committee. Sunday June 13th. A.M. Went to Committee, to dispatch The Eagle Packet, Capt Ashmead to Martinique. MS (DLC). 1 That is, Dr. John Morgan, former director general of hospitals. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates 12th June [1779] On reading a Report from the Treasury recommending Returns to be made by each State of taxes collected Monthly, 1 I remarked, that however this might be complied with in other States it by no means applied to that, to which I belonged, unless this mode of collecting Taxes had lately been altered. Delaware (Mr. McKean) said that State had already paid into the Public Treasury her quota of the five Mill[ion an]d fifteen Million Taxes, and had passed a Law for collectfing her part of the? for]ty- five Million 2 which would be paid on the 24th. Mr. Drayton exulted on this information [that?] as our little sister Delaware had so chearfully and punctualy paid in her Taxes, there was good ground for hoping that larger states could do the same (this pointed at a declaration which I had just before made, as my opinion, that South Carolina had not and would not have in the State within the 1st January next so many Millions of Dollars, as her Continental taxes amounted to 1,800,000 part of 15 Million 5,500,000 45 Million (besides her quota of 6 Million for sinking fund). I replied my Colleague should consider that Delaware altho’ she was a little Girl received five times as much for her Commodities as


[Page 88]
56 June 12, 1779 mies to public virtue—let those base passions be suppressed and a fair field will be open for the display of Patriotism and every other noble principle on which the happiness of mankind depends. You say “mankind are in general such infernal ungrateful beings that it seems but right that nine tenths of the world should be kept in order by force.” I have transcribed this short paragraph for your further consideration, on which I mean not to comment—the disposi tion you have shewn in opposition to tyranny and monarchical govt convinces me of the impossibility that you can really entertain senti ments repugnant to every principle of Republicanism. You ask what shall be done with the Tories—my answer is short, banish them and by that means put it out of their power to do mischief to this country, and perhaps some of them may possibly be in a small degree useful to some other Community. 15th June. Yesterday arrived here a ship of 24 guns and 80 men formerly belonging to Liverpool—she was sent in by the Boston and Confederacy. I hope by next post I shall have an opportunity of transmitting you an authentic account of our successes in South Carolina; for the present, you must be contented with reports for which I must refer you to the newspapers. I am very respectfully, your friend &c, Wm Whipple Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee My dear Sir Philadelphia June 13th 1779 I send you the inclosd Extracts from our Friends Letter according to your Request. No Pains are spared to effect the Recall of Mr Arthur Lee. 1 If any are in hopes by this to put an End to the Useful ness of an able, faithful and indefatigably industrious Friend to our Country, I beleive they will be disappointed. I still flatter myself they will never obtain a Majority; but should they succeed thus far, it is my opinion that no Man in America would afford greater Aid in the publick Councils than he. The Day before yesterday another Attempt was made. The Motion which was offerd by Mr B 2 before you left us, was brot on, that Mr Dean be directed not to depart from these States till further order, and that Mr A Lee repair to America to make good his Charge against him. The Question was divided, and failing by an equal Division of the States in the first part, the other was downd by a very great Majority of Voices on a previous Question. When some one of the States may be better represented*, 3 it may be brot on again and again. Mr Lovel will write to you more largely.


[Page 89]
June 13, 1779 57 Being in great Haste preparing to set off on my Journey to Boston this day, 4 I can only add that I am very affectionately, Your Friend, SA RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). 1 For additional information on the most recent efforts in Congress to recall Arthur Lee as commissioner, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Proceedings, June 10 and 11, 1779. 2 That is, Thomas Burke. See JCC, 14:711 — 15. 3 Adams added the notation “Ch. Just. D” to explain this asterisk, meaning William Henry Drayton, chief justice of South Carolina, a well-known supporter of Silas Deane and opponent of Arthur Lee. 4 Adams did not leave until June 15. His account of expenses incurred during his attendance at Congress contains the notation “My Service from Apr 28, 1778 to July 1, 1779, 428 days [which would include travel time].” Adams Papers, NN. Committee for Foreign Affairs to Benjamin Franklin Hond. Sir, June 13th. 1779 Philada. By way of Martinique I forward to you Gazettes, Journals, and one or two Pamphlets. The Situation of Things in Congress has been such for some time past that the Committee of foreign Affairs has been drawn on to look dayly for some interesting Decisions to com municate to you, which must account for their Silence many Weeks. I am once again left alone, and therefore in a too delicate Circum stance to pretend to give you any detail of Matters agitated but not concluded respecting your Commission. I inclose one late Resolve to which I beg your Attention; 1 and I intreat that you will believe me, to be with much Respect, Sir, your most obedient Friend, James Lovell, RC (PPAmP: Franklin Papers). Written and signed by James Lovell. 1 Lovell enclosed Congress’ June 3 resolve directing the Committee for Foreign Affairs “to write immediately to the Commissioners at the Court of France & desire them to transmit an Account of their Proceedings in Mr. Beaumarchais Accounts pursuant to the order of Congress of the 13th day of April 1778.” John Fell to Robert Morris Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia June 13th. 1779. I have been favourd with yours from Trenton. I should have been very happy to have had you of the Party (as you are Pleased to call it) at Bristol, but the meeting was merely accidental on my Part. I went there in full expectation of meeting Mrs. Fell and my Son there, but was disappointed, as the Enemy Prevented their coming at the time


[Page 94]
62 June 13, 1779 James Lovell to Arthur Lee Dear Sir Copy confidential June 13th 1779, Philadelphia I will not omit this Oppy. of sendg. a few Lines to you, though my first Intents were only to put under Cover the Gazettes, and the Journals of Congress. From Those you will learn how Questions relative to you have been agitated. May 3 For your Recall 4 to 4 & 4 dividd. 1 June 9 2 Ordr. of the day called for, vizt Rept. of the Comtee of 13. A motion made by Mr. Burke 2dd by Mr Laurens that the Considn. of the Rept. be postp’d. till order be taken on Mr Deane’s Letter of May 22d and a Decission of the Resolution moved thereon by a Member from Nth. Car. 2dd. by a Membr. from Sth Car. Question by Yeas & Nays demandd. by Burke. 5 a[yes], 4 n[ays], 3 divd. Motion that Silas Deane Esqr. be ordered not to depart the United States without the special permission of Congress and that Arthur Lee Esqr be directed to repair forthwith to America in order the better to enable Congress to enquire into the Truth of the several Allegations & Suggestions made by the said Ar. Lee in his Correspondence with Congress against the said Silas Deane. Previous Question called by Gerry 2dd. by S Adams. A Division of the main Question demanded. Previous Question on the 1st Part, Yeas & Nays by Mr. Laurens, 5 a[yes], 5 n[ays], 1 dividd. Yeas & Nays by Mr. Holton on the 1st Part, 4 a[yes], 4 n[ays], 3 dd. Previous Question on the 2d pt. yeas & nays by Ellery 11 ays. The Term recalled having been used with regard to Wm. Lee & Rph. Izard, with an Idea strenuously supported by some of bringing them to America though others who were affirmative meant only vacating Commissions, a 2d Resolve passed That it is the Sense of Congress that Mr. Wm. Lee & Mr R Izard need not repair to America? I give them no oficial Notice now, 4 nor shall I without the special order of Congress, because, I am again left alone of the Comtee. of for. Affrs. Yr. Brother R H having resigned as I hear, and gone home; and further because something definite ought to be decided in regard to Compensation for Services of the Commissioners. An Attempt has several Times been made lately to chuse a new Comtee instead of filling up the old one. This you will perceive to be singularly decent towards the one who has steadily attended. Nay it is said that such a Comtee. is useless. I am sure I find an immense Deal that ought to be done and a great Burthen in what has been done by a Member of Congress without Secretary or Clerk, little as you & the other Gentlemen abroad may have been benefitted by my Labors. 5 Quires of my Writing have been sunk in the sea, most of it near these Capes. I expect further Attempts to get rid of you. It was a Fear of that and a Strong Desire to scrutinize Mr. D 6 that made Mr. Laurens I


[Page 95]
June 14, 1779 63 imagine give into the late Motion. 7 But I think you will rise above the Malice of the Faction which you have long known, or, if you find yr. Usefulness destroyed by their accts you will readily tell us so, and desire to make way for some other Person. I have by me large Packets left by your Brother with Copies of Proceedings affecting you, but I will not venture them round about, as a Frigate must soon go directly from hence, or at least a Pacquet boat. I tell Mr. J Adams more on that Head. I suspect much Roguery in the Stoppage of yr. Letters; how else is it that we have not a line from any of you? Mr. S Adams goes home Tomorrow for good and all, as he says. 8 This is intended Via Cadiz, a Copy Via Martinique. Your Friend & humble servant, J L Vid Journals: Apr. 6, 15, 20, 21, 26, 28, 30, May 3, 22, 25, 27, June 9. 9 RC (MH-H: Lee Family Papers). Endorsed by Arthur Lee: “Receivd thus from Mr Adams the 11th Feby. 1780, i.e. with the wax fmgerd not open’d. Mr. Adams had it from Dr. Franklin.” 1 JCC, 14:542—43. See also William Carmichael’s Statement, May 3, 1779. 2 The action Lovell described here actually occurred in Congress on June 10. See JCC, 14:711 — 14; and Henry Laurens’ Notes of Proceedings, June 11, 1779. 3 The votes to recall Ralph Izard and William Lee were taken on June 8. JCC, 14:700-705. 4 For the official notices, see Committee for Foreign Affairs to Ralph Izard and to William Lee, July 17, 1779. 5 Two members were finally added to the Committee for Foreign Affairs on Novem ber 24, 1779, when William C. Houston and Robert R. Livingston were appointed. JCC, 15:1302. See also Lovell to Arthur Lee, July 17 and August 6, 1779. 6 That is, Silas Deane. 7 Henry Laurens had voted for Arthur Lee’s recall on condition that Silas Deane remain in America. See Laurens’ Notes of Debates, May 24 and June 11, 1779. 8 See Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee, this date, note 4. 9 When Lovell extracted this letter in his July 17, 1779, letter to Arthur Lee, he added the date May 24 and changed June 9 to June 8 and 10, days on which Congress debated the future of Silas Deane and the recall of the American commissioners abroad. James Duane to George Clinton Dear Sir, Philad. 14” June 1779. Your Excellency’s Letter to Congress respecting the Revolt has made a serious Impression. 1 I applaud the wisdom & Spirit which it manifests. Congress seem to have relied rather too far on the Modera tion and Passivity of our State: and yet there are Circumstances which Justify their proceeding with Caution. It is generally sup posed and believed, that if active measures are passed by our State, the Friends and Relations of the Revolters in the Eastern States, even in defiance of their own Government, will Support them by


[Page 96]
64 June 14,1779 arms: At the same time an opinion prevails that, by the mediation of the Committee, they may be prevailed upon to return to their Duty; at least that the attempt is necessary previous to acts of Violence. The Eastern Delegates seemd Confident of its Success and were explicit in avowing their wishes that it might produce Submission & Tranquillity. Your Excellency’s Letter is committed to a special Committee, & I presume they will report that the Prisoners be set at Liberty & Col. Allen’s Conduct as an officer of the United States be submitted to a Court Martial. 2 At the same time Congress are so strongly perswaded of the policy & propriety of sending their Committee, that they will persevere in the Measure, & I wish our State coud be so far recon ciled to it as to give it no Obstruction. If the Committee are disre garded it will become the Cause of the United States: & we shall have a Right to call on Congress for Assistance to support their own authority. I suggest these hints for your Excellency’s Consideration, and remain with the utmost Regard, Dear Sir, Your Excellency’s most obedient & very humble Servant, Jas. Duane. [P. S.] No Express from the Southward! The great Events there still depend on uncertain Rumour. Reprinted from Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:84—85. 1 JCC, 14:721. Governor Clinton’s June 7 letter to John Jay, which described rela tions between New York and Vermont as on the threshold of war, is in PCC, item 67, 2:190—96; and Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:54—57. His letter of the same date to the New York delegates is in ibid., pp. 58-59. 2 When the committee to whom Clinton’s letter was referred submitted a report on June 16, Congress resolved that the New York officers seized by the Vermont settlers “be immediately liberated,” but did not order a court-martial of Ethan Allen. See JCC, 14:741—42; and John Jay to the Committee on Vermont, June 16, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Monday June 14th. 1779. Com. Committee. Congres. After the dispatches were read the order of the Day on Finance, long debated for increasing the Interest. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Fell also entered calculations relating to the loan in the left-hand margin of this entry. Although they are apparently based on a projected one-eighth appreciation, which he mentioned in his diary entry of June 11, their exact meaning is unclear. 1/8. 26000 0 100000 3250 0 50000 22750/0 25000 £11375 12500 £4375 4375 15750


[Page 101]
June 15, 1779 69 Mr. S. A. will within a few hours after the Arrival of this Post be in the Way of confidential Chat with You, so that I shall reserve myself for Subjects that may occur between this Date and my next Assurances of being with affectionate Esteem, Madam, Your most humb Servt. James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 See Lovell to John Adams, June 13, 1779. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General June 15th. 1779 I inclose you the Gazette of the Day & the last printed Journal of Congress. It is needless that in my great Want of Time I shou’d attempt any partial Account of those matters which Mr S Adams & Doctor Foster now on their Way will give you detail. I am affectionately, your very humb Servant. James Lovell RC (CtLHi: Ransom Collection). James Lovell to James Warren General Warren J une 15th. 1779 As Mr Adams is on his Journey to Boston 1 it is not essential that I should now write minutely, relative to the Points which have been agitated here lately; all proper Communications will be made to you by him in a Way to which an Epistle is only a secondary Satisfaction. He will also give you the whole of what has reached us yet from Sth. Carolina, touching the good Fortune of Genl. Lincoln. But these Considerations would not acquit me to myself if I neglected thus early to acknowledge my Obligations to you for the obliging Ex pression of your “Desire to be considered as my Friend”, contained in yr. Letter of May 30th which reached me the Night before last. Be assured, dear Sir, that you have hereby liquidated a full Page in my Book of Sufferings. There was a Season when I counted upon Thousands & Tens of Thousands; but, for several Months back I have been fully persuaded that all my Hazards, Toils & Watchings were to be recompensed by the Approbation of a virtuous Few. I wish the “unusual Anxiety & Weight upon yr. Spirits” may be thrown off so far as it was occasioned by the Ultimata which are one time or other to be debated here: I cannot but think a decent Coalition would take Place among such as it is supposed will differ, from local Interests or varied Degrees of Resolution. I believe our Ally intends well for


[Page 103]
June 15, 1779 71 course to which you so pleasingly have provoked. Your most humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MHi: Warren-Adams Papers). ' Samuel Adams' departure this day is documented in Samuel Holten’s June 15 diary entry. “Tuesday. I ride out with Mr. Adams and took leave of him, & he proceeded on to Boston; I wrote to Colo. Hutchinson and to Mrs. Holten (No. 61). a cool day.” MDaAr. 2 Lovell wrote the phrase “or Depreciation" in the margin beside this paragraph. 3 The nature of this “Case” can not be determined without Warren’s letter to Lovell, which has not been found. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia June 15th 1779 Mr. Marchant arrived last Saturday Evening, and yesterday took his Seat in Congress. 1 Your Excellency’s Letter of the 3d Instant referring to the States Account against the United States brought forward by Mr. Marchant we shall pay the most diligent Attention to. 2 But such are the various and Extensive Demands upon the Treasury and the exhausted State of it, that we have not the most sanguine Expectations of immediate Success. 3 We shall not fail of every Exertion to fulfill the Wishes of the State and of obtaining that Releif which its Circumstances demand. We enclose Your Excellency the last Papers which will give the agreable Intelligence from the Southward which is fully credited altho’ as yet we have reed, no official Accounts. With the greatest Respect We are, Your Excellencys most obedient, and very humble Servts. William Ellery Hy. Marchant John Collins [P. S.] In Congress. The last Journals of Congress is also enclosed. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Ellery, and signed by Ellery, Collins, and Marchant. 1 See JCC, 14:725. 2 Governor Greene’s June 3 letter to the Rhode Island Delegates is in William R. Staples, Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765-1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 240-41. 3 See the Rhode Island delegates’ letters to Greene of June 29, 1779. Nathaniel Scudder to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir, Philadelphia June 15th 1779. I yesterday received your very agreeable Favor of the 6th instant, 1 and am much gratified by your Confidence & Approbation, for, be


[Page 107]
June 16,1779 75 for which see John Dickinson’s Notes, June 11, 1779, note 1. The committee brought in a report on Monday, June 14, which was considered and then postponed “till Wednesday next.” JCC, 14:726—27. Dickinson may have written this letter to his fellow committee members in anticipation that Congress would be “taking up our Report” the sixteenth, the Wednesday following its introduction. It is equally clear, however, that he could have written it on almost any "Wednesday Morning” thereaf ter before July 23 when Congress ordered the printing of a report on “regulating and retrenching the expences of the departments” in which many of the concerns of Dickinson’s committee were embodied. See JCC, 14:872 — 80. He apparently thought that the “Letters” and the “small additions” (see note three below) to the report that he enclosed herewith might be of use to them in his absence, as “the Decease of a near Relation” was obviously forcing a change in his plans. 2 For the text of surviving items of their report see JCC, 14:727 — 28, 809; and PCC, item 29, fols. 163—64. The remainder of the report has not been found. For the extent of Dickinson’s involvement in departmental reform, see also John Dickinson’s Notes, ante July 23, 1779, note 1. 3 Dickinson’s hasty letter to Burke and Huntington was penned at the bottom of a sheet of paper beneath the following suggested preamble and amendment to item 7 of their June 14 report, for which see JCC, 14:727. “Whereas many persons demand exorbitant prices for Commodities required for public service, far exceeding an Advance in proportion to the Depreciation of the Currency arising from its Quantity, by which Conduct they cause as much as they can still greater Depreciation, on the Supposition whereof they demand such prices, thereby counteracting every Measure that can be devised for appreciating the said Currency, Resolved (here insert the 7th Resolution of the Report carried in the 14th of June) & after the Word ‘Rates,’ dele the Words, ‘to wit,’ & say— ‘and that in the Meantime the Q[uarter] M[aster] G[eneral] & C[ommissary] G[eneral] of purchases & all Officers respectively under them be ordered not to give any prices exceeding the said Rates.’ ” John Fell’s Diary Wednesday June 16th [1779]. Com. Committee. Congres. Letter from Genl Washington, relat ing to the Enemys movements at the North River. Report from the Committee appointed to the affair of Vermont & N York, after debate agreed to. Order of the Day on finance, Motion for raising the Interest to former lenders, to make good the Loss on deppri- ciation. Long Debate. 9 A.M. S F & Peter sett off. 1 MS (DLC). 1 In his entry for May 28, 1779, Fell indicated that he had sent for his wife Susanna and son Peter who subsequently joined him in Philadelphia for a brief visit. Peter Fell was nominated the following week for the position of clothier general and again on July 19. See JCC, 14:757, 854.


[Page 108]
76 JUNE 16, 1779 John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 16th June 1779 Copies of two Acts of Congress of the 14th Inst, are herewith enclosed—One recommending to the States to exempt Drivers of Waggons from Militia duties while in Service—The other for ascer taining their wages. 1 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s, Most obedt. Servant. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To Governor [William] Livingston. The same verbatim to Presidt [Joseph] Reed, & Governors [Caesar] Rodney, [Thomas] Johnson and [Thomas] Jefferson.” 1 JCC, 14:726—27. For the background of these resolves, see John Dickinson’s Notes, June 11,1779, note. Jay also sent these resolves this day with a nearly identical letter to Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene. PCC, item 14, fol. 130. 2 In similar letters of this date, Jay also sent Congress’June 14 resolve “recommending to the States to exempt Drivers of Waggons from Militia duties while in Service” to the executives of New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Georgia. PCC, item 14, fol. 129. John Jay to George Clinton Sir, Philadelphia 16th June 1779 Copies of two Acts of Congress are herewith enclosed—One of the 14th Inst, recommending to the States to exempt drivers of Waggons, while in the Service from Militia duty—The other of the 15th [i.e. 16th] Inst, on the Subject of your Excellencys Letter of the 7th Inst. 1 I have the honor to be, with great Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s, most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'For this June 16 resolve see the following entry. John Jay to the Committee on Vermont Gentlemen, Philadelphia 16th June 1779 You will receive, herewith enclosed, a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 16th Inst, together with Copies of two Letters of the 29th May last, & 7th Inst, from Governor Clinton, and of One from Samuel Minot of the 26th May last to Governor Clinton. 1 The Southern Express is not yet arrived and we have no other Intelligence from Charles town than what consists in a variety of Reports of a victory obtained there over the Enemy. I have the honor to be with great Respect, gentlemen your most Obe. Sert.


[Page 109]
June 16, 1779 77 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To the Honorable the Revd. Doctr. Wither spoon, Coll. Atlee, Timothy Edwards, Oliver Elseworth and Jesse Root Esquires.” 1 In his letter to President Jay of May 29, New York governor George Clinton had enclosed a May 25 letter from Samuel Minott, chairman of the Cumberland County Committee at Brattleborough, recounting their recent experience with Col. Ethan Allen and a detachment of Green Mountain Boys who had seized a number of their group “for the purpose of redusing the Loyal Inhabitents of this County to a Submition to the authority of the State of Vermont.” In a long letter of June 7, Clinton had expressed alarm at Allen’s “atrocious Insult on the Civil authority of this State" and apprehension that faced with such a show of force the Committee on Vermont “will by no means produce the salutary Effects for which I suppose it was calculated.” Clinton’s letters were referred to a committee consisting of John Armstrong, Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer, and William Sharpe which brought in a report on June 16, whereupon Congress immediately resolved to forward copies of the documents to the Committee on Vermont for the purpose of inquiring into New York’s complaints. JCC, 14:721, 741—42. The letters of Clinton and Minott are in PCC, item 40, 1:191—93, 199—200, item 67, 2:190—97; and Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 4:846—47, 858, 5:54—57. James Lovell to Samuel Adams 16th of June 1779 Since you left us a matter has occurred which may affect more than your meer Curiosity, I therefore will give it to you in its present State and will in time give you an Acct, of its Consequences. In Congress June 15th. 1 A Letter of this day from doctr. J. Morgan was read charging doctr. William Shippen junr in the Service of the United States with Malpractices & Misconduct in office, & declaring his readiness to give, before the proper Court having jurisdiction, the necessary Evidence in the Premises against the said doctr. Wil liam Shippen. On Motion of Mr Laurens seconded by Mr. Drayton Resolved That a Copy of the sd Letter be transmitted to the Commander in Chief, and that he be directed to cause such proceed ings to be had thereon as that the Charges alluded to in it be speedily inquired into and Justice done. Ordered That an Extract of the Letter with the above Resolution be transmitted to Doctr. Shippen. Yesterday a Report was brought in by the Treasurer to give Mr. Storey Emoluments similar to those in the secretary’s office here to a first Clerk. 2 But it was judged that ill Consequences wd. flow from setting a Philadelphia mode for Boston Salaries; therefore the Mat ter was referred back to My Lords to take order. They will direct the Navy to a Sum more adequate than heretofore, but in a Way that may not draw on other Applications in necessary Consequence. A Warrant also issued in yr favr for 1500 Dollrs. on your Applica tion the State to be accountable]. 3 An Answer was given in a Draught by the Comtee appointed on the Letter of the King of France respecting the Birth of a Daughter,


[Page 127]
June 22, 1779 95 hend that Kerr the Person mentioned by the writer of that Letter was put in Prize Master of one of the Prizes taken by Captain Rathbourn in his last Cruize, which it seems he has carried to the West Indies and sold for his own Account. We send you this Copy in Order that you make inquiry of Capt. Rathbourne respecting this affair and that you should be acquainted with Kerrs behaviour. We are Gentn. Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The Eastern Navy Board’s letters of May 29 and June 3 (which is dated June 2 in their letterbook) are in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. 2 The Hacketts’ petition was referred to the committee on June 19. JCC, 14:744. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 21st June 1779 Your favor of the 7th inst came this day to hand. I should be very sorry to hear of Capt Simpson’s resignation, when I am in expecta tion every day of his promotion, 1 and that regulations advantageous to the Officers and seamen in the service will speedily take place. Your letter contains a sentiment some what paradoxical especially as it is the sentiment of a Patriot. True patriotism knows no interest, in the least degree incompatible with that of the public weal. May I presume so far on your friendship as to recommend the study of Republicanism? This will have a tendency to abate your anxiety for the acquirement of wealth and prepare the mind to meet adversity with a smile. I shall take an early opportunity to make a full reply to your letter, time not permitting at present. In the mean time be assured of the real friendship and esteem, of your most obt. servt, W.W. [P.5.] Col Peabody arrived last evening. 2 Tell Mrs W. she must excuse my not writing, wanting leisure. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 When a Marine Committee recommendation to promote Lt. Thomas Simpson, commander of the Continental ship Ranger, came to a vote on September 17, 1779, it was rejected nine states to two. JCC, 15:1074—75. 2 As Whipple reported this same news to Josiah Bartlett in a postscript dated June 22, he must also have added this postscript to Langdon on the 22d. See Whipple to Bartlett, June 20, 1779. William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir, Philadelphia; 22djune 1779. Your obliging letter, without a signature, came safe to hand. As


[Page 128]
96 June 22, 1779 letters frequently miscarry between this & Virginia it was a good caution, which I shall take the liberty to follow. That peace & the independance of the thirteen states are within our power is a point not well established; 1 but thus much I think myself at liberty to say, that Congress, long before my arrival here, were called on to declare on what terms they would consent to a peace?—and to fix their ultimatum. They have been debating the matter ever since, & have not yet come to a point, tho’ I think there is now a prospect of that necessary business being shortly finished. The difficulties have mostly arisen in the East, but have been sup ported from the south side of Powtomack; tho’ much of that support is now withdrawn. The extreme delay in this business necessarily gives great uneasiness to the French minister, but that he was about to return to his own country in disgust is not true. This climate is very unfavourable to his constitution, and he had it much at heart to leave it before the hot season came on, & now only waits the determi nation of Congress on this important business. He thinks there have been combinations to break the alliance, & to throw America into the arms of G. Britain, on her acknowledging our independence, in which opinion many have joined him; the ratification of the treaty, therefore, by the Virginia assembly was highly pleasing to him, as I doubt not you will see by his letter acknowledging the receipt of it. 2 A few members of Congress who got intimation of the ratification, expressed their dislike to the proceeding, as being against the spirit of the confederation, tho’ nothing was publicly said on the subject. However, I am of opinion that the occasion warranted the measure; and I think it high time for Virginia to look to her own importance and to provide for her own security, in case of disunion. I am pleased to hear the measures taking for putting our finances on a better footing, that being the most tender ground on which we stand. Congress are wasting much time on the subject and I am clearly of your opinion, that it is nonsensical quackery. Their resolu tion of the 2d of January last, calling in the two emissions, is a proof of it. 3 General Sullivan has about 4000 men on his Indian expedition, of the success of which few, I believe, have very sanguine hopes, espe cially since the commissary of provisions laid before Congress the generals requisition for extra provisions, signed with his own hand; a copy of which I inclose for your amusement. 4 We are informed that John Dodge is on his way to Virginia. I will not congratulate you, but my country, on their choice of a chief magistrate. It will break in on your domestic plan and you’ll find it a troublesome office during the war. Please to present me very respectfully to Mrs. Jefferson. Farewell. [P.S.] It has just occurred that I must liberate this letter to save the postage.


[Page 129]
June 22, 1779 97 RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). In Fleming’s hand, though not signed. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:10-11. 1 In his June 8 letter to Fleming, Governor Jefferson related the general view “that peace and the independance of the thirteen states are now within our power,” but expressed alarm “that Congress have hesitations on the subject, and delay entering on the consideration.” Such vacillation had so disturbed the French minister, it had been reported, that Gerard was returning to France, “ostensibly for better health, but in truth through disgust,” which was regarded in Williamsburg as a “most dreadful calamity.” Some Virginia assemblymen proposed reestablishing committees of correspondence; others felt the emergency required sending “plenipotentiary deputies” immediately to Philadelphia to reassure Gerard and “to set on foot proper measures for procuring the genuine sense of the several states. The whole however subsided on a supposition that the information might not be true, and that our delegates in Congress would think no obligations of secrecy under which they may have been laid sufficient to restrain them from informing their constituents of any proceedings which may involve the fate of their freedom and independance.” See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:288—89. For further information on Virginia’s involvement in the peace process, see Meriwether Smith tojefferson, June 25; Fleming to Jefferson, July 13; and Smith to Jefferson, July 30. 2 The assembly had unanimously approved the French treaty on June 4 and directed Jefferson“to notify the Minister of His Most Christian Majesty, resident at Philadelphia, the above ratification under the Seal of the Commonwealth.” journals of the House of Delegates of the Commonwealth of Virginia; Begun . . . on Monday, the Third Day of May [1779] (Richmond: Printed by Thomas S. White, 1827), pp. 32, 34. Jefferson enclosed the resolutions in his June 8 letter to Gerard who then transmitted them to Vergennes in his dispatch of June 22. See Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:289—90; and Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 740—44. Gerard’s reply of June 22, which is in Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:11 — 12, was enclosed with Meriwether Smith’s June 25 letter tojefferson. 3 JCC, 13:20-23. 4 JCC, 14:685. John Sullivan’s “requisition for extra provisions,” a copy of which Fleming enclosed for Jefferson’s “amusement,” is not in PCC. The journals contain no further mention of the committee or its recommendations. John Jay to John Lawrence Sir, Philadelphia 22nd June 1779 As soon as I had the pleasure of receiving your Favor of the 14th Inst, it was communicated to Congress & referred to the Board of Treasury, to whom your former Letter had been committed. 1 No Report has yet been made on the Subject. Whatever Resolutions may be entered into relative to it shall be immediately transmitted to You. I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most Obedt. And Humble Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Neither of Lawrence’s letters is in the PCC, nor was receipt of them recorded in the journals. It seems probable, however, that they concerned an appeal for money to enable Lawrence, commissioner of the Continental Loan Office in Connecticut, to exchange “bills of the emissions of the 20 May, 1777, and April 11, 1778,” as Congress appropriated $543,684 for this purpose on July 17 in accordance with a recommenda tion of the Board of Treasury. JCC, 14:846; and PCC, item 136, 3:481.


[Page 130]
98 June 22, 1779 John Jay to William Malcom Sir, Philadelphia 22nd June 1779. I have had the pleasure of receiving and communicating to Congress, your favor on the Subject of the Rank of the supernumer ary Officers. It is committed to the Board of war, and I shall take the earliest opportunity of transmitting to You whatever Resolution Con gress may enter into relative to it. 1 I have the honor to be, Your most Obedient, And Hble Servant. JJ- LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Colonel Malcom’s June 13 letter, which was read in Congress this day, is in PCC, item 78, 15:465—68. His Additional Continental Regiment had been consolidated with that of Oliver Spencer’s in April, and Malcom had requested clarification of the point “whether Congress consider the Supernumerary officers retaining their Rank in the Army, & capable of taking command when upon any emergency they are in the Field—or are their Commissions revoked.” For the Board of War’s July 16 recom mendation against Malcom’s officers “retaining their rank or Command in the line,” see JCC, 14:844. For additional information on the elimination of Malcom’s regiment, see alsojames Duane to Washington, May 15, 1779; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 323-25. John Jay to William Phillips Sir, Philadelphia 22 June 1779 Your Favor of the 6th Inst was delivered to me a few days ago by Capt. Fetherstone. His dispatches were sent by Express to General Washington, whose Orders he will receive at Mount-Holly agreeable to a Resolution of Congress of which I have the honor of transmit ting you the enclosed Copy. 1 I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). ’Maj. Gen. William Phillips’June 6 letter to Congress requesting the exchange of Capt. William Featherstone of the Convention Army is in PCC, item 57, fols. 349—52. For Congress’June 18 resolve permitting Featherstone’s transfer from Virginia to New Jersey pending the negotiation of an exchange, see JCC, 14:744; and Jay to Washington, June 20, 1779. For Washington’s order paroling Featherstone, and some of the difficulties involved in arranging such “partial exchanges” while the larger issue of the fate of the Convention Army remained unresolved, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:354, 15:319, 331, 16:326. John Jay to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 22nd June [1779] Herewith enclosed are sundry Papers charging Henry O Hara,


[Page 134]
102 June 23, 1779 arrangement of these two great & expensive lines, and if there Shou’d, no man must resign before the end of the Campaign at the peril of his honor & reputation. I hope the measures almost ready to be published will at least soon put a Stop to the depreciation of our money. Will my Young Lofty fetch 12 hundred pounds, they give from that to 15 hundred here for a horse not near so good—I am with Compliments to Mrs. Davis & friends at Carlisle, Your very respectful friend & humble Servt. John Armstrong [P. S.] Mr. Blain is in health Mrs. Blain not so well as cou’d be wished— She is to go to the Salt Water Soon by advice of the Doctor. I cou’d wish to have a purchase of as much Grass as wou’d make Two Waggon Load of Hay—which with what I expect from my Own Lot, may possibly do and my Own boys to Cut & Win it, but this I suppose is hardly to be got, So as to be of any advantage. RC (DLC: John Davis Papers). Addressed: “Colonel John Davis near Carlisle. Favoured by Mr. John Pollock.” 1 John Davis (d. 1827) of Cumberland County, Pa., was deputy quartermaster gen eral at Carlisle, which was also the home of the Armstrongs. See Greene, Papers (Showman), 2:320—21. 2 Armstrong is referring to a resolution of June 7, in which Congress declared its “full confidence in the integrity and abilities of the quarter master general and com missary general. . . although there is reason to believe that abuses have been commit ted by inferior officers in their respective departments.” JCC, 14:695. Committee of Congress to Samuel Minott and Others Gentlemen 1 Bennington June 23. 1779. The Subscribers are here at present as Members of a Committee of Congress sent for the express Purpose of endeavouring to bring about an amicable Settlement of the Differences between the State of N. York & the Inhabitants of the New hampshire Grants who have formed themselves into a State called by them the State of Vermont. 2 We have understood that You & others who adhere to the State of New York have declined taking your Turn of militia Duty for the Defence of the Frontiers because the Requisition was made under the Authority of the State of Vermont, & that you have met with some Trouble on this Account. We have therefore sent this to inform You, that we hope there will be by Interposition of Con gress a happy Accommodation of all Differences in a short Time; in the mean While we have obtained a Promise from Govr Chittenden that You shall not be molested till Matters are finally settled & we have engaged to write to You voluntarily & freely to raise Your full Proportion of Men whenever your Neighbours are called, and you are informed of this, either by continental Officers or the New State,


[Page 135]
June 23, 1779 103 till such Time as You have special Directions from the Governor of New York, which we hope to obtain for you on our return home. This we are confident You will readily comply with as otherwise People will be tempted to impute Your Conduct to Dissaffection to the Cause of the united States. We hope you will understand that the Protection & forbearance which is promised us on your behalf is to be considered as on the Condition of your cordially complying with our Request, & in every Respect behaving quietly & orderly while the Measures for Pacification are on foot. We are, Gentlemen, Jno Witherspoon Sami. J. Atlee FC (DNA: PCC, item 40). In the hand of John Witherspoon. Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:97—98. Close and signatures taken from Tr. 1 The “gentlemen” to whom Samuel Atlee and John Witherspoon addressed this letter were men who wanted to keep the New Hampshire Grants as part of New York. Samuel Minott of Putney was a leader of this group and he served as moderator of a convention July 2—3 at Brattleborough in Cumberland County, N. Y., that author ized a long “Petition” to Congress describing their view of the situation in Vermont and requesting Continental support to remain a part of New York. PCC, item 40, 1:239—45; Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:108—12. 2 Samuel Atlee and John Witherspoon had been appointed with Timothy Edwards, Oliver Ellsworth, and Jesse Root to a committee to travel to Vermont and evaluate conditions for a settlement of the conflicts in that strife-torn region. Atlee and Witherspoon went directly to Albany, N. Y., and sent an express to Edwards in Stockbridge, Mass., notifying him of their plans and requesting him to notify the other members “that the Committee might meet at Bennington.” The full committee, however, was never able to meet. Ellsworth and Root, who were also members of the Connecticut Assembly, remained in Connecticut until June 22, four days after the assembly adjourned. When they arrived at Stockbridge, Edwards, who had resigned as a delegate to Congress on June 2, declined to serve on the committee. Ellsworth and Root, after learning from Edwards that Atlee and Witherspoon had left Albany for Bennington, headed for the latter place, but when they arrived at Bennington on June 26 they learned that their compatriots had returned to Albany just that morning. Recognizing that they could not act officially without a three-man quorum required by Congress, Ellsworth and Root dispatched an express rider to Albany, but he returned on the 29th with Atlee’s and Witherspoon’s refusal to return. Root and Ellsworth thereupon returned to Connecticut. Atlee and Witherspoon nevertheless continued their mission, even though they lacked the required quorum. They conferred with New York leaders in Albany, met with Vermont leaders in Bennington and Shaftesbury, interviewed Gov. Thomas Chittenden at some length, and wrote this letter and others on behalf of the committee. For the committee’s appointment, see John Jay to George Clinton, June 1; and Jay to Timothy Edwards, et al., June 2, 1779. For its subsequent activities, see Committee of Congress to Thomas Chittenden, June 27; Committee of Congress to John Jay, July 4; and Committee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. For an analysis of the entire Vermont issue in Congress and the work of the committee at this time in New York and New England, see Winn L. Taplin, “The Vermont Problem in the Continental Congress and in Interstate Relations, 1776—1787” (Ph.D. diss., University of Michigan, 1955).


[Page 136]
104 June 23, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Wednesday June 23d [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters and Reports, Read. A Memorial from the Legislature of New Jersey was read, 1 relating to the appointment of Officers Referrd to a Committee of 3, vizt Sherman, Morris and Scudder. Order of the Day on Finance. On the Question for Mr Dickinsons amendment for the Interest to be secur’d to the lender of the Present Loan and to have Retrospect to goe back to 1st March 1778, 6 Yaes, 4 Noes, 2 States divided. On the Main Question Mr Scudder call’d for the Yaes & Naes and said his Life might deppend, on his Vote being known, All Yaes except, Scudder, Duane & Paca. MS (DLC). 1 For this remonstrance of the New Jersey legislature, see John Jay to William Livingston, June 29, 1779, note 1. Gouverneur Morris to Jean Holker Sir, Philaa. 23d June 1779. In Consequence of your Requests of the 9th & 16th I have applied to the Commissaries who inform me that since the latter End of April last the issuing Commissary at this Post holds himself in Readi ness to deliver to you 1000 Blls. of Ship Bread 600 Blls. of Beef and 300 Blls. of Pork and that there are also in his Hands 4000 Blls. of Bread ready to be delivered. That the Flour ordered from Virginia is coming on and will in their Opinion amount to 3000 Barrils and that it hath been impracticable to furnish that which was directed to be delivered here without distressing the Army. 1 The salted Provisions ordered from Virginia he hath not made Return of, I shall make a new Application to obtain that and also to cause more Flour to be purchased. At the same Time I must request that you will let me know the Quantity which you have on Hand that the Orders to Maryland for supplying you and the Army may be accomodated to the actual State of Things. 2 I wish it were possible for me to be particular as to the Quantities and Places where depos ited but this cannot be untill the Returns of the Commissaries shall become more Accurate. I am very Respectfully, Sir, your most obed. & humble Servant, Gouv Morris RC (CtY: Franklin—Holker Papers). 1 In his letter to Morris of June 16, Holker had requested “exact returns of the Quantities of Flour, beef, Pork purchased & stored for the use of the Squadron commanded by his Excellency Count D Estaing,” and he went on to insist that “all the


[Page 137]
June 24, 1779 105 provisions which are to be reserved for this purpose be immediatly delivered to the Care of Mr. Robert Morris of this City, or Mr. Wm. Smith of Baltimore,” his principal agents in the middle states. Holker Papers, DLC. 2 In response to Morris’ request, Holker replied the following day that “Thirteen or fourteen thousand Barrels of Sound Flour with the 6000 Bushels of pulse demanded or a reimplacement in flour or Biscuit, will be an ample Supply for the present Moment.” On the other hand, Holker explained, “4000 out of the 5000 Barrels of Bisket which the Commissaries report having ready to be delivered, are not fit for the use of the King’s Marine.” Holker Papers, DLC. John Fell’s Diary Thursday June 24th [1779], Coml Committee. Congress. When the Letters &c were read. The order of the day for the taking up the Ultimatom for the fishery, and after a number of amendments, the Question was Put and car ried in the affirmitive as follows viz, Yaes 5, Noes 4. (Divided 3 of which N Jersey was one, I was no, under a full conviction, not with standing the importance of the fishery that these United States are not equal to continue the Warr without the Assistance of Our Ally, Provided we could have an honorable Peace, without insisting on this claim Purely to serve the Eastern States). Peter Wickoff appointed Clothier General. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Wikoff declined to accept the office. See JCC, 14:757, 765; and John Jay to Wikoff, July 6, 1779, note. John Jay to William Heath Sir, Philadelphia 24th June 1779 I have the pleasure of transmitting to You enclosed an Extract from the Minutes of Congress of the 22nd Inst, by which You will perceive that You are elected to the place of a Commissioner to the Board of War. 1 I have the Honor to be Sir, With great Respect, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In his July 1 response to this letter, Heath reported that because he was “altogether ignorant of the intended duties of the commissioner to the Board of War,” he wished to know “what the general duty of the commissioner is to be, where he is to reside, and whether or not, in case of my acceptance of the trust, I retain my rank in the Army.” When Jay replied that he would be able to retain his Continental rank but would “be paid only as a Commissioner,” Heath declined the appointment. See JCC, 13:430, 14:757, 806, 893; PCC, item 157, fols. 278-83; and Jay to Heath, July 8, 1779.


[Page 140]
108 June 25, 1779 and that by the assistance of his fleet, you will not be Surprized that flattering & new manuvres Shou’d be formed in embrio, and the event of his coming be followed with hostile attacks on the Enemy at New York & Rhode Island—those Saguinary ideas so far operated on the minds of Some Gentlemen as led them to move that your Excellency shou’d be directed to recall General Sullivan &c. but these motions were So far over ruled as to leave you to the Exercise of your own judgment on the Campain at large. But upon what grounds we were amused with the coming of the Count, and why these hopes have so nearly died away are matters that to me requires some farther explanation. The business of Finance altho’ not yet finished according to the System proposed, has nevertheless passed sundry Stages apparently proper, and from which I expect at least a Sudden period to the depreciation of our Money, indeed the mere expectations of the populace, altho’ our Resolutions have not yet appeared joined to the efforts of the sundry Committees in this State have not only pre vented a farther depreciation but have actually lessened the price of sundry of the more essential articles of life. Foreign affairs continue to perplex & Procrastinate—Who Shall be the great men Over the Water, and whether a Common Right in the Fishery shall like other Claims of right & convenience be made an Ultimatum in case Britain shou’d offer to concede our Independance—or whether the Fishery, at least for the present Shou’d be left to the effect of Our Ministers Negociation, are Subjects of tedious & disagreeable debate. It may be feared these points are blended, the business itself, and who shall transact it—whosever wishes to be the Minister, may wish the lati tude of Negotiation. Others apprehend the risque might be too great in the hands of a Minister—however this important matter may be, many things unjust & impolitick have been said & propogated upon it (I mean the Fishery), by making unnecessary Obstacles about it, giving it an undue & unatural weight in the business of Peace, as tho’ it should be the only Synequanon of Great Britain—and if left on the easy footing of Negociation, at least Oblique insinuations have been held up to the people that we might have our Indepen dance conceded to us whensoever we please & might have had peace before now &c. Thus has the true grounds of the debate been much Shaded by a parcel of falce hipothesis & delusive Stuff. It is also true that Several Gentlemen far removed from any expectation or wish to go to Europe, think the fishery ought to be left to the best terms the minister can make about being of Opinion that it is not essential to the Well being of these States, that the Eastern States only or more principally must be gainers by it, and lastly viewing it as the only hinge upon which Peace or War must turn—in this light I confess I am neither willing nor able to conceive it, believing that the real Springs of Peace or War must arise from Sources considerably differ-


[Page 143]
June 25, 1779 111 Gerard has been examined carefully by Stephen J. Rosswurm, “Arms, Culture, and Class: The Philadelphia Militia and ‘Lower Orders’ in the American Revolution, 1765—1783” (Ph.D. diss., Northern Illinois University, 1979), chapter 8, especially pp. 396-400. The intellectual debate accompanying the controversy, particularly as it was played out in the Philadelphia press, has been analyzed by Douglas M. Arnold, “Political Ideology and the Internal Revolution in Pennsylvania, 1776—1790” (Ph.D. diss., Princeton University, 1976), pp. 125—44. For Robert Morris’ struggle to clear himself of charges of wrongdoing at this time, see Hubertis Cummings, “Robert Morris and the Episode of the Polacre ‘Victorious’,” PMHB 70 (July 1946): 239-57. That Holker was more heavily addicted to trading illegally on private account than even his associates suspected seems evident from the work of Abraham P. Nasatir and Gary Elwyn Monell, French Consuls in the United States: A Calendar of Their Correspon dence in the Archives Nationales (Washington: Library of Congress, 1967), pp. 561—63; and Kathryn Sullivan, Maryland and France, 1774—1789 (Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1936), pp. 81 — 83. John Fell’s Diary Friday June 25th [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches, the Order of the Day on finance, chiefly relating to the mode of the Certificates for the New Loan, the Treasury report to have them Paid to the holder, his Heirs, Executors and administerators to Prevent their being Negotiated, long debated, nothing done. Exceeding hott, in the Evening Thunder Lightening and hard Rain. MS (DLC). Marine Committee to Thomas Jefferson Sir Jtme 25th. 1779 We have the honor to acquaint your Excellency by direction of Congress that the Minister Plenipotentiary of France hath appointed and commissionated Monsr. De Hilaire to be Consul at the Port of Alexandria or Belhaven in your State. 1 We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys Obedt Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Conrad Alexandre Gerard had announced the appointment of Monsieur de St. Hilaire as French-consul for Alexandria, Va., in a memorial received by Congress on June 22. See JCC, 14:759; and PCC, item 167, fols. 363-64. Marine Committee to Samuel Tucker Sir Marine Committee, Philadelphia June 25th 1779 You are hereby directed immediately to proceed in company with


[Page 144]
112 June 25, 1779 the frigate Deane 1 from the Capes of Delaware into Chesapeak Bay, and on you arrival there, at Hampton, or any other way endeavour to Obtain the best inteligence if any of the enemies Ships of war or Privateers are in the Bay, and if you find there are and of such force as you are able to encounter you are to proceed up and attack them and after taking or destroying as many of the said Vessels as may be in your power—or Should there not be any british Vessels in the Bay—then without any loss of time you are to sail out of it on A Cruize in which you are to chuse such Stations as you think will be best to Accomplish the double purpose of intercepting the enemies outward bound Transports for New York from Great Britain & Ireland and the homeward bound West India Ships. We are of Opinion that between the Latitudes of 36 & 41 and 100 leagues Eastward of the Island of Bermuda will be your best Cruizing ground, but in this we do not mean to restrict you, leaving you to excercise your own judgment which probably may be asserted by information which may be obtained in your Cruize. All prizes which you make you are to send to the nearest or most convenient Ports of these states addressed to the Continental agents. You are to continue Cruizing for the above purposes until the middle of September next or longer if your provisions and other circumstances will admit of.it and afterward return to the port of Boston where you must be governed by the orders of the Navy Board of the Eastern Department. We have ordered the Conti nental Frigates at the Eastward to be sent out to Cruize for the same purposes you are now going on, and we think it very probable that you will fall in with them. In that case you, or they, or any of them are hereby directed to cruize in company under the command of the Senior Officer; and should you be joined by any of those frigates, and find by any intelligence you may receive of the situation of the enemies Sea force at Bermuda that it will be adviseable to make an attempt on their shipping, we recommend your undertaking it. By late Accounts from that Island the Virginia Frigate and a privateer out of London mounting 20 Nine pounders were the only vessels of war then there. We now wish to draw your most Serious attention to the execution of the business before you—the great expence and dificulty that attends the fitting and manning of our Ships must make you and every Commander in our Service fully sensible how much they should exert themselves to employ them usefully while at Sea. This consider ation we hope will have due weight in your mind and will call forth such Active & prudent behavour as will be of essential Service to your Country, and add to your Own reputation and the honor of our flag. We wish you health & Success, and are sir, Your very hble servants, By order, Wm. Whipple


[Page 145]
June 25, 1779 113 P. S. The Confederacy being designed for a particular Service, we have ordered her up here. 2 Messrs. Barons at Hampton in Chesea- peake Bay will be proper persons for you to inquire at respecting the enemies Shipping. RC (MH —H: Tucker Papers). In the hand of John Brown and signed by William Whipple. ' The Marine Committee wrote a nearly identical letter this day to Capt. Samuel Nicholson, commander of the Continental frigate Deane. Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:89—91. 2 The Marine Committee also wrote the following brief letter this day to Capt. Seth Harding, commander of the Continental frigate Confederacy. “The Confederacy of which you are Commander being designed for a particular service, you are hereby Ordered to proceed up Delaware Bay with her, as high as Chester where you are to Anchor and inform us of your being there.” Ibid., p. 91. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia, June 25th. 1779. Permit me to recommend to your particular Notice & Civilties Monsr. de Francy, 1 who is the Agent of Monsr. de Beaumarchais, and honoured with his particular Esteem and Friendship. I shall be extremely deceived if you will not find him a Man of strict Honour & liberal Sentiments; disposed to render every Service to the State consistent with the Interest of his Patron & Employer; who, to facili tate the Views of some of our Countrymen, has met with unmerited Abuse & very injurious Treatment; disgraceful indeed, to the great Council of America. The Services rendered by Mr. de Beaumarchais to these United States, will for ever entitle him to their warmest Acknowledgments & most grateful Returns; and I rest assured that you will never be backward in your Endeavours to restore them to the good Opinion & Friendship of an able & most zealous Advocate for their Prosperity & Happiness. I am requested by my Colleagues to transmit to you the Answer of the Minister Plenipotentiary of France to your Letter inclosing the Resolves of the Genl. Assembly of Virginia, ratifying the Treaties of Alliance & Commerce, entered into with that Court, which you will accordingly receive in the enclosed Letter. 2 I shall consider these Resolves of the Genl. Assembly as a Testimony of their Approbation of my Conduct, in opposing all those Measures which I conceived were calculated to destroy the Alliance; and altho’ they are made very seasonably, &, I doubt not, will have a very good Effect, I cannot avoid telling you that I think it is necessary to be attentive to the Dispositions of the People & to observe whether their Conduct be conformable to the Spirit of those Resolutions: For, be assured, the M r of F e fears much more the Consequences of Seduction, than the Success of B h Arms in America. The Establishing


[Page 146]
114 June 25, 1779 Committees throughout these States is by no Means considered in a favourable Point of View. It carries along with it the Appearance of a Design to place the Government again in the Hands of the People the better to conduct them to some favourable Object. I shall only remark, upon this Occasion, that Committees were formed for bring ing about the Independence of these States, and may be very instru mental in establishing an Alliance with Britain. If I may be permitted to reason from the Effect of their Measures here, I will not hesitate to declare that the Object they have in View is not that which is assigned for the Cause. I am not informed whether I am continued in the Delegation for the ensuing Year. 3 If I am, there are some Matters of Importance which I wish to see finally settled in Congress, before I return to Virginia; when they are concluded, the Situation of my Family & private Affairs will demand my particular Attention. Yet I would not wish to withdraw myself intirely from the Service of my Country in these Times, as I flatter myself I can in some other Respects render it essential Services. With this Persuasion I am induced both by Duty 8c Inclination, to acquaint you that I will chearfully undertake any Negociations which the Exigency of the States may make it necessary for you to attempt in Europe. I am, Sir, with much Esteem, Your most obedient, 8c humble Servant, Meriwether Smith P.S. Pray will you be so obliging to give me your Sentiments respect ing the Currency of these States, 8c your Opinion of the proper Methods of redemption? Whether you approve of Such Plans as are founded upon the Principle contain’d in the inclosed publication, 4 or whether Taxation alone is the simple or honest 8c radical Cure for the Depreciation, and the best Means of Redemption? RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:15—17. 1 For Smith’s letter on the subject of a memorial from de Francy, see Smith to Jefferson, June 24, 1779. 2 See William Fleming to Jefferson, June 22, 1779, note 2. 3 See Smith to Jefferson, July 6, 1779, note 2. 4 Not found or identified. John Fell’s Diary Saturday June 26 [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. This day spent in Reading Letters, Petitions, Memorials 8c Reports from the Treasury, Board and Board of Warr. &C. 1 MS (DLC). 1 This day another important matter was also temporarily settled when the Commit tee on Appeals declined to render a decision in the case of the Lusanna (Doane v.


[Page 148]
116 June 28, 1779 correspondence between Major General Heath and yourself are referred to our Board with power to take effectual means for closing the Accounts, and obtaining payment. 1 The Board have accordingly considered the Accounts, objections, and reports of the Committee of Congress, and are fully satisfied that the several articles are just, and ought to be paid. We have therefore authorised Mr. Milligan a Commissioner of accounts at the Treasury, to call upon you for payment. 2 When you consider the inconveniencies Congress have suffered by being deprived of so large a sum as Eighty-five thousand, five hundred and seventy eight pounds 4/8 Stg. ever since the month of August last, besides the debt which has since accrued for supplies to your Troops: when you further observe that we are obliged to provide for the support of the American prisoners of War principally in specie; we are persuaded you will put it in Mr. Milligan’s power to execute the Trust reposed in him with dispatch, and that he will be furnished with the money without further objections or delay. Mr. Milligan is fully authorised to settle all further accounts of supplies for the Convention Troops, and to confer with you on the subject. 3 I have the honor to be, &c, (Signed) Jas. Duane. In the name of the Board of Treasury Tr (PRO: P.R.O. 30/55, 12). Addressed: “Major General Phillips.” 1 See JCC, 14:699. Gen. William Heath had alerted Congress to the problem of the Convention Army accounts in September 10 and 21, 1778, letters which were referred to committees on September 21 and 30, respectively. JCC, 12:936, 970. Apparently no action was taken until June 7, 1779, when Heath’s correspondence with Phillips was referred to the Treasury Board for settlement of the issue. Heath’s letters to Congress are not in PCC, but for his correspondence with General Phillips, see PCC, item 57, fols. 287-317, and item 152, 6:261-62. 2 See JCC, 14:775. 3 For Phillips’ correspondence with James Milligan on the settlement of these accounts, see Great Britain, Historical Manuscripts Commission, Report on American Manuscripts in the Royal Institution of Great Britain, 4 vols. (1904—9; reprint ed., Boston: Gregg Press, 1972), 1:475—84. Committee of Congress to Thomas Chittenden Sir, Albany June 28th. 1779. We have reed your Letter by Mr. Sessions, and are exceedingly concerned, at this last Disturbance that has happened as it may be a means of defeating all our Endeavours for promoting Peace; 1 We are not willing however to consider it as a Breach of the Agrement you made with us because it is probable it was not known, or dis tinctly understood, but was surprised to find that though Sessions was to have carried a Copy of both Letters yet he had only ours and


[Page 151]
JUNE 29, 1779 119 general nature, and particularly because the application should be to the Delaware State, of which her husband is a Citizen & Soldier. As we cannot foresee the least probable injury that can happen by her obtaining this favor, we must in her behalf intercede with you to grant it, and, as she cannot afford the expence of an Express, that you would be so good as to inclose it for one of us, & forward it by the very first opportunity. We are, with due regard, Your Excellency’s, most obedient humble servants, John Dickinson Thos. M:Kean RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). Written by McKean and signed by McKean and Dickinson. 1 James Moore, a prisoner on Long Island, was eventually exchanged on December 7, 1780. See Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 298, 388; and Heitman, Historical Register, p. 298. John Fell’s Diary June 29th [1779]. Com Committee. Congress. Severall dispatches and Reports from Committes, a Question Put by the Secreatary whether Coll Ethan Allen should be supply’d with Copys of Papers relating to him &c, debate on the Propriety of granting them, (agreed he should). 1 PM Marine committee, Orderd a Brig to be Built. MS (DLC). 1 For a discussion of Allen’s business before Congress, see Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett, July 13, 1779, note 3. John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philadelphia 29th June 1779. Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed, a Copy of an Extract of a Letter from General Washington to Congress of the 11th Inst. & of an Act of Congress, which it gave rise to, of the 28th. 1 By the latter you will perceive that Congress have again thought it requisite to call on the several States to fill up their Battalions by the most speedy 8c vigourous Efforts. The necessity of this measure is too evident to need any Argu ments to press Your Excellency’s attention to an Object of such moment to the Freedom 8c Independence of these States. Your Excellency will perceive the expediency of keeping the Let ter from the General as secret as the nature of the case will admit. I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, J. J.


[Page 152]
120 June 29, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To His Excellency Meshech Weare Esqr. The same verbatim to the executive authorities of all the States except New Jersey & Pennsylvania.” 1 Washington’s letter of June 11, which was read in Congress on June 16 and referred to a committee consisting of John Armstrong, Elbridge Gerry, and Henry Laurens, is in PCC, item 152, 7:415—18, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:261—62. For the report of the committee to which it was referred and the June 28 resolve that Congress adopted in consequence of it, see JCC, 14:739—40, 780. John Jay to William Livingston Sir, Philadelphia 29th June 1779. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency Copies of two Acts of Congress of the 28th Inst—The One directs in what manner to fill the vacancies which may happen in any of the Regiments raised by the Respective States for the Continental Army 1 —The other was entered into in consequence of a Letter Congress received from General Washington of the 11th Inst. (Copy of an Extract of which is also enclosed) and earnestly recommends to the several States to fill up their respective Battalions by the most speedy & vigourous mea sures agreeable to a former Resolution on this Subject. The obvious & absolute necessity of this measures prevents my adding any persua sions to press your Excellency’s Attention to an Object so essential to the Freedom, & Independence of America. I have the Honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant, J. J. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 This resolve was adopted in response to a June 12 “remonstrance” from the New Jersey legislature submitted to protest recent infringements of the state’s authority to fill vacancies in the New Jersey Line. The states had long exercised the right of appointing officers to vacancies in the Continental Army originally embodied in a congressional resolve of September 16, 1776—yet they had recently been ignored in the reorganization of a number of Continental battalions and New Jersey had not even been formally notified of the suspension of a number of her officers who had been declared supernumerary. That Congress had delegated authority to make such “arrangements” to a committee and the Board of War was a matter of additional concern, and New Jersey therefore requested that Congress “interpose” its authority to prevent further contraventions of the rights of the state. New Jersey’s petition had been read in Congress on June 23 and referred to a committee consisting of Gouverneur Morris, Nathaniel Scudder, and Roger Sherman, which presented a report on June 28 that was promptly adopted. Congress’ resolve on the subject was decidedly conciliatory and obviously designed to smooth the state’s ruffled feathers. See JCC, 14:759, 778-79; and PCC, item 68, fols. 455-58. 2 See the preceding entry.


[Page 161]
June 30, 1779 129 1 JCC, 14:778. Washington’s June 23 letter is in PCC, item 152, 7:419-22, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:304—5. 2 JCC, 14:733-34. 3 For these resolves, see Jay to Certain States and Jay to William Livingston, June 29, 1779. Daniel of St. Thomas Jenifer to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Sir Phila.June 30th. 1779. You have been misformed, Congress have not yet concluded on what terms they will accept of peace—they have been the subject of Deliberation for 5 Months past. I would most chearfully acquiesce in Britons keeping their American Possessions, and maintaining their Common Right of Fishing on the Banks of Newfoundland. Your observation is too true, that we have delayed recruiting our Battailions & sinking our Money beyond the time we ought to have adopted these measures. However, I am not without hopes that the States will exert themselves. If they do not, we are an undone people. Congress expects to raise 20 Millions on loan immediately over and above the 45 Mills. I am afraid Congress will not recommend to the States the repeal of the Tender Bill—I have mentd. this matter to some of the Delegates, who speake of the ill consequences that might attend such a measure, to be sure to put it in the power of Men to pay their Debts with the 20th penny is unjust. Congress have not reed, any information from South Carolina since the 5th of May. Mr. Drayton has a letter from a Gentn. in Chas. Town, dated the 19th of May which informs him that the Enemy were in Possession of James’s Island. No mention made of any engage ment having happened, but says Genls. Lincoln & Williamson were within a days March. In a New York paper of the 19th Inst, is a Deposition of a Capt. Mcalpine that left Tybee (Georgia) the 5th of this Month, and also a Letter to Sir Geo Collier from a Capt. of a Man of War in Savannah, both of which contain intelligence of a Serious Nature. And altho I do not believe the situation of the Enemy to be so promissing as to put them immediately into Possession of Charles Town, which they seem to expect, or that Governor Rutledge had offered to Capitulate on Condition that South Carolina should remain Neuter during the War, which they also assert, yet I fear Lincoln is not in force suffi cient to risk a battle. Two prizes to the Confederacy & Boston Frigates with 200 Hhds. Rum, & other Good arrived here Yesterday, likewise 6 or 7 Mer chantmen from Statia with various Articles of Merchandize. I am of opinion Mrs. Carroll would receive great benefit from the


[Page 167]
July 2, 1779 135 John Fell’s Diary Friday July 2d [1779]. C. Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters. Petitions &c were read, Order of the Day on finance agreed to sundry Resolves relating to the extending the time for Receiving the Emissions of April & May, call’d out of Circulation. MS (DLC). Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates In Congress 2d July ’79. A Letter from a french Officer John 1 in bombast terms on the glorious anniversary of American Independence & praying Con gress to employ him to exhibit certain grand fireworks on the 5th Inst, which he had prepared for the purpose. Mr. Drayton rose & in a funny declamation informed the House that it had been the practice of all Nations ancient & modern to celebrate particular days by festivity, that Greece had instituted the Olympic Games, these things he repeated again & again without [end?] 2 & concluded by hoping the Man would be ordered to exhibit his fireworks. Mr. Laurens, rose, expressed his astonishment at the conduct of his Honorable Colleague, who seemed to be altogether joyous at a time when he thought he was loudly called on to serious reflection. Does not the Gentleman know that his own Country is bleeding at every vein & now probably reduced to the greatest distress? has not the Gentleman recently received a Letter informing him that all the Rich Planters in the Southermost parts of his Country are ruined? did we not yesterday receive a very alarming Letter from the Quar ter Master General? have we forgot the alarming Letters from Gen eral Gates read at that Table but two or three days ago? has not the Commander in chief frequently informed us of the precarious state of existence in which our Army has for some time been? have we not held out to our Constituents that we were endeavoring to appreciate our Currency by lessening the quantity in circulation? is not every unnecessary expenditure the cause of increas’d emissions? is this the Honorble Gentleman’s mode for appreciating our Paper Money by adding expence to expence & unnecessarily? If the Honorble Gentleman will shew me that the United States of Holland when they were in our circumstances & I beleive they never were less able to bear expence than we are, or the Canton’s of Switzerland, plunged into expensive feasts for celebrating the anni versary of their Independence, I might be brought to agree with


[Page 170]
138 July 3, 1779 confidence you will do every thing in your power for the good of the Service. In the present Situation of our affairs it Seems absolutely neces sary to make Some new regulations in those departments for the better if possible, but in this Stage of the Campaign it is exceeding difficult if not dangerous to make alterations, at least nothing may be done Suddenly. The exorbitant price demanded for the necessary Supplies for the Army greatly Embarress Congress as well as your department & the Quartermasters but they must all be Surmounted. I hope Some measures may yet be adopted that will lower the price & lessen the demands, the Several States must exert themselves for that purpose. 1 The various Accounts we have had from the Southard prove at length to be misrepresentations, by a Letter from Col. Laurens the 10th June it Seems the Enemy were Encampd on the main near Johns Island & Intrenchd, Genl Lincons Army a few miles distant & no considerable Action had happend near Charles Town, as was so often reported. We have Just heard the Enemy are come down the North river Leaving a Garrison at Stony point. I am Sir with due regards your humbl Servt, Sam. Huntington RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Collection). 1 Huntington’s and Wadsworth’s home state, Connecticut, hosted a meeting of representatives from the other New England states and New York in October 1779 that recommended state-imposed price controls. Charles S. Hoadly, ed., The Public Records of the State of Connecticut, 15 vols. (Hartford: Case, Lockwood & Brainard Co., 1850-90), 2:562-71. John Jay to Various Continental Officers Gentlemen, Philadelphia 3. July 1779. Your Favor of the 31st May last, has been delivered to me, and shall be immediately communicated to Congress. A Committee has lately been directed to report a further Provision for the Army and I flatter myself that such Resolutions will be entered into on that Subject, as to render the justice & Gratitude of the United States, as manifest as the Services & Patriotism of their army. 1 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Gentlemen, Your most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To Colonels [William] Shepard, [Latimer] Greene, [John] Topham, [Robert] Elliot, [James] Livingston, [Henry] Sherburne, [John] Crane & [Israel] Angell, Lt Colonels [ Samuel] Ward, [Richard] Livingston, [Jeremiah] Olney, & [Ebenezer] Sprout, and Majors [Ebenezer] Huntington, [William] Bradford, [Lebbeus] Ball, [William] Perkins, & [John] Porter.”


[Page 171]
July 3, 1779 139 1 The May 31 memorial of these officers, lamenting the “baneful Effects” of continued depreciation of Continental currency and requesting “Relief as may be adequate to our Wants,” is in PCC, item 78, 20:409-12. It was read in Congress on July 5 and referred to the Committee of Conference, which had already been “instructed to report speedily upon a further provision for the army” and which submitted a report to Congress on July 14. For the recommendations of this committee and Congress’ response to the grievances of Continental officers at this time, see John Fell’s Diary, July 27, 1779, note. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates 3d July 1779. Mr. Gerry said he spoke to privilidge, and stopt the reading Public Dispatches. Complained of an insult offered to Congress by a Publication in Dunlap’s Paper of this day, introduced under the Signature Leonidas, 1 “If such famous Publications are to pass without proper notice ’tis time for Congress to go home, and other Men come in their stead. I am sure I will not stay &c. &c. &c. &c. &c. &c. half an hour. Moved that Mr. Dunlap be directed to attend the Bar of this House to answer such questions as shall be proposed.” &c. Mr. Laurens, “I second the motion,/or reasons to be hereafter made known. ” Mr. Merriweather Smith opposed the motion—“he had read the Paper and had it now in his hand, thought it contained several good things; then read and commented on several parts and finished his harangue with this peroration. When the liberty of the Press shall be restrained, take my word for it, the liberties of the People will be at an end.” Mr. Burke—opposed the motion—“it would be lowering and disgracing the dignity of the Congress to take any notice of the Printer or Author— what shall we get by the enquiry?” &c. &c. &c. Mr. Penn—opposed the motion—“The Writer he made no doubt had good designs. The liberty of the Press ought not to be restrained. Gentlemen talk of imprisoning the Printer or the Author. I will undertake to say, if you have power, which I doubt, and were to imprison them for six Months, they would come out greater Men than they went in. What was it made Wilkes so great and popular a Man, but the imprisonment he suffered” &c. &c. &c. See the affair of Rivingtons Publication. 2 Compare the conduct of these Gentlemen in that case with their speeches & declarations in the present instance—the purity of their motives & principles will be displayed—from the same polluted sourse flow all their actions—when some Men seem to be honest, they calculate for the accomplishment of interested or wicked purposes— when they speak truth, it is in order to deceive. Mr. Laurens’s reason for seconding the Motion was to discover


[Page 172]
140 July 3, 1779 I Price M. M. (ingle. ... by tile qu.ntily, PcMiihed every Tueljty, Th„,C<, y ln d Sahirday. ) MW. al et Itby would... - z —..... ... r enue wni n a upon your ttwney. By y» ul fc?de strempu to fappou row have elUbhlhed unonro or.< ....id,..../...,/;.. u offered by Congreft Uof your Houw for * ®oS of the Drpmie* in the Stiff wwui wtuu. w new ma null baouen laoglat fragility, and Sod fwnr. hn*d aatanai they weraanfaitMuj lopponnoi. Voa taw »jwrad yw«Wf by oog WU, u o — ■ ••■r ....... umr union, urt awn ne am. ptoyed to petfuade the cttrtftu of Aawrtra to depott -heir noaty kt your fonJi. Anda* an encouragement to lend. er«, give * per rent >0,000 poondi, Md ftmnma to tee low vdwe of your moo roe delayed fo long to complaia of il. kkurot. > Why bu the dtfraCr been fo retgne—L a tb* glory of the cttneoa of America to ap- prwh their refer* with eery different emotiotia. w* roof lee goeenuMtK M Io H ituted only kt our happinefe. We therefore lortu the fyfirm* of fovemmmt wl.ch art how eHabliftad in Eoropr, and tanead of address yon oa IprefomeM the same of all the boor ft Wing* in America to addruf. you at the < > a » a w > of the public «po* a of the utmoft hsportaMC to the f.fety and liberiie* of ttui country. bvioegovernuteot of .vr country, but I w.llrilk the charge -f fuperniiHm la affmng, &.M I brtieve the inMice rhicn haa been committed under the faaZlaoa of law, to be helpletb member* of our comrauniiy, a one of the prin cipal reafoo* why the Supreme Being ha* fo long kepttack from u tit* btcffing* of pe.ce, .nd why he baa made thb fummer to big with all tbedlam ile.of war. conaiey.—And nerv, had f a LumfunJ «cmgw. t ry would not te foflident ioearinft the fuhjifl. fib the four e of >11 tT* mnnupolniej and foieiiallmg *otbe C<® • tment. Spec ularion in every Jafa .nd privnll.n ,rfp. np ^ I. the natural oiflpnog of the pragrefi,^ depreciation of tour nvit, fha „ i—.,. ' ..... T recolleft to have read fwnetlme ago a SratcM in the Packet which mjM to ba fpoken io CoogreA, upon the fobjeft of the CoMureutaf rwoeey—T tag you would gev* the Mowing 8>nc« whkh ««r»z to be fpokeo ** the Coogreft Optra the feme fobjefi a place la ymir ufefal pi per. aad you wid oblige Ywn, 7»w ty. LEONIDAS. Ot> rimt>. I MPRESSED with a tad* of that dignity which ymi jierire from the n.iare of your power over thia town try, J Ston'd Ad myfelf overcome with the fight of my audience, did foot ionfiler myMf at the fam. um* ** one Cr ~ yon immeauteiy to Hop your preffea. Every dollar you eh»t after Ive preterit day fa r-pfere with pvifon to if,* Mbertie. and virtue of our coua- *’/, ~be firft hand that toectier it prove* the f*ff1»oo,l of Ju denomination. You bare not a moment to tote m.'o- tog thw moft nrcrffiry bofintt J ftalt p.ufe w.jA y.® difpotcn armeffengee to your printing office, to put a ft-o toihe m^Uaflo,, of dollar*. The new. of thii mrafore wilt be more welcome tv your eoeftftueot* tins the new* of to hundred new .th.nce. without n. I have nodo.Sc Md ioreftalten. Th* pref.iM depreciated llateofyoar money, null be trace i only to the miftaknof th* Coogrefa. It u free, aher you bad emitted a certain fum, you h>. • itw”d i-oan-Oflice. to borrow money upon the credit of th* United Scaia*. But could you expeft while ti e onto war kept labourwg night aad day, that any number of man would lend yon money, when by re.1ia.ag it io th* t»oS tnAmg article of merohaadiu they might in a few sxmtta dwoble their nomin.l fum f H<d you Sopped the peefe, radar the/.me rraer called upon your connitoeaia far loan*, I have no doubt Iw with tacoaomy you might tav* caieied *o the war to th* prefent day with not toon ttaa thirty tniiliotw of dollara tn circulatioo But t haRea ra point out t» you tWe defefl> In y*ur (MO.geaneait Of ibe affair* of thlacoontry. which have had tb* priactpul tiM tn depreciating your moaay. I. Yon have cwmmitied theaxpendkur* of poor money... ■... narnone to give theta. S i* bat fpeut the left d illrr ot a a.ndlbme principal which ibe w«r»prlz M to retene at the rate at one Hulling in tn* pound, indeed, Gentlemen, you bave taiight «ato repent of our frugality, aad to lament over the remain, of our integrity a. the only obftaclea that have laid in ih* way of our iotereft and Itapplneft In a word, the lawa of Ood, and the tie* of coeLaguioity,—even a Cuat'a religion.-* fotdiera honor,—and a broth*?, tncodihip az* L*r..ly fu" ficieot to protefl m horn fraud m all *ue coatrafla with Conriaentai money. Where are th* men who Pled tWe ftttt io the yeae »yy»f Where ■ H.e fp<nt or me Hluftneua Raanocra who peiided owe your cmmfel* In Ihe broion. ng of the toatroeerfy • Happy foul! in being taken away before thou wall obliged to witn*f. th* degeneracy of thy conn. B'ymen. Oh 1 (>f a v.fit ra thy once belovwf country will, n^ m,rr tby prrfont happwefa) defcrod and iofpir* ».ery Manner of th» Houle with thy iral f M the han't of our caufe.-ithy'mduftry and paoduality in bvfiwefr.. tny My ind-batea. • thype^flfraeiom >t*i attachment., , n d with a.I tby which have placed th** upon an e., , t cbar^ora of aotlqurty, and whkb will trenlnrtt thy name w lf h thrir* to fhe laieft poftertty > Korn* now to meotrao thole thing, which alow can ra. ftocecnecredh of your money, and fecor* rayou tbeefteem and coohdence of your countrymen. the roomolit tBepakf.azn-r rrnwdyoflaai fate, ul *: tbeprraea of goad*. Thefe lawa mufl e.ertw part.aiand ^ a - **»®wwraof<^erara»eS<"ffD*<>*rtin*«t. H«c« wh K h recommend law, Jo be enafled to, mah.og nVf. f^ -tuoltw* far ambradetBrot »auat nominal fume in bond* and debt* it the Jd vahZtioo ■ «*« l« wr moS riehtroua Ta • 5T1 k”**' «»«*!»•<» with fuch Orackmg inMic*. nd flrtct fcrwtmy ba J i-eea lam not difoofed Hl b,» .— — .^a. r- - - - ■ J ■ - “Leonidas” Proposes a Speech Pennsylvania Packet, July 3, 1779


[Page 173]
July 3, 1779 141 what part those three Worthies would act, who had so eagerly attempted to persecute him for a Publication by the Enemy at New York, to which his name was subscribed— and who were now so very silent when a complaint was made of gross affronts to Congress by one of their own Printers—until he had seconded the Motion which was not hastily done, they sat mute. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Moses Young, and endorsed by Laurens: “Leonidas & Co. in Congress 3d July 1779.” 1 Elbridge Gerry’s complaint was in response to a letter printed in the July 3 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet signed “Leonidas,” which sharply criticized Congress for failure to address the problem of inflation. Alluding to Congress’ May 26 Address to the Inhabitants of America, Leonidas chided the delegates for their long delay in coming to recognize the evil and asked rhetorically, “Why has the disease been suffered to run on to its last stage before you raised the cry of danger in the ears of your country?” Denouncing their attempt to blame rapid depreciation of the Continental dollar on America’s “enemies, or the infamous practices of monopolizers and forestallers,” he went on to assert that the problem “must be traced only to the mistakes of Congress,” and scoffed at their paralysis in the face of financial disaster. “Let us read something more than the ‘Yeas’ and ‘Nays,’ and questions for recommitting and postponing business in your journals,” he continued. “Your money—your money— demands every thought and every hour. You have more to dread from this quarter than you have from all the Britons, Hessians, New Levies, Refugees, Indians and Negroes that are now in arms against you. I conjure you therefore immediately to bind yourselves to each other by an oath, not to eat, drink or sleep till you have arrested your money in its progress towards destruction, and fixed it upon a permanent foundation.” For a discussion of Leonidas’ “Publication," where authorship of the work is attributed to Benjamin Rush, see Rush, Letters (Butterfield), 1:229—37. 2 For this allusion to Meriwether Smith’s attempt to embarrass him over the publication of his captured letter to John Houstoun in James Rivington’s Royal Gazette, see Laurens’ two speeches in Congress of May 15, 1779, these Letters, 12:472 — 75. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear sir Philadelphia July 3d. 1779. I arived here the 21 ulto. after a long & tedious Journey, 1 during which the weather was extreamly hot, there was much rain for 4 or 5 days So that I was Obliged to lay by for Considerable time where it was very difficult to procure Sustainance for men, or beast, and very expensive living, even where there was neither Eating or drinking, I came by the way of Sussex as it was thought unsafe to travel Lower down. I See much of that Jealousy & party Spirit by which some Gentle men will perpetuate their detestable Characters. The Wheel of Finances drags on heavily, Foreign affairs not much better, by the enclosed Newspapers You will See Something of the disputes &c— Southern, & Eastern States. I think it is of the utmost importance to the united States in General, & to the Eastern States in particular that the State of New Flampshire


[Page 180]
148 July 4, 1779 translation, the first of which is endorsed: “4 Juillet 1779. Notte Remise par M. Jennifer President du Senate et Delegue de 1’Etat de Maryland au Congress”; the second, “Autre notte du meme au meme.” As Jenifer probably left for Annapolis on Sunday, July 4, to resume his position as president of the Maryland Senate, which was about to reconvene, he may have given these notes to Conrad Alexandre G6rard just as he was leaving. It is not known for what specific purpose he drafted them, but it is clear from Gerard’s dispatches to the comte de Vergennes that Jenifer had devel oped a special rapport with the French minister in Philadelphia. Jenifer, Gerard asserted, was the most reasonable and fair-minded American leader he had yet encountered, by which he apparently meant that Jenifer’s views generally coincided with his own, especially on the possibility that the United States might ultimately have to settle for something less than outright independence, perhaps along lines drawn in the treaty of 1609 ending the war between Spain and the United Provinces. Jenifer also believed, Gerard went on to explain, that the several states would ultimately form several confederations rather than a single nation, and therefore that it would be in the interest of all parties if the states individually would ratify the alliance with France, following the recent example of Virginia and Maryland. Jenifer’s purpose in drafting the second note printed here seems a bit more obvious. He doubtless saw in a French loan one of the few hopes yet remaining to Congress for avoiding economic ruin and probably thought that he could improve the prospects for such a loan if Gerard and Vergennes believed that right-thinking Americans such as himself were wholeheartedly devoted to the French alliance and prepared to accept the guidance and counsel of His Most Christian Majesty. For Gerard’s July 9, 1779, report to Vergennes on the “plusieurs conferences confidentialles” that he had recently had with Jenifer, see Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 763-67. 2 At this point Jenifer inserted an asterisk to which he keyed the following note at the bottom of the page. “Whoever will but one moment reflect on the Struggles & Wars that were carried on between the House of Austria, and the Switzers for more than 300 years, must be fully convinced of the truth of this assertion.” Delaware Delegates to Allen McLane Sir, Philadelphia, July. 5th. 1779 Your favors of the 28th last month came safe to hand. We are sorry to find that any of the Officers of the Delaware Regiment should be so unreasonable as to attempt to contravene the arrange ment made by Congress, and approved by His Excellency the General, and also by the State. 1 When they reflect with candor on the subject, and consider, that the superabundance of Officers, compared with the privates, neces sarily occasioned the reduction of many Regiments; and that it would be extremely hard to discharge Gentlemen from the service, who had entered early in the army, to the great detriment of their private affairs, and continued in it with reputation to themselves and advan tage to their country; I say when they consider this, and also that there is no other possible way of doing justice to such virtuous char acters but by attaching them to some other corps, and that as you was an Inhabitant of Delaware, had raised your company in that State, and that some of these Gentlemen have rose from Ensigns to


[Page 181]
July 5, 1779 149 be Captains since you was a Captain; they will not, we flatter ourselves, think it hard that you have been added to their Regiment, especially when it will be a saving of about eight thousand dollars to the State. His Excellency General Washington has undoubtedly a right to detach any company in his army as he shall conceive to be most beneficial for the service; and we are perfectly satisfied with his having ordered yours to join Major Lee’s corps. We doubt not you will have an opportunity of acquiring honor to yourself and your brave corps; and sincerely wish you glory and all manner of happi ness. We are, sir, Your most obedient Servants, John Dickinson Thos. M:Kean RC (NHi: McLane Papers). In a clerical hand, and signed by Dickinson and McKean. 1 Since McLane’s letter to the Delaware delegates has apparently not survived, the exact nature of his objection is unclear. His company, which had been recruited in Delaware in the spring of 1777, had been formally detached from the Delaware Regiment on January 13, 1779, with future assignment referred to the committee appointed to confer with Washington. Through an oversight, orders attaching the company to Maj. Henry Lee’s Legion (2d Partisan Corps) were not sent to McLane. Meanwhile, he sought reimbursement for recruiting expenses from Congress in late April, but the matter was referred to the state of Delaware, for which see John Jay to Caesar Rodney, May 19, 1779, note. Finally, in early June, Lee asked Washington for confirmation of McLane’s orders and on June 9 the commander-in-chief directed McLane to join Lee’s unit, an order to which McLane apparently took exception. See JCC, 14:58, 119; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:241—42; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 134, 273, 323, 348—49. 2 Because of McLane’s objections, Lee wrote to President Jay on July 6 quoting Washington’s orders and seeking congressional resolution of the matter, for which see Jay to Washington, July 15, note 2. John Jay to John Cox and Charles Pettit Gentlemen, Philadelphia 5th July 1779. Your Favor of the 3rd Inst, was this moment delivered to me, & shall without delay be communicated to Congress,—The Object it respects merits immediate attention, & your Remarks on the means of obtaining it appear to me judicious. 1 The copy of a Letter from Moore Furman Esqr. mentioned to be enclosed, was omitted. 2 I have the honor to be, with great Esteem & Respect, Gentlemen your most Obed Serv. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In their letter to Congress of July 3, Cox and Pettit, Nathanael Greene’s assistant quartermasters general, had recommended that measures be taken immediately to regulate prices, particularly because new and plentiful grain crops were about to be marketed, creating conditions holding new promise that such action might be effective. Their letter, which was inspired by one of June 29 from deputy quartermaster Moore


[Page 182]
150 July 5, 1779 Furman citing recent frustrations with skyrocketing prices in New Jersey, was read and referred on July 6 to the committee appointed on May 28 “to make enquiry into the establishments and contingent expences” of various Continental departments, for which see PCC, item 78, 5:359 — 66; and John Dickinson’s Committee Notes, June 7, note 1. 2 Furman’s June 29 letter to Cox and Pettit is in PCC, item 78, 5:367—69. John Jay to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir, Philadelphia 5th July 1779. Your Excellency’s favors by Mr. Browne were duly received, and I have now the pleasure of transmitting herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 3rd Inst on the Subject of them.' Mr. Browne will take charge of a Packet containing twelve blank Commis sions for private Ships of war, with an equal number of Bonds & Instructions. I have the Honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Three letters from Trumbull dated June 22, which were read in Congress and referred to the Board of Treasury on July 1, are in PCC, item 66, 2:15—26. JCC, 14:787. For Congress’ two resolves of July 3 adopted in response to the first and third of these, advancing $200,000 to the state for clothing Continental troops and compensating messenger Jesse Brown, see JCC, 14:802 — 3. Henry Laurens to William Livingston Dear sir 5 July 1779. For weeks past that troublesome Monster Conscience has been haunting me “You forget Gov Livingston again you forget yr late penitential epistle.” No—I forget neither—do’nt teize me I’ll write as soon as I have somewhat to say—would you have me pester the Governor merely to tell him what he knows very well, that I am with the highest respect and esteem His Excellency’s obliged and obedi ent Servant? “Well go on your own way Sir but depend upon it you’ll soon receive another rap o’ the Knuckles.” Partly from this menace & partly from a higher consideration I have taken up the pen. But what shall I say? Shall I tell you Sir that Congress had the honor yesterday of assisting at Te Deum in the Romish chapel and that I saw there the only woman—what was I going to add? I forget. These are infirmities of old age to peep thro’ spectacles at pretty women in Church and to forget them the next minute. Shall I say that I mean to dine at home to day at my own expense because I hold it an exceeding bad means of appreciating our paper money to give eight or ten thousand dollars for a dinner, and because I think my constit uents are already sufficiently taxed and also because the Anniver-


[Page 187]
July 6, 1779 155 John Jay to Peter Wikoff Sir, Philadelphia 6th July 1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to You herewith enclosed an Extract from the Minutes of Congress from which You will perceive that You are elected to the Place of Cloathier General. 1 As the Affairs of this department require constant Attention, I hope it will be convenient to You to enter on the Execution of this Office without delay. I am Sir, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Wikoff and Peter Fell had been nominated for this post on June 22 and Wikoff was elected to it on the 24th. JCC, 14:757, 765. In response to a query from Wikoff, Jay explained in a letter of July 8 that a clothier general’s salary was $5,000 per year and sent him a copy of “an Ordinance for regulating the cloathing Department,” but Wikoff declined the appointment the following day, stating that under current condi tions the stipulated salary “will fall vastly short of defraying half of the necessary & unavoidable expences of living even in the most obscure private manner.” PCC, item 14, fols. 145-46, item 78, 24:53-56; JCC, 13:353-57, 14:815. Subsequently Lt. Col. Persifor Frazer also declined the post before it was finally filled by Col. James Wilkinson, for which seejay to Frazer, July 17, and to Wilkinson, July 24, 1779. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philadelphia, July 6th. 1779 I wrote to you on the 24th of June by Mr. de Francy; 1 since which I have reed. Advice that I am continued in the Delegation to Congress; But the Terms are such as are very injurious to my personal Interest and Honour; and I am not certain that I shall accept of the Appoint ment on such Terms. 2 It is notorious that I have been concerned in Trade, for upwards of ten Years; and I could easily demonstrate that very few Men, in a Public Character in Virga, have made so great a Sacrifice of Interest as I have done since the Commencement of the present Troubles. I have not however been engaged in the Business of Speculation, as it is called. My Managers in Virginia have reed. Consignments from for eign Merchants & thence my profits arose. I have not even written a Letter to them on the Subject of Trade or given them any Advice since I left Virga. I wish that direct Measures only had been taken to remove me from Congress, and that no Option had been left to me. It would then have been necessary for me only to evince to my Country the Rectitude of my Conduct whilst in the Service of it. But my Enemies, not content with attempting to displace me by a direct Vote, have availed themselves of a circumstance to procure a Law which either


[Page 192]
160 July 7, 1779 John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir, Philadelphia 7th July 1779. The memorials I had the honor of receiving from You were yester day communicated to Congress. 1 The enclosed is a Copy of an Act recommending to the Governor of Maryland to permit the Ship Defence to depart, & carry her Cargoe to the place of her destination. 2 The other matters mentioned in the Memorials are now under the Consideration of Congress. Whatever resolutions they may give occa sion to shall be immediately communicated to you. 3 I have the Honor to be Sir, With great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedient, And Humble Servant J. Jay LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Gerard had submitted two memorials to President Jay dated July 5, one of which was read in Congress on July 6 and the other on July 7. See JCC, 14:805 — 7; PCC, item 94, fols. 295—302; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:237—41. Both memorials discussed obstacles encountered by Jean Holker in purchasing and ship ping provisions for the French navy, the former seeking permission for the ship Defense to clear the port of Baltimore for Martinique, the latter seeking assurances that 5,000 barrels of flour could be immediately collected and held in readiness for the use of d’Estaing’s fleet in September. For information on the problems raised by Holker’s purchasing practices and the hostility engendered by suspicions that he and his agents were concealing private transactions under the guise of his commission as French agent of marine, see Committee of Congress to Holker, June 25, 1779, note 2. 2 This day Jay also enclosed copies of this act with brief letters sent to Jean Holker and Maryland governor Thomas Johnson. See PCC, item 14, fols. 143—44; and JCC, 14:805-6. 3 For the continuation of difficulties between Holker and American officials suspi cious of his purchasing practices, see Jay’s letters to Gerard of July 30, August 3 and 5, 1779. James Duane to Mary Duane My dearest Polly Philad. 8th July 1779 I have the pleasure to acquaint you that the Business which partic ularly detained me here is now drawn nearly to a Conclusion, and that the governour has promised as soon as the Legislature assem bles to puruse my Leave of absence. I hope therefore that in a few weeks I shall have the pleasure of being with you, our Children & Friends; & on such Terms that will leave me free as to my future Conduct. For Surely if there is any Merit in long & faithful Services I have a Claim to Indulgence: and it was to inforce this Claim and get the Consent of the Legislature for my Return—in no small degree— that I have waited here so long. The Summer hither to has been pleasant and I have not sufferd from the Heat: you may be assurd that whenever it oppresses me I shall retire to the Trees in the


[Page 196]
164 July 8, 1779 “This is a very extraordinary & a very dangerous mode of disposing of the Public Money.” I will add nothing harsh. You content your self Sir, with wishing that every person con nected with Public business had such accounts as yours to produce. Where shall I find the ground whence you derive this self satisfaction? Not in your declaration in Congress the 11th September 1778, respecting the Books of the Commerical Committee which had been always under your special direction & in your private possession about nine Months antecedent to that date. 3 Not from the unliqui dated accounts of the Secret Committee which has been abolished near, or perhaps upwards of two Years. Not from the condition in which you returned the Books of both, to the late or present Com mercial Committee in almost inextricable confusion; many more Months have since rolled over & I cannot learn that those Books are, even at this moment, in a state to be boasted of. Not from your confession that the proof introduced by the Gentle man whom you very unjustly call an Accuser, had Escaped your self & the Committee. This proof should have been produced as the very Corner Stone of your justification & of their Report; it was the only paper that could have averted general Censure; without it, the Report of the Committee & all you could have said would not have satisfied our Constituents. The opinions of Congress would have been recorded in such terms as would have given you lasting pain. The discovery of that Paper altho’ it was not particularly incum bent on me to seek for it afforded me that satisfaction which a Man feels who knows, that to be honest & impartial towards every Man are duties due to himself. Permit me Sir before I conclude to say—If you rank me among your Enemies, you do me great injustice, I acknow. that I have not approved of your general conduct in public business, it has in every instance within my knowledge been ambiguous—always wanting your own explication. I dislike the train in which the Commercial Com mittee’s Books are at present—you would not do amiss were you again to submit the adjustment of them to any other hand & in any other House than your own, you once returned them after more Months effort, because they were “confused” although they had been the work of your own performance and direction. I am, Sir, Your obedient humi Servt, Henry Laurens FC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 23). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 Morris’ ’’publication of this day” was a letter “To the Citizens of Pennsylvania” dated July 7 that was printed in the July 8 issue of the Pennsylvania Packet. In it Morris had reviewed various “charges or insinuations” that had recently been leveled against him concerning his “accounts with the Continent,” and had explained his relations with the Philadelphia Committee during its probe into his purchases of flour for the French fleet, investment in the polacre Victorious, and transactions in paper money and bills of exchange. Although Morris’ letter actually dealt primarily with charges raised by the Philadelphia Committee, Laurens was almost exclusively preoccupied


[Page 197]
July 8, 1779 165 with Morris’ ’’accounts with the Continent,” a subject in which he had been inordi nately interested for nearly two years and which he doubtless felt Morris had misrepresented. It appears, moreover, that Laurens drafted this document for publi cation in the Packet, but no evidence has been found to indicate that he ever sent it to the Packet’s printer, John Dunlap, or to Morris. Its significance, therefore, lies in its revelation of Laurens’ beliefs and moods rather than in any impact it might have had on Morris or the American public. Of the responses to his public letter that Morris did receive, however, one of the most gratifying was doubtless the following July 7 note from the French minister to the United States, Conrad Alexandre Gerard. “I have perused with great satisfaction your address to the citizens of Pennsylvania, which you did me the honour to leave with me. All what refers to my Court in the transaction you relate is stated with the greatest exactness and I am ready and deter mined to support your conduct in this respect at proper times and places, in a measure consistant with my public caracter and with the Justice which is due to your zeal for measures intimately connected with the most essential interests of the united states and of the Alliance. I have already taken some steps with Congress to this purport and as far as I can judge your address will convince your fellow citizens that your conduct deserves esteem rather than the asperscions which have been thrown upon it.” Morris Papers, DLC. For other aspects of the public interest in Morris’ commercial transactions during this period, see also Committee of Congress to Jean Holker, June 25, 1779, note 2. 2 Laurens’ frustration at this time doubtless involved precisely this point, for despite the language of his denials below, he had indeed, on the floor of Congress the preceding winter, accused Morris of “fraudulent proceedings,” which upon investiga tion had resulted in Morris’ exoneration. For documents relating to this episode, see these Letters, 11:424-25, 430-35, 439-41, 447-55, 472-78. For an analysis of Laurens’ behavior at this time, which concludes that “this affair and others in Laurens’ career exhibit a strong tendency to pettiness,” see Laura Page Freeh, “The Career of Henry Laurens in the Continental Congress, 1777—79” (Ph.D. diss., University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, 1972), pp. 390—91. 3 See these Letters, 9:23n, 151, 11:424—25. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Governor Trumbull, 8th July [1779] I feel myself highly honored by Your Excellency’s Letter of the 22d Ulto and much indebted for the indulgence you are pleas’d to grant me. 1 I will endeavour to make better returns hereafter, but six hours in Congress together with Morning and Evening Committees will plead some excuse for deliquency, which in general may be termed unavoidable. Were you here Sir, or did you know all, that some of your friends here know, you would be less pleased with the aspect of Public affairs than you think you are. The derangement which alarms you is the fruit of seed sown long ago—a want of harmony within, and of virtue and fortitude without Doors, are the obstacles which render it seemingly impracticable to eradicate the evil. I do not mean to arrogate to those within doors all the virtue and fortitude in the World, had they but a competent


[Page 206]
174 July 9, 1779 John Jay to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 9th July 1779 I have been honored with your Excellency’s favors of the 27th ult. & 1st Inst. They were committed. 1 Peter Wickoff Esqr. has been appointed Cloathier General, and will I hope soon enter on the Execution of that Office. 2 Herewith enclosed is a Copy of a Letter from Governor Rutledge to the Delegates of South Carolina of the 9th Ult—of one from General Lincoln to Congress of the 4th Ult—and of an act of Con gress of the 6th Inst, making further Provision for Sub & Brigade Inspectors. 3 I have the Honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys most obedt Servant, John Jay, Presidt RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 JCC, 14:803—4. Washington’s June 27 and July 1 letters are in PCC, item 152, 7:423—30, 439—41, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:328—32, 346—47. 2 In his June 27 letter to Congress, Washington had complained: “I am at a loss to know to whom I am to address myself, as head of the Clothier’s department. Every deputy seems to act by a separate and independent authority.” For the difficulties Congress experienced in filling the post of clothier general, which both Peter Wikoff and Persifor Frazer declined to accept, see Jay to Wikoff, June 6, 1779. 3 See JCC, 14:805, 807. Neither John Rutledge’s letter, which elicited a July 8 resolve appointing “a standing committee. . . to correspond with the commanding officer in South Carolina and Georgia” nor Benjamin Lincoln’s letter, which was read on July 7, are in PCC or the Washington Papers, DLC. Massachusetts Delegates to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia July 9th 1779 We received in due time the Honor of your Letter of June 10th, 1 which we should have acknowledged earlier, but were drawn on from day to day by the Hope of getting a proper Opportunity for obtaining the Sentiments of Congress upon the Points which are so essential in the Settlement of Accounts between the State of Massa chusetts Bay and the Continent. Such has been the Course of Busi ness here that we can yet only inform you we shall omit no favorable Hour for bringing on a Decision agreable to Instructions from the Honorable Assembly in Behalf of which you wrote: And we think the Course of the War to the southward will tend much to excite a general Sense of the Equity of making a continental Charge of those Expences mentioned by you which have occurred frequently hith erto only in the eastern & middle States. Your Letter of Feburary 10th was referred on the 5th of March


[Page 207]
July 9, 1779 175 partly to the Marine Committee and partly to the Board of War. 2 We shall move for a Reference of that now before us to the same Board and shall promote a speedy Report. We present our Duty to the General Assembly, and are, with Esteem, Sir, Your most obedient, Humble Servants, E. Gerry James Lovell S. Holten RC (M-Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). Written by Lovell, and signed by Lovell, Gerry, and Holten. Addressed: “The Honorable President of the Council of Massa chusetts Bay.” 1 The Massachusetts Council’s June 10 letter to Samuel Adams, seeking reimburse ment from Congress for compensation of Massachusetts soldiers that exceeded Conti nental levels, was read in Congress on July 12 and referred to the Board of War. See JCC, 14:819; and PCC, item 65, fol. 396. 2 The Massachusetts Council’s February 10 letter, which is in PCC, item 65, fols. 382—84, requested support for Massachusetts soldiers not included in the state’s 15 Continental regiments and asked for vessels to patrol the state’s coastal waters. JCC, 13:274, 316-18. Gouverneur Morris to Joseph Reed Dr Sir [July 9, 1779] After what passed between us at the State House I should not have troubled you again on the Subject but that I am informed the Letter in Question (which I am thoroughly convinced you never saw) is now in the possession of Council.* It is I beleive the only one I ever wrote to him and is in Answer to one he had written to me. The Date of it will readily account why you should not have sought after or seen it. The Attack made on me renders me desirous of having the Letter this Day if possible. I am very sorry to trouble you so much on this Occasion. I was informed of the Inquiries made and your Answer for which I beg Leave to assure you I have a proper Sense. I take this Opportunity to thank you for it. If I had been treated with equal Candor by many who owed me more I should not give you the Pain of reading this Letter. I beleive if you ask the Secretary of the Coun cil or the honorable Mr. Gardiner the Letter from me to Arnold will be found without Difficulty or Loss of Time. My application to either of them might not have been refused. I am very respectfully 2 FC (NHi: Reed Papers). In the hand of Gouverneur Morris though not signed, and addressed by him: “His Excellency Joseph Reed Esqr. President of Pensilvania, Mar ket Street.” Endorsed: “Gouv Morris to Mr. Reed. Philad July 9, 1779.” 1 The letter from Morris to Benedict Arnold alluded to here has not been found,


[Page 208]
176 July 9, 1779 but for the conflict between Morris and Reed that had been simmering for some time, see Morris to Reed, April 9 and 25, 1779. 2 At this point the following words were added in an unidentified hand: “Sir Yr. Most obed, Gov. Morris. Signature and close [. . . ] E. D. Ingraham.” Gouverneur Morris to Benjamin Towne Mr. Printer, [July 9? 1779] 1 In one of the publications under the signature of Common Sense is this very trite and common though just observation, “an anony mous detractor is the serpent of society;” how much more he that detract merits, who boldly obtrudes his person upon the public view, it is his to determine. The palm of matchless impudence shall be his, and he may boast unrivalled the contempt of shame. Any man who reads the story of a worthy citizen whose ease, health, and pleasure having been sacrificed in the public service, is prosecuted and perse cuted by beings who owe security to contemptibility, and importance to malevolence, will feel the emotions of honest indignation. His astonishment will be equal to his indignation that bold assertions, without evidence to support them, and dark insinuations devoid of probability, should for a moment turn the tide of popular opinion against the friends of mankind. Should we hear that some faithless Carthaginian had taken refuge in Rome from the justice which pur sued his debts or his crimes; that having vainly opposed the mea sures taken for public liberty and safety, at once a sudden convert he had mouthed at Hannibal, and bellowed out for Fabius. That wormed into notice by a talent for abuse, he had been raised to a confidential office by a faction who laboured to undermine the great Fabius himself, the Saviour of his country. That to forward the views of his patrons, and promote the interests of his natal Carthaginian soil, he had betrayed the confidence reposed in him. That he had wantonly wounded the fairest character, branded the firmest patriots with the imputation of sinister views, and charged the generous and disinter ested with an inordinate thirst for dishonest and disgraceful gain; that he had endeavoured to spread far and wide doubts and suspi cions of the senate, to sap the confidence of the Romans, to weaken their councils and distract their views. That when chosen a tribune of the people, he had laboured to keep even bread itself from the army, under pretence of a public scarcity, and thus to leave the country a prey to her foes; and that notwithstanding all this the Romans should listen to, and confide in this man, this faithless Carthaginian. Should we, I say, hear these things, what should we think of the Romans? Change but the name, my countrymen, and the story is told about you. The Romans were an honest unsuspect ing people, and so are the Americans? Who was an Englishman?


[Page 210]
178 July 9, 1779 In Hall and Seller’s Gazette of the thirtieth of June, there are two papers, the one signed Common Sense, and the other Tiberius Gracchus, both of them levelled at a member of congress, supposed to be the author of a paper signed Americanus, both of them founded on a supposition that he had contended for excluding America from the fisheries. If this gentleman has meddled in the government affairs of Pennsylvania, let him answer for himself. 4 But he and every other our representatives in congress has a right to expect protection from the virtuous Whigs of America, while in the execution of his duty. I have reason to believe and authority to say, that the hon. mr. Morris was not the author of the piece signed Americanus, and neither saw it, heard it, or knew of it before the publication; that neither he, nor any other man now in congress ever held up an idea of ceding to Great Britain, or any power on earth, the right of fishing; and I call upon those gentlemen for the proof, if any they have, to contradict me, in order that the man or men, who shall have wantonly or wickedly misrepresented the debates of that honorable body, may be held up to the reproach they justly merit. The insinua tion against that gentleman with respect to our finances is equally ill founded, and the minutes and the members of congress cannot but bear witness to his zeal for private justice, and to promote the public interests. Those who advanced their money to the United States in the hour of danger and distress, when to so much greater private advantage they might otherwise have employed it, are bound to a grateful acknowledgement of his exertions in their favor; and as far as America may derive credit from the reputation of honesty and fair dealing, so far will she feel an equal obligation. Alike unfair and far more despicable is the insinuation against another member of that honorable body. To whom is our country most indebted? Is it not to those who risqued most for her salvation? Those, who could suffer much and gain but little by the contest, exhibited real patriotism, but where is the merit of those, who safe in insignificance could loose nothing in the storm, and might even hope for a share of plunder in a general shipwreck, 5 who might be raised into impor tance by a turbulency of spirit, and satiate the lust of power by embarking on a troubled ocean? Is there a man among us whose consequence is derived from the calamities of his country, and though she should be plunged in inextricable debts to gratify private ambition, hath a certain exemption from the common calamity? Who can pay nothing, because he has nothing to pay? Timothy, art thou that man? If thou art, then be thou the advocate for war! For inexpiable war! But can you, my countrymen, who feel the weight of it, whose toil, whose riches, and whose blood, must be expended to support it. Can you wish to prolong its distresses, to renew the cries of the orphan and the widow, to increase the number of those who groan in captivity, to add weight to their chains, and aggravate the afflictions of the afflicted. 6


[Page 213]
July 9, 1779 181 Paine’s attack on “Americanus” was the first of a series of three such letters (dated June 26 and July 12 and 17), and it elicited rejoinders by critics other than Morris. For one of these, by another delegate to Congress, see Thomas Burke’s “Epistle,” July 16, 1779. The three essays attacking “Americanus” are conveniently gathered in Paine, Writings (Foner), 2:188—208, where they are placed in the context of Paine’s prolonged struggle with Silas Deane and his allies. In addition, Paine responded to the present attack by “Cato” in a brief letter printed by Benjamin Towne in the July 16 issue of the Evening Post. In that response, he acknowledged his authorship as “Common Sense,” denounced those who “dare not own” what they publish, reprinted his July 26 letter from the Pennsylvania Gazette, and boldly appended his signature “Thomas Paine.” For Morris’ rejoinder to this response from Paine, see Gouverneur Morris to Thomas Paine, July 24, 1779. For discussion of the original “Americanus” essay .that led Paine into the public debate over the fisheries, see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates, June 19, 1779, note 4. See also Max M. Mintz, Gouverneur Morris and the American Revolution (Norman: University of Oklahoma Press, 1970), pp. 122-24; and the many documents discussing the fisheries issue in these Letters. 2 That is, Thomas Paine. 3 Morris’ draft contains the following passage that was omitted at this point in the printed letter. “To discover then I made myself acquainted with the writers & for the Honor of human Nature I shall conceal the Weaknesses and Wickednesses which guided the Pens of some among them. Conceiving that the Torrent had spent it’s Force I was willing to appear upon the public Stage knowing as I do my own Inability to contend with such adepts in the art of Railing but finding the Attack is again to be renewed.” 4 The following passage from Morris’ draft was omitted at this point in the printed letter. “I hope he may be able to assign virtuous Reasons for his Conduct because I respect his Character as an able Delegate and honest Citizen and if he cannot let the Resent ments of the constitutionalists of Pensilvania pursue him.” 5 Morris’ draft varies somewhat at this point and contains the following alternative passage: “What merit hath he for embarking on a troubled Sea or adding Disquietude [and] Turbulence to these turbulent and unquiet Times? Such Man must know that when Peace and order again smile upon his Country his Consequence will decay, But should she be plunged in inextricable Debts to gratify private Ambition hath a certain Exemption from the common Calamity who can pay Nothing.” 6 The following passage from Morris’ draft was heavily revised in publication. “Ever Since the Question of the Fisheries hath become a publick Topic I have sought for Arguments to support our claim. I find it laid down among the Civilians that fishing Banks may rightfully be held as Property by those who have Force to exclude others and they Instance the Pearl Fisheries which are actually claimed and held in exclusive Right. I find it also laid down among some few of them that it is unjust to exlude any Men from a Participation in the common Gift of Nature such as Air & Water or the Birds which flie and Fish which swim in those Elements. 1 find that Disputes have arisen on this Subject among Nations and altho there has been much Writing and some fighting about it the Point still remains to be settled. As an Ameri can I am of Opinion that America has with all other Nations a common Right to take Fish upon the fishing Banks &ca. and this Right is of such Importance to her that I think she ought never to give it up and if after a Peace Great Britian should disturb us in the Exercise of that Right and after proper Remonstrances made withhold Redress I think we ought to go to war and call on our Allies to help us. On the other Hand tho Great Britain may be very willing to avoid a War with us on this Subject and therefore will probably never interrupt our Fisheries, Yet as she hath constantly maintained a Claim to the Exclusive Right and much of her Policy and foreign Connections are interwoven with this Idea she may find it almost impracticable in positive and express Terms [to] recall her manifold Assertions of that Claim and make an explicit Acknowledgement of our common Right. It would be very unjust as well as impolitic


[Page 217]
July 10, 1779 185 John Fell’s Diary Saturdayjuly 10th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. Letters, Memorials and Reports from the Board of War and Treasury, Letter from Peter Wickof to Resign the appointment of Clothier General and several other Persons Put in Nomination. Dr Wetherspoon attended Congress to day. 1 MS (DLC). 1 John Witherspoon, a member of the committee appointed to interview the inhabi tants of the New Hampshire Grants, had been absent from Congress since June 4. For the fruits of his mission, see Committee of Congress to John Jay, July 4; and Commit tee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. John Fell to Robert Morris Dear Sir, Phila. July 10th, 1779 Yesterday your favour was handed me Per Mr. Huston, 1 who I am happy to find by your Recommendation to be so agreeable a Gentleman. I make no doubt he will answer the carracter you give him. Dr Wetherspoon came to Town to day and Dr. Scudder, goes home to morrow Per whom I shall send this as I have heard you was in Monmouth. I am much oblidged to you for the Letter I Reced some time since with the information relating to the appointment of of My Son Peter. 2 He left the Town the next morning but did not acquaint me whether he would accept the Office or not, but by a Letter I Receivd from him by last Post he mentioned Coll Freling huysen having sent for him to Hackinsack, to Receive orders, which matter he did not explain, as the Papers say Coll. Nelson was the Commanding Officer, so that I do not understand the Arrangement at all. New Jersey has this day 4 Delegates in the House but I much doubt there being so many againe in a hurry. Dr. Wetherspoon says the Governor has lately had a lucky escape from 12 Arm’d Horsemen Tories who came to take him. I wish he would live in a Town as I think he would be much safer then in a Country Place. I realy wonder that you venture to live in Monmouth as I have always thought that County, was as bad as Bergen. For my Part I dare not goe home, while the Enemy continue in that neighborhood, indeed I imagine I have very little left to goe too, as I have heard since Mrs. Fell went from hear, that during her absence, her only Wench, which makes the fifth Negroe had gon to the Enemy and has besides Robd the house, (She must be greatly distressd indeed). It is now Past 3 oClock, and not like to break up soon, however as I have not one word of News that can be deppend on or worth writing, I


[Page 221]
July 10, 1779 189 H. L. LB (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 16). 1 Livingston’s June 10 letter is in the Laurens Papers, no. 44, ScHi. 2 New Jersey delegate William Churchill Houston. proposed were not acceptable to Gen Prevost and that they might have been calculated for gaining a day or two in order to complete the fortification and to receive militia reinforcements. Be this as it may there was a Young man an Aid de Camp of our great com mander in Chief who when solicited refused at all hazards “to go out with a flag on any such errand” that whatever were the motives or the propositions of the Council the project as soon as it was known was reprobated by the People and that the voice for a severe scrutiny was loud. Yet I will not censure the Council until they are heard in their own defence—certainly the neglect of that state will be pleaded in apology for the majority of Counsellors 5 to 3. The enemy announced their design to invade South Carolina nine months before they entered it and they were four months in its vicinage distant only the breadth of the river Savanna—upwards of six months had Con gress been recommending to the states of Virginia and North Caro lina to send succors—What succors did those states send? In my last I suggested to your Excellency the seeming necessity for a Grand Council—to day we have received another gleam of light (perhaps glimpse may be a better word; we will adjust the term according to events—but I do not give up the idea of a Grand Council and I have not the smallest doubt of receiving your Excellency’s approbation of the measure when we come to talk the matter over—when will that be? Could I ride on horseback as well as I could twenty years ago it should be on this day sen-night—but I have eat my cake and must be contented. Were I a citizen of a large extended country whose present and future happiness depended upon the yeas or nays of a Council of 20 or 30 I should hold it essential to that happiness to have the wisdom, the experience, the vigilance, the diligence, the virtue of the whole Country concentred in that 20 or 30 and I would admit no birds of passage. Are not long and frequent vacations great impediments to School-boys? Days before they go, all the days they are absent and some days after their return are so many days lost—& what good can be expected from new Scholars. If we get safe on shore we shall look back with equal pleasure and amazement. I have written very freely because your Excellency has encouraged me to do so and because I know to whom I write. I should not much care if every thing I write were published by Rivington, but I hate to have flies buzzing about me, tho’ they are easily brushed off. I pray God to bless your Excellency & I request you Sir to believe that I am with sincere regard & attachment &c.


[Page 222]
190 July 10, 1779 James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir July 10th. 1779 At length I send you with some other things the Baltimore Publication, reprinted by Town in his Evening Post of the 9th. 1 That Print also contains a Peice signed Cato which comes from some of the Gentry who think much of the Prosperity of the Eastern States. 2 Langworthy said himself that he should publish Americanus 2, and he is said by others to publish Cato and to have written O Tempora O Mores. You may judge what Part he has had in those Peices. I doubt not he copied the rough Spec for the Press. We 4 shall give a private Audience 5 on Monday in Consequence of Dispatches reed, last Monday by yr. Neighbour Brewer. They were of old Date. The King is pleased that we have only one Minister at the french Court. We are to know this by finding how much that one has the Confidence of the Court. “As to others what was said it is better for the House to hear.” Ergo an Audience ensues. It will be upon a level Line of Importance with the former parvum in multo; We are enjoyned Secresy before hand; tho Gomez was telling the Story at the Coffee House last Eveng. 6 By the Way, on this Topic of Secresy Smith Says he must tell all his State calls for; and Burke says if certain Ultimata do pass he will immediately let his State know them. Why should not I say if they do not pass I will also tell my State? These same News-Paper Gentry say, in the House, that though Adams & Lee are gone, yet the Supporters of their Measures are left here, wherefore a minority governs. I recon that one Session after the Audience will finish foreign Affairs so far as relates to Ultimata. The Arrangement of the Trea sury will also be finished at the next Tryal; and That, I suppose, will be called finishing the Finance Reports. I forgot to remark above that if Doctr. Franklin has the Confi dence of the French Court it is strange that we have not a Line from him by their Packet. He was, indeed, always very backward of writ ing to the State which employed him, though he was lengthy to Individuals. I verily believe that they folgerize 7 us in France often. I expect that Arthur is to be squinted at if nothing worse in the Audience. For, though the Family of Lee is now linked in public, yet one in Office is too much for the inveterate Party to yeild to. There is great Success against the Indians on the Western Frontiers by Partizan Warriors, but I fear all the Expence will be thrown away upon an excellently well conducted Retreat in the grand Attempt. The Money is to be sent on to the Loan Office by the return Waggons which brought the Condemned Emissions; 8 but, I hope a wise & generous Spirit will show itself among your monied Men to take Loan Certificates instead of Bills for what they now have a


[Page 223]
July 10, 1779 191 Demand for upon the Loan Officer. There seems in this Quarter, a Desire to enable us to stop the Press. Pray encourage such a Disposi tion in your Neighbourhood. Remember me to good Friends and know me assuredly, Sir, yr. affectionate hum Servt. RC (NN: Samuel Adams Papers). In the hand of James Lovell, though not signed. 1 For this condemnation of Congress by “O Temporal O Mores!” see Lovell to Adams, July 8, 1779, note 1. 2 For the “Peice signed Cato,” see Gouverneur Morris to Benjamin Towne, July 9, 1779. 3 For a discussion of “Americanus,” see Henry Laurens’ Notes of Proceedings, June 19, 1779. 4 Lovell wrote in the margin at this point, “Confidential." 5 This day President Jay informed the delegates that the French minister, Conrad Alexandre Gerard, had requested a conference with Congress, ostensibly to commu nicate information that he had recently received from the comte de Vergennes, the French foreign minister. Gerard subsequently met with Congress on Monday, July 12, and Congress then met in committee of the whole on July 13 and 14 to discuss Gerard’s revelations. Another, less obvious reason for the meeting with Congress was to give Gerard an opportunity to break the deadlock over the fisheries question and thus procure peace ultimata more to French liking. According to Gerard’s July 14 letter to Vergennes, the plan for the conference was discussed at a meeting of Gerard with “le President du Congfes et deux autres delegues bien intentionnes.” During this meeting, Gerard explained, they agreed on “un plan propose par le President que se chargea d’announcer au Congres les differentes communications que j’avois a lui faire en vertue de votre derniere depeche et qu’il s’engageroit dans sa prochaine seance a me prier de les lui faire moi meme en plein Comite de la Chambre; que dans mes discours je rapellerois fortement les principes sur lesquels j’avois toujours insiste, et qu’en attendant ils agiroient de leur cote, et qu’ils se pr^vaudroient avec reserve de tout ce que je venois de leur dire pour detacher quelques membres de 1’opposition. Les choses se sont en effet passes ainsi.” Simultaneously, Gerard underscored Vergennes’ insistence that Congress stand by its treaty obligations with France because America’s political existence and prosperity depended on French support—“a une alliance que est la baze essentielle de leur existence politique, et qui est le gage le plus certain de leur future prosperite.” For Vergennes’ February 19, 1779, dispatch to Gerard which provided the occa sion for the latter’s invitation to address Congress, and Gerard’s July 14 report to Vergennes on the conference and the maneuvers preceding the invitation extended to him by President Jay, see Meng, Gerard Despatches, pp. 533—40, 777—87. For the context of the conference and the substance of what Gerard communicated to Con gress on this occasion, which is drawn from Secretary Thomson’s Secret Journals and two documents in the hand of Henry Laurens containing Gerard’s prepared remarks and accompanying explanatory comments, see JCC, 14:818, 827 — 35. See also Lovell’s letters to Adams and to James Warren of July 13; John Fell’s Diary, July 12, 13, 14; and William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, July 13, 1779. 6 The identity of “Gomez” can not be determined with certitude, but he was clearly a member or former member of Congress who “leaked” information concerning confidential debates in Congress, though probably not Thomas Burke, Edward Langworthy, or Meriwether Smith, who are linked elsewhere in this letter to revela tions of secret congressional affairs. On the other hand, in a January 1780 letter to Adams, Lovell satirically employed the names of William Henry Drayton and John Penn as violators of the secrecy rule. See Lovell tojames Warren, July 13, 1779; and to Samuel Adams, January 28, 1780.


[Page 228]
196 July 12, 1779 shou’d be confined to few hands. As you know the Ocean bears no Vessel more leaky than Congress. Mr. Marchant & my Self have exerted our Selves for your friend Captain Banks—we are indeed oppressed with men in his Situation, and the liberallity of the publick almost worn out, he however has been pritty fortunate at least in dispatch whereof I believe he is Sensible; the Resolution does not Oblige you to make him Town Major, being only meant conditionally & until he can return to Europe or otherwise dispose of his time. 2 I am happy in observing Your Correspondance with the Commander in Chief which is indispensible to the Service, and hope you will indulge me the pleasure of a devoute wish that it be maintain’d in perfect lattitude. I am dear General, with great truth, Affectionately Yours. John Armstrong [P.S.] From the Packet to which you allude nothing of consequence transpired, I think I have heard it called duplicates. We have not yet fully decided on the Fishery, a dish which I hope will always be well relished in America. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Armstrong to Gates, May 22, 1779. 2 For Congress’ denial of the petition ofjohn Valentine Bancke for a commission in the Continental Army, see John Jay to Horatio Gates, July 14, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Monday [July 12, 1779] After the dispatches at 12 oClock, Congress went in to a Commit tee of the whole to have a Conferrence with Mr Gerrard. Mr Law rence was appointed Chairman and Mr Dickinson and Dr Wether spoon Assistance in the Conferrance, after the Minister was gon the Chairman obtaind a writing 1 which was Read, and desired leave to sitt againe. President took the Chair and sundry Reports were read from the Board of War and Treasury. MS (DLC). 1 Fell apparently left space to insert the title of the paper, “Ad Statum Legendi,” that Henry Laurens, “the Chairman,” obtained from Gerard. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779, note 5. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, Philadia. July 12th. 1779. The News-papers which accompany this will tell you in what


[Page 229]
July 12, 1779 197 manner I spent the two days succeeding your departure; since that I have gone in the old Jogg-trot, attending Congress every day. On Saturday last I dined with Mr. President Jay, who had a chosen company, viz. the Minister of France, Don Juan de Miralles, the President, Vice-President & Secretary of the State, Mr. Brackenridge, Doctor Sheals (lately from Ireland), General Lincoln’s Aid de camp Major Price &C. 1 For the public News I shall refer you to the papers; excepting this, we have good news from abroad. I can communicate no more. I have advertised all my real estate for sale, except my Possessions at Newcastle &c. In this Act I have two things in view, the first, to serve my country, by shewing I have a greater regard for the Conti nental paper currency than for land, which at this critical period will have an effect upon it, as I know it will occasion speculation; at least I shall thereby be enabled to serve the General cause by lending the United States some money if I sell: the second view is to sell to advantage and to have it in my power to purchase some valuable plantation, whereon I may live cheap, and spend the remainder of my days in comfort in some healthy & good part of the country, and I shall not be scrupulous about buying the estate of a Traitor, which is confiscated; or if I shall find it more beneficial employ my money in trade, at least for a season. The family is well, except Nancy, whose boils have been very troublesome, especially one on her throat just under the chin: she is however dosing with cream of tartar & flour of sulphur mixed with molasses, and is getting better. Your difficulties at Schuylkill ferry with the new horse I have heard, but nothing more concerning you since you left home. I suppose the harvest prevents travelling, or I cannot find out at what Inns the people from Newcastle &c. put up. Pray, enquire particularly of John Clark Esquire Sheriff, John Thompson Esq. or Mr. William McClay, whether either or which of them has the deeds & papers for Mr. Montgomery’s lands &c. at the Bridge, now belonging to Mr. & Mrs. Willday and Robert Montgo mery, and let me know, who has them. If you can get them, send them to me by the first good hand. The children give their duty to you, and their love to their sister Sally. I must beg you’ll present my affectionate regard to Mr. & Mrs. Vn Laivenigh, Mr. & Mrs. Thompson, my brother & his wife, Mr. & Mrs. Finney and to Mr. & Mrs. Dunn, and to all & singular my friends who inquire for me. Kiss my dear little Sall for me, and believe that I am, with all,[. . .], Dear Sally, Your, Thos.M:Kean P. S. Three thousand British have landed at New-Haven in Con necticut, 2 & hold Mr. Sherman’s (a member of Congress) wife & children prisoners, 3 plundered the town &c., but they will not stay long there.


[Page 231]
July 12, 1779 199 The Committee that was sent to the Grants are returned, that is two of them, viz. Dr. Witherspoon & Mr. Atlee, these were to be joined by two Gentn from Connecticut but the Dr. was in so great a hurey that he and Atlee set off the day before the others arrived, whether a report will be received from these two, is not yet deter mined. 3 I am happy to find the Court have determined to lay in their Claim to that Territory but I could wish nothing had been said in the vote, of Vermont being an Independent State. It gives me great pleasure that the people are sensible of the necessaty of Taxing, certainly no other mode can effectually retrieve the credit of the Currency, that, with some other measures I trust will do it. Regulating prices by the several Town may answer a good temporary purpose, till other measures have time to operate. The exertions of New Hampshire for raising men &c have ever been at least equal to any state in the Union this has always afforded me particular satisfaction. I cannot however help expressing a wish that the measures now adopted had engaged the attention of the Court at an earlier period. The accots. from S. Carolina fall infinitely short of the reports that first reached this place & from hence was circu lated with great embellishments but I still flatter myself we shall have a good accot of the Ravagers in that Country, I must refer you to the Newspapers for the situation of affairs there. One ship with public stores & some other vessels are arrived in Chesepeak Bay from france, they sailed in Company with a fleet of 70 sail transports having from 10 to 13,000 Troops on board Bound for the west Indias under Convoy of five ships of the line & some Frigates, this reinforcement I shod think will enable Count D’Estaing to look Byron in the face. 4 With great sincerity I am Your affecte. Friend & Humle Sert, Wm. Whipple RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Bartlett’s June 19 and 25 letters to Whipple are in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 257-58 and 260-61. 2 Bartlett had enclosed copies of New Hampshire’s proposed constitution in his June 19 letter. The constitution, which had just been written by a convention at Concord, was subsequently rejected by the state’s voters. Jere R. Daniell, Experiment in Republicanism: New Hampshire Politics and the American Revolution (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1970), pp. 169—70. 3 A letter from “the two Gentn from Connecticut”—Oliver Ellsworth and Jesse Root—was read in Congress this day. For their explanation of their mission to Vermont, and the report of John Witherspoon and Samuel Atlee that was submitted the follow ing day, see Committee of Congress to John Jay, July 4; and Committee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. 4 These French naval and army reinforcements enabled the comte d’Estaing to capture Grenada on July 4 and to foil Admiral John Byron’s efforts to recapture the island on July 6. See Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 160—61; and William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (London: Longmans, Green & Co., 1926), pp. 145 — 52.


[Page 232]
200 July 12, 1779 William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear sir, Philadelphia, 12th July 1779 Your two favors of the 20th & 28th ulto have come to hand since my last respects to you. I heartily wish the good news from Carolina was confirmed in its full extent, but you’ll find by the newspapers that the true account falls infinitely short. When I mentioned the reports in my letters, I think I did with caution; for though the reports came many ways, not having authentic accounts prevented my placing so much confidence in the reports as many did—how ever our affairs in that country by no means wear an unfavorable aspect. I have not so unfavorable an opinion of the regulations of the several towns as you seem to have. I am inclined to think they may answer a good temporary purpose at this critical juncture till mea sures have time to operate. Several ships are arrived in Chesapeake Bay from France— they sailed with a fleet of 70 sail transport, convoyed by 5 ships of the line and several frigates bound to the West Indies, having on board from 10 to 13000 troops. Will not this reinforcement enable the Count to look Byron in the face. If our ally could gain one capital advantage by sea it would give a glorious turn to our affairs—but we ought not, and I hope do not depend on any thing but our own exertions and Heaven’s smiles—these would soon accomplish our utmost wishes, if Avarice, that bane to true felicity was banished from the Human Breast—but this is a work beyond the reach of mortals, therefore needless for you and I to attempt it, any farther than respects ourselves—so far Heaven has given us the power which I hope we shall improve for the good of Society. I am with ususal esteem, and friendship, your most obt hble servt, Wm. Whipple. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). William Carmichael to Charles Carroll of Carrollton Dear Sir 13th July 1779 I hope your intended Jaunt will answer in every respect the Object you propose by it & that Mrs. Carrols health will be perfectly reestablished. I shall continue to write regularly to you to the care of Miss Goddard & shall be always happy to contribute to Mr Carrols amusement. I fear he will not find much in Letters generally written in haste or when spite of itself the mind is crouded with too many Objects from the occurrences that continually agitate it. The Press


[Page 233]
July 13, 1779 201 here is filled with publications that are rather imprudent or breathe too much the Spirit of personal rancor & animosity. Townes evening post contains the latest of these, but the run for the paper was immediately so great, that altho’ I sent instantly to the press, I was not able to procure a paper. 1 I suppose they will be republished in Other papers. Goddard I find has paid for General Lees satyr. 2 I saw the queries or most of them last Winter & advised the person who showed them to me, not to be concernd in the publication. I hear G. Lee intends to send us his resignation with a thundering letter in the Stile of the times against Congress. Letters of the 20th Ulmo. from St. Eustatia say that the Ct. D’Estaing has taken St. Vincents. 3 I knew that he was at Martinique the 9th. This last reinforcement will cer tainly enable Him to cope with the Enemy, various reports of the Enemys movements to the Eastward have reached us none from authority. Prizes arrive here every week. If our State can preserve itself from the folly of regulation untill, it sees whether all the neighbouring states have adopted it, We shall soon have more mer chandise of all kinds amongst us than in half the other States. I am, Your Obliged & Humble Sert, Wm. Carmichael RC (MdHi: Carroll Papers). 1 Carmichael is apparently referring to the July 9 issue of Benjamin Towne’s Pennsylvania Evening Post which reprinted an article by “O Temporal O Mores!” that was highly critical of Congress. See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1779, note 2. 2 A reference to the bitter denunciation of General Washington that had appeared anonymously in the form of 25 “Queries, political and military” in the July 6 issue of the Maryland Journal and Baltimore Advertiser. Although the paper was nominally printed by Mary Katherine Goddard, it was under the control of her brother William, who was hailed before the radical Whig Club of Baltimore and forced to reveal Charles Lee’s authorship of the offending “satyr” and to sign a statement that he had “transgressed against truth, justice, and my duty as a good citizen." The episode has been discussed at length in John R. Alden, General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot? (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1951), pp. 279-85; and Ward L. Miner, William Goddard, Newspaperman (Durham, N. C.: Duke University Press, 1962), pp. 168-73. 3 This report, from “the Brig Holker, Captain Gaddis,” was printed in the July 13 issue of John Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet. For the West Indian operations of the comte d’Estaing that led to the capture of St. Vincent on June 17, 1779, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton, NJ.: Princeton Univer sity Press, 1975), p. 160. Committee of Congress Report on Vermont [July 13, 1779] Mr. Witherspoon & Mr. Atlee two of the Members of the Commit tee appointed to go to the New hampshire Grants beg leave to lay before Congress the following Acct of their Proceedings. 1 That as soon after their Appointment as they had Reason to think


[Page 238]
206 July 13, 1779 mean that England will expressly acknowlege our Independance; the pride of George will not submit; but she may treat with us as an Independant people notwithstanding provided our demands are not unreasonable, which the French Court are in apprehension about, and therefore trust that moderation and a well-guaranteed peace ought not to be despised in our low circumstances. The Enemy with a body of five thousand men have plundered and destroyed New- haven™ in Connecticut; they carried off the wife and children of old Shearman the member of Congress; yesterday he left this City full of anxiety and trouble; I pity the Lady and Children exceedingly, but I have no tender feelings for the old fellow on many accounts. & am Sir, Yours most affly., A. B. NB. Not ascertained to satisfaction. Two papers enclosed, because I do not know whether you get them regularly. I suppose you do not pay postage. RC (DLC: Jefferson Papers). In Griffin’s hand, though not signed. Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 3:34-35. 1 Lt. Gov. Henry Hamilton, whom George Rogers Clark had captured when he retook Vincennes in February 1779, had been sent as a prisoner to Williamsburg where the Virginia Council reveiwed his case and ordered on June 16 that he “be put into irons, confined in the dungeon of the publick jail, debarred the use of pen, ink, and paper, and excluded all converse.” The council’s proceedings were transmitted to John Jay in Governor Jefferson’s letter of June 19. See ibid., pp. 4 — 5; and PCC, item 71, 1:245. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir. Philadelphia July 13th, 1779. Since I had the honor of addressing you last, Majr. Rice has arrived here from General Lincoln’s head quarters, the printed accounts brought by him I inclose, but from the best intelligence, I have reason to believe, the General is apprehensive that the state of South Carolina will fall into the hands of the enemy, owing in part, to many of his army being militia, whose times are near expired. I understand the money, out of circulation, sent by Mr. Appleton is safe arrived here, and congress have ordered a like sum in other bills to be sent forward to exchange the same; 1 I’m sorry to find so great a part is likely to go again into circulation, but possibly the late resolutions of congress respecting a loan, may in part prevent it. It would give me pleasure to hear what the honble. court has done, in consequence of the resolutions of congress, for raising 45,000,000 dollars by taxes, for I think it is in vain, for us to suppose, that we can carry on the war by paper emissions much longer. Yesterday congress resolved themselves into a comee. of the whole,


[Page 241]
July 13, 1779 209 2 Congress’ “opinion” is not recorded in the journals, but see Committee of Con gress to John Jay, July 4; and Committee of Congress Report, July 13, 1779. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir July 13th. 1779. If Genl. Warren is not at Hand open the inclosed. I shall add but little here. You know that we united in Opinion that it was trifling for such an Assembly as Congress to stipulate conditionally in regard to peace, as the sine qua non would be calf-carried 1 immediately out of the House, and no other Instructions would stand a Chance to be prevalent. I am more than ever convinced of such Consequences to be apprehended. Our 2 Treaty of Alliance being published to please Chase & some others has had this pretty Effect viz. England seing the VIII Article, & knowing both France & Spain disposed to Peace, & finding the latter obliged only to wait for an alternative Assurance of our Independence, will never be explicit, while a tacit Conduct of the great Point can be made to suffice. 3 Your Experience of the Disposition of Persons & Things here will lead you to conclude readily that much Time will be wasted on a Decision ill becoming our former Spirit be made. The Western Parade 4 has nearly broken the back of our grand army. D’Estaing can not face Byron, Sth. Carolina is in a very poor Condition, can you then look for Spirit where you know it was not six months ago? The Court of France is greatly pleased with our having but one minister there & that one Doctr. Franklin. We shall soon see that Confidence will “no longer be withheld.” 5 Here is a Field open anew. Whereas the Information is only to do Justice to some past Practices for the Words are in a Comment of Mr. G ’s 6 upon the instruction given him to signify the Preference of one to three. The Comtee. are returned from Vermont. Witherspoon & Attlee did not wait for the arrival of the others so that it proves an Abortion as we empowered any three to act. It is true the others when they arrived did not find any Thing further to do than what was signified to them by Letter from these the doings of whom they approve by their Arrival. But it is too delicate an Affair to proceed in without going by critical Lines. The People expect to be heard regularly before any formal Decission is made concerning them. This will “wound the Feelings” of some Gentlemen if not of a whole State if complied with; and it will mar all our past Endeavours not to comply with it. 7 You have found Boston in the old Figure as to Territory. Is your Name & your Fame still the Object of the malice of “your Friend.” 8


[Page 243]
July 13, 1779 211 day but under the Injunctions of the House for Secresy, so that A & B will be stigmatized if they communicate the Substance in a private confidential Letter, should they be discovered, while C & D, under the Signature of Americanus or O Tempora O Mores', may publish the whole to the World in a News Paper? I find that Gentlemen in your Neighbourhood are rather back ward to accept a Delegation to Congress. The Reasons lay fair to Conjecture. Some cannot in Conscience & Honor hold several Appointments incompatible with each other; & Some cannot bring themselves to consent to sacrifice Time, Health & Estate for a Sta tion of Abundant Anxiety and an equal Portion of Obloquy. I pre sume that all new elected Members ought to come forward before an old one though he has had a whole years Respite. One of your State would have had a terrible time here for several months back if he had been an acting Deligate. 3 He must have gone against the Inter ests of his Constituents or the Designs of his favorite old Associates. Mrs. Lovell writes that you had a Confirmation of the Sth. Carolina good news by a Vessel in at the Hyannas. I am sorry for that prepara tory Contract to what I now must tell you. The Print of last Tuesday is full on the Head of Disappointment; and Genl Lincoln writes me June 5th. “Matters are not going on right here & if this Department is not immediately attended to by Congress and an army sent more respectable that the one already here, this State must be lost. You will see by my Letter to Congress that by the [10th?] of Augst. there will be but few troops on the Ground unless reinforcements arrive, which I have little reason to expect.” I will not venture to write to you concerning the State of our grand army. I will leave that for Major Rice to tell with the Minute Anecdotes of the southern Department With Esteem & Affection, Your hmb Servt. J.L. RC (Warren-Adams Papers). 1 See Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779. 2 For discussion of the recent publications of “Americanus” and “O Tempora! O Mores!,” who openly aired matters that should not have been made public under Congress’ secrecy rule, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 8, note; and July 10, 1779, note 6. 3 The identity of this person is not known. The Massachusetts delegates who were elected but not attending in 1779 were Francis Dana, Timothy Edwards, and John Hancock. Gouverneur Morris to John Chaloner and James White Gentlemen Phila. 13th July 1779 I have ordered about 6000 Barrils of Flour to be delivered to the issuing Commissary at Baltimore, you will make proper Arrange-


[Page 247]
July 14, 1779 215 of Plenty. Our Barns are fast crouding with the Substantials of Life; and while Health smiles around Us, let not Our Nerves be unstrung, Let Us not forget that We still have an Enemy, an implacable Enemy to contend with for the Continuance of all our Blessings—For Liberty, Peace and a glorious Independency. With Earnest Desires that we may not Forfeit such Blessings, but that this Year may end with Peace in all Our Borders; but till Then, that we recall the Remem brance of Our first Exertions and reannimate Ourselves into great and noble Self Denials and conspicuous Actions; We are Your Excel- lencys most obedient and very humble, Hy Marchant John Collins [P.S.] We enclose Your Excellency the Weekly Journal, which has been sent in course ever since they were published weekly to June 5 1779. RC (R-Ar: Letters to Governors). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Collins. 1 General Washington had reported in a July 9 letter that because of the British raid in Connecticut he had “directed Glover’s Brigade to halt in Connecticut at this inter esting Crisis till farther Orders.” PCC, item 152, 7:519-23; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:389—93. 2 Marchant, along with John Armstrong and Samuel Huntington, constituted this “special committee.” It remained inactively in existence until November 13, 1779, when it was discharged on its own motion after the British evacuated Newport, R. I. JCC, 14:822, 15:1266. See also Rhode Island Delegates to Greene, August 10, 1779. 3 See William Whipple to John Langdon, July 12, 1779, note 1. John Dickinson’s Draft Circular Letter Sir, [July 14? 1779] 1 It is judg’d expedient by Congress immediately to communicate the following very important Intelligence to the several United States. The Minister of France informs Us, “that the Exertions of these States are necessary to avert their Dangers, & prevent a prolonga tion of the present Contest—that his Master expects Efforts, that will on our part produce a vigorous & successful Campaign and bring the Common Enemy to a proper sense of the Disappointments he shall meet with.” By all the Advices We have receiv’d, it appears, that Great Britain is determined to make a most strenuous Attempt before the Cam paign closes, for obtaining a decided superiority on this Continent, that for this purpose she sends out a large Reinforcement, and has rejected the Mediation offered by Spain. If she shall be able to carry this Design into Execution, it may be attended with very unhappy Consequences, as it will probably engage foreign powers to form Alliances for her support in this War.


[Page 249]
July 14, 1779 217 Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 14-15, 1779] 14. Wednesday. It is said the enemy have burnt Farefield in Con necticut. 1 15. Thursday. I attended the funeral of the Honl. Geo. Ross Esqr. at 9 oClock A. M. 2 I reed, by Mr. Millet a letter from Colo. Hutchinson & Mrs. Holten. MS (MDaAr). 'John Fell indicated that news of the July 7—8 attack and burning of Fairfield was sent to Congress by Roger Sherman. John Fell’s Diary, July 15, 1779. 2 George Ross, a former Pennsylvania delegate to Congress, had recently been appointed judge of the state’s admiralty court. John Jay to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia 14th July 1779 Altho’ Congress have a high Sense of Capt. Bancke, yet the pres ent Arrangement of the Army will not admit of their employing him agreeable to his wishes. By advancing him a sum of money they have put it in his power to return to Europe, & till a proper Opportunity shall offer, refer it to your discretion to employ him in any manner consistent with the Good of the Service and the Captain’s Inclinations. 1 I feel much for this gentelman’s distressed Situation, & am happy that Congress have placed him under the Patronage of a Gentleman so well dispossed to releive him. The Capt. has a copy of the Act of Congress on the Subject which he will communicate to You. 1 should enclose one, but the Secretary has not yet sent it, & as the Capt. will set out before the office opens, I must defer it till my next dispatch. I have the honor to be Sir, Your most Obedient & Humble Servant. [P.S.] Since writing the above I have received a copy of the Act of Congress, And transmit it herewith. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress’ denial of John Valentine Bancke’s petition for a Continental commis sion was tempered by the grant of $3,000 to him “in consideration of. . . the expenses he has incurred by coming to these States and ... to enable him to return to Europe.” JCC, 14:816, 847. Bancke had also been granted $500 previously, which was the subject of the follow ing brief July 19 letter from President Jay to Joseph Clarke, Continental loan officer for Rhode Island. “You will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 8th Inst, directing a warrant to issue on the Treasurer in your favor for a sum of money to be paid to Capt. John Valentine Bancks.” See JCC, 14:811; and PCC, item 14, fol. 151.


[Page 250]
218 July 14, 1779 John Jay to the States Sir, (Circular) Philadelphia 14th July 1779. I have the honor of transmitting to your Excellency herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 9th Inst, 1 vesting the Executive Powers of each state with further Authority respecting Persons employed in the Quarter Master General, or purchasing, or issuing Commissary General’s Departments 2 —And am, With great Respect, Your Excellency’s most Obed’t Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 14:812—15. This July 9 resolve not only vested “further authority” in the states, but also “earnestly requested” them “to make the strictest enquiry” into the conduct of every quartermaster and commissary officer in each state. The decision reflected Congress’ inability to wield and direct Continental authority or adequately supervise its agents, and predictably elicited a pained response from Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene, who concluded that placing such power over his deputies in the hands of state executives would give “the last finishing stroke” to his department. The immediate background of this decision, Greene’s response to it, and Congress’ rejection of his recommendations for relief from the resolution are discussed in Risch, Supplying Washington’s Army, pp. 49—50. For another analysis of Congress’ attempts to supervise commissaries and quartermasters, which focuses on the popular belief “that corruption was widespread in the staff departments” but challenges the view that the July 9 resolve simply represented “an abdication of responsibility by Congress,” see E. Wayne Carp, To Starve the Army at Pleasure: Continental Army Adminis tration and American Political Culture, 1775—1783 (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1984), pp. 113 — 24. 2 Jay also sent copies of this resolve to Nathanael Greene and Commissary General Jeremiah Wadsworth with brief cover letters of July 15. PCC, item 14, fol. 150. Henry Laurens to Jonathan Bryan Dear Sir. Philadelphia the 14th July 1779. I received but a few days Since your Letter of the 20th June. Almost in the same moment in which your favor by Genl. Thomson reached me, I was informed that your self & Mr. Bryan your Son were gone from New York under a flag for Georgia. This false intelligence restrained my pen & stopped the progress of a Letter from Mrs. Bryan which will now accompany this. I have cut the paper from the Seal, knowing the impropriety of attempting to send sealed packets to a prisoner of War without special permission, but I am totally ignorant of the contents, the signature only excepted. I have before me a Letter from Mr. Houston dated the 5th June Mrs. Bryan & your family were then well. Congress will not consent to exchange Citizens taken in the man ner you were captured, all Solicitation on that head would be fruitless. If the Commander in Chief of His Britanic Majesty’s forces at New York will permit you to return to Georgia on parole & your Son also,


[Page 251]
July 14, 1779 219 I will pledge my honor that a suitable exchange shall be made or that both shall be forth coming whenever a demand shall be made; & when I reflect on the many instances of similar consideration which on our part have been extended to British Officers who have been in peculiar circumstances, I cannot help concluding that an appliction to Sir Henry Clinton will meet with success. 1 I am persuaded if Sir Henry knew of the many acts of kindness which as an individual I have shewn to British prisoners he would not hesitate a moment, even upon my request for your enlargement on the terms abovementioned. Your Letter of the 20th June intimates that you had sent others, for your Family & friends, none such came to my hands, you must either have omitted them, or they have been arrested in their passage. You Sir, who have been Schooled in the doctrine of Christian fortitude,will not suffer your Spirits to sink under a light weight, reflect that you are on Long Island, where you enjoy wholsome air & have a proper scope for exercise, the contracted sphere of a Ships hold occupied by an hundred inmates might, from an old Man, extort a groan. In your present situation be thankful, a little practice will make you chearful. My Compliments to your Son & beleive me to be with an affection ate regard, Dear Sir &ca. H. L. [P. S.] I shall write in two or three days to Mrs. Bryan & Mr. Houstoun. 2 Tr (G-Ar). In the hand of James Custer and addressed by Laurens: "Jonathan Bryan Esquire of Georgia now Prisoner of War, Long Island.” 1 Although he had originally been informed by Georgia governor John Houstoun of Bryan’s capture by the British, Laurens had also heard directly from Bryan in a letter of February 7, 1779, which is in PCC, item 78, 3:283 — 86. In it Bryan had recounted the circumstances of his capture and the difficulties he was having in coping with confinement on board a prison ship—as he was “considerably advanc’d of Seventy Years.” Despite Laurens’ optimism, Bryan was unable to secure his release until the autumn of 1780, in the aftermath of which he appealed for assistance to the delegates of South Carolina and Georgia for compensation for losses he had suffered before his captivity. The committee to whom his case was referred reported favorably on his claim, and on November 25, 1780, Congress endorsed the committee’s recommen dation. See JCC, 18:1031, 1053, 1092, 1094, 1099; and PCC, item 59, 3:37-38, item 78, 4:41-44. 2 Only Laurens’July 16 letter to John Houstoun has been found. Henry Laurens to Horatio Gates Dear sir. Philadelphia 14th July 1779 I had the honor of addressing you under the 29th Ulto. & since that, of receiving your favor of the 26th by Capt. Banck. 1 This Gen-


[Page 254]
222 July 15, 1779 ing the terms of the appointment has declined it, & Lieut Colonel Percifer Frazer was yesterday elected. Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 13th Inst, for forming Captain McClane’s Company & the dismounted Dragoons of Major Lee’s Corps into a fourth troop to be added to that Corps. 2 I have the honor to be with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s most Obed Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 14:822. Washington’s July 9 letter is in PCC, item 152, 7:519—24, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 15:389-93. 2 For Congress’ resolve formally annexing Capt. Allen McLane’s company from the Delaware Regiment to the dismounted dragoons of Maj. Henry Lee’s Legion, see JCC, 14:822—23; and Wright, The Continental Army, pp. 273, 348—49. This day Jay also enclosed this resolve with a brief letter to Henry Lee, who had recently sought congressional clarification of McLane’s status. See PCC, item 14, fol. 149, item 78, 14:265—70. For evidence that McLane and some of his officers had attempted to prevent the merger of their company with Lee’s corps that had previously been ordered by Washington, see Delaware Delegates to Allen McLane, July 5, 1779. Francis Lewis to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir, Phila 15th July 1779. I embrace this opportunity by Mr. Rosevelt to transmit you the several news papers lately published together with abstracts of the proceedings in Congress, which by their Resolves are hence forward to be published weekly, from these you will be enabled to collect most of the material occurrences transacted here. By a Vessell that lately arrived from Nantes Congress have received letters from their Commissioners at Paris, 1 informing that the Brit ish King is still positive, and obstinately bent upon carrying on the War with Vigor, this and perhaps another Campaign in America, but in their opinion his resources will be inadequate to the end. They also inform Congress that the expedition against New Haven was planned in the British Cabinet, but being novices to the Geogra phy of the Country, the Troops were by that plan to proceed up Connecticut river to Wethersfield, after distroying that, proceed across the country and distroy Fairfield & New Haven, they were repulsed at the latter, but effected their diabolical plan at Fairfield, which you have ere this, undoubtedly heard the particulars off. From these their proceedings, it is evident that they purpose carry ing on a predatory war against these States, therefore in my humble opinion it would not be advisable at present for Mrs. Livingston to prosecute her plan of building, as first intended. We have of late several arrivals both in this and the Chesapeake Bays, so that the prices of foreign Commoditys begin to lower. The resolutions of the various Committees has added to the cause, these


[Page 255]
July 15, 1779 223 resolutions for regulating the prices will I believe become general, as the Town of Boston has unanimously come into similar resolutions, & transmitted them for the approbation of Congress, & I hope it may have the desired effect. The Army too has adopted the mode. Youl oblige me in communicating this with the perusal of the news-papers to the Governor, to whom please to present my Compli ments, as also to your Lady & the family at Clear Mount, I am sincerly, Sir, your very Humble Servant, Fra. Lewis P. S. Permit me to observe, that the little state of New Jersey allow their Delegates twenty dollars each per diem, Virginia forty. The Massachusetts Bay allow a Table & all other expences. A New York Delegate cannot furnish a Dinner & Clean shirt, for his twelve dollars, at the present depreciated rates of our money, which you must be convinced off when last at this place. RC (NHi: Livingston Papers). 1 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, July 16, 1779. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia July 15th. 1779 Immediately on receiving your favor of May 26th last, we laid before Congress the Several Matters wherewith you charged us; 1 but, unavoidable interventions have prevented our obtaining their Resolution on them all, previous to the date hereof. The intense heat of this Season, and the great length of the march, make it almost certain, that an order for the North Carolina Troops to Join the Southern army, would be attended with Consequences, fatal to their health, and Such as must deprive the public of their Services, every where, during this Campaign, if not forever, it was therefore Judged most expedient, to postpone Such orders, until they can be executed with out Such imminent hazard of Inconve nience. 2 The Resolutions relative to the decried Emissions, 3 are the best which we have been able to obtain; altho, in our Opinion, they are not altogether So well Calculated for the relief of the Sufferers, especially in our Country, as they might have been. But the measure, by which they were decried, and from which great public good was expected, has Still many advocates in Congress, notwithstanding the Experience of all parts of America groans under the Evils it has produced. The Congress has, with great reluctance, granted, even the partial payment of your draught in our favor. 4 The Continental Currency is so much depreciated, that every one Sees the Necessity of putting an entire Stop to emissions; and relying on the Exertions of the States for Supplying the public Necessaries. The Power of the States,


[Page 268]
236 July 16, 1779 James Lovell to Benjamin Lincoln Dear Sir July 16th, 1779 With little expectation of finding you at Charlestown 1 I take up my Pen to acknowledge the Receipt of your Favor of July 5th by Majr. Rice. Your own Mortifications at the State of Affairs in Sth. Carolina cannot near equal ours because You cannot suffer from the Contrast of a firm Belief that the british Force was totally ruined on or about the 12th of May. Thus was told us by 20 different Channels. The Enemy are making scandalous War in Connecticutt. They have burnt the beatiful Town of Fairfield and quite plundered New Haven. Whether these Doings will rouse a general Effort to drive them from their present Nest on York Island Time must show, it ought to be attempted most certainly, and every Sea Captain we have should endeavor to show what Burning War is by Samples in Gr. Britain. I am most deeply engaged in preparing Dispatches for France Via Boston, and must therefore quit you with Assurances of much Regard, Your Friend & humb Servant, James Lovell [P.S.] It is probable that Mr. John Adams is in America. On the 6th of April Arthur Lee had Intelligence of the Design upon Fairfield; but contrary Winds and Captures of his originals have prevented our getting seasonable Warning. RC (MiU—C: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 For Congress’ acceptance of General Lincoln’s resignation from command of the southern department, see John Jay to Lincoln, May 15, 1779. Lincoln nevertheless remained in command of the southern army at Charleston until its surrender to the British in May 1780. James Lovell to Joseph Reed July 16th. 1779 2’o Clock P.M. I inclose to your Excellency some papers this moment received. 1 Your most humble Servant, James Lovell 18th. Your Excellency will conceive that the Opposition of the Continental Commissaries of Prisoners &c. &c. has occasined a Multiplication of Words in the Resolve, and not a vain wish to blazon a small Act of Complaisance from one State to another. RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). 'James Lovell sent President Reed a June 9, 1779, resolve of the Massachusetts Council authorizing the exchange of a Massachusetts prisoner for William Coats, the lieutenant of the County of Philadelphia, who was imprisoned by the British in New York. When the exchange was completed is not known, but Coats resumed his official duties in October 1779. See Pa. Council Minutes, 12:51 — 52; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser.


[Page 269]
July 16, 1779 237 7:763-64. For the background of this exchange, see Lovell to John Avery, May 17, 1779, note. Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally Philadelphia. July 16th. 1779. Since my last nothing new has occurred here of any consequen ces—Mr. Borden is in Town; all are well at Bordentown & here. Yesterday morning I accompanied the remains of the Honble. George Ross Esq, Judge of the Admiralty, to his grave in Christ-church Burying-ground—Francis Hopkinson Esquire is to be his succes sor 1 —So much respecting two of the Republican Society, so naming themselves. Edward Biddle Esquire is carried to Reading in a low state of health, there to deposit his remains, as it is thought he cannot live many days. 2 I have not yet sold any lands, and I believe I shall only sell as much as will enable me to buy a house in town. The enemy have proceeded from New-Haven to Fairfield, and, it is said, have burnt it; a deserter from their army, who left them there says, they had a Major General, a Brigadier General & 120 privates killed by the Connecticut Militia. 3 It is also said, that the whole of the British Army in South Carolina are killed or taken prisoners, excepting abt. 200, in a late Engagement. These are only reports, and I have been taught to credit nothing but what is received officially by Congress. I mentioned that we were all well, but Robert has been very ill the last night with a vomiting & purging and still continues so. Give my love to all my friends. Dont let Sally forget us. Adieu. Your affectionate, Tho M:Kean [P.S.] Captn. O’Hara will forward this with the News-papers of Tuesday, Wednesday & Yesterday. RC (PHi: McKean Papers). 1 Former delegate Hopkinson, who had been chairman of the Continental Navy Board from November 1776 to August 1778 and had become treasurer of loans in July 1778, served as judge of admiralty for Pennsylvania until 1789. DAB. 2 A former member of the Pennsylvania assembly and delegate to Congress in 1774—75, Biddle died on September 5, 1779. Bio. Dir. Cong. 3 In a letter of July 20 to his wife, McKean elaborated on the consequences of the British raid on Connecticut. “The British are committing actions of cruelty hitherto unthought of even by themselves, such as murdering old men, ravishing women & little girls, burning houses with the inhabitants in them, burning the barns with the grain in them, cuting down all fruit trees, &c. &c. The militia have sent some hundreds of them to Hell in the midst of their iniquities, and I have great reason to hope some hundreds more will be sent after them before they leave Connecticut.” McKean Papers, PHi.


[Page 272]
240 July 17, 1779 Committee for Foreign Affairs to Ralph Izard Sir 3plicate Philada. July 17th. 1779 Your letter of March 4th was read in Congress 3 days ago being then only first received by the Comtee. of foreign Affairs/ We should have been very happy to have received it before the 8th of June as it would undoutedly have founded a Resolve of Congress more agreable to us to communicate officially than that to which we must now refer you, 2 in their Journals printed authoritatively by David C. Claypoole, and which are in the hands of Doctor Franklin or Doctr. Arthur Lee at Paris. We have till now omitted to forward to you that Resolve for your Recall from the Court of Tuscany, as we daily expected a Settlement of [a] definite Recompense for yr. Services [to the] United States. But the modes of doing Business in such an Assembly as Congress will not warrant our detaining, until such settlement some impor tant Papers committed to us to be sent to the Court of France. We are with sincere Regards, Sir, Your most humble Servants, James Lovell for the Comtee. of forgn. Affairs P.S. Sepr. 16. 3 Yr. Letter of Janry. 28th was read July 27th. 4 RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.8). Written and signed by Lovell. 1 Izard’s March 4, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, requesting permission to return from France, was read in Congress on July 14. JCC, 14:827. The letter is in PCC, item 89, fols. 128-31, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:73—74. 2 On June 8, Congress had voted to “recall” Izard from his duties as commissioner to the Court of Tuscany, but they also voted that he “need not repair to America”. JCC, 14:700—703; and Committee for Foreign Affairs to John Adams, June 14, 1779. 3 This postscript indicates that this copy was not sent by Lovell until September 16, 1779. 4 JCC, 14:892. Izard’s January 28, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs is in PCC, item 89, fols. 120—26, and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:33—34. Committee for Foreign Affairs to William Lee Sir 3plicate Philada. July 17, 1779. The Committee of Congress for foreign Affairs are officially entrusted to inform you that on the 8th of June last past it was resolved to recall you from the Courts of Vienna & Berlin to which you had been appointed: But you are also to be informed that it is the Sense of Congress that you need not repair to America. 1 You may see the Proceedings, at length, respecting this Business in their Journals printed authoritatively by David C. Claypoole, and being in the Hands of Doctr. Franklin or Doctr. Arthur Lee at Paris.


[Page 273]
July 17, 1779 241 William Lee


[Page 280]
248 July 17, 1779 but if You find your insisting upon it will break off the Treaty and displease the French and Spanish Courts, You are to decline urging the Insertion.” 7 After the word “Majesties,” Dickinson spaced a line and inserted the word “Spain” in the center of the page. The remaining lines were apparently added a few days later. 8 At this point in the copy James Custer made for Henry Laurens, Laurens keyed the following comment: “An article might be obtained for granting passports under certain limitations to Vessels coming to & returning from the Congress—which must appear to be a reasonable demand & for the common benefit of the contracting parties considering the distance of places.” John Fell’s Diary Saturday July 17th [1779], Congress. Letter from Capt Cuningham to his Wife acquainting her of his cruel treatment, Referrd to a Committee who Reported that a Letter be imediately wrote by the Secretary and sent to the Commanding Officer at New York to know where and in what man ner Capt. Cunningham was treated &C. 1 Order of the Day on the Fisherie, according to Custom little done. Mr Dickinson read in his Place what he would have adopted by way of Instructions to the Plenoptentary that may be sent to Negotiate for Peace. 2 Report from the Bod of Warr Relating to Coll Malcolm, to be Reconsiderd. MS (DLC). 1 Secretary Thomson actually copied the text of his letter to Commodore George Collier into his journal entry for this day, although in Worthington C. Ford’s edition of the journal it appears as if the text were taken from another source. See PCC, item 1, 23:33-34; and JCC, 14:849. 2 See the preceding entry. John Jay to Persifor Frazer Sir, Philadelphia 17 th July—1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to You the enclosed Extract from the Minutes of Congress by which You will perceive that You are appointed Cloathier General. The Salary is 5000 dollars a year. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant. P.S. A Copy of the Ordinance for regulating the Cloathing Depart ment is also enclosed. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To Lieutenant Colonel Percifer Frazer.” 1 JCC, 14:836. Like Peter Wikoff before him, Frazer also declined this appointment “on account of the salary.” See JCC, 14:853; PCC, item 41, 3:193—95; and John Jay to Peter Wikoff, July 6, 1779. 2 JCC, 13:353-57.


[Page 283]
July 17, 1779 251 success & that I am with great Esteem & Regard, Your obedient & most humble servt, Henry Laurens. Tr (DLC: Edmund C. Burnett Collection). Endorsed: “Copied from the original then in possession of Mr. Stan. V. Henkels of Philadelphia.” 1 A copy of Lincoln’s June 5 letter to Laurens is in his letterbook in the Lincoln Papers, MHi. s See Laurens to Jonathan Bryan, July 14, 1779. 3 Ellipsis in tr. James Lovell to Arthur Lee Dear Sir Private Philada. July 17th. 1779 I wrote to you on the 13 th of June, but to my Surprise found the Letter in the commercial Committee Rooms on the 10 th of July, the Martinico man having left it behind though he took the Journals & Gazettes to be forwarded by Mr. Bingham to France & the Hague. My above mentioned Letter was sent under Cover to Mr. Adams to the Care of Doctr. Franklin, it seems Mr. A will have left France before the Polacre comd. by Capt. Sapet can reach it. 1 It is needless to copy the whole as, now, the Weeks of the Journals are printed to which I there referred largely. Some parts however I shall now repeat. Extr June 13. “The Term recalled having been used in regard to Wm. Lee and Rph. Izard with an Idea strenuously supported by some of bringing them to America, tho others who were affirmative meant only vacating the Commissions a second Resolve passed that they need not repair to America. I give them no official notice now nor shall I without the particular order of Congress because I am again left alone, your Brother Richd. having resigned his Seat as I hear, and gone home; and further, because something definitive ought to be decided in regard to Compensation for Services of the Commis sioners. “An attempt has several times lately been made to chuse a new Committee of for. Affrs. instead of filling up the old one. This you will perceive to be singularly decent towards the one who had stead ily attended. Nay it is said that such a Comtee. is useless. I am sure I find an immense deal that ought to be done, and have found a great Burthen in what has been done by a Member of Congress without Secretary or Clerk, little as you and the other Gentlemen abroad may have been benefited by my Labors. Quires of my Writing have been sunk in the Seas most of it near these Capes. “I expect further attempts to get rid of you. It was a fear of that and a desire to scrutinize Mr. D that made Mr Laurens, I imagine, give into the late motion. 3 But I think you will rise above the Malice of the Faction which you have long known or, if you find your Useful-


[Page 284]
252 July 17, 1779 ness destroyed, you will readily tell us so, and desire to make way for some other person. I have by me large packets left by yr. Brother, with Copies of Proceedings respecting you, but I will not send them round about as a Frigate must soon go directly from hence, or at least a Pacqt. Boat. I tell Mr. J Adams more on that head. I suspect Roguery in the Stoppage of yr. Letters; how else is it that we have not a Line from any of you? “Mr. S Adams goes home Tomorrow—for good & all as he says. This goes Via Cadiz, a Copy via Martinque. “Your Friend and humble Servant, JL. “Vid Journals, Apr 6, 15, 20, 21, 22, 26, 28, 30, May 3, 22, 24, 25, 27, June 8, 10. “Letters from A Lee, Aug. 7, 11, 21, 27, 31, Sep 9, 30, Oct 19 P.S. Nov 29, Novr. 4, 15, 18, 20.” I will now, Sir, add a few remarks. Your Quotation from Whitlock I have read in the Congress to strengthen what I have often urged there. 4 Nothing can more naturally suggest itself to a Politician, one would think yet I have affirmed Truth when I told you that the Comtee. was said to be now an useless Institution. What remark am I to now make upon some of yr. Conduct refera ble to the 5th Line of the 3d page of this Sheet? 5 I will not trust my own Judgement, but I suspect your most steady friends here will differ. I presume you meant to take their Opinions as you could not at such a distance judge of all Circumstances. Else why cover to R H or F. L. 6 At present a Veil of Secresy is on the Business, as well as on that committed to R. H. or F. L. or J. L. 7 Your Letter defensery has been read. 8 Yr. first Letter to Shelburn brought that Water up to the Eyes of some, who are evidently unfriendly to you, which is the Consequence of strong unexpected Admiration. The Letter from Jennings and your Answer are as valuable as a marble Pillar erected to the honor of yr. Probity and prophetic sound Judgement. Beux’s is as honorary to him as a sensible spirited Gentleman as it is disgrace ful to others. All the other Vouchers were familiar to me. I have been so engaged & so unwell that I have only had the single chance of listning in Congress; but I shall renew my Pleasure soon. The Report respectg. Supporting the Ministers was again recom mitted this day but I told the House that I could not risque Censure by not officially informing Mr. W Lee & Mr. Izard of the Proceed ings of the 8th of June. How easy & how tollerably decent would it have been to have recalled their Commissions for the Reasons h[anded] down in the original Report of the Committee of 13—vid 2d head Apr. 15th, but the 4th head was meant to accomplish the point with you; the most sanguine not being discouraged at the Idea of Killing Doctr. F 9 secondarily, or sacrificing all Character in themselves of Impartiality upon the Ground work on which they meant to gibit your Fame. But I have said all my Eye sight will allow


[Page 286]
254 July 17, 1779 for A. Lee’s company tonight in this room. He shd. not leave Phila. untill he had pointed out the way for obtaining Justice to his injured Country; his Country wou’d not part with him untill they had done him honor. An honest man’s face the noblest work of God. This morning I mean to move Congress to order the vindication of the h’ble Arthur Lee Esqr. together with all the supporting Vouch ers to be made public. 3 Mr. D appealed to the Public, which in his elegant style, “caused great sensations”. The Public therefore have a right to know what has been said by the other party, & I am perswaded when they are informed that an ansr. is reed, they will assert their right & demand information. We have made no progress either in finances of foreign affairs, except in the former case, what you must have seen published, & in the latter, another private audience, the product of which, my discretion, not my obligation, restrains me from divulging. 4 I peremptorily & repeatedly refused to give my promise to keep secret anything called by that Name in the State House. In the present case I had the best reason in the World for mak’g the declaration, the secret was communicated to a few select friends, before it was announced from the Chair, one of these elect, immediately transmit ted it to a place some 700 miles distant, 5 & afterward with a very grave white face pledged his honor to keep all Mum. I charged him home, he laught guilt & did not deny. Nevertheless I will not follow the bad example, nor do an inexpedient Act, because it is barely Lawfull. In due time you will know all. The appointm’t of Doctor Franklin to be sole Minister at the Court of Versailes, has afforded the greatest satisfact’n “& now the confidence of the Court will be no longer withheld”—be this as it may, we receive no intelligence from our Servants, except from the suspected person, 6 & his Accts, are as ample, as Valid, & as clear as any we receive from the fountain above them. This is queer, he is suspected, not trusted, yet he is honest, learns & communicates everything. Mr. A. Lee has apprized us of the ravaging scheme in Connecticut plotted at White Hall, which is at this instant in execution under the auspices of Genl. Tryon. If Congress now suffer Mr. D to leave the American shore, before he shall have settled his Accts, or shall have given good 8c sufficient security to acct, for all the public money which has passed thro’ his hands, we shall have to account for our own Conduct to the People at large. Tr (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In an unidentified hand, and endorsed by Richard Henry Lee: “Extracts from Mr. Ls. Letter.” 1 Although this extract is undated, internal evidence indicates that Lovell wrote the letter soon after, and probably the morning following, the reading of Arthur Lee’s “vindication” in Congress, an event of July 16. See JCC, 14:843. A substantial portion


[Page 287]
July 19,1779 255 of the letter is also found in one from Richard Henry to Thomas Jefferson of August 12 in which Lee discussed Congress’ response to Arthur’s defense against charges leveled at him by Silas Deane. Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:113—14. 2 For another vivid description of this scene, see William Whipple to Richard Henry Lee, August 23, 1779. 3 No such motion is found in the journals. A contrary motion to seal Lee’s letters was made about this time by Thomas Burke and seconded by James Duane, but it was also not entered on the manuscript journals. Burke’s motion was, however, printed with the July 16 entry in Worthington C. Ford’s published edition of the journals. See JCC, 14:843—44; and PCC, item 36, 4:153. 4 For Conrad Alexandre Gerard’s “private audience” with Congress, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779, note 4. 5 Lovell may have been referring to Thomas Burke. See Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 10, 1779, note 6. 6 That is, Arthur Lee. Thomas Burke to Anthony Wayne Dr Sir Philadelphia July 19th 1779 I congratulate you on the Signal and brilliant Success of your Enterprize against Stony point. This gallant and Important affair, has fitted us all, with very high Satisfaction and mine, I assure you, is peculiarly improved; because, an Officer, of whom I had Conceived a very high Opinion, and for whom I have very great Esteem and regard, has conducted it, and obtain’d Such Singular glory. The happy Effect of your good Conduct, has saved your humanity, the pain it would have felt, how your Enterprize cost you the lives of many of your brave Soldiers, and gal lant officers; and even had you been under the Necessity of Slaughtering many of the Enemy—to the humane, (and Such are all the brave and good) this is a very pleasing Circumstance attending your Success. Every one remarks, that your magnani mous Generosity, has triumphed over the Enemy, as much as your Courage and Conduct. I was much concerned when I heard you were wounded: but, learning on Enquiry, that it was but Slight, I considered it as not worth attention in so great an affair, and I find, by your letter to General Washington, 1 you did not think it of consequence enough to mention it. Having mentioned your letter, I must declare, I think it a Just model of martial eloquence; equal’d by none, but Cassar’s veni vidi vici. I wish your example may be followed in this, as well as in the other parts of your Military Character. I wish you long life; I need not add glory, for you will have it, and am Dr Sir very truly, your Friend & Svt. Tho Burke


[Page 288]
256 July 19, 1779 RC (PHi: Anthony Wayne Papers). 1 For Wayne’s July 16 letter to Washington reporting his capture of Stony Point, see John Jay to Washington, July 20, note 1. Committee of Commerce to Oliver Pollock Sir 1 Commercial Committee Philadelphia 19th July 1779 The affairs of this Committee being for several Months past greatly deranged occasioned by the frequent succession of new Members in the room of such as had left Congress, together with the Removal of their Books and Papers to different parts of the Country for Safety when the Enemy took possession of this City; These accidents pre vented Your several Letters being hitherto regularly answered. To remedy this Evil, Congress did, on the 14th Day of December last appoint a new Committee of Commerce who will be enabled to conduct their affairs with regularity in future. We are now to acknowledge the Receipt of your several Letters of the following Dates with their Inclosures, Vizt. 6th March—1st & 2d April— 7th, 8th & 20th May—6th July—3d & 11th Augt.—11th Sep tember—5th, 8th, 10th, 18th, 26th October, and 15th December 1778—17th Feby.—10 & 18th April and 2d May 1779—The latter by Capt Calvert Duplicated by Capt. Joseph Conand. 2 It is with Con cern we inform you that of the several Vessells sent out by you for these Coasts with Effects, not one of them is safe arrived. The Sloop in which Captain Willing embarked was captured near the Capes of Delaware, and himself carried to Newyork where he now remains a Prisoner; Messrs. Elliot & McIntyre overpowered the Prize Master, retook the Sloop, and ran her on shore near Lewis Town, saved part of the Cargo, for which they were entitled to a Moiety for Salvage. Captain Morain ran the Sloop Bernardo on shore at Cape Hatteras; a trifling part of the Cargo was saved & brought up to Edenton, the Vessell lost. The Brigt. Minerva on her Passage from the Havana was captured by a British Cruizer, retaken by an American Armed Vessell & brot. into North Carolina where a Moiety of the whole was adjudged for Salvage. None others have we as yet received any intelligence of (The Capt. & People’s Wages paid). We are also to advise you that immediately upon Receipt of Your Letter of 2d May we applied at the Office of Insurance in order to cover Your 8000 Dollars on the Sloop N[ossa] S[enhora] de Carmel, Capt. Luiz Perez, but without effect, as by your Letter you were to dispatch her in three or four Days & upwards of two months having elapsed, they concluded her to be out of time, and therefore would not meddle with the risque. Upon laying your Letters before Congress this Committee pro cured the inclosed Resolves, by which Youll perceive they are fully


[Page 291]
July 19, 1779 259 Execution, as the above Articles will be of great use in our Army Hospitals, but if otherwise, we must submit to have her sent immedi ately to this Port where upon her arrival she will be fitted for a Cruizing Ship. Should You send the Morris to St Domingo we sub mit the Consignation of the Cargo &ca there to your Direction. We are Sir, Your Most Humble Servt, Frans. Lewis by Order [P.S.] Capt. Calvert has informed the Committee that he had put into your Hands for public use Three Hundred Pieces of 8/8 which he says he was to receive here, and desires us to inform You that Sum is not paid him. Your ut supra, F Lewis (Copy) The 2d of this reed, was signed by F Lewis, James Searle. 3d Novemr. 1779. This will be handed you by Mr. Jos. Conand to whom we have paid your Bill on the Committee dated 10th April in his favor for Fifteen Hundred Spanish Dollars. An Embargo still exists on all Provisions in order to provide sufficient for our Army as well as for the Count D’Estaing’s fleet & Army who are daily expected on this part of the Coast from Georgia where he has lately made a Descent. (Copy) (no more received) Tr (DNA: PCC, item 50, fols. 196-202). FC (DNA: PCC, item 50, fols. 42-48). 1 Oliver Pollock, commercial agent for the United States at New Orleans, is identified in these Letters, 7:188n.l. 2 Pollock’s letters to the committee, except for those of October 10, 1778, and April 10, 1779, are in PCC, item 50, which also contains duplicates of this and other correspondence that Pollock submitted to Congress in 1782 in support of his claims for goods and services provided to the United States. 3 See JCC, 14:787; and Committee of Commerce to Benjamin Franklin, July 21, 1779, requesting that Pollock’s bills be honored in France. For a discussion of Pollock’s claims against the United States, see James A. James, Oliver Pollock: The Life and Times of an Unknown Patriot (New York: D. Appleton-Century Co., 1937), chap. 16. John Fell’s Diary Monday 19th July [1779]. Commercial Committee. Congress. A number of Letters and dispatches read. Genl Waynes with an Account of his having surprisd and taken the Garison at Stoney Point with 500 Men. Genl Washing ton Letter with an Acct of the Enemy having Plunderd New Haven and Burnt Fairfield, Green Farms, Norwalk & Bedford &c. P. M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC).


[Page 292]
260 July 19, 1779 John Jay to Nathanael Greene Sir Philadelphia 19th July 1779. I have had this morning the Pleasure of receiving your favor of the 14th Inst, enclosing a Copy of one from Thomas Chase. It was committed to the Board of war. 1 I have Honor to be with, great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Greene’s July 14 letter to Congress and the enclosed July 1 letter to him from Col. Thomas Chase, deputy quartermaster general at Boston, are in PCC, item 155, 1:147—54. For Congress’ resolves of July 23 adopted in response to their recommen dations for protecting Continental property—particularly barracks, hospitals, stables, and storehouses constructed during emergencies on private property—see John Jay to the States, July 28, 1779, note. John Jay to Samuel de Lucena Sir, Philadelphia 19th July 1779. You will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 17th Inst, expressing their Opinion of the merits of your late Petition. 1 I am Sir, Your most Obedient Servant. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress had resolved that Lucena had “no just claim upon the United States for a reimbursement of his expences incurred in searching for sulphur mines, as set forth in his petition,” adopting the reasoning of the Board of War, which had asserted its presumption “that his predominant views were the private advantage he should gain, had his endeavors proved fortunate.” See JCC, 14:734, 844—45; and PCC, item 42, 4:200-203. 2 This day Jay also sent to Col. James Easton, formerly a captain in Ethan Allen’s corps that had taken Ticonderoga in 1775, ajuly 16 resolve of Congress, based upon a recommendation of the Board of War, dismissing him from the Continental Army. Easton had been charged in 1776 with having been involved in “Plundering the effects of prisoners taken at Sorrell” during the invasion of Canada, and although no court of inquiry had ever been held to determine the validity of the charges, Easton was held responsible for failure “to have procured such court to sit, or if that had been found impracticable, to have informed Congress thereof.” Since he had done neither, “but has contentedly drawn his pay to this time,” Congress simply resolved that he “be dismissed from the service of the United States.” See JCC, 14:842—43; and PCC, item 14, fol. 151, item 147, 3:519—21. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 19th. 1779 Your Favor of June 18/26 is this Hour come to hand.


[Page 293]
July 19, 1779 261 “Do I love the natural Sentiments of the Heart”? Yes, AMIABLE Correspondent, I truly love them; and your little Story was far, very far from non-natural. You was betrayed, it seems, by a Combination of Circumstances such as a tender Sensibility and the Dusk of the Evening, to make a Pressure to your lovely palpitating Bosom which soon after cost you a crying Spell. If I do not forstall you by making a Remark here myself, I shall expect that in your next Letter you will turn my false Wit upon me, and by making natural mean only common, you will tell me that your misfortune had very natural Consequences, since the Celadon or Lothario who was the Means of your Sorrow only smiled at the Tears which he had caused. But—to be sober, I hope you have by this Time realized more substantial Pleasures than the Receipt of a Packet from my esteemed Friend. I have written to you lately by Express my Opinion of his Return. Winship’s Letter three days later than Arthur Lee’s is a strong Confirmation that you are to be soon happy. 1 Every Thing that wears the Appearance of Injury to him may be resolved into the Dilatoriness which springs from the Nature and Constitution of a certain Assembly here. Promise me that you will be upon your Guard against Tremors at the Sight of Superscriptions upon large Packets not in the Hand writing you wish most to see, and I will put up a Set of Journals for your Mr. A. that you may read all the Weaknesses of some who are called great Men. I find by Letters from my dear Polly that a Mr. McClane is coming Express, by whose Return I shall be able to perform the Promise just made, and to renew the affectionate Assurances of my being, Your obliged Friend and humble Servant, James Lovell RC (MHi: Adams Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:213. 1 Dr. Amos Windship (1745—1813) was serving as a surgeon on the Continental frigate Alliance which was then at L’Orient, where John Adams was expected to embark from France. Ibid., p. 208n.3. Marine Committee to Benjamin Franklin Sir [post July 19, 1779] 1 Inclosed you have a certified Copy of a Resolution of Congress dated July 19. 1779; by which you will perceive the Marine Committee are empowered and directed by Congress to carry into Execution their Manifesto of the 30 of Octr. 1778. 2 In pursuance of this Authority and for the more speedy accomplishment of the Ends proposed, we authorise and most earnestly request you, to take every Measure in your power, to aid and assist us in the Execution of this Business.


[Page 294]
262 July 19, 1779 It is not our Intentions to confine the Measures to be used on this Occasion to open and hostile operations; But on the contrary it is expected and we wish and desire that you would cause, at the Expence of the United States, any of the Towns of Great Britain or the West Indies, secretly to be set on fire. In particular London, Bristol, Liverpool, Glasgow and Edinburgh are to be considered as the first objects of national retaliating resentment; and above all, London, the Seat of royal Residence and vindictive rage and the quarter from which have issued the orders for the conflagrations which have by the Enemy been lighted up in these United States. America would have the Monarch see, that when provoked she can light up fires even at his own Doors. And in this Business it is requested, that you will use every possible Exertion. This Measure, in which so many Calamities are involved, and so contrary to the known and acknowledged Humanity with which Congress have heretofore carried on the present war, has, at length become, for the sole and direct purpose of self preservation, absolutely and indis- pensibly necessary, from the cruel and unprecedented Manner in which our Enemies are daily carrying on the present War. Our Villages on the Sea Coasts are numerous, most of them defenceless, and all of them, with very few Exceptions, exposed and easily accessable to a naval Force, which renders them at any Time a prey to a savage and desolating Enemy. The Towns of 3 heretofore laid in ashes, and the late success ful attempts in burning and destroyed [wc] the Villages of Fairfield, Norwalk and Bedford in Connecticut and New-York, and the unquestionable proofs Congress have received, that the Vengence denounced against these States in the Manifesto of the British Commissioners will be executed in its fullest extent, has induced them, as the only effectual Means, to put a stop to the further destruction of our Country, to retaliate upon our Enemy by destroy ing, if possible, some of the most distinguished Cities in Great Britain and the West Indies. Our Countrymen have long complained of the slow and forbearing disposition of Congress, when every day announces to them the destruction of some part of their Country. To meet these Ideas, they have at length solemnly determined to revenge themselves on their Enemies, and to leave untried no exertions for carrying into execution their Manifesto of the 30 of Octr., 1778. A few desperate determined 4 Men, under the promise of handsome rewards, and well acquainted with the Situation of the large Towns in England & Scotland, will perhaps be the best instruments that can be employed for the Accomplishment of this Work. We do not however wish to point out any Mode that shall be obligatory upon you; your own Judgment and observation will readily suggest to you such Steps as are most likely to answer the Ends proposed.


[Page 298]
266 July 20, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Tuesday July 20th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. This day taken up intirely in reading Letters of the cruelties committed by the Enemy in different Places &c And according to Costom very little Business done. 1 P. M. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 However, the Committee on Appeals did meet this day, to hear the case of Price v. The Success, and “decreed a Dismission of the Appeal of Elisha Doane from the Sentence of Condemnation of the Sloop Success in Jersey” on the motion of the attorney for the appellee, Elisha Doane of Wellfleet, Mass. The Success, owned by Doane, had been captured by a British ship, but then it ran aground on the New Jersey shore where it was recaptured by John Price and other residents. The New Jersey Court of Admiralty had awarded one-half of the value to the owner and one-half to John Price and the recaptors. Doane had filed an appeal with Congress on June 2, but when the committee, consisting of William Henry Drayton, Thomas McKean and Henry Marchant, met on July 20 to hear the case, Doane’s lawyer, Sylvanus Bourne, withdrew his appeal. See JCC, 14:677; and case file no. 51, RG 267, DNA. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia July 20th. 1779. I congratulate you & the Honble. Board on the success of our arms at Stony Point, under the command of Genl. Wayne, the Surprize was complete & the garrison (consisting of about 500) all made prisoners, with their artillery, baggage, &c, &c, with but a small loss on our side. I suppose before this comes to hand, you’l have received the particulars of a late battle in South Carolina, which from the best accounts I can collect, terminated most in our favor. I have the honor to be, with great respect, sir, your most obedient servant; S. Holten RC (M—Ar: Revolutionary War Letters). “The Honorable, The president of the council of Massachusetts Bay.” John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 20th July 1779. I have been honored with your Excellency’s Favors of the 30th Ulto. by Coll. Morgan, and of the 13th & 16th Inst, with the several papers to which they refer. 1 General Waynes Coup de main occasions as much Joy, as the


[Page 300]
268 July 20, 1779 However, I hope a Decision will be made for I think we may make out to rub & go at least with the Ground work layd before you left us. A pretty Letter this to be published in New York with the Name of, James Lovell RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Just as Lovell feared, a small British fleet commanded by Sir George Collier left New York on August 3 and arrived in Penobscot Bay in time to destroy the American fleet besieging the British forces there. See William M. James, The British Navy in Adversity (1926; reprint edition, New York: Russell & Russell, 1970), pp. 164-65; and William J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the Continental Navy (Barre, Mass.: Barre Publishing Co., 1959), pp. 169—79. 2 That is, the American claim to the northern fisheries. 3 That is, John Jay, Gouverneur Morris, and William Henry Drayton. Henry Marchant to Congress July 20th 1779 [Henry Marc]hant One of the Delegates for the State of Rhode Island &c begs Leave to present to Congress an Estimate of the Value of certain goods belonging to Messrs. Cromwell and Caleb Child and Moses Turner of Warren in the State aforesd., destroyed the 26th of May 1778 by the British Troops blowing up a Store belonging to the said Cromwell & Caleb Child part of which was at That Time in the Conti, use as a Magazine. And the said Henry Marchant prays in Their Behalf that such Order may [be made thereon?] as that Justice may be done the Suffer ers in the Remiss. 1 Hy. Marchant RC (DNA: PCC, item 167). 1 Congress referred this request for indemnification to the Board of Treasury, but there is no evidence that any action was taken on the memorial. In 1783 Caleb Child renewed his quest for an indemnity, but the report of the committee to whom his appeal was referred was simply read and ordered to lie on the table. See JCC, 14:855-56, 24:483. Henry Marchant to William Greene Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 20th. 1779 By the Waggon and Escort which conveys the Monies to the New- England States for exchanging the Emissions called in, I have sent a Pine Box, directed to Joseph Clarke Esqr. the Genl. Treasurer & have wrote him fully thereupon. The Box contains twenty of the 2d Vol. of the Journals of Congress, which I was anxious the State should have, and twenty of the Pamphlets called Observations on


[Page 301]
July 20, 1779 269 the American Revolution. I have directed One to Your Excellency in particular, & several others to particular Friends, but the twenty above mentioned are for the use of the State & their Order. I now enclose your Excellency two weekly Journals bringing them down to the 19th of June 1779. I congratulate Your Excellency upon the noble Exploit of Genl. Wain upon the North River; This will pretty handsomely Eclipse Genl. Clyntons swift, inglorious, pilfering, ravaging & burning Expedition. For which Actions of His, and his under Devil Tryon, I hope we shall have it in Our Power to make proper Retaliation. Our Affairs at the Southward wear a very pleasing Aspect, altho’ Our former Intelligence fell entirely through. We have now certain Intel ligence that we attacked them in their Lines on the 20th of June, and tho’ not able to carry them for want of heavier Artillery, yet the Attack was conducted with bravery, Intrepedity and much Advantage. There is a prospect that we shall, if it has not been done, cut off Their Communications with Their Shiping, and make conclusive Work with Them. My Respects to Your good Lady & Family. I am most respectfully, Yr. Excellencys, most obedient, & very humble Servt, Hy. Marchant RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear sir, No. 3. Philadelphia July 20th 1779. Your favour of the 3d instant 1 Just came to hand—am extreamly sorry to hear that our friends at the upper Coos are thus Harrassed by the aboriginal natives of this Country, especially at a time when their labour is so much wanted, to gather in the Luxuriant Crops with which Heaven hath So bountifully Cloathed the face of the Earth, And with Some effectual method may be addopted to pre vent any farther Annoyances from that herd. The intended expedition to dislodge the Enemy from Penobscot not having been Conducted with that Secrecy the Nature thereof requir’d by which means the Enemy have got intelligence and Sent a reinforcement 2 —notwithstanding the agreable News we had the other day from South Carolina has proved to be without foundation. Yet give leave to assure you the Situation of our affairs in that Quarter promises Success. The inclosed papers will give you intelligence of the Success of our Armies in Various parts tho, it is probable you will get the most of it before this reaches you. You ask Several Questions viz “is a French fleet expected on our


[Page 302]
270 July 20, 1779 Coasts or up Canada river this year? Will Spain intermeddle in the War? Can Congress procure a Loan of hard money? When will the Continental Lottery finish Drawing?” To which I answer Circumstances have been Such as led us to expect the Assistance of a French fleet on our Coast this Campaign; But as the hurricane months are advancing leave You to Judge of the probabillity. The Catholicism of his most Supine Majesty has kept him, for a long time open to all parties, & perhaps it was for the best, But have good reason to Conclude, Spain will Soon take an active part with us, against those whom they bave long viewd with Jeloussy, Envy, & Dread. A Foreign Loan for hard money Not yet determined. Our finances have been in a bad Situation but hope things are Comming Right. The drawing of the Lottery is at last Compleated. I must beg of you to forward all Letters to & from my family. Complements to all friends—Adieu for this time. I am my dear Sir Your most obedt and very Humble Servt, Nathl Peabody P.S. Please to write. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Not found. 2 See James Lovell to Samuel Adams, this date, note 1. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Hond And Dear sir Philadelphia July 20th. 1779 In my last which was wrote in great hast, 1 I had the Honr of inclosing you Several Newspapers & handbills, Since which foreign letters have been received as late as the 6th of April 79, informing That Briton, finding herself baffled in her diabolical Efforts to Sub jugate the Good People of these States to the despotic domination of a Dupe to an Ignominious Tyrant whose tender Mercies are Cruelty; destitute of that Humanity which never finds a Sure habitation but in a generous breast, and Contrary to the Laws & Customs of all Civilized Nations, had Given Express orders to their Commanding officers in America to Kill, & destroy, plunder & burn all the defensless Towns in their Power, and in particular directed the late infernal Excursion to New Haven—a particular account of which enterprize no doubt you will have before this reaches you. Neverthe less I herewith inclose the best accounts we have of all the late Manoeuvres of both Armies. I heartily Congratulate my fellow Citi zens on the favourable prospect at the Southward and the Lucky affair of Taking by Surprize Colo Johnson with about 500 prisoner and a very Strong & important Fortress on the North River, which


[Page 303]
July 21, 1779 271 Circumstance will Give New life & Vigour to our Troops, and fur nish a historic page in the Annals of America. Your delegates here have Sent on to the State a Number of the Journal of Congress except for the year 78, which are not yet Come from the printer—and the earliest opportunity will be improved in forwarding them when Compleated. I am with due Respect, Honrd Sir, Your most Obedient, and very Humble Sevt. Nathl Peabody P.S. Sr. I must beg youll please to inform me, as Soon as you have opportunity, whether you have Received my letter dated June 3d inclosing an agrement of Very Great importance to me & my friends. I left it in the Care of my friend Mr. Blanchard who knew nothing of what it containd, if Reed please to inform when & by whom. I now inclose you a letter from Doctr. S. Hodges to Mr Jesse [John]son, beg youll Seal & forward it [as] Early as possable to Mr. Johnson. I understand affairs appear pro[mising], &c &c. Yrs. N P. RC (MHi: Weare Papers). 1 See Peabody to Weare, July 9, 1779. Joseph Spencer to Oliver Ellsworth Dear Sr. 1 Philadelphia 20th July 1779 At the Desire of Doctr. Witherspoon Last week I received for you, and Mr. Root, 1600 dollars (Mr. Shearman who you had desired to receive it being gone home). Should be glad you’d please soon to direct what I shall do with it. For News I refer you to the Enclosed paper, have nothing remarkable to add. I am Sr. your Most obedient Humb. Servt. J. Spencer RC (PHC: Roberts Collection). Endorsed by Oliver Ellsworth: “Genl. Spencer, July 20.” 1 Although this letter is not addressed, it was undoubtedly written to Oliver Ellsworth, in whose hand it is endorsed and who served with Jesse Root and John Witherspoon on the committee to visit the New Hampshire Grants. The money received by Spen cer was probably their recompense for the committee undertaking. JCC, 14: 676. Committee of Commerce to Benjamin Franklin (Duplicate) Dear Sir Commercial Committee, Philadelphia 21st July 1779 By a Letter dated New Orleans 10th April last from Oliver Pollock Esquire Continental Agent at that place is the following Paragraph. 1 “I have this day drawn on Messrs. Samuel and J. H. Delap sundry


[Page 313]
July 22, 1779 281 of them, openly to avow them; and secondly—after thus discharging this Duty, whenver the public Resolutions are taken, to regard them the opposite to my Opinion as sacred because they lead to public Measures in which the Common Weal must be interested, and to join in supporting them as earnestly as if my Voice had been given for them. While I believe in my Conscience that I am faithfully serving my Country, I shall deplore but not dread her Resentment if I happen to offend her. She is my Parent—as a dutiful Son, I shall kiss her correcting Rod. Let her strike—but let her also hear Me. If the present Day is too warm for Me to be calmly judg’d, I can credit my Country for Justice some Years hence. Tis true, I may be mistaken— but sufficient it will be for my Vindication, if it be decided, that my Conduct is influenc’d by what I think right—for then it must be influenc’d by Honesty and Affection. Whatever may be the Merit or Demerit of my Behaviour on this great Occasion, I beg, that these papers signed by Me, may be receiv’d by Congress, and kept among their Records, that I may not be injured by Misapprehensions, nor have it in my power to elude a Charge, but, may stand or fall by Evidence under my own Hand voluntarily delivered by Me at the Time of the Transaction. John Dickinson MS (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of John Dickinson. A copy of this document, in the hand of Henry Laurens’ secretary, James Custer, is in the Laurens Papers, ScHi. This is the text printed by Burnett, Letters, 4:335—37. 1 For the concerns that led Dickinson to deliver this speech this day, his second effort in five days to break the near impasse that had developed in Congress over the ultimata to be formulated preliminary to the negotiation of a peace treaty, see Dickinson’s notes for a Speech in Congress, July 17, 1779; andJCC, 14:744, 850—51, 863-67. Although he had been appointed on June 17 to a committee instructed to draft a commission for the minister plenipotentiary to be appointed by Congress, he had on July 17 attempted to shift the delegates’ focus to the instructions that would be sent to guide the American negotiator, and he returned to this theme at this time during debate over the fisheries issue, prefatory to delivering to President Jay copies of both this and his preceding speech. 2 By “these papers” Dickinson means this speech and his draft of proposed instructions for a minister to be appointed to negotiate a peace treaty, Sparks Manuscripts, MH-H, for which see the document note to Dickinson’s Notes for a Speech in Congress, July 17, 1779. As neither is in PCC, it is clear that Dickinson’s plea was disregarded. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, July 22d. 1779 I send You by Mr. Wm. Brown the Journals of Congress from the 1st of February to the End of March, & from the 21st of June to the 26th—20 sets of each, which, with those I have already sent, form


[Page 314]
282 July 22, 1779 compleat Journals of Congress from 1774 to this Day, excepting the third Volume not yet published, and the Journals from the 26th of last Month also not published. When these come out, I will send You twenty setts of each, with which I will beg Leave to trouble You for the Use of the Legislative Council & Assembly. 1 I am, Sir, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 This day Dickinson also joined Thomas McKean in sending another letter to Rodney, a portion of which reads: “We are directed by Congress [see JCC, 14:861] to request that you will be pleased to appoint a sufficient guard to take into their custody sixt[y] four prisoners, taken on board the British sloop of war Harlem by Captain Barry &c, and landed at Sinepuxen on the 18th instant by Captain John Young, and order them to be brought up here as soon as possible at the most moderate expence practicable.” Samuel T. Freeman & Co. Catalog, The Frederick S. Peck Collection of American Historical Autographs (February 17, 1947), p. 86, item 157. John Dickinson to Thomas Rodney Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 22d, 1779 I have received your Favor of the 17th, for which and the Inclosure I am much oblig’d, as I shall allways be for a Communication of your sentiments on public Affairs. I so much agreed with you concerning the Expediency of acceding to the Confederation tho as You justly observe in several particulars exceptionable, that I used what little Influence I had to forward its Ratification by our State advising, at the same time a strong Declara tion upon the parts objected to, addrest to Congress, and pointedly expressing our Expectation of a Revision & Alteration thereof at a more convenient Season. Your Reflections on our Loan, & on some other proceedings, I fear, are too well founded. Our Difficulties are prodigious— We see the wisdom of your proposal to stop the presses—We perceive Taxa tion to be of as much Importance as You mention— We are desirous of borrowing on the lowest Terms. But—while We have so many thousands to supply with Necessaries and while the Demands upon Us for the Articles We must purchase, are daily & hourly rising upon Us with such a boundless Stretch—to what purpose are Loans & Taxes. I have esteemed it my Duty since I have been in Congress, to keep my Eyes constantly fix’d on the preventing further Emissions—& several Steps have been taken towards that point, that are known but by very few to lead towards it—some others are now under Con sideration—& I am impatiently waiting for the Moment, when a prospect of carrying on Affairs without further Emissions, and a likelyhood of succeeding in the Attempt, will permit Me to move for stopping the Presses.


[Page 319]
July 24, 1779 287 ment to Command the Corps which should have been continued under him. He is a good Officer & we will not part with him, if persuasion can prevail. I am charged by a great number of your friends to present their Compliments, General Gates in a very particular manner. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 34). Committee of Commerce to Joseph Reed Sir, Commercial Committee, 24th July, 1779. The Committee appointed by Congress to superintend the Com missary of Provisions Department informed this Committee that there is at present on hand in the Public Magazines, Pork, Beef and Flour in greater quantities than the armies can consume before it will become perishable. It is therefore recommended by the Com- missarial Committee, with the concurrence of the Minister of France, that the Commercial Committee immediately issue their order for shipping to the Island of St. Domingo two thousand Barrels of Pork, one thousand Barrels of Beef, and one thousand Barrels of Flour, for the supplying His most Christian Majesty’s forces on that Island, the Minister having promised that the same shall be paid for at the Market Prices there. We therefore request your Excellency’s permission for shipping the above mentioned quantity for the purposes aforesaid. 1 We are respectfully, your Excellency’s most Obedient & Humble Servants, Fras. Lewis MS not found; reprinted from Pa. Archives, 1st ser., 7:579—80. 1 Before Pennsylvania complied with this request, the council reported that Pennsylvania law prevented the flour for the use of the French army rather than the French fleet. This President Reed explained to the committee in a letter of July 28. “The Embargo laid in this state is by Act of Assembly, and is therefore not so much in our controul as if it had been by Proclamation. We have examined the act with due attention, and find there is a proviso admitting an Exportation for ‘the use of the Fleet of His most Christian Majesty, and of the Armies of the United States.’ Your application therefore setting forth that it is for the armies of His most Christian Majesty, and to be exported to an Island other than that where his fleet is assembled, has occasioned some difficulty.” Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:588. In order to meet the council’s objection, therefore, the committee sent a second letter to Reed on July 31 in which the key phrases were changed to read: “It is recommended by the Commissarial Committee with the concurrence of the Minister of France, that the Commercial Committee immediately issue their order for ship ping for the use of the Fleets of His Most Christian Majesty in the West Indies, 2000 Barrels of Pork, 1000 Barrels Beef, and 1000 Barrels of Flour, the Minister having promised that the same shall be paid for at the Market price there.” This letter, signed by John Fell and James Searle in addition to Lewis, is in ibid., p. 605.


[Page 326]
294 July 26, 1779 Thomas McKean to Sarah McKean Dear Sally, Philadelphia. July 26th. 1779. I heard by Mr. Van Dike, who came here on Friday night that you were well. Letty & Sammy Sterett are again recovered by the help of the Bark. No sales of my lands since my last, but several applications have been made. There is to be a great Town-Meeting today, in which I shall not interfere I wish good may ensue from it, but I have some apprehensions of the contrary. Markets rather rise than fall, and so do foreign articles, except sugar, which is owing to the great quantity. You will herewith receive the four last News-papers, which will communicate every thing I can tell you of foreign & domestic matters; excepting that Samuel R. Fisher was convicted in the City Sessions on Friday last of misprision of treason, for writing the Letter to his brother Jabez in New-York, on account of which I sent a warrant for him some months ago, and committed him as he refused to give bail; his sentence is, to forfeit half his estate, & to remain in prison during the war. 1 As the sickly season is approaching, I would advise your returning next week, 2 if Sam is sufficiently recovered and you can get our effects to the Bridge. I cannot yet procure a Flatt to bring up my hay from Newcastle, nor Have I found a good house to be let. Kiss Sally for me. The children present their duty to you. Love & compliments to all relatives & friends. Adieu. Your most affec tionate, Tho M:Kean 3 RC (PHi: McKean Papers). 1 Samuel Rowland Fisher, a Quaker merchant, was later released by the Supreme Executive Council in February 1781. For a summary of the case, see Gail S. Rowe, Thomas McKean: The Shaping of an American Republicanism (Boulder: Colorado Associ ated University Press, 1978), pp. 122—23. 2 In a letter of July 30, McKean explained to Sarah the arrangements he had made for her return to Philadelphia and expressed his concern that she had “stayed rather too long in the country.” McKean Papers, PHi. 3 This day McKean also responded to a July 5 letter from Robert Levers, a court clerk in Northampton County, Pa., concerning property retention in a case of theft. McKean went on to add that intelligence from South Carolina reported in his previ ous letter “proved untrue, but the Enemy have had the worst of it in that quarter, and I am not without hopes they will yet be subdued, or at least have cause to repent their expedition. I congratulate you on the success of General Wayne.” Members of the First Continental Congress, NNPM. William Whipple to John Langdon Dear Sir: Philadelphia 26th July 1779 I am favored with yours of the 5th inst. and in conformity to your desire have mentioned the Several matters to the Commercial


[Page 327]
July 27, 1779 295 Committee. As the Commercial business is entirely out of the line of the Navy Board they think it improper that Such accounts Should be settled by that Board, besides they are not authorised to give any Such instructions. They tell me they have long ago given directions that the prize goods which are not wanted for the public use Should be Sold—however as I have been very particular with them, I sup pose they will write you fully on the Several Subjects. 1 As to the copper and Saddlery, I suppose you must have rec’d instructions from the Board of War respecting them before this time. The last accounts from South Carolina were under 23d June—our prospects were then flattering—perhaps another week may produce agreeable intelligence from that quarter, but I hope there will be no public rejoicing till the intelligence comes from Such authority as will justify the fullest belief. You say you have no objection to a “Republican Govt.,” but your proviso destroys evey principle of Republicanism. I agree with you that virtue Should be encouraged, and vice restrained, but perhaps we should differ very widely as to the mode, as well as the objects— however as I have neither leisure nor inclination at present to enter into the merits of this Subject, in the epistolary way, I believe it will be as well to defer it to Some future day, when we may have a tete a tete conversation on this and many other matters—in the mean time be assured that I am with true republican zeal and the most perfect Sincerity, your very affectionate friend &c, Wm. Whipple P. S. The enclosed papers will give you the particulars of our Success in Hudson’s river. General Wayne has gained immortal honors by this enterprise which is by far the most brilliant of any thing of the kind that has happened this war. Perhaps History will produce very few instances equal to it. I observe one of the accounts Say General Wayne had 1200 men, but I understand from better authority that his number did not rise to 1000. Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). 1 If the Committee of Commerce wrote to Langdon, the letter has not been found. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday July 27 1779 Coml Committee. Congress. After sundry Letters and dispatches were read the Report for the Officers to be allow’d half Pay for Life and a further subsistance began to be debated, Mr. Houston my Colleague strongly oppos’d the motion. 1 MS (DLC).


[Page 330]
298 July 27, 1779 medal, and to Lts. James Gibbons and George Knox of the 6th and 9th Pennsylvania Regiments, who were promoted to captain by brevet, for “braving danger and death in the cause of their country” during the capture of Stony Point. See JCC, 14:890; and PCC, item 14, fols. 156-57. For similar acts of bravery, Congress also singled out Henry W. Archer, a volunteer aide to General Wayne, for “the brevet of captain,” which Jay transmitted to him in a brief letter of August 3. See JCC, 14:890, 939, 15:1102; PCC, item 14, fol. 162, item 78, 1:291; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:213. The essentially honorary character of these brevet commissions is underscored by the fact that these officers did not receive “the pay and subsistence of captains” until Congress later so decreed in a separate resolve of September 24, which was transmit ted in letters to Archer, Gibbons, and Knox from then Pres. Samuel Huntington dated September 28, 1779. See JCC, 15:1102; and PCC, item 14, fols. 193-94. John Jay to George Washington Sir Philadelphia 27th July 1779 The Success of the Enterprize against stony Point was Splendid and important—It has added another Laurel to your wreath, and given a grateful Country a fresh opportunity of presenting you their Thanks for the Vigilance, wisdom and magnanimity, with which their arms have been conducted. I have now the Honor of conveying them expressed in the enclosed Act of Congress. 1 Prudence forbids me to indulge my Feelings or my Pen on this interesting occasion; lest in their warmth, too little Attention might be paid to the Delicacy blended with the Virtues they wish to celebrate. Permit me however most sincerely to assure you that I am, with the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellencys obedient & h’ble Servt. John Jay, Presidt RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 See the following entry, note. John Jay to Anthony Wayne Sir, Philadelphia 27th July 1779. Your late glorious atchievements have merited and now receive the Approbation & Thanks of your Country. They are contained in the enclosed Act of Congress which I have the honor to transmit. 1 This brilliant Action has added fresh lustre to our Arms, and will teach the Enemy to respect our Power, if not to imitate our Humanity. You have nobly reaped laurels in the cause of your Country, & in fields of danger and death. May these prove the earnest of more, and may victory ever bear your Standard, and Providence be your Shield. I have the Honor to be Sir, With great Respect and Esteem, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant, John Jay.


[Page 339]
July 28, 1779 307 John Fell’s Diary Wednesday July 28th [1779], Coml Committee. Congress. An acct, from Minisink of a Number of Militia being cut off by the Indians & Col Hawthorn and some other Officers Killd. A very disagreeable and serious Memorial from the Minister of France complaining of Insults Offerd to the Consol General Mr Holker &c Refferd to a Committee of 5. 1 Order of the day on Finance some Regulations agreed to, for the Treasury Board. MS (DLC). 1 See John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, July 30, 1779, note. Samuel Holten’s Diary [July 28-29, 1779] 28. Wednesday. We have a report that the enemy have left S.Carolina, very fine showers this evening. 29. Thursday. A very cool day. The report of the day is that the enemy has left the State of South Carolina. MS (MDaAr). John Jay to the States Sir, Circular Philadelphia 28th July 1779. I have the Honor of transmitting herewith enclosed copies of two Acts of Congress of the 23rd Inst.—One for regulating the Hide- Department—The other for the better preservation of the Buildings, and other Property belonging to the United States. 1 I have the honor to be, with great Respect, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. & Hble Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 The former “Act” was adopted pursuant to recommendations of the Board of War having their origin in a report identifying deficiencies in the hide department that had been submitted to Congress on February 18, 1779. See JCC, 13:208, 14:519, 870—72; PCC, item 147, 3:71 — 74; and John Fell’s Diary, February 19 and April 24, 1779. The latter was adopted with uncharacteristic speed as a result of recommenda tions from Quartermaster General Nathanael Greene received on July 19 concerning the neglect of Continental property and impending threats to it recently reported by Col. Thomas Chase, deputy quartermaster general at Boston. See JCC, 14:854, 867—69, 883; PCC, item 147, 3:545—49; and Jay to Nathanael Greene, July 19, 1779.


[Page 340]
308 July 29, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Thursday July 29th [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. After the dispatches, Reports from the Board of War, and Treasury, the Order of the day, was taken up on the Fishery, and according to Custom nothing done, no reason able measures will satisfie the Eastern Members. (Mr Mercier & Mr McCoomd). 1 PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 'This day John Dyer Mercier and Eleazer McComb were elected commissioners of claims. JCC, 14:896. John Jay to Charles Scott Sir, Philadelphia 29th July 1779. The Honorable Mr. Matthews a Delegate from South Carolina lately arrived here—By him Congress received Advices which called their immediate Attention to that Quarter. The terms for which the Militia from No. Carolina had been detached were expiring and the Army under Major General Lincoln losing strength; The Enemy’s views & Situation rendered it probable they would be reinforced, and Prudence dictated active Operations against them before they should receive Accessions of Force. These reasons gave Occasion to an Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, 1 a Copy of which I have the honor to transmit herewith enclosed and am, Sir, With great Respect, Your most Obedient And Humble Servant, J. Jay. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 By this resolve, Congress simply ordered General Scott, at this time in charge of Continental recruiting in Virginia, “to use every means in his power to forward the troops under his command to Charleston, in South Carolina, as expeditiously as possible.” JCC, 14:893. He had already been ordered by Washington, on May 5, pursuant to instructions from Congress, to prepare 2,000 troops from Virginia for the immediate relief of South Carolina, for which see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 14:498-501; Wright, The Continental Army, p. 147; and Committee of Congress to Washington, April 28, 1779. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 29th July 1779. I have been honored with Your Excellency’s favors of the 20th & 21st Inst, with the several papers referred to in the latter. 1 Your Excellency will receive herewith enclosed a copy of a Letter from the President of the Executive Council of this State contain-


[Page 345]
July 30, 1779 313 ing documents. PCC, item 160, fols. 249—97. His two letters are also in Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 3:80—84, 86—87. Henry Laurens’ Notes of Debates [July 30, 1779] “the most absurd & tyrannical* Order that ever was made the world must know it & shall know it.” 1 Mr. Duane in Congress Friday 30 July 1779—who was exceed ingly angry because I shewed him this Memorandum—he who affects to lament every thing like indecency in any of his fellow Members will often go beyond indecency itself. *alluding to the order of the day for finance & foreign affairs—by Mr. Dickinson. I had two days before remarked to the House that the observation of the Order was detrimental to Public good by totally excluding Reports of Committees & other important business whenever one Member should think proper to call the order of the day, which every day in the Week is subject to. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 20). In the hand of Henry Laurens, and endorsed by him: “Mr. Duane’s address in Congress 30 July 79.” 1 On June 7 John Dickinson had offered a motion, seconded by Samuel Adams and adopted by Congress, “That on every day upon which it has been resolved to proceed on the order of the day after reading the journals and despatches, the House will proceed accordingly; and no other order than is above mentioned shall be made on any despatch, unless it be by unanimous consent: that this rule continue in force until Congress shall have gone through the reports of the board of treasury relative to finance, and the report of the committee of thirteen on foreign affairs, and of that on the communications from the minister plenipotentiary of France, and no longer.” JCC, 14:696-97. For the July 30 debate over Laurens’ effort to amend a motion to postpone consid eration of a finance report read that day, which apparently provided the occasion for Duane’s outburst against the order adopted on June 7, see JCC, 14:902—3. Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson Philadelphia. July 30th. 1779 Thus, 1 Sir, you see the good Effects of Committees for regulating of Prices', which bave occasiond a great deal of Confusion without pro ducing any Good that I can percieve. How these proceedings will End, I cannot undertake to determine; but I have sufficient Reasons to convince my Mind, that they are instituted for the worst of purposes. I have hinted to you my Opinion in a former Letter; and cautioned you against the Consequences, I have written to some of my particular Friends, on the same Subject, with a View of dis countenancing such proceedings; And I now repeat to you that I


[Page 348]
316 July 31, 1779 RC (PHi: Gratz Collection). 1 Alexander Hamilton’s letter has not been found, but John Laurens’July 14 letter to him is in Hamilton, Papers (Syrett), 2:102—3. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir July 31st. 1779. Since I wrote you last 1 I have reed, a Duplicate of all the papers which I have mentioned therein to you as having been sent by yr. Brother Ar[thu]r. I found also in the 2d Packet some that were not in the first. I have kept [what] will enable me to subserve his H[onor] except a few that you will be so [good] as to return when you have either [co]pied or extracted what you wish [to] retain. I think the Originals are more essential for me than for you just at this Juncture. I shall be careful of them as your family property. I kept also the duplic. of July 27 directed to F L L. 2 I have also this day reed, many Packets Via Boston with only two Le[tters] for you, both which I send. I remember well you got the Letter Arendt left behind at Miller’s, I forwarded it afterwards. As to William’s there is no Propriety in consulting Congress about the publication. You will act your own Judgement & that of your Friends in Virginia. I think Ar[thu]r has said more than Willm. has. I need not add that Arthr. says Things well. I cannot but regret more & more that you, Francis & S A 3 are not here, now, furnished thus at every Point. I am worn down with writing in addition to the vexatio[us attendance on the Debates in Chesnut [Street] 4 but I hope to be able to g[ive] an analytical & chronological concise View of the diabolical Lies & intentional Assas sination of which Deane was flagrantly guilty on the 5th of Deer. last. I have by me a similar State of the Matter to that which I sent you to be forwarded by Post on Tuesday to S A unless the Express goes sooner: so that Mr A will have it in his Power to destroy totally in Massachusetts, by little judicious Specs, as he used to phraze News Paper writing, all the Prejudices which may happen to have been raised there by yr. innuendo. Man. Mr A. thanks me in a Letter of the 19 5 for something of the Kind but I really have forgot what it was I sent early enough for an Answer already. Not a single Line to the Comtee from B F 6 though large Packets are come from him, old News Papers Intelligence sent him from Ports from Week to Week &c. &c. There is a very long Letter to me expressly to me with an interdiction of the Public, tho it is wholly on a Topic concerning the Public—the Impropriety of 3 at one Court— Complimentary of Deane and shewing that Holland is ripe to receive him. But the Oddity of all is that it is dated July 22d. 1778 forwarded by J Williams Nantes Feb 25 1779. [It] is in Answr. to mine of May 15 1778. He say much indeed upon the good Principles which were the


[Page 349]
August 2, 1779 317 basis of the 11th & 12th Articles; reducible however to this one point which he plainly expresses, vizt that Duties on Exports are Pick pocket Arts and too mean to be practiced even in the Line of Retaliation. 7 I can only add a word or two on home matters for I am really faint for want of Sleep. Fishy, in no case to be given up. States to enter into no Treaty of Comce. without unanimous] consent unless free Exercise is stipulated [in] regard to that matter; and to resent w[ith] the whole force of the Union any Molesftation]. 8 These Determinations springly from the Unanimously declared opinion that it is essential to the Welfare of all these U.S! that the citizens thereof shd. enjoy the free unmolested common Rights of Fishery. We must be satisfied with tacit assurance of Indepcy. Good night, my dear Sir. RC (ViU: Lee Family Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. 1 See Lovell to Lee, July 17, 1779. 2 That is, Francis Lightfoot Lee. 3 Samuel Adams. 4 An allusion to Congress, which met in the State House on Chestnut Street. 5 Samuel Adams’July 19 letter to Lovell has not been found. 6 Benjamin Franklin. 7 On the subject of Franklin’s July 22, 1778, letter, see Lovell to Samuel Adams, August 3, and to Franklin, August 6, 1779. 8 “Molestation” had become a critical word in the settlement of the dispute over access to the fisheries, when Congress on July 29 agreed that “if after a treaty of peace with Great Britain, she shall molest the citizens or inhabitants of any of the United States in taking fish on the banks and places described in the Resolution passed the 22d day of July, instant, such molestation . . . shall be a common cause of the said states; and the force of the union be exerted to obtain redress.” JCC, 14:896—97. 9 Lovell wrote the following tongue-in-cheek warning in the margin beside this last paragraph: “dead secret unless you get it from the Weathercocks or otherwise.” John Fell’s Diary Monday August the 2d. 1779 Coml Committee. Congress. A long Letter from Mr Bingham 1 and other dispatches took up this day. Mr Jay Sick. MS (DLC). 1 This day Congress considered not one but three “long” letters from William Bingham, its agent in Martinique. JCC, 14:912. For those of June 29 and June 30-July 12, see William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, August 3, note 4. In his third letter, dated July 6, Bingham protested against two “glaring & vexatious Acts of Partiality & Injustice” committed by the government of Guadeloupe in seeming viola tion of the French treaties with the United States. The first concerned a Virginia sloop, the Kitty, which had been captured by a French privateer and condemned as a legal prize in the admiralty court at Guadeloupe. The second involved Benjamin Putnam, a Massachusetts privateersman, who had been captured and carried to


[Page 354]
322 August 3, 1779 Let me hear from you as often as may be. With much Regard, yr Friend & h Servt. J.L. [P.S.] I have kept Jan 9 ) Feb 3 (Mar 6 (12 ) A Lee’s Gridley’s RC (NN: Adams Papers). A continuation of Lovell to Adams, July 27, 1779. 1 That is, John Adams. 2 Benjamin Franklin. 3 For Ralph Izard’s January 28, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs, which was read in Congress on July 27, see JCC, 14:892; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:33 — 34. 4 Silas Deane. 5 See also Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, July 31; and Lovell to Franklin, August 6, 1779. 6 At this point Lovell inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following words in the margin: “the fishery is meant.” 7 The Pennsylvania Gazette published on August 4 the following brief extract of a June 26 letter from Martinique: “We have late news from Europe that all the North ern Powers are united to ensure our independence, and that the King of Prussia has entered into the confederacy as mediator between France and England.” Although Lovell dated this part of his letter “Augst. 3d,” he probably completed it the following day. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir No. 4. Philada. 3d. Augt. 1779. Have Just opportunity to inclose a few papers. Genl Whipple, who I suppose will write you at large, Consents to Tarry here, till the weather is more Comfortable & untill Some very important affairs are decided in Congress—very favourable accounts from the West indias. Shall give you Some particulars Concerning Party Spirit in my next. South & East—the most unfavourable Circumstance in our public affairs. Compliments to all friends. I am Dear Sir, your most obedient Humle Serv, Nathl Peabody RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Philadelphia 3d Augt 1779 I wrote you per last post when I believe I acknowledged the receipt of yours of the 10th of July. 1 I am sorry Mr. Secy. Thompson did not see the Committee of Congress at Vermont, 2 however I hope every measure will be taken to support N. Hampshires Claim to that Territory. N.Y. has been very quiet about that matter ever since the


[Page 356]
324 August 3, 1779 By the conclusion of your last letter you seem to expect me home shortly; I have stay’d much longer than I intended, or perhaps than is desired by my Constituents. If the latter shod be the case a very short notice will be sufficient for my departure from this place. I am extreamly anxious for the determination of some important ques tions which ought to have been decided many months ago, 4 this & some other matters, which I shall communicate to you when I may have the pleasure of a tete-a-tete conversation, on some future day will accot for my continuing so long here; & since the summer is so far spent I think to take the pleasant part of Autumn to travel in unless it shod be otherwise ordered by the authority which placed me here & whos orders I shall always be happy in Obeying. I am my Dear Sir most Respectfully, Yours, Wm Whipple RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Bartlett’s July 10 letter to Whipple is in Bartlett, Papers (Mevers), pp. 261—62. 2 For further information on Ebenezer Thompson’s fruitless trip to Vermont, see Whipple to Bartlett, June 20, 1779, note 2. 3 Letters from William Bingham of June 29, June 30—July 12, and July 6, 1779, were read in Congress on August 2.JCC, 14:912; and PCC, item 90, 1:95—110. For the July 6 letter, see John Fell’s Diary, August 2, note. Extracts from the June 30-July 12 letter describing actions of the French fleet in the West Indies were published in the August 10 and 12 issues of the Pennsylvania Packet under the credit line from “a gentleman of character in St. Pierre.” Additional letters from correspondents on St. Eustatius and Martinique were also printed in the Pennsylvania Packet on August 5, 10, and 12, 1779. For further information on recent French naval victories in the West Indies, includ ing the capture of Grenada and Saint Vincent, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 159—62. 4 The “important questions” that kept Whipple in Philadelphia at this time undoubt edly concerned ultimata to be demanded in future peace negotiations, and of these the fisheries loomed most large. This concern had led him and Henry Laurens to sched ule a private meeting with Conrad Alexandre Gerard on July 19, which Whipple was not able to attend because of illness, but its substance can be ascertained from Gerard’s report of it to the comte de Vergennes. “La conference que j’ai annoncee dans ma d[ernie]re Lettre a eu lieu aujourd’huy,” Gerard wrote on July 20, “mais avec M. Laurens 1’un des Chefs opposans seulment, le Second, le General Whiple s’etant trouve indispose. Les arguments dont j’ai si souvent fait mention on ete epuises de part et d’autre. Je me suis prete a toutes les discutions possibles et je crois avoir demontre l’absurdite des principles sur lesquels on se fondoit et qui sont en sub stance que les droits de peche est un droit inherent a la souverainete et comme tel compris implicitement dans le Traite d’alliance.” Meng, Gerard Despatches, p. 804. William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 3d Augt. 1779 Since my last to you I have rec’d your two favors of the 12th and 19th ulto. I am very sorry for your disappointment, but doubt not you have had intelligence Since, that has in some measure made up for it. Our success at Stony Point has in some measure drawn the


[Page 357]
August 4, 1779 325 attention of the enemy from the brutal ravages which they were carrying on with such rapidity in Connecticut—the prisoners arrived here a day, or two ago. Accounts from the West Indies are not disagreeable—the movements of Count D’Estaing has stopped 2000 men which were destined for the Continent. The Count’s great superi ority at Sea affords a flattering prospect of success should he come to action with Byron, the former having 25 ships of the line and 11 frigates, and the latter is said to have only 18 of the line and three frigates. It is probable you will have a particular account from the West Indies before this reaches you, I therefore will not trouble you with a Second hand Story. I have seen but 2 or 3 of the Magazines you mention and those were not worth reading therefore I have not taken them, but if you incline to take them they may be sent in the way you propose. I shall wait your further orders and wish to be informed if you chuse to have them from the first publication. The Penobscot expedition is of importance. I pray God it may succeed, but fear the great delays with which it has been attended, will give the enemy time to reinforce, if it should be Successful what is there to prevent crossing the Bay and taking possession of Nova Scotia for the honor of N.E. Adieu, Yours, Wm. Whipple Tr (DLC: Peter Force Collection). John Dickinson’s Draft Commission [August 4? 1779] The Delegates of the United States of N.H., M.B., R.I. & P.P., C., N.Y., N.J., P., D., M., V., N.C., S.C., & G.—to all who shall see these presents send Greeting. (We being informed) It being probable, that a Negotiation will {probably be) soon be commenced for putting an End to the Hostili ties between his most Christian Majesty and these States on the one part, and the King of Great Britain on the other part, and sincerely desiring they may be terminated by a peace founded on such solid and equitable Principles, as reasonably to promise a permanency of the Blessings of Tranquility, Know Ye therefore, that We confiding in the Integrity, prudence & Ability of have nominated and constituted and by these Presents do nominate & constitute him the said our Minister plenipotentiary, giving him full power general & special to act in that Quality, to confer, treat & agree & conclude with the Ambassadors or plenipotentiaries of his most Christian Majesty & the King of Great Britain & any other princes whom it may concern, vested with equal powers, concerning the reestablishment of peace & Friendship, and whatever shall be so


[Page 362]
330 August 5, 1779 for Holker “justice and satisfaction for the attacks publicly made on his honor and reputation.” See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:259; and Jay to Gerard, July 30, and August 3, 1779. John Jay to Joseph Reed Gentlemen, Philadelphia 5th Augt. 1779. I have the honor of transmitting to You herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 2nd Inst, providing among other things that any Prosecutions which it may be expedient to direct for such matters & things in the Publications or transactions therein referred to, as may be against the Laws of Nations, shall be carried on at the Expence of the United States. 1 I have the honor to be Gentlemen, With great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & very Hble Servant LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 JCC, 14:914. In declaring its satisfaction with the conduct of Jean Holker, who had been under popular attack in Pennsylvania for contributing to the scarcity and high price of flour, Congress had simultaneously left the door open to “any prosecu tions which [Pennsylvania] may deem expedient to direct” against Holker’s tormenters. Recognizing immediately, however, that in this instance Congress had exceeded the bounds of good judgment, Gerard moved quickly to forestall implementation of the resolve, requesting in a letter to Congress of this same date that the resolution not be carried into execution, as the “king’s greatness of mind forbids his minister to insist upon such a measure.” “Between nations closely connected by the most powerful motives of friendship and interest,” he went on to suggest diplomatically, “even the most lawful reparations ought always to stop short of revenge.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:287; and PCC, item 94, fols. 373—76. For the developments that had led Congress to adopt this ill-advised resolve, see Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, August 3, 1779. John Jay to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia 5th Augt. 1779. I have the honor of transmitting to You, herewith enclosed, a copy of an Act of Congress of the 3rd Inst, discharging Thomas White from his parole 1 —and am with great Respect—Your Excellency’s most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 President Rodney had raised the issue of releasing Thomas White from his parole in a letter to John Dickinson in April. White, a former Delaware judge, had been seized by Continental authority in March 1778 for “Correspondence with the Enemy,” but apparently no specific charges were brought against him. See JCC, 14:917; John Dickinson to Rodney, May 10, 1779, note 4; and these Letters, 9:336—37, 418, 520—22.


[Page 364]
332 August 5, 1779 Burke made to the state assembly two months later in behalf of himself, Penn, and Whitmell Hill, see Burke to the North Carolina Assembly, October 25, 1779. Burke subsequently returned to Congress on December 8; Penn on December 14. JCC, 15:1360, 1374. 3 See Samuel Holten’s Diary, this date. 4 The next day, Sharpe also sent Caswell a copy of the Pennsylvania Evening Post under cover of the following brief note of explanation. “The history of mankind does not produce a greater instance of discipline and cool bravery than that displayed by Genl. Wayne, and the Troops under his command in their descent on Stoney Point, the particulars of which is in one of the enclosed papers. “The Evening Post, enclosed will afford you some entertainment in a leisure hour.” Governors’ Letter Books, 2:130, Nc—Ar. 5 Undoubtedly the August 11 issue of the Pennsylvania Gazette. See James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. John Collins To Horatio Gates Dear Sir. Philadelphia August the 6th. 1779 You will undoubtedly befor you receive these have heard of the Action on the 26th of July between the French & English fleets in the West Indies and that the latter has had a sevear drubing, and bore a Way for St. Christephors. We are informd that on the 22d the french fleet Consisting of 40 Sail appeard off that Island. I have great hopes we Shall Soone have an official account that the whole British fleet are taken, distroyed, or obliged to bair a way for Jamica— and I make no doubt but one or the other will be the Case, and as it is now Harricane months, we may depend on part of the french fleet soon on our Coast. Except, the Count pursues his Conquest down to Jamaica, I flater my self the Honour of takeing Rhode Island will fall to your shair. As soon as we have any Certain Accounts of the French fleet Comeing this way, I shall leave this City and come and joine you. I have made two Rhode Island Campains and hope soon to be on the third. 1 My best Respects to you Ladey. I am with Regard your Hum ble Servant, John Collins. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 Although Collins was mistaken about the need for a third Rhode Island campaign, he correctly predicted that the appearance of a French fleet on the American coast would lead to the “taking Rhode Island.” Gen. Henry Clinton ordered the evacuation of the British forces at Newport in October. John Fell’s Diary Friday 6th Augst. [1779] Coml Committee. Congress. Memorial from the Commissioners of the Treasury. 1 Report to allow the Commissioners abroad 500


[Page 365]
August 6, 1779 333 Sterlg. per Annum and their Expences. 2 Motion for Silas Deane Esqr to be dischargd from any further attendance on Congress and to setle his Accounts, 3 & to be allowd for his Expences 3 Months after his Recall. Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 This memorial, dated August 6 and signed by William Geddes, William Govett, Joseph Nourse, Resolve Smith, and Robert Troup, expressed concern over the “dangerous Consequences” that would flow from the annual election of Treasury officers provided for in the ordinance passed by Congress on July 30. See JCC, 14: 903—8, 927; and PCC, item 41, 3:453—56. Although the memorial was to be consid ered on “Monday next,” August 9, it appears no action was ever taken. 2 The precise wording in the resolve is “11,428 tournois per annum, . . . besides their reasonable expences.” JCC, 14:928. 3 During the maneuvers that preceded the adoption of this motion, Congress substi tuted the word “discharged” for “excused” in the original motion, and then deleted the entire following clause: “in order that he may settle his accounts without delay.” JCC, 14:929—30. In his diary entry for this day, Samuel Holten simply noted that “Congress dismissed the Honl. Mr. Deane from Attending any further on congress.” MDaAr. This decision was transmitted to Deane in the following cryptic August 7 letter from President Jay. “I have the honor of transmitting to you herewith enclosed, a copy of an Act of Congress of the 6th Inst, ascertaining the allowance to be made to their Commissioners in Europe, & for other purposes mentioned in it.” PCC, item 14, fol. 164. John Jay to Horatio Gates Sir, Philadelphia 6th Augt. 1779. On the 4th Inst I had the honor to receive Your Favor of the 25th Ulto. with the several Papers Therein referred to. They were the same day laid before Congress who referred them to the Board of war. 1 As no Report has yet been made on the Subject of them, & your Express sets out this morning, I must defer giving You a more particular answer to a future opportunity. I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most obedient & hble Servt. John Jay, Presidt RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 JCC, 14:919. Gates’July 25 letter to Congress and 14 enclosures pertaining to intelligence of British deployment and movements in Long Island Sound and New England are in PCC, item 154, 2:140—89. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 6th August 1779. 1 Your Favors of the 29th July & 2nd Inst have been delivered to


[Page 366]
334 August 6, 1779 me. 2 The Papers herewith enclosed, are a copy of the Act of the 8th of March mentioned in Your Excellency’s Letter of the 29th Ulto. and a Report of the Board of War recommending that Captain Wilkie’s Company of Coll. Spencer’s Regiment be annexed to the 11th Pennsylvania Regiment. Congress desire your Excellency’s Opin ion on the Propriety of this measure. 3 I have the honor to be, With the greatest Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant, John Jay, Presidt. RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 When Jay’s secretary copied this letter into the presidential letterbook, he dated it “7th Augt. 1779.” PCC, item 14, fol. 165. 2 Washington actually wrote two letters to President Jay dated July 29, 1779, which were read in Congress on August 3 and 4.JCC, 14:916, 919. These are in PCC, item 152, 7:451—58, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:4—6. His August 2 letter, enclosing intelligence from New York from the American spy Samuel Culper, Jr. [i.e., Robert Townsend], is not in PCC, but it has been printed in ibid. p. 35, from the draft in the Washington Papers, DLC. The information from Culper that Washington sent to Jay has not been found, but Culper’s July 29 letter to Washington, from which the report to Jay was extracted, is in the Washington Papers. The three passages in Culper’s letter enclosed in brackets—concerning the British vessels Romulus, Daphne, Delaware, and Blonde, and the preparation of troops presumed to be “intended for Carolina”—are undoubtedly those that were copied for transmission to Congress. Jay presented this intelligence to Congress on August 7 and it was referred to “the standing committee appointed to correspond with the commanding officer in South Carolina.” JCC, 14:934. For a lengthy discussion of the intelligence contributions of the “Culper Ring” in and around New York City, in which Robert Townsend played a key role at this time, see Corey Ford, A Peculiar Service (Boston: Little Brown and Co., 1965), pp. 148—308, especially p. 195. 3 Washington’s August 16 response to Jay is in PCC item 152, 7:585—88, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:112—13. James Lovell to Benjamin Franklin Honble. Sir Philadelphia Aug. 6. 1779 Your favor of July 22d 1778, 1 forwarded from Nantes by Mr. Williams the 25th of February this Year, arrived not here till the 31st of July. I wonder the more that so very few of yr. letters reach Philada. in the Course of a Year as Mr. Dumas finds means to convey a series above the Numbers of the Alphabet in the same term of time, and is also in continual Correspondence wth. you. It is needless at this Season to take up the different Parts of your long letter, for which I feel myself, however, obliged to you: But, I cannot omit to notice that you are totally mistaken as to “partial Objections” having been before Congress at the time of their dissent to the 11th & 12th articles. It is true that, since that period, much has been read from the Persons you suppose to have written on that subject.


[Page 369]
August 8, 1779 337 Izard Jan 18 Mar. 4. RC (MH —H: Lee Family Papers). 1 Lovell’s role in defending Lee, and his activities on related questions of foreign affairs, are discussed at length in Helen F. Jones, “James Lovell in the Continental Congress, 1777—1782” (Ph.D. diss., Columbia University, 1968), chaps. 4—5. 2 That is, Richard Henry Lee and Francis Lightfoot Lee. 3 See Lovell to Arthur Lee, July 17, 1779, note 3. 4 Silas Deane. 5 Richard Henry Lee. 6 For these measures adopted by Congress on June 5 to ensure payment of Caron de Beaumarchais’ account, see JCC, 14:690—93; and John Jay to Benjamin Franklin, June 18, 1779, note. John Fell’s Diary Saturday Augst. 7th [1779] Com! Committee. Congress. Motions, amendments and long debate about instructions and an ultimatom. MS (DLC). Samuel Holten’s Diary [August 7, 1779] 7. Saturday. Congress reed, a letter from Genl. Washington, informing of the enemies moving down the north River. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 See John Jay to Washington, August 6, 1779, note 2. John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 8th Augt. 1779. Herewith enclosed is a copy of a Letter from Coll. Simmes respect ing leave of Absence. Congress refer this Request to Your Excellency. The Colonel will be the Bearer of this Letter, & will more fully explain the reason of his applying to Congress in the first Instance. 1 i have the honor to be, With great Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Lt. Col. Charles Simms of the 2d Virginia Regiment had appealed to Congress for a leave of absence in order to return to Virginia to protect his title to a large tract of land “on the Waters of the Ohio.” See JCC, 14:933; and PCC, item 78, 20:447—50. For the result of Simms’ appeal, see Jay to Thomas Jefferson, September 6, 1779.


[Page 370]
338 August 9, 1779 Committee on Appeals Decree August 9th 1779 John Bradford &c &c Lib[ellan]ts & ) Appeal for the Court of App[ell]ees ad[versu]s George Wait / Admiralty of the State Babcock Claim[an]t & App[ellan]t ) of Massachusetts Bay 1 We the Commissioners appointed by the honorable Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the several Courts of Admi ralty of the United States of America having heard and fully consid ered all and singular the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the Proceedings of the Court of Admi ralty of the Southern District of the State of Massachusetts Bay and the Argument of the Advocate on the part of the Appellees in the above Cause and no person appearing on the part of the Appellant in the said Cause do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Appeal of the said George Wait Babcock on behalf of himself and others in the said Appeal named be dismissed with Costs and that the Judg ment or Sentence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid pronounced and published in the said Cause be in all its parts confirmed and established And We do order and decree that the said George Wait Babcock pay unto the said John Bradford and others appellees [in] the above Cause three hundred and ninety Dollars for their Costs and Charges by them expended in supporting and sustaining the Sen tence of the Court of Admiralty aforesaid against the said Appeal &c. Thos M:Kean Wm. Hy. Drayton Edmund Randolph MS (DNA: RG 267, case no. 47). In a clerical hand and signed by Drayton and McKean. 1 At issue in this case was the ship Nancy, which had left Cork, Ireland, with the British fleet and was captured on November 11, 1778, by Capt. George Wait Babcock, only to be recaptured three weeks later by the British. On January 5, 1779, Capt. John Peck Rathbun of the Continental sloop Providence, seized the Nancy once again, however, thus setting the stage for Babcock’s claim that he was entitled to one-half the prize. The Massachusetts Court of Admiralty awarded the Nancy and her cargo to Rathbun and his crew and to John Bradford who represented the Eastern Navy Board. Babcock thereupon appealed Judge Nathan Cushing’s decision to Congress, which assigned the case to the Committee on Appeals on May 12, 1779. In this decree the committee affirmed the Massachusetts court’s decision and ordered Babcock to pay $390 in fees and costs to Bradford and the other appellees. See JCC, 14:579; and case file no. 47, RG 267, DNA.


[Page 371]
August 9, 1779 339 John Fell’s Diary [August 9—10, 1779] Monday. August 9th. Coml. Committee. Congress. A New Plan for borrowing Millions on Loan 8 D[ollar]s for 5 L[ivre]s debated & adjourned. 1 Tuesday the 10th. Coml. Committee. Congress. Some dispatches, motions, and debates. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 This “new plan” for borrowing “25,000,000 Livres Tournois” in bills of exchange drawn on the American commissioners in Paris had been proposed by Elbridge Gerry on July 23 and referred to a committee of five, chaired by Gerry, which reported on July 30. Although the proposal was considered this day and again on August 27 and 28, it appears thereafter to have been merged with general considerations of finance in Congress. Although Fell indicates here that the plan proposed exchanging dollars for livres at a rate of eight for five, the exchange rate was left blank in the report submitted by the committee. See JCC, 14:882, 900-903, 940, 1005. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Aug. 9th. [1779] Indeed, my lovely anxious Friend, you lead me to doubt whether Mr. A is really on the Water. 1 The Report of the Alliance being in Concert with a 40 Gun Ship on a secret Expedition tallies with Something of which I am certain. A Man of War of that Size has been given up to the “Direction” of John Paul Jones, and the Name has been changed to “Poor Richard” that it may not appear to belong to the french Marine. Our Commissioners have moreover certified under their Hands to Jones that he is still in the American Navy, tho’ he had quitted it some time ago for that of France, but did not give up his Commission. I formed my Conjectures upon first receiving that Intelligence, and your Anecdote confirms me therein so far as that I expect soon to hear of blazing Retaliation. And has not that very philosophic Politician 2 been yet to see you? I shall grow highly disgusted at my public Employment if its certain or even natural Tendency is to make me insensible of “the thousand nameless Anxieties that distress the tender hearts of your Sex” or inattentive to a proper Call to exert myself in relieving them. My Letter 3 in answer to a former one of yours is before this in your Hand and will convince you that the dreaded Callosity has not yet fixed upon my Heart. I have therein attempted, nor ought it to be in vain on such grounds, to give your Bosom Ease by directing you to repose it on that Assemblage of Merit which originates and finishes your Husband’s Conduct uniformly. Good as he was, when I first had the pleasure of knowing him, I do not recollect that he was quite such a Man as he now appears. Indeed, it was before his


[Page 372]
340 August 9, 1779 Marriage. He did full credit to the Books he had studied. He now shows that it is more efficacious to read Virtue in a living Character. Whether he is on his Way home or not, it may be a satisfaction to you to have the following copy. In Congress Aug. 6. 1779. Resolved That an Allowance Of eleven thousand four hundred & twenty eight Livres Tournois per Annum be made to the several Commissioners of the United States in Europe for their Services, besides their reasonable Expences respectively. That the Salary as well as the Expences be computed from the Time of their leaving their places of abode to enter on their offices, and be continued three months after Notice of their Recall, to enable them to return to their families respectively. That the several Commissioners, Commercial Agents & others in Europe entrusted with public Money be directed to transmit without delay their accts & Vouchers, and also triplicate Copies of the same to the Board of Treasury of these United States in order for Settlement. Resolved That a suitable Person be appointed by Congress to examine the said Accounts in Europe & certify his Opinion thereon previous to their being transmitted. 4 Extracted from the Minutes by JL There is an authentic account that France 5 has absolutely refused the Mediation of Spain; and that the latter would declare herself speedily after the 20th of June. That the Count D’Orvilliers had sail’d towards Corunna with 30 Ships of the Line where he was to be joined by 20 Spanish. 25,000 Troops are ready on the Coast of France for a Descent on Ireland. With respectful Tenderness, your humb. Servt., JL RC (MHi: Adams Family Papers). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:219-20. 1 Unbeknown to Lovell, John Adams had arrived in Massachusetts on August 2. 2 That is, Samuel Adams. 3 See Lovell to Abigail Adams, July 19, 1779. 4 For the settlement of John Adams’ accounts for his first overseas mission, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 3:220—22n.2. 5 Lovell undoubtedly meant to write Britain rather than “France.” Since this “authentic account” was contained in a July 20—22 letter from William Bingham that arrived in Philadelphia aboard the brig Achilles the morning of August 10, Lovell probably added this concluding section of his letter on the 10th. See PCC, item 90, fols. 168 — 71; JCC, 14:942; and William Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, August 10, 1779, note 3. News from Bingham’s letters was printed in the Pennsylvania Gazette, August 11, and the Pennsylvania Packet, August 12. For additional information on Spain’s entrance into the war, and the allies’ disap pointment in the failure of the combined Franco-Spanish fleet to inflict decisive damage on Britain, see Jonathan R. Dull, The French Navy and American Independence (Princeton: Princeton University Press, 1975), pp. 136—58; and Orville T. Murphy, Charles Gravier, Comte de Vergennes: French Diplomacy in the Age of Revolution, 1719—1787 (Albany: State University of New York Press, 1982), chap. 21.


[Page 373]
August 9, 1779 341 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General Philada Aug. 9.1779 I thought my Townsman Mr. Sumner would have called on me at my Lodgings before he left this City, so far as at least to let me send the inclosed Journal and my sincere Respects; but he neglected me; And, now I have neither Health, Spirit or Leisure to say much, having worn myself down about foreign affairs in the Capacity of Committee Secretary & Clerk, all in one, and two Vessels offering themselves together. Besides This, I think it my Duty to stand Rowland for Arthur, 1 having very full & sufficient Materials in Possession to prove the assassinating malignity with which he has been treated. I am satisfied that he will make a most staunch Negociator for us whenever Peace shall be in Prospect. And if D’Estaing has gained what the Gazettes tell, Peace cannot be a year off. I never have had one single Moments real Hope of Success at Penobscot. I have now a Dread about that Expedition. I wish I was where I could a viva voix give you the History of the Election of a Cloathier General: it was a curious Affair. 2 I pray God to put you upon some Concert with D’Estaing either regarding Rh. Island or Nova Scotia. What shall I do with my Tribe if you cannot gain me a quiet habitation up the Bay of Fundy? Adieu & Prosper even to the full Wishes of your Friend & obliged humb. Servant. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 That is, for Arthur Lee. For Richard Henry Lee’s use of the pseudonym “Rowland” in defending his brother Arthur, see Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, August 17, 1779, note 3. 2 After two officers named to the position refused to accept the post, Gates’ nemesis James Wilkinson was appointed clothier general on July 24. See John Jay to Wilkinson, July 24, 1779. Henry Marchant to Silas Talbot Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 9th. 1779 I reed, your agreable Favor of the 13th of July, inclosing a Letter for the President; which I thought proper to deliver him altho’ one very similar to it had been enclosed from Genl. Gates being one you had wrote to Him. 1 Your Exploits keep Congress constantly in remem brance of you. I have seen in others as well as felt in myself a singular Pleasure in the frequent mention of your Name. Your Let ters were referred to the Marine Comee—And it is not want of Inclination that you have not a Command given to You either in the Land or Sea Service. 2 All the Land Forces are under certain Com manders which cannot with propriety be removed. We cannot create Men. Nor will Our Circumstances permit us to build Ships for those


[Page 378]
346 August 10, 1779 ity of General Wayne and all his command, and reflects no small lustre upon the whole of the American Army. The Success of Count de Estaing in the West Indies will probably give a great change in the allied affairs; in all likelihood necessity must compel the Enemy to order some thousand men from this continent, at least a different direction will be made for those who were coming to america; and what shall the people of England say when they [at last] understand that the pride of the Island the British navy have been fairly beaten by the French fleet; surely it will make no inconsiderable noise; the people of England depend totally upon their Navy, and are abun dantly too Jealous and diffident of the land Forces. I suppose you know the Enemy are leveling all their works outside of King’s Bridge; they are strongly fortifying York, Staten and Governor’s Islands. Lord Cornwallis took the command on the first day of August. Sir H. Clinton and Governor Tryon are recalled. The sound fleet are returned to York. Sir George Collier sailed last week with eight ships to reinforce Byron. They say at York the English fleet were severely drubbed. The Enemy by so strongly fortifying stoney point in all probability means to evacuate Verplanks. The above Intelligence we have by a person of veracity just from York. I shall either write you or enclose the paper once a week; lately I have understood you seldom get any in camp. Your Brother is a most extraordinary Genius; many weeks ago a Gentleman from this City carried some articles of great value for Colo. Brachey &c. directed to the particular Attention of Armistead. I have written three letters 5 upon that subject and other matters, and not a single line in answer. Make my best compli ments to Gaskins; I hope the pleasure of seeing him upon his return to Virginia. Compliments of the Family wait of you. My Dear Sir, Your affect Friend and Servant. C. Griffin Paper enclosed. [P. S. ] By a vessel this morning from Martinico, the public have the following Intelligence; That Spain will declare in a little time; That Thirty sail of the French line were to rendezvous at Corunna, and join a Spanish Fleet of twenty one; these are to attempt, with twenty thousand men, a descent upon Ireland. That Count de Estaing had defeated British Fleet under Byron with the loss of 175 killed, and about 700 wounded, the Count could not bring all his Ships into action: That Byron escaped in the night understanding that French Admiral meant to renew the Engagement on the next morning. It is also said that Tobago is taken by the French. C.G. RC (DLC: Miscellaneous Manuscripts). 1 Lt. Col. Burgess Ball (1749—1800), who had been transferred from the 9th to the 1st Virginia Regiment of Foot in September 1778 and was captured at Charleston in May 1780. E. M. Sanchez-Saavedra, A Guide to Virginia Military Organizations in the American Revolution, 1775 — 1787 (Richmond: Virginia State Library, 1978), pp. 29, 32, 58.


[Page 379]
August 10, 1779 347 2 This day Congress received news of Spain’s intention to enter the war and d’Estaing’s naval victory at Grenada, the “Intelligence” to which Griffin refers in his postscript. For the arrival of this information, see James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. 3 For the nature of this “opposition,” see Meriwether Smith to Thomas Jefferson, July 6, 1779, note 2. 4 Col. Daniel Morgan, who had resigned his commission on July 18 when the command of a new light infantry corps that he coveted was given to Brig. Gen. Anthony Wayne. Rather than allow him to resign, however, Congress persuaded Morgan to accept a furlough until a new position could be found. See JCC, 14:854; PCC, item 78, 15:473 — 76; and Don Higginbotham, Daniel Morgan, Revolutionary Rifleman (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1961), pp. 95-99. 5 Not found. John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard Sir Philadelphia 10 Augt. 1779 I have the honor of transmitting herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of Yesterday, from which you will perceive that the Resolutions alluded to in your memorial of the 5th Inst, will be published in the Journals of Congress, 1 & that in the mean Time you will be pleased to consider yourself at Liberty to make such use of the Copies which I have had the Honor of transmitting to You, as you may think expedient. With great Respect and Esteem, I have the Honor to be Sir, Your most obedt. and very h’ble Servt. John Jay. Presidt RC (Archives du Ministere des affaires etrangeres: Correspondance politique, Etats- Unis, Supplement, vol. 1). 1 See JCC, 14:914—15,940. In his “memorial of the 5th Inst.,” Gerard had thanked Congress for its August 2 resolutions supporting Jean Holker and affirming its deter mination to “afford every countenance and protection to the consuls and other servants” of the king of France. Although averring satisfaction with these resolutions, he nevertheless went on to express his hope “that the public will be informed” of Congress’ action in this case. In conceding to Gerard that “the resolutions alluded to” would be published in due course in their journals, Congress guaranteed the French minister a complete victory over Holker’s accusers, a step apparently deemed neces sary because of fear that America’s enemies had already profited from the suspicions stirred up by Holker and because the imminent return of the French fleet required a display of solidarity and cooperation to ensure its adequate provisioning. For the immediate background of Gerard’s August 5 “memorial” to Congress, see Jay to Gerard, August 3, 1779, note. John Jay to Thomas Mifflin Sir, Philadelphia 10th Augt. 1779. You will receive, herewith enclosed, a copy of a memorial of Wm. Moore, & a number of vouchers to the Accounts mentioned in it,


[Page 380]
348 August 10, 1779 together with a copy of an Act of Congress of the 6th Inst, 1 directing them to be transmitted to You for the purposes specified in it. I have the honor to be Sir, With great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 See JCC, 14:895, 927. By this resolve, former quartermaster general Mifflin was directed to compensate William Moore for horses taken from him during the winter of 1778 while the Continental Army was stationed at Valley Forge in the vicinity of Moore’s residence, Moore Hall. Moore’s petition seeking compensation for damages suffered at that time was of special interest to Congress, because Moore’s home had been the residence of the Committee at Camp and the site of its deliberations with Washington and the army from January to March 1778. See PCC, item 78, 20:439—45; and the items indexed in volume 9 of these Letters under “Moore Hall.” John Jay to George Washington Sir. Philadelphia 10 Augt 1779 Herewith enclosed your Excellency will receive Extracts from a Letter which arrived this morning from Mr. Bingham. 1 The Intelli gence contained in them is important as well as agreable. I have the Honor to be, with perfect Esteem & Regard, Your Excellencys most obedt. Servt, John Jay RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 The enclosed extracts from William Bingham’s July 20—22 letter to Congress reported the failure of a French expedition against Grenada, the deployment of British forces in the West Indies and the embarkation of 6,000 reinforcements from England for America, French preparations for an attack on Ireland, and the immi nence of a Spanish declaration of war in consequence of Britain’s rejection of Spain’s mediation offer. For the arrival of Bingham’s letter in Philadelphia and Congress’ dissemination of the intelligence contained in it, see James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir. Philadelphia 10th August 1779. My last trouble is dated the 3d Inst per post; 1 yesterday I was favored with yours of the 1st 2 accompanied by Copies of three Let ters which I fear will be of very little use or service hereafter. Congress as you will read in Dunlap’s Paper of this date have “discharged Mr. Deane from any further attendance” 3 this Resolu tion was effected at a time when I was unavoidably absent seeking for new apartments, being obliged to leave these I am in, the day after to morrow; I had previously, but without effect, objected to paying Mr. Deane any Money until he should have accounted for the Sums which he had received in Paris, & pointed particularly at


[Page 381]
August 10, 1779 349 those Sums which he had received of Mr. de Beaumarchais & of Mr. Grand after he knew of his being superceded in Office & of the appointment of a Commissioner to succeed him, of which Mr. A Lee takes particular notice in his vindication—the amount of the former you are informed of, that of the latter is upward of £1700 Sterling including all his draughts on the Banker, I say without effect for no support was given to my motion, or so slender a one as not to bring on a question—I think nevertheless, I did my duty & that hereafter I shall be applauded. Congress had determined that the Commissioners & other Agents should respectively adjust their accounts with a person to be appointed for that purpose in France, a measure which I was averse from, yet all things considered, it admitted much good reason in favor of it. 4 After this determination I was called out on the business above- mentioned—at my return, I found the Resolve for “discharging Mr. Deane from further attendance on Congress,” this, inasmuch as no provision is made for his Voyage to France nor for his expences there, leaves the adjustment of his accounts optional with him. You will see the Resolves in a few days extended in the printed Journals or perhaps in MS. by the next Post, at present I am in all that embarrassment which attends moving from one House to another & being called off by Committees &c. I began this Note at 6 this Morn ing ’tis now past eleven, I must fly to Congress where somewhat very Interesting is to be brought on the tapis, permit me therefore to take leave with repeated assurances of being with very great Esteem & Respect Dear sir, Your obliged & obedt. servt, Henry Laurens RC (MB: Chamberlain Collection). 1 Not found. 2 Lee’s August 1 letter is in the William Gilmore Simms Collection of Laurens Papers, no. 31, MHi microfilm; and Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:98—100. In it Lee acknowl edged receipt of two letters from Laurens, dated July 16 and 20, which also have not been found. 3 See John Fell’s Diary, August 6, 1779, note 3. 4 On August 6 Congress had ordered that the “several commissioners, commercial agents and others in Europe entrusted with public money” submit their accounts and vouchers to the Board of Treasury and that a “suitable person be appointed by Congress to examine the said accounts in Europe, and certify his opinion thereon previous to their being transmitted.” JCC, 14:928—39. For the election of Joshua Johnson to this position, see John Fell’s Diary, September 29, 1779. The prospect that Johnson might receive this appointment was immediately antici pated by Lee, and in his August 21 response to this letter from Laurens he voiced his opposition to Johnson. “The appointment of a person to settle the accounts in france may be a wise or a wicked measure as happens to be the person appointed for the purpose,” Lee explained. “Send a man from here vested with proper powers, and let him be skilful in business, firm, and of unimpeachable integrity—in no manner whatever concerned with any of the parties having accounts to settle .... Observe if attempts are not made to have a Mr. Johnson Merchant in Nantes to settle these accounts. The very circumstance of his having been already proposed by Deane for this purpose is an argument why he ought not.” Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 2:131-32.


[Page 382]
350 August 10, 1779 Francis Lewis to Robert R. Livingston Dear Sir Phila. 10th August 1779 I was yesterday favored with your letter of the 20th Ultimo. This moment a letter dated Martinique, 22d July from the Agent Mr. Bingham was read in Congress giving authentick information of the Battle between the Fleets of France & G.B. in those Seas in which the latter was defeted; 1 That G B. had refused the mendiation of Spain whereupon the Count de Oliveriez’s fleet of thirty Ships of the line were saild for Corruna to join Twenty Spanish Ships of the line and with 25000 land forses make a descent upon Ireland. That 6000 Troops were actualy saild from England for N. America as their last Effort. In the Sea fight the French had 176 Men Killed, 764 wounded. The French Fleet keep the Seas Triumphant—The British take Shel ter in St. Kitts. The European News was brought by a French packet arrived at Martinique on the 22 ulto. with dispatches for Count de Estaing & the Governor. If you have an opportunity please to communicate the foregoing to His Excellency the Governor & my Son Morgan. Our family are all in health & join me in our regards to yourself, lady & family. As I write in Congress have not time to enlarge. I am, Dr. Sir, your Most Obdt Servt. Fra. Lewis RC (NHi: Robert Livingston Papers). Addressed: “The Honble. Robert Livingston Esquire, Chancellor for the State of New York at Clar Mount.” 1 See James Lovell to Abigail Adams, August 9, 1779, note 5. Francis Lewis to Stephen Sayre My Dear Sir Philadelphia 10th August 1779 Your letter of the 21st Febry 1778 from Copenhagen via St. Croix is the only one I have received from you since the declaration of American Independence, about that time, I wrote you two several letters with duplicates for France, but so many of our dispatches being captured I much doubt whether any came to your hand. 1 By the different manceuvres of the British Troops, Congress has been obliged to change their places of residence, from hence to Baltimore, thence to this City, then to York Town and back again to this City where they now reside. When at Baltimore I urged your being appointed a Commissr. to one of the European States, but was answered by the Committee of Forreign Correspondence, that you were then Secretary to Mr. A. Lee’s Embassy to the Court of Berlin, 2 and proved a barr to your being appointed at that time to another Department. Upon the return of Congress to Phila. in April 1777,


[Page 383]
August 10, 1779 351 by a new appointment of Delegates for our State I was not in the nomination, and remained so ’till Decemr. of the same year when I was rechosen, and since that time have been Chairman of the Com mercial Committee of Congress. Your letter together with that from Mr. Frabitius (whose high Character I was well acquainted with when at Copenhagen) was laid before Congress, 3 who are very sensible of the advantages that would accrew in a Commercial intercourse with Copenhagen, as several supplies of Russian manufactures might be obtained through that Channel, but we are at the same time apprehensive the Danish Court are too much influenced by that of G. B. to wink at such Commerce, tho’ it may be advantageous to the Subject; But our greatest diffi culty arrises from the mode of Establishing a fund, Rice, Tobbacco, & Indico, are now our principal articles for an European market, and of these we have considerable quantities, but our coasts have been so infested by the British Cruisers that scarsely one Vessell in three escape them, and unless we can establish a fund by loan from some European State, it will be impracticable for us under such circumstances to make payment with our produce, tho’ we have more than sufficient in this Country to establish large funds in Europe, could we convey it with any prospect of safety. France being now engaged in a War with G.B. we cannot expect a loan from thence, and I presume Holland is at present sollicited by the Belligerent powers for money, a postcript to your letter hints a thought by Mr. Fabritius “that a loan of two or three million of Dollars might be negociated at B nt, 4 and in case of one years punctual payment of the Interest, he is confident any sums may be had at a very low Interest.” Your scheme of sending out goods in Danish bottoms to St. Croix or St. Thomas is feasible, and where we could lodge Tobo., Indico &c to be returned in said ships for payment, but the Risque of Captures between this and the Islands is fully as great, however I shall urge Congress to make an attempt in one or the other mode, it will be therefore necessary that you and Mr. Fabritius inform me with the names of Agents in both Islands who may be appointed by you to receive such Effects; I would here observe that Russian manufactures, such as Canvas for our Navy, Brown Sheeting 8c Ravensduck for Tents, Brown 8c white Drillings for the Officers 8c soldiers—also 7/8 Hambro. Dowlas, 8c the best Ticklingbgs. from Hambro for soldiers shirts 8c Overalls, Cordage of all sizes, is always wanted. At the Commencement of the present dispute with G. B. in order to pay our Armies 8cc, we were under the necessity of making large emissions of paper money, this our Enemies availed themselves of by counterfeiting many of those Bills to a considerable amount, which by their Emissaries were dispersed through the United States, add ing thereby to the then more than necessary quantity for a circulat-


[Page 385]
August 10, 1779 353 Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dr Robert. Phila 10 Augt. 1779. I congratulate you on the News of Count D’Estaings Success in the West India’s. It is not confirmed but has nevertheless great Appear ances of Truth. Nothing more is known than the News-Papers will announce to you. Should his Superority in those Seas become very decisive then you must attend to one Fact. That the Hurricane Sea son rapidly approaches & of Consequence all ulterior Operations in that Quarter become impracticable or at least very dangerous. I gave you so much Intelligence when you was here as to render any partic ular Observations unnecessary as they will naturally arise in your Mind. The Business we were so engaged in when you was here is in some considerable Degree settled to my Wish. I am now on a Com mittee to prepare the necessary Documents 1 There is also a Plan of Finance on Foot which I could hope to see matured but fear I shall not as I am determined to pay you a Visit very shortly. 2 Duane also is going Northward 3 Our State by this Means will be very indifferently represented on the Floor. However considering the long Time I have served it cannot be thought extraordinary that I should take some Days Leizure. Pray remember me sincerely to all our Friends & believe me, yours, Gouv. Morris RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 It could not be precisely determined which of Morris’ many committee assign ments he was referring to, but he may have meant his work on the committee to prepare instructions “for negotiating a peace,” to which he had been appointed on August 4. See JCC, 14:922, 955-66. 2 Morris obtained leave of absence on August 25, and returned to Congress on October 6, 1779. JCC, 14:993, 15:1146. 3 James Duane left Philadelphia on August 16 and did not return to Congress until May 1780. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Sir, Philad. Augt. 10th. 1779. This moment I am inform’d from Good Authority, 1 Great Britain has actually refused the mediation of Spain, that His Catholic Maj esty has declar’d he will no longer be an Idle Spectator in the present Contest—that he has actually join’d in Alliance with France and these United States—That a French fleet from Brest, of 32 Ships of the Line, and a Spanish fleet of 22 Ships of the Line, are forming a Junction—which with the addition of 25,000 Land forces, are Said to be destin’d against Ireland—official accounts it is Said are in this City Certifying the truth of the foregoing. Monsrs. Gerrard being from home prevents our having it officially, the Certainty, in Congress, 6,000 British forces are Comming to America—it is said that G.


[Page 394]
362 August 12, 1779 Ds. seconded Per Mr M Kean and 100 Guineas, Opposd the whole, after debate Referrd to the Treasury. 1 Mr Peabody seconded Per Mr Schudder for all the Non Commissiond Officers and Soldiers to Receive half Pay for Life which opposd Referrd to a Committee of 5. PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 The baron de Knobelauch had been permitted to join the army as a volunteer in August 1778, for which see these Letters, 10:422n.5. For the results of his most recent applications for employment in active service, see John Jay to Knobelauch, August 29, 1779. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 12th Augt. 1779. Your favor of the 21st June by Major Franks was delivered to me Yesterday. 1 You will perceive by an Act of Congress of the 10th Inst, of which the enclosed is a copy, that your compliance, with the Request of the Governor & Council of South Carolina to defer leaving that State, perfectly corresponds with their wishes. 2 Virginia and North Carolina have been lately requested by Con gress to forward the troops destined for your Army with all possible dispatch. I have the honor to be, with great Respect & Esteem, Your most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 According to thejournals, Jay presented Lincoln’s letter to Congress this day. JCC, 14:950; and PCC, item 158, 1:259-69. 2 JCC, 14:942. John Jay to John Rutledge Sir, Philadelphia 12th Augt. 1779. By the enclosed Copy of an Act of Congress of Yesterday, Your Excellency will perceive that the United States will reimburse to the State of South Carolina such Sums of money as that state may advance for importing such military Stores as shall be deemed immediately necessary by the Commanding Officer of the Continental Troops in the Southern Department. 1 Congress have requested the Governors of Virgina & North Caro lina to give the necessary Orders for forwarding the troops destined to South Carolina with all possible dispatch. 2 I have the honor to be with great Respect & Esteem, Your Excellency’s Most Obedient Servant.


[Page 395]
August 12, 1779 363 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 'JCC, 14:946. 2 JCC, 14:942. Jay’s August 12 letter to North Carolina governor Richard Caswell, enclosing this August 10 resolve, is in PCC, item 14, fol. 169. No such letter to Gov. Thomas Jefferson has been found. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Philada. Augst. 12th. 1779 It behoves you to be very industrious in informing good Men, what has caused certain delays in the procedings here for some months back. Let them know that there has not been any Proof of an honest Intention in Britain to treat of Peace; that France & Spain indeed seemed earnest to know our Ultimata, especially in points which were nearly allied to their Interests—Florida & Newfoundland. I have said good Men. I esteem Mr. Ellis Gray one. 1 I have seen his Allarms & Sentiments. I have a desire that such a Man should be well instructed in the Grounds of the Conduct of the Delegates both in Regard to Ultimata, and the Business of our Commissioners. The Party here have industriously sent Paca’s & Drayton’s Paper to Bos ton 2 and Mr. Cushing has seen it and makes just such an Use of it in his Letters as you can readily suppose, he gives other People’s Remarks, but You cannot swear it is giving his own opinion. Other Folks, & People cannot account for the Vote of the Massachusetts Delegates, after the Information from the french Minister. I again repeat that I hope Mr. Gray will find from you principally or secondarily that the support of a virtuous Officer is exceedingly interesting to Republics. Where Salaries & Fees are the Temptations to serve as in Monarchies, there may be a Levity as to Changes. But the grand Test in Republics should be good Behavior. But, no say some Folks & some Peoples, what is it to the Public whether an Officer is accused rightfully or wrongfully if the State is like to be injured consequentially. What honest Man will venture to become a Successor to an Office vacated on such Principles? We must let Men see that Capacity Honor and Integrity shall support them against all the undermining Acts of the vicious or the darts of Malice. I suppose you will readily see the subordinate Line in which one of the Letter writers acts. I conceive the Copy of Paca’s & Drayton’s Paper was not sent to either of the Gentlemen above mentioned. I should begin to think better of the Gemmen here if they were in Correspondence with so virtuous a Man as Gray. I mean You should only know he has written for your Clue, not for a direct Ecclaireissement. As to the other, you must have had twenty Oppertunities of Knowing he has seen Pacas & Drayton’s Perfor mances without my telling you. Hazh. Ford arrived Augst. 1st in Virginia. He left Mr. Adams


[Page 396]
364 August 12, 1779 June 29 of[f] the Western Isles. Mr. A had good news. Ford will be here in a few days when I will write more fully. We are boguing about 1/2 pay for Life? The Bear is in Licking; but it will be a Bear after all. But the Massachusetts Delegates had better not oppose it, because the Opposition delays Business. If Mr. J. Adams should happily land in yr. Quarter, I hope he will let People & Folks know that he has attested sufficient Vouchers to prove that A Lee has been most falsely accused and greatly injured. Yrs. JL. RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 Ellis Gray, a Boston merchant, was a former chairman of the Boston Committee of Correspondence, Inspection, and Safety. Warren-Adams Letters, 2:117n.l. 2 For “Paca’s and Drayton’s Paper” concerning the French court’s lack of confi dence in Arthur Lee, see William Paca and William Henry Drayton to Congress, April 30, 1779. 3 Among the proposals Congress took up on August 16, 17, and 18 for making “a farther allowance to the officers of the army” was a recommendation to extend “half pay,” as provided in a resolution adopted on May 15, 1778, from a period of seven years to life. See JCC, 14:971, 973—79; and John Fell’s Diary, July 27, note, and August 16, 1779. Committee of Congress to Benjamin Lincoln Sir Philadelphia 13th August 1779 Your Letter of the 4th June to Congress is committed to us who are appointed a Committee to correspond with the Commanding Officer of the forces in South Carolina and Georgia, 1 we had delayed entering upon the business from a daily expectation of learning from yourself a detail of the Action at Stono ferry and from flatter ing expectations that you would at the same time have informed Congress of the total expulsion of Mr. Prevost from South Carolina. Yesterday your dispatches by Major Franks under the 21st June containing an account of the Action of the 20th and its consequences were read in Congress 2 —the Enemy’s retreat to Georgia which we have heard of from various quarters wants your confirmation. Congress have received intelligence from Martinique indicating a determination on the part of the Enemy to detach about 3000 Troops from St. Lucia to this Continent, most probably to South Carolina, the success of Count d’Estaing in the Naval engagement near Gre nada on the rendered it necessary to throw those very troops into St. Christophers for the protection of that Island, you will nevertheless be on your guard and Congress will do every thing in their power to strengthen your hands. We think it far from impossi ble that the commanding officer at New York, now said to be Lord Cornwallis may esteem it a necessary and most essential object to annex South Carolina and Georgia to Florida, a first and favorite plan of the British Ministry, the prosecution of which will be encour-


[Page 397]
August 13, 1779 365 aged by Sir James Wright 3 with all his influence and force of reasoning. Congress have repeated and reiterated their earnest rec ommendations to the States of Virginia and North Carolina to march the troops from those States designed to reinforce your Army, 4 and we hope you will be enabled to make a respectable appearance in the Field before the 1st November. Inclosed with this will be found an Act of Congress of the Inst, requesting you to remain in your present command. 5 The few ness of General Officers in your department recommended the mea sure as necessary to be attempted, we rejoice to find it will be pleas ing to our fellow Citizens in that quarter, particularly to Brigadier General Moultrie, and we entertain a confidence that continuing at the head of the Southern forces will eventually prove honorable and beneficial to yourself. We are sorry to inform you that Congress have not received any addition to their Magazines of Military stores. Gunpowder, Muskets & Lead cannot be conveniently or safely spared until we receive further supplies, an event altogether uncertain, thus circumstanced, Congress have resolved by an Act of the 11th Instant Copy of which will accompany this, to reimburse the State of South Carolina the expence of such Military Stores as you shall deem immediately neces sary for the defence of the Southern department to be imported by that State. 6 You will be pleased Sir, to inform us as speedily as possible, & from time to time, the state of your Army, and of such particulars respecting your department as may be necessary to lay before Congress. With our best wishes for your health and success, and with great respect and esteem, We are, Sir, Your Obedient and most humble Servants. Henry Laurens Hy. Marchant S. Holten RC (CSmH: HM22412). In the hand of Moses Young, and signed by Holten, Laurens, and Marchant. Laurens’ draft of this letter is in the Laurens Papers, no. 23, ScHi. 1 Lincoln’s June 4 letter to John Jay, a copy of which is in the Lincoln Papers, MHi, was read in Congress on July 7. The following day the South Carolina delegates laid before Congress a June 9 letter of Gov. John Rutledge, whereupon Congress assigned Henry Laurens, Henry Marchant, and Samuel Holten to correspond with Lincoln and to “report, from time to time, the necessary measures for defending the said states.” JCC, 14:806—7. 2 See JCC, 14:950; and PCC, item 158, 1:259-69. 3 The royal governor of Georgia. 4 See John Jay to John Rutledge, August 12, 1779, note 2. 5 JCC, 14:942. 6 JCC, 14:946.


[Page 398]
366 August 13, 1779 John Fell’s Diary Friday 13th [August 1779] Coml Committee. Congress. The day spent in Reading the Instructions for the Minister to be employd to Negotiate a Peace. PM. Marine Committee. Ultimatom. 1 MS (DLC). 1 Fell inserted the word “Ultimatom” between his entries for August 13 and 14. The journals indicate that the draft report of the committee that prepared “instructions for the Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States to be appointed for negotiating a peace,” which clarified several issues relating to the ultimata, was “debated by paragraphs” on both days. JCC, 14:952. James Lovell To Horatio Gates Dear Sir Aug. 13. 1779 Capt. Traversie has delivered to me your Letter wth. the Gazettes committed to his Care. I put immediately under the Charge of Mr. Nurse the Letter & other Papers designed for Mrs. Gates. I could not conceive that you intended I should make any other use of the Intelligence you sent than only to instruct proper Persons here who wish well both to you & the public, without communicating them to Congress. For as you did not write to the President I suspected Some Umbrage would be taken on that Score, as well as touchg. the Chief of the Army. Would to God there were Troops ready to prosecute a proper Plan. But they are in the western Sink. 1 Captn. Traversie’s Account ought must Certainly to be pd. by you/ But I Suppose you have no secret Service Money of the blanc kind. 3 Nor has the Treasury. The Capt. seems not to be pleased with the Commiss[io]n he has. I think you had best send proper Certificates and ask a Continental Brevet for him; and facilitate his Receipt of his Pay from time to time in such way as you know to be proper. He would be glad to get it at Times of Col. Bedie rather than to be obliged to Journey for it. The Prospect of Peace was founded on a Phantom. There was no honest Intention for it in Britain. J Adams is at or near home. A Lee’s Secretary is arrived at Virginia, and is daily expected here. I will be more full to you by next post. In the mean Time, I beg to be counted among those to whom your Fame & Happiness are dear. James Lovell RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 That is, the expedition commanded by Gen. John Sullivan against hostile Indian tribes on the Pennsylvania-New York frontier.


[Page 399]
August 13, 1779 367 2 Capt. Joseph Traversie’s account was laid before Congress on August 12, and on the 20th Congress ordered payment of $1,055 to Robert Troup, who had advanced the money to Traversie. JCC, 14:951, 982. This decision was reported to Gates in the following August 24 letter from President Jay. “The enclosed is a copy of an Act of Congress of the 20th Inst, for paying Robt. Troup Esqr. the money advanced by him to Capt. Traversie employed by you in the public Service, & charging it to your Acct.” Gates Papers, NHi; and PCC, item 14, fol. 178. 3 That is, specie. James Lovell to James Warren Dear Sir Aug. 13th. 1779 Tho on the one hand, I may be perfectly right in supposing that it is almost immaterial to which individual, of a select number of Patri ots in Boston who honor me with their Correspondence, I, from time to time, make direct confidential Communications, immaterial I mean so far as relates to the meer matter of Information. Yet, surely it must appear odd, at least, if not ungrateful, that I should send scrawl after Scrawl to one who replys in the Ratio of 2 to 7 while I suffer a long very entertaining Letter, from another, of July 19th to lay by me unacknowledged 10 days. Apprized as you must have been by Mr. S.A. of the Principles, Views & Conduct of most political Men here, you may notwithstand ing have been unacquainted even till now with the exact Contents of a Paper which is handed about in a particular Circle in yr. Neigh bourhood so as to influence the minds of some good men as well as to strengthen the Plots of some bad ones. 1 I wish you to see it, Mr. Ellis Gray, a worthy Man, will put you in the Train of having it, I doubt not: it is too much for me to copy at this Time, and perhaps needless. For if Mr. Gray cannot furnish you with it Mr. Thos. Cushing can. The latter also can, if he will, tell by whose extraordi nary Care it was sent to Boston. I own I have much Curiosity to know. Sir, you may see the low arts that have been used to prejudice the Minds of Congress so far as to make them destroy the good Man’s prospect of the best Reward in Republics—the approbation of the People. You may feel it by the Use that has been made of the follow ing Scrap laid on the Table by Mr. G. Morris May 3d 1779. Tis the Extract of a Letter from Paris dated the 7th of Deer. 1778 and said to be written by a confidential Friend of the minister of the marine. Mr. Holker furnished it, so that it was probably to him. 2 “Mr. J. Adams, le Depute ne reussit pas ici que de Raison: il parait etre entierement livre au Sr. Lee, lequel comme vous le Scavez est une espece de fol.” Mr. J. Adams the Deputy does not succeed here further than is reasonable: He appears to be intirely devoted to Mr. Lee, who, as you know, is a sort of mad-man.


[Page 403]
August 16, 1779 371 James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General Aug. 14th. 1779 Capt. Traversie has so good a Character from you that I have tried all in my Power to expedite what Business he appeared to have here. 1 But there was not a Shilling of hard Money in the Treasury. You ought to make application for some for secret Services as very shortly there will be a Supply from the Source of Burgoyne’s Troops one of the Commissioners being gone to Virginia to settle the accounts. It does not appear to me that Capt Traversie thinks himself quite rewarded by his Captain’s Pay for the Value of his Services. But you must be particular in writing if any Thing is expected from hence. Yr affectte Friend, James Lovell [P. S. ] You will soon see Mr. John Adams and a new french Minister. 2 They were on July 28th 150 Leagues from Boston in the Lat. 42. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Lovell to Gates, August 13, 1779, note 2. 2 See Lovell to Richard Henry Lee, August 17, 1779, note 2. John Armstrong, Sr., to Horatio Gates Dear General, Philada, August 16th 1779 Altho’ deprived of writing you by a Captn Traverscie 1 whos lodg ings I cou’d not find, yet have the pleasure of believing that defect on my part to have been more than Supplied thro’ the benificent Pen of our friend Mr. Lovel the Magazine of intelligence foreign & domestick. At present we are favoured with a flood of good News, the taking of St. Vincent & the Granadas together with some degree of Victory over Admiral Byrons Fleet by the Count DeEstaign, are we believe matters of fact, and Anxiously wait to hear the consequences of the latter or in what manner the good Count may be directed to improve his Victory. The Agent of Congress (Bingham) at Martinique (whos name and the thing too Congress at present seems rather disposed to conceal) expressly tells us that the British Court hath rejected the mediation of Spain, the effect of which will instantly throw that Court into the Scale of France & America—a different writer from the Same place Speaks of an actual junction & a formed Army for the immediate invasion of Ireland, Some Say to Conquer, others with greater probability, to excite & Secure the Independance of that Country—this whatever maybe a brewing I consider at present as premature. We are also assured that at least Six or Seven thou sand were ready to Sail as a Reinforcement to the Enemy this


[Page 406]
374 August 16, 1779 Widows; And an additional Subsistance for the present. On the 12th They report on the Letter from the Governor of North Carolina respecting the March of the Troops of that State &c. 2 That the Letter and Enclosures from General Schuyler (respecting which your Committee with the Commander in Chief were to take order,) 3 containd a Request from the Oneidas, a friendly Tribe of the Six Nations, for protection against the common Enemy; and your Committee have submitted it to the Commander in Chief to pursue such Measures thereon as he shall Judge adviseable. That the rest of the Reports being on the Files of Congress, your Committee refer to them respectively. Your Committee having thus presented a general Review of the several Matters committed beg leave to remark more particularly, that the Operations of the then ensuing Campaign were frequently the Subject of Conversation. That the Commander in Chiefs Senti ments and observations thereon which are expressed in the Papers No 1, 2, and 3 herewith presented 4 appeared to your Committee to be Solid and uncontrovertible; and that your Committee had the Satisfaction of concurring with him fully on every Point; and having nothing to communicate from Congress left him, under an explicit approbation of his Ideas, to the free Exercise of his own discretion in conducting the military Operations untill he might receive the orders of Congress. That your Committee conceive that he is by the Act of Congress of the 19 th of January vested with competent Author ity to conduct the Operations of the Campaign in every Quarter as he shall Judge fit: being under no other direction to their Knowl edge that what is implied in the Act of Congress of the 25th of February last and the references accompanying it, which are already noticed. That two Reports of your Committee remain to be considered by Congress, one respecting Prisoners of War in the Marine And the other the Appointment of Aids to the Brigrs General in the room of their Brigade Majors who are employd in the Inspectorship. All Which is Submitted the 16 Aug 1779. Jas. Duane, Ch. for the Committee MS (NN: Myers Collection). In the hand of James Duane and Charles Morse, a clerk in the office of the secretary of Congress, and signed by Duane. Endorsed by Duane: “Report of Committee of Conference with the Commander in Chief.” 1 James Duane, as chairman of the committee appointed on December 24, 1778, to confer with General Washington, prepared this report to comply with Congress’July 26 directive to the committee to “forthwith lay before Congress and account to their proceedings, and of all the information they can give relative to the western expedition.” JCC, 14:889-90. 2 The remainder of the report is in Duane’s hand. 3 For this January 5, 1779, letter from General Schuyler, see John Jay to Philip Schuyler, January 15, 1779, note 2. 4 Although “Papers No 1, 2, and 3” have not been found, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 13:485 — 91, for Washington’s January 8, 1779, “Sentiments and observations” on “the then ensuing Campaign.”


[Page 412]
380 August 17, 1779 Remember to Mr. Avery. [P.S.] I wrote long ago to Dr. Cooper and to Genl. Warren 10 to give me some authentic State of the Line between Nova Scotia & us. Who will be “Commissioners properly chosen” now, to settle it between Br 8c the United States. Let Mass, consider that Sentiment. Deliver the Journal to Mrs. L as soon as I send any of the same to the Court or to you. R.H.L. is quite confined by an epedemic Cold. I write constantly to him and, Sir, have punctual Returns. RC (NN: Adams Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. 1 Probably John Lovell, who had been imprisoned in Boston as a loyalist in 1776 but made his way to Great Britain via New York. Edward Alfred Jones, The Loyalists of Massachusetts (1930; reprint ed., Baltimore: Genealogical Publishing Co., 1969), pp. 201-3. 2 That is, John Holt’s New York Journal (Poughkeepsie). 3 That is, Richard Henry Lee. 4 John Adams. 5 See Lovell to Samuel Adams, August 12, 1779, note 3. 6 That is, Samuel Holten. 7 James Duane, who departed on August 16. See John Jay to Robert R. Livingston, August 18, 1779. 8 Probably John Penn. 9 Perhaps Cyrus Griffin. 10 No such letters to Samuel Cooper and James Warren have been found. James Lovell to Richard Henry Lee Dear Sir Aug. 17th. 1779 Your Favor of the 7th is in my hand. I am surprized that you had not then heard of the Arrival of Ford on the 1st at Metompkin. 1 Mr. J. Adams was at Braintree on the 3d and Count Luzerne in Boston. 2 I have no Dispatches from either; but I have a Letter from Nantes of May 25th, Extract of which you will see in the Paper of Tomorrow, as well as the Continuation of Rowlands Communica tions, 3 of Part of what you think ought to be published. You talk of your having a Sort of right to a Copy of the Papers sent by Arthur, you little know of the droll motion made by your merry Friend, 4 to stigmatize Ar[thu]r for having enclosed to an Indi vidual what he desired might be communicated to a secret Commtee of Congress to prevent the Consequences of a palam Examination of the Vouchers. But, as on the one hand I contended for an open reading of the whole that was sent, I most easily convinced the House that every Officer in their Service has a Right to communi cate such Papers as these in question to any Individual Friend, on whose Judgment he chuses to depend either to present or burn Resignations, Memorials and Defenses, these being personal Concerns; and I mentioned having by me some Things thus inclosed upon


[Page 416]
384 August 17, 1779 live to return home Shall exert every Nerve to induce the State to assert Support, and maintain her Sovereignty & independance, against the Tyranic Strides of Certain Aristocrated Gentry now in and useing their Hostile influence to Subjugate the E. {States) 8c force them to a Compliance with Measures injurious, degrading, & Con trary to every republican principal. This moment while I am writing, a Long letter dated Passey May 26, 1779 has Come to hand from Dr. Franklin 2 and as the Secretary is Reading it I extract the following— viz “Admiral Arbuthnott has been detained for Some days, from Sailing for America on account of the affairs of the Jersies & Guonsies [Guernsies] &c &c and it is the general opinion here that an invasion against England or Ireland is intended.” “Genl & Lord Howe, Gener als Cornwallis, and Grey, Colo. Montresor, Capt. Hammond 8c others, have Some time since declared as their opinion that the Conquest of America was impossable 8c ought not to be pursued but hear that John Maxwell Esq., Joseph Galloway Esq., Andrew Allen Esq, John Patterson, Theopls. Morris, Enoch Storey and Jabaz Fisher are to be Examind this week to prove the Contrary.” I beg you’l write as often as possable my Complements to the Honble Committee. I am Dear Sir with Great Sincerity, Your most Obedt., and very Humbl Sevt, Nathl Peabody [P.S.] Please to Excuse incorrectness as I have not read what I have wrote. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). 1 Not found. 2 Benjamin Franklin’s lengthy May 26, 1779, letter to the Committee for Foreign Affairs was read in Congress this day and referred to committee. See JCC, 14:972; PCC, item 82, 1:134—53; and Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:186—94. Jesse Root to Samuel Holden Parsons Dear Sir Philadelphia Augst. [17] 1 1779 I reed your favour of the 8th Inst, and fully Concur with you in Sentiment with respect to my not Calling upon you, with this difference, that if I had been previously told that I should not, I Should have scarcely beleived it possible. But the Case was this, I arrived at New Windsor in the afternoon— at Sun set the tide not favoring Sooner. I embarked in a boat for head quarters, where I was told you was arrived there between Eight 8c nine oClock—next morning the Gen’l proposed to me to ride out and View the works 8c lines which I very readily Complied with, the Genl himself very politely went with me 8c to every other place which I Suggested I wished to go. I expected to have Seen you at Genl Putnams where a board of Genl officers were met—but not finding you there 8c being informed that it was very uncertain whether you


[Page 426]
394 August 20, 1779 in return an equal number of French Subjects now in the power of the enemy; And it is also our desire that if you have in your posses sion more Marine Prisoners than are sufficient to redeem the Ameri cans in the hands of the enemy, that with the Surplus an Exchange be made for any French Prisoners that may be left with the enemy— Or failing in that way if the British Commissary will take your obliga tory receipt for any number of the subjects of his most Christian Majesty which he may now send out and deliver to you, you may pass the Same on behalf of the United [States] to be paid as soon as it shall be in your power. As the Minister of France is anxious to have this business concluded we recommend that you use all possible despatch in the execution of it. The Commissary for French Prison ers is now going into New York and in his way will call upon you, which may probably tend to facilitate the business. We request you will recur to our Instructions of the 14th of Octo ber last 1 wherein we recommend that you keep clear and distinct accounts of all expenditures attending the french Prisoners to pre vent any difficulty hereafter in the Settlement of them. We are Sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See these Letters, 11:57—58. Marine Committe to Joseph Reed Sir August 20th. 1779 Your Excellencys favour of yesterday with the enclosures is now before us. 1 It gives us great concern to hear that a Spirit of insolence and outrage manifests itself in the Officers and men of the Continen tal Vessels, and your Excellency may rest Assured that this Board will discountenance every attempt of the Officers and men under their direction to treat the magistracy or any other persons in the execution of Office with insult and contempt. We find ourselves embarrassed with the particular cases referred to in your Excellen cys Letter; as, on the one hand, to pass a censure on these officers, without hearing them in their defence would be considered as an Act of injustice; and having no authority to call before us any citizens of this State whereby we might lead to a partial decision on the Other hand. We therefore hope that the civil power will effectually redress the injuries complained of, and, we trust prevent the like in future. 2 With much esteem and respect we are, Your Excellencys Obedt humble servants


[Page 427]
August 21, 1779 395 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Not found. Reed’s protest of the Continental Navy’s contempt for Pennsylvania authority coincided with the denunciation by Continental officials of the Pennsylvania navy for impressing seamen of other states and citizens of France, for which see Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:656; and John Jay to Joseph Reed, June 29, 1779, note 2. 2 Despite this somewhat evasive Continental response, when Reed lodged a protest in October against Capt. Seth Harding of the Continental frigate Confederacy for impressing Pennsylvanians, the Marine Committee responded at once by recommend ing that no Continental commander impress “any person . . . without permission first obtained from the Legislative or executive authority of the State,” and Congress ordered Harding to discharge “immediately” any Pennsylvanians impressed by him. See Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 7:761—62; and JCC, 15:1201, 1204. Samuel Holten’s Diary [August 21, 1779] 21. Saturday. Congress recommended an imbargo to the several states to be continued to the 1st day of Jany next. 1 MS (MDaAr). 1 For this recommendation “to such of the states as have embargoes existing within them,” see John Jay to Caesar Rodney, August 30, 1779, note. John Jay to Guillaume de Luce Sir, Philadelphia 21st August 1779 I have the pleasure of transmitting to You herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 17th Inst, in which they have been pleased to express the favorable Opinion they entertain of your Merit & Services, and assign the reasons which restrain them from granting You the Brevet of Major. 1 The motives which induce You to return to France are cogent, & Congress have signified their Approbation by granting Fifteen hun dred Dollars for the Expences of your voyage, which you will be pleased to accept as a further mark of their Respect. With the best wishes for your Health & Happiness I am Sir, Your most Obedient, And Humble Servant. John Jay. Presid. RC (MH-H: bMS Am 1649.4). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 JCC, 14:952, 973. An undated memorial of Capt. Rene-Jean Guillaume de Luce (1749—1812), seeking a promotion to major and expenses to return home to France, which was referred to the Board of War on August 13, is in PCC, item 41, 5:220—21. For his arrival in America and earlier efforts to obtain a majority, see these Letters, 6:123n.3, 9:231n.3; and LaFayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:317—19, 337, 2:47, 168.


[Page 434]
402 August 23, 1779 Joseph Spencer to Joseph Ward Sr Philadelphia 23d August 1779 Yesterday I Reed, your 2d Letter of the 13th Instant and in answer to this and your 1st I observe that some time in the Spring, the Board of War Reported Relative to the pay of the Mustermasters Department, which report with the application on which it was grounded was Refered to a Special Committee of three, 1 the Com mittee made a report to Congress, they Seem’d not pleased with the report, at that time, and Recommitted the matter, and directed the Committee to make Some Enquiry (Relative to the Subject) of the Commander in Chief; the Committee accordingly wrote but there was Some delay in Sending the Letter by reason of Mr. Lawrence’s being out of health a few days, about that time, but it was Sent off before I reed your first Letter, and I then Concluded, that you would be acquainted fully with the Steps taken, & the particular State that matter was in before an answer from me Could reach you, which was the Special reason I delayed writing you an answer, but as it has hapned 1 am very sorry I did not write to you Immediately. With the Letter the Committe Transmitted all the papers Concern ing the Subject to his Excellency Genl. Washington and it is the desire of Mr. Lawrence with whom I have Confered this morning, as well as my own, that you will apply to his Excellency to know wheather he has reed, our Letter and the papers, we hope soon to have an answer from him, and then Something will doubtless Soon be determind in the Case, the matter being in this Situation I shall not diliver your Letter to the President untill I have your positive Direction. In great hast, I am Sir your Humble Sert. Joseph Spencer RC (ICHi: Ward Papers). Addressed: “Col. Joseph Ward, Comissary General of Musters, Camp Hudson River.” ' Ward had raised the issue of pay and allowances for “officers of the Mustering Department” in a June 14 memorial submitted by his deputy Azariah Horton, which had been referred on the 15th to a committee consisting of Spencer, Henry Laurens, and Nathaniel Scudder. On June 25 the committee brought in a report recommend ing pay increases for the department, but it was immediately recommitted and the committee was ordered to consult General Washington, who was simply asked whether the muster department should be continued or abolished. Presumably the fate of the department was set when Washington replied that its duties should be transferred to the inspector general’s department, but no immediate action was taken and Ward and his officers were left without relief until January 1780, when the recommendation was carried out. SeeJCC, 14:734, 770-71; PCC, item 41,4:67-74; and Committee of Congress to Washington, September 3, 1779. For Ward’s repeated efforts to prod Congress to action and the delegates’ seeming indifference to the plight of his officers, see also his letters to Elbridge Gerry, Samuel Huntington, Henry Laurens, and Jesse Root in PCC, item 78, 24:101-8, 121-24, 137-40, 167-70; George Partridge to Ward, October 19 and November 31? 1779, and January 3, 1780; and Samuel Hunt ington to Ward, January 14, 1780.


[Page 441]
August 24, 1779 409 Country that gave him Birth & reared him to Manhood—It may not be surprising if he should find powerful Friends and advocates. The Boston Papers intimate a reasonable Expectation of making a capital Stroke upon a Jamaica Fleet: and that Manly had taken a new built Frigate. Genl. Sullivan is penetrating the Indian Country & has destroyed two Indian Towns. The Flees could not be catched tho’ they gave Us several severe Bites. We indeed may not expect to catch Indians. But the destroying their Towns, and taking a Number of old Men, Women & Children may strike an awe upon Their Minds and secure us against future Depredations, & Barbarities upon Our Inhabitants. It is a mere Indian Expedition—I hope the Advantages will answer to the great Expence, and the Injury sustained by weakening other Posts for that Pursuit. Wishing allways for the best, I content myself with waiting for the Event. Your Express went off before I could prepair any Letters and wishing rather to write by Express, than the Post, I have omitted the acknowledging Your Goodness till now. I am much pleased as well as honored by Your Assurance that “At Times, when Matters worthy Note arise I may hear from You.” I heartily congratulate you upon the second brilliant Stroke upon the North River. The Glory acquired hereby to the American Army, the glorious Success of Our Allies in the West Indies—And the perfect most favourable Disposition of European Powers. I am Dr. Sir Yr friend & Servt, Hy. Marchant RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 See Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene, July 13 and August 10, 1779. 2 The American forces at Penobscot Bay had already been routed on August 14—15. 3 See John Jay to Gates, July 30; and Marchant to Silas Talbot, August 9, 1779. Henry Marchant to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 24th. 1779. I inclose to your Excellency three of the Weekly Journals ending the 24th of July last, and the last News Papers. I most heartily con gratulate your Excellency upon the fresh Glory acquired to the Ameri can Arms by a second Brilliant Stroke of the brave Major Lee upon the Fort & Garrison at Paulis Hook. We are every Moment in Expec tation of seeing the Prisoners pass thro’ the City 160 in Number. Several Schirmishes terminating much to Our Honor have happened on the East Side of the River. Genl. Sullivan is penetrating the Indian Country & has destroyed one considerable Indian Town. We hope the best of the Penobscot Expedition, but are not without our Fears. The Count De Staing is doing nobly in the West Indies—and in Europe every Thing is as it should be, at least as we would wish them


[Page 442]
410 August 24, 1779 to be. And if Our People who have nobly bled in this Cause and have dispised Death when held in Competition with their Freedom and Independance, will but most heartily dispise the thought of growing Rich upon Their Countrys Ruin—and freely lend & chearfully give their Money—the last dying Hope of Britain will fail and every earthy Blessing will be insured to us & to our Posterity for Ages unborn. I have not Time to add but that I am Yr. Excellencys, most obedient, and very humble Servt. Hy. Marchant [P. S.] Mr. Collins has been a Day or two in the Country. RC (R—Ar: Letters to Governors). Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen August 24th 1779 Since our last of the 17th we are favoured with yours of the 11th instant. 1 We hope the agreeable news of the Success of the Provi dence Queen of France and Ranger will turn out to answer your expectations and we wait anxiously to hear the event of the expedi tion to Penobscot. We highly disaprove of the behaviour of the Lieu tenants belonging to the Alliance in leaving that Vessel in a foreign Port, and we think they should be immediately Suspended until their conduct can be properly investigated. Should you be of the same opinion from what information you can at present get, we desire that it may be done, and when the Alliance returns and you can obtain sufficient proofs respecting their conduct, to bring them before a Court Martial, and [t/] it is your Opinion that the good of the service requires their being brought to trial, you will order a Court Martial for that purpose and transmit to us a Copy of the Proceedings. We shall hereafter write to you respecting the Powder wanted for the use of your Department, in the mean time We are, Gentlemen, Your very hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s letter of August 11 to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir August 24th 1779 You are hereby directed to sail with Continental frigate Confeder acy on a short cruize off the Capes of Delaware until the 5th of


[Page 443]
August 24, 1779 411 September next, chusing such Station as you shall think will be most likely to fall in with the Brigantine Eagle Captain John Ashmead belonging to the United States which is daily expected at this Port from the Island of St. Eustatia and has on board a lading of much consequence to the public. Should you meet with this vessel you must convoy her into the Bay so far as you may judge she will be safe from Capture by the enemy and afterward Cruize until the time above mentioned when you are to put into the Bay and call upon Major Henry Fisher at Lewis Town with whom will be lodged our further orders for Your government. The Navy Board will deliver you a set of Signals whereby the Eagle will be made known to you, to which please to attend & wishing you Success, We are Sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Gouverneur Morris to Robert R. Livingston Dear Livingston Philadelphia 24th Augt. 1779 Much of a Man’s political Opinion depends I believe upon his natural Temperament. I am a little sanguine and never look upon the dark Side of Objects unnecessarily. George the second heard from Lord Chesterfield a Conversation which passed in his Lordship’s Presence very abusive to the Prince but which terminated in a Quar rel when a French-Man took a Share in the Business of Detraction. The old Monarch laughed very heartily & replied by God my Lor I love my Subjick dey be ver good Subjick dey abuse me demself dey let no Body else abuse me. This is very much the Situation of the Ameri can Citizens & American Congress or I am much mistaken. As for the Committees 1 they are the Nebula leves which variegate the Horizon no more at least in the State of New York. The Bait was flattering. Let us regulate ie let us take our Neighbour’s Property and convert it to our Use. But unfortunately the Means are wanting because there is none of that Property in the State and the late Applications to the Philadelphia Committee will convince the People of their Folly. For Notwithstanding the warm Recommendations of the Committee of Albany the Agents could not gain Permission to carry away a single Peck of Salt. I have taken Measures to provide it for the State. As to the Gentleman you mention as having been concernd in promoting the Measure I doubt not that he has long felt the tedium of inactive Life but whether that or any other Cause hath prompted this Manoeuvre I will not pretend to discover without knowing which at this Distance I cannot do the several Minutize of Circumstances which color all human Conduct. As to the Changes you mention to have happened in our Legisla ture I am truly far from regretting them. It shews me that there hath


[Page 444]
412 August 24, 1779 been much of Indolence somewhere and I conjecture everywhere. This will be punished but of Consequence it will be for a Time at least cured. What you may be able to do and had far to restrain others from Doing I know not. As to the Gentleman you mention to be sent hither it is of little Consequence. I have seen virtuous Labors so often overthrown that I am inured to it. The high Character which the State of New York has gained must sometime or other fall and whether it be this or a future Year Is not of much Importance. I have labored long to support it and when the State dismiss me from their Service I shall be dismissed from my Labors. As to the Desire of avoiding Censure. I consider it as a trifling Motive. Let a Man take a great Line of Conduct and let him take the Consequences. As to the Revolutions in Philadelphia Politicks I said nothing because I had nothing to say. 2 I perceive no Revolution but I have long perceived revolution Principles. This State is a great unweildy Mass badly jointed. If I may be allowed the Expression it is hooped by Opposition and when that ends must crumble to Pieces. I tell you here the Observations of a Spectator for I cautiously avoid medling in Matters of this Sort unless indeed in Cases, should such happen, where the great Continental Interests are at Stake. As to our Friend Morris he stands in good Estimation indeed the Thing could not be otherwise for an honester Man is not on Earth and the attacks made on him have demonstrated it. Your former Letters were received. Some Persons have of late busied themselves to [ . . . ] Arthur Lee the Success of which will I imagine be counter to the Attacks on Morris and equally disappoint the Projectors. Spain hath at Length taken a decided Part whereon I congratulate you and my other Friends. To all of them remember me with the Warmth of Affection. Adieu. Yours, Gouv Morris RC (NHi: Robert R. Livingston Papers). 1 Morris is apparently responding to a letter from Livingston of August 8 in which he mentioned “the attempts of the county of Albany to imitate the Philadelphia Committee in regulations &c.” The draft of this letter is in the Livingston Papers, NHi. 2 For the charge that Morris had involved himself in the politics of Pennsylvania, see Morris’ letters to Joseph Reed, April 9, 25, and July 9, 1779. Nathaniel Peabody to Meshech Weare Hond. and Dear Sir, No. 5. Philada. 24h of Augt. 1779. I had the honr. of receiving your kind favour of the lOh instant, per Post, And am Extreamly obliged to you for the intelligence therein Contain’d. 1


[Page 457]
August 28, 1779 425 Arthur Lee’s letters “relative to Papers” of the commissioners are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:51-52, 54, 76-78, 89-90, 102. 4 This day, “According to order, Congress took into consideration the report of the committee relative to finance.” JCC, 14:1005. 5 Arthur Lee’s April 27, 1779, letter concerning the contract with the French Farm ers General is in PCC, item 83, 2:537—44. 6 The letters listed here by Lovell, except as noted, are in PCC. 7 This may be the letter “without date” from Arthur Lee recorded in the journals on July 15, but no March 4, 1779, letter of Arthur is in the PCC. JCC, 14:836. 8 Charles Thomson’s rough-draft journal records that letters from William Lee of September 12 and 21 and October 15, 1778, were read on February 22, 1779. PCC, item 1, 20:264. No William Lee letter of September 20 or 21, 1778, has been found in PCC. 9 Arthur Lee’s April 23, 1779, “memorial” is not in PCC, but it was printed as Observations on Certain Commercial Transactions in France Laid before Congress (Philadelphia: Printed by F. Bailey in Market-Street, 1780). Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 16,819. William Sharpe to Thomas Burke Dear Sir Philadelphia Augt. 28th 1779 I most heartily congratulate you on the success of Major Lee against Powles-hook. The very difficult approaches, and the very dangerous retreat, makes it if possible a more brilliant affair than that of Stoney point—particulars of which you may see in one of the inclosed Papers. Genl. Washingtons & Major Lee’s letters came to hand yesterday accompanyed by the British Standard—but too late to have a place in this mornings paper. The new Minister has not arived at this place. No news from Europe since you left us—nor from the West Indies. No certain accounts of the surrender of Penobscot—reported that it surrendered the 5th Instant. I think it may be depended on that Arbuthnot arived at New York the beginning of the week. It is said he has about 4000 Troops. Last Sunday one of Blair Mclenahans armed vessels took one of Arbuthnots fleet off Eggharbor & sent into this River—she will be up to day it is said her cargo consists of a number of pieces of Brass artilery, Cloathing, Tea, Silks &c.—of great value. Nothing of importance done in Congress since your Departure— have now taken up the subject for stoping farther emissions. Sir your Most obt. Servt. Wm Sharpe RC (Nc—Ar: Burke Papers).


[Page 458]
426 August 29, 1779 John Jay to Baron de Knobelauch Sir, Philadelphia 29th August 1779. I have the pleasure of transmitting to You, herewith enclosed, a copy of an Act of Congress of the 26th Inst. It expresses the sense entertained of your Merit as an Officer, and your zeal for the wel fare of these States, And provides a compensation for the Expences attending your Endeavours to serve them. 1 With Sentiments of Esteem, I am Sir, Your most Obedient and Humble Servant. John Jay, Presidt RC (DNA: PCC, item 78). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by jay- 1 Knobelauch, “a Nobleman of an ancient Family” in Brandenburg, had been per mitted to serve as a volunteer in the Continental Army since August 1778, but his persistent requests for a commission and a position more to his satisfaction fell on deaf ears. In its resolve of August 26, Congress thanked the baron for “his zeal to serve these states” and appropriated 5,000 Continental dollars “to defray his expences in coming to America, and to enable him to return to Europe.” In a response to Congress of September 4, Knobelauch expressed surprise that he should be offered only the equivalent of $250 specie, which would cover but one twenty-fifth part of his actual expenses, and renewed his application for a more adequate sum. As a result of this appeal, Congress reconsidered his case and on September 16 increased their grant to $10,000. For Knobelauch’s American saga, see JCC, 13:464, 14:934-36, 996-97, 15:1021, 1069-70; these Letters, 10:442n.5; and the dozen letters and memorials he submitted to Congress in PCC, item 78, 13:459—62, 471—78, 493—96, 507—20, 527—52, especially the long June 2, 1780, letter recapitu lating his trials at fols. 559—66. John Jay to Joseph Reed Sir, Philadelphia 29th Augt. 1779. Herewith enclosed Your Excellency will receive an Extract of a Letter from the Board of War, and a copy of an Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, respecting Rations furnish’d by Commissaries of the United States, to the distressed Inhabitants of the Frontiers of Pennsylvania. 1 I have the honor to be Sir, with great Respect Your Excellency’s most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Congress had received an appeal from a body of inhabitants of Northumberland County, Pa., for permission to draw rations from the Continental commissary of issues in the area, citing their distress because of recent incursions from Indians on the frontier. The Board of War reluctantly recommended that since rations were in fact currently available, the commissary be authorized to continue to distribute them temporarily, chargeable to the state of Pennsylvania, but that the legislature be reminded of its responsibility to make provision for the region “in future.” See JCC, 14:1004; and PCC, item 147, 3:581-85.


[Page 459]
August 30, 1779 427 John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 29th Augt. 1779. I have been honored with your Excellency’s Favors of the 21, 23, 23rd Instant, and the several papers referred to in them. 1 The enclosed copy of an Act of Congress of the 27th Inst, will communicate to your Excellency the sense of Congress relative to your Plan for conducting, & measures for executing the western Expedition. 2 I have the Honor to be, with the greatest Respect and Esteem, Your Excellencys Most Obedient Servant. John Jay, Presidt RC (DLC: Washington Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 Washington’s August 21 and two August 23 letters to Jay are in PCC, item 152, 7:605 — 8, 625—28, 669—72, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:140—42, 155-57. 2 Washington’s “Plan for conducting & measures for executing the western Expedition” had been communicated to Congress in a letter of August 15, which was referred to a committee on the 23d. Congress’ August 27 resolve adopting the committee’s recommendations simply concluded “that Congress are perfectly satis fied with the General’s conduct relative to the same.” JCC, 14:989, 1004. Committee on Appeals Decree August 30th. 1779. Joseph Stanton Esqr. & al Lib[ellan]ts \ & App[ellan]ts &c. vs 1 Appeal from The Schooner Two Brothers her Cargo &c. ( the State of Samuel Champlin &c. Claim[an]t & App[ell]ee) Rhode Island. 1 We the Commissioners appointed by Congress to hear, try and determine all Appeals from the Courts of Admiralty of the several American States to Congress having heard and fully considered as well all and singular the Matters and Things contained and set forth in the Record or Minutes of the proceedings of the Court of Admi ralty for the State of Rhode Island in the above Cause as the Argu ment of the Advocate on the part of the Appellants and no person appearing on the part of the Appellees (altho’ sufficient Notice appeared to have been given them) do thereupon adjudge and decree that the Sentence or Judgment of the Court aforesaid be in all its parts revoked, reversed and annulled and that the Schooner or Ves sel called the Two Brothers abovementioned with her Tackle, Apparel and Furniture and all and singular the Goods, Wares and Merchan dize laden and found on board her at the Time of her Capture as mentioned in the Bill of the said Joseph Stanton and others filed in the above Cause be condemned as lawful Prize to and for the Use


[Page 464]
432 August 31, 1779 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Glascock’s July 10 letter to Congress is in PCC, item 73, fols. 240—45. 2 Georgia was apprehensive that “being one half in full Possession of the enemy” and not represented in Congress, she might be abandoned by her sister states. Con gress therefore resolved that “Georgia be assured of the determination of Congress to give them all possible support,” and appropriated $500,000 for her defense to pro vide tangible evidence of their commitment. See JCC, 14:990—91, 1006. For the situation in beleaguered Georgia at this time, see also Edward Langworthy to John Houstoun, April 5, 1779, note 2. 3 Glascock had written that one of his spies had recently been in Savannah, where “he was Invited to Breakfast with Col. Prevost. . . and while the Governor was busy he pretended to Amuse himself with some books that lay about in the room and in the mean time discoverfed] two letters that had been Just wrote,” details so specific that he could easily have been identified had Glascock’s letter been intercepted. John Jay to Benjamin Lincoln Sir, Philadelphia 31st Augt. 1779. I have been honored with your favors of the 9th & 22nd Ulto. They were immediately communicated to Congress & committed. No Resolutions have as yet been entered into on the Subject matter of them; Whenever these are they shall be transmitted without delay. 1 You will perceive by a copy of an Act of Congress of the 30th Inst, that in the case specified in it the money allotted for Georgia & sent to Joseph Clay Esqr. will be disposed of by your advice or that of the Commander of the forces in your Department for the time being. 2 I have the honor to be Sir with great, Respect & Esteem Your most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 Neither of these letters is in PCC, but the general’s letterbook copies are in the Lincoln Papers, MHi. 2 See the preceding entry, note 2. John Jay to George Washington Dear Sir, Philadelphia 31 Augt. 1779 The enclosed Account of the Reinforcement with Admiral Ar buthnot is copied from one reed, by Mr. Jos. Wharton from his Friend in Paris. 1 The Confidence Mr. Wharton has in his Correspon dent induces him to think this Account may be relied upon. I am Dear Sir, with perfect Regard, your most obt. Servant. John Jay P.S. Mr. Wharton would not chuse that this line of Intelligence should be generally known.


[Page 465]
August 31, 1779 433 RC (DLC: Washington Papers). 1 Wharton’s correspondent, writing on May 25, 1779, reported that he had “just received certain advice from a Gentleman in office in London,” that Adm. Marriot Arbuthnot was preparing to sail for America with four ships of the line, all 74s, and 2,800 reinforcements. This enclosure, in Jay’s hand, is in the Washington Papers, DLC. See also Jay to Washington, August 30, 1779. Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee My Dear sir, Philadelphia 31st August 1779. Since the date of my last trouble the 24th Inst. 1 I have been hon ored with your favors of the 13th & 23d, 2 The former by an express Messenger, who assured me he should not return till this day, but I learned last Night at Mr. Lovel’s that he went off suddenly on Sunday. Yesterday I received at Congress two Packets & one small Letter directed to you, these I apprehend came by the Eastern Post, at Mr. Lovel’s request I shall send them to him to be forwarded in a proper manner. I am sorry to find you continue an Invalid, but how can it be otherwise if you also continue to fatigue both body & mind. You must not allow the attempts & designs of wicked Men to operate in the very manner they would wish, let us proceed fairly, & softly & wisely and truth will drive them out of their entrenchments, they are now closely hemmed in & cannot escape. On Tuesday last at the reading of a Letter from A. Lee Esqr. I moved to commit that Letter together with Mr. Lee’s vindication to a special Committee, 3 besides the reason of the thing, I grounded my motion on a Commitment of a late Memoire from Mr. Deane, a Copy of which you will receive herewith, you will give this perform ance a proper name 4 —the Motion was laboriously opposed & in C. T’s language, 5 after sometime spent in debate, ousted by a motion for adjournment. On some day since Tuesday, a Report from the Treasury was taken up recommending a Warrant to Issue for 10000 Dollars to the Honorble S. D. Esqr in full for his Expenses, from the 4th June 1778. I opposed the Payment of that or any Sum to Mr. Deane until he should account for the large Sums of Public Money which have been in his hands—the question was put shall ten thousand stand— lost. Motion to insert 15000—question lost—to insert 12000—lost—to insert 10500—carried even by voices who were against 10000 or any Sum, because they were wearied & had been wearied; this deficiency of firmness & perseverance is the source of much irregu larity & much evil in public business. The Yeas & Nays were called for in every stage & finally upon the Resolution, I reflect with plea sure that I stand uniformly through the whole. 6 A question was asked of the Treasury, has Mr. Deane given in an account of his expences? artfully replied to by a Gentleman 7 who had formerly


[Page 466]
434 August 31, 1779 given proofs of his abilities in answering Interrogatories—not a regu lar one—not a regular one—this Gentleman perfectly well knew, that Mr. Deane had given in a very minute one, amounting to 29000 Dollars & upwards, he also knew the artifice which had been prac ticed by one of his Colleagues on The Board to repossess Mr. Deane of a Paper which he discovered could not be crammed down the throats even of the Treasury. I had seen that account & had been promised a Copy of it but as I am informed, Mr. Duane the very next morning acted a high pas sion of offence at so shameful a demand & his zeal for the public good carried him rather beyond the line of prudence, he ordered that the Account should be immediately carried back to the deman dant, with a declaration that Congress would allow no such ac counts—as Mr. Deane has not judged it proper to return that or any other, ’tis not to be doubted but that a Gentleman of Mr. Duane’s candor now regrets his rashness in parting with the original. I received this relation from one of those worthy friends who sincerely wish to see right done, but who will not encounter the trouble necessary to accomplish right. I shall endeavor to trace this matter to its source & possibly the whole House will be informed of it. Saturday last a Letter from Mr. Wm. Lee accompanied by his vindication was brought into Congress, but the “Order of the day” laid those papers asleep, yesterday an attempt was made to keep them out of hearing a little longer, I complained heavily of the Innovation & after much debate they were in part read, the House grew thin, & at length only eight states being present, adjourned—I believe I am wrong, W L’s papers were read, those from A L. were not. 8 My Colleague Mr. Drayton has been confined to his Bed some three weeks past, when I had learned that he was really Ill, I could not refrain from visiting him, his permission being previously obtained. When I approached his Bed he clasped my hand & wept affectingly. After recovering his voice he signified his great satisfac tion at seeing me & particularly requested I would write a state of his Case to Mrs. Drayton—the Physicians think him dangerously Ill, say he may live one or two weeks longer—that if he has strength to support the discharge from an abscess in his side, they shall raise him again, but that he will remain an Invalid several Months. Upon Mr. Drayton’s recovery or upon the arrival of another Col league my continuance here partly depends, but I am much inclined to return homeward in the course of next Month, I believe I shall have the honor of waiting on you before the 1st October. Finances as they were. News from Penobscot very unfavorable but no particulars. I would compound for the loss of all our Ships provided the Soldiers & Sailors escape Capture. Dunlap’s Paper of this Morning will pres ent Rowland some intelligence. 9 I beg Sir you will present my Compliments to your Brother I shall


[Page 475]
September 1, 1779 443 Mr. Thomson’s Answer—It is not yet entered on the Journal. Go back to Mr. Thomson, give my Compliments and tell him Mr. Duer and Mr. Lanuville are now here, and that Mr. Duer is desirous of seeing it as it is. Mr. Thomson’s answer—I can’t and will not send it—I have it only scrabled on a Piece of Paper. Mr. Duer expressed great surprise at Mr. Thomson’s behaviour and at my patience, and then retired. I then sent Mr. Custer with the following Message—Go back to Mr. Thomson, give my Compliments to him, tell him I am much obliged, and I must submit to him. Mr. T’s. Ansr.—Well, tell him I am very glad he must submit. Mr. Custer assured me, that Mr. Thomson had in every instance abovementioned expressed himself with great anger and haughtiness. Mr. Thaxter, one of Mr. Thomson’s Clerks who was present at the delivery of the Messages and answers abovementioned related the circumstance to Major Young, and expressed his astonishment at Mr. Thomson’s extraordinary behaviour. When the Honorable John Adams was appointed a Commissioner at the Court of Versailles, the Secretary produced to me, as Presi dent of Congress, a Commission to sign for that Gentleman. I observed to him that the writing was on a single Piece of Paper, much crowded, blotted and interlined, and that he should consider the Commission was to make its appearance before the Court of Versailles, and probably before the King of France, therefore I requested him to have a more decent and correct Copy made; he replied very abruptly—I can’t do it over again. I then in the mildest terms said, Mr. Thomson, I will have it copied over fairly in a good hand, and will sign it and you will have nothing to do but to attest it—he imperiously answered, I won’t. 4 After Congress returned to Philadelphia I had frequent occasions to send my Secretary for attested Copies of Resolves of Congress in order to forward them agreeable to the order of the House, in several instances Mr. Thomson returned me for answer, that he had not the Key of the Office, that it was with one of his Clerks, and he did not know where they lodged—these answers were brought to me by my Secretary Major Young, who avers that in many instances which he never reported to me 5 the answers were given abruptly and unmannerly. To mark these facts as being barely disrespectful, is dealing ten derly with Mr. Thomson, because I must otherwise charge him with having entrusted all the Public Records in the hands of strangers whose very abode he was ignorant of. Some time in May last I went into the Secretary’s Office and inti mated to Mr. Thomson that I was desirious of taking out an old Printed Bill of the British House of Commons, commonly called the Fishery Bill, in order to extract a part of it. Mr. Thomson replied, I


[Page 477]
September 1, 1779 445 have the honor of being one, and I trust the Committee will view them in the same light, and honor the Body by doing justice to its Members. Philadelphia Wednesday A.M. 1st Sepr 1779 Henry Laurens. MS (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 22). In the hand of Moses Young, and dated and signed by Laurens. MS (PHi: Laurens Papers). In the hand of Moses Young, and dated and signed by Laurens. 1 In response to Laurens’ “complaint against the Secretary of Congress for disre spectful behavior,” Congress appointed a committee on August 31 “to enquire into the complaint” and “hear the Secretary in his vindication.” To this committee, consist ing of William Churchill Houston, chairman, Samuel Huntington, and William Paca, Laurens delivered this signed statement of his charges, and the following week the committee received a similar document from Thomson, containing his “vindication.” See JCC, 14:1008; and Charles Thomson to a Committee of Congress, September 6, 1779. There is no other mention of this matter in the journals, but two bits of evidence now brought together for the first time make it possible to conjecture the resolution of the incident. On the verso of the statement that Laurens prepared for the commit tee is found the following cryptic notes in his hand. “Complaint vs. Secretary. Tues day 31st Augt., to Chair Man, to Mr Paca Thurs. Friday 3d dd [delivered]. Thursday Mr. D. had proposed, prosd. Compromise. Wdsdy 8th.” Laurens, it now seems clear, is here referring to his delivery of copies of this document to committee chairman Houston and Paca, and to a compromise proposed by one “Mr. D.” The nature of this compromise and the identity of “Mr. D.” as john Dickinson can be conjectured from the two following brief paragraphs drafted by him on a scrap of paper located in the Logan-Dickinson Collection, PHi. The first paragraph contains a statement which Dickinson undoubtedly hoped that his old friend Thomson would find acceptable; the second was similarly intended for Laurens, whose acceptance would render a committee report and formal congressional resolve on the subject unnecessary. “I am sorry,” Dickinson wrote, “that any Difference has arisen between Mr. & Me [i.e., Charles Thomson], I declare, that it was not my Intention to give him any Offence the Day on which he made his Complaints and that it has been & is my wish on all Occasions to treat him with Respect.” “I shall at all Times,” the statement intended for Laurens reads, “treat Mr with Respect—and am as much concern’d as he can be, that any Difference has arisen between Us. I am willing, that the Committee should obtain Leave of Congress to be discharged from making a Report.” The absence of any further mention of the episode suggests that both Thomson and Laurens agreed to Dickinson’s proposed compromise, and Laurens’ endorse ment on the document printed here indicates that the details of it were probably worked out on Wednesday, September 8. 2 Apparently May 15, 1778, since “the deliberations of Congress respecting Monsr. Lanuville the preceding Morning” refer to the appointment of the chevalier de La Neuville as inspector general of the northern department on May 14, 1778. See JCC, 11:498—99; and these Letters, 9:644n.2, 680—81. 3 The dialogue between Laurens and James Custer and Charles Thomson and Custer reconstructed here is also the subject of the following related document, written and signed by Custer. “About 5 oClock in the afternoon on the “Mr. Laurens, go to Mr. Thomson & give my Compliments to him ask him to send me the Resolution respecting Mr. Laneuville. “Mr. Thomson, It’s not yet entered in the Journal. “Mr. Laurens, go back to Mr. Thomson & give my Compliments to him & tell him


[Page 480]
448 September 3, 1779 the most reasonable terms they shall be able—that being the quantity necessary to Supply the Public Exigences the Current Year. This quantity must be drawn principally from the States of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and Virginia—of which the quota of your State is calculated at twelve thousand Barrels. The present exhausted Condition of our Magazines having not more than a Supply of three weeks on hand as appears by the inclosed Extract from the Commissary Generals Letter—the impractibillity of drawing any immediate Supplies from the States of New York and Jersey calls for the most vigorous Exertions of the powers of your State 1 to Co-operate with and facilitate Col. Ephraim Blaine Deputy Commissary General of Purchases for the Middle District in procur ing the Supplies of Flour so immediately wanted. Your Excellencys well known Ardour in the Common Cause will need no Incitements to induce you to lend Col. Blaine every assis tance in your power to promote a business so pressing and Impor tant in such way and by such means as Your Excellency with him shall think most proper and necessary. Signed per Order of the Comtte for Superintending the Commis sary & Quarter Masters departments, your Excellencys most obedt. & most humble Servant, Jesse Root, Chairman RC (NHi: Rodney Manuscripts). In a clerical hand and signed by Jesse Root. 1 A nearly identical letter from Root to Maryland governor Thomas Johnson, set ting the Maryland flour quota at “Fifty thousand Barrels,” is in the Red Books, MdHi. If Root wrote similar letters to Pennsylvania and Virginia, they have not been found. Committee of Congress to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 3d September 1779. We have received Your Excellency’s favor of the 20th Ulto. & return our thanks for its contents, which will afford us much assis tance in forming a Report to Congress respecting the Mustering department, but the Papers which accompanied our Letter of the 5th July are also necessary to our further proceeding, we therefore request you Sir, to order these to be transmitted to us by an early opportunity. 1 We have the honor to be, with very great Esteem & Respect, Sir, Your Excellency’s Most obedient & humble servants, signed by desire of the Committee, Henry Laurens RC (DLC: Washington Papers). Written and signed by Henry Laurens. 1 In their letter of July 5, the committee, consisting of Laurens, Nathaniel Scudder, and Joseph Spencer, had asked Washington whether the muster department should be abolished or continued, and after convening a council of general officers he reported their opinion that the department “was now become unnecessary.” The reason, he explained, was that the expanded duties of the inspector general’s depart ment now substantially included those of the muster-masters.


[Page 481]
September 3, 1779 449 The matter seems not to have been urgent, however, for not until after Woodbury Langdon and George Partridge replaced Laurens and Spencer in November did the committee submit a report, which was written by Partridge. The committee’s recom mendation for abolishing the muster department was eventually adopted by Congress on January 12, 1780. See JCC, 14:734,770-71, 15:1274, 1329-30, 16:47; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:134 — 36, 276; PCC, item 152, 7:599—602, 8:17 — 20, item 19, 3:187-89; and Wright, The Continental Army, p. 145. The committee’s original letter to Washington of July 5 has not been found. For the appointment of this committee in response to a June 14 petition from “the officers of the Mustering Department,” see Joseph Spencer to Joseph Ward, August 23, 1779, note. John Fell’s Diary Friday September 3d. 79. Comi Committee. Congress. This day the Question was finaly decided almost unanimously not to Emit any more Bills then will amount to 200 Million of Dollars, And a Committee of 5 were appointed to frame a Circular Letter to the Legislatures of the differ ent States, for the Purpose of raising the Supplys Per Taxes and Loans. 1 PM Marine Committee. MS (DLC). 1 For the appointment of this committee, and the circular letter that was sent to the states, see JCC, 15:1019-20, 1036; and John Jay to the States, September 14, note 3. Samuel Holten’s Diary Sepr. 3. [1779] Friday. Last evening Mr. Langdon a delegate from New Hamp shire arrived here. 1 N. B. We have a great quantity of rain. MS (MDaAr). 1 Woodbury Langdon began attending Congress this day. JCC, 15:1018. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir September 3. 1779 Agreeable to our Instructions of the 24th ultimo we now send this by Express to Lewis Town to be delivered you by Major Fisher; and you are hereby directed to proceed with the Confederacy to Chester where we expect you will remain but a few days. We are Sir, Your Hble servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).


[Page 482]
450 September 3, 1779 Marine Committee to Okey Hoagland Sir September 3d. 1779 By recommendation of the Delegates of the State of New Jersey Congress have appointed you Continental Agent in that State as by their Resolve of the 1st. instant which is enclosed. 1 In that station it will fall to your share, to supply all Continental Cruizers or other Vessels in the Continental service, with Provisions, Stores & neces- sarys to assist the Captains and Officers in whatever may be needful to advance them monies necessary for their supply, give them advice and in all things take care of the Interests of the United States. If any Prizes are sent into New Jersey by the Continental Cruizers you are to receive them, libel and prosecute them to condemnation—then make public sale of vessels, cargoes and All effects that are con demned (unless ordered otherwise) and for your guidance we send you A Pamplet containing the Rules and Regulations in these respects. You are duely to transmit to this Committee Inventories of All Prizes and their Cargoes taken by the Continental Vessels of war and sent into your State, and such parts of the Cargoes as we may order to be kept for the Public use, are not to be sold but valued and reserved agreeable to our Orders. You are regularly to transmit to this Com mittee sales of all Prizes by you disposed of, which Sales are to correspond with the Inventories first taken, and hold the Proceeds ready to be paid agreeable to our Orders. All expences attending the Condemnation, receiving and disposeing of Prizes are to be deducted from the Sales before any distribution is made. The Continental Sloop Argo commanded by Silas Talbot Esqr. has lately sent into Egg Harbour some Prizes which will come under your Direction. It is therefore our desire that you immediately repair to that place, and do what may be needful respecting the said Prizes. You will examine their Papers and determine by the Rules and Regulations of Congress what part of them belongs to the Public. We have had a schedule furnished us of the Cargo of One of those Prizes—She is a Brigantine called the Chance and has on board, a lading of Provisions which is now much wanted for the Public use. 2 We therefore desire that you will divide her Cargo if convenient, and reserve the Continental half of all the articles which compose the same for Public use, except the Bread and Oyle which may be sold. And if the share of the Captors is sold on reasonable terms, that you will purchace it for the Public (except the above mentioned Articles of Bread & Oyle) and have the whole safely stored and kept for the further Orders of this Committee. You will please to advise us of your proceedings in this business and transmit us a particular Account of the Purchases which you make. We are sir, Your Hble servants, LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book).


[Page 485]
September 4, 1779 453 2 James Rivington had printed captured letters from Sayre to Isaac Sears of August 25 and to Lewis of September 29, 1778, in the June 26, 1779, issue of his New York Royal Gazette. 3 Lewis obviously added this postscript on July 10, 1780, as his reference to “November last” below is to an event of November 1779. 4 Sayre probably never received this letter, because Laurens, who left Philadelphia on August 13, 1780, was captured by the British on the way to Europe and his papers were confiscated. Gouverneur Morris to the Public [September 4? 1779] Perusing the General Advertizer of Saturday August the 14th, I* observe the author of a piece in it, signed a Citizen of Philadelphia, speaking of the crown’s unappropriated lands, says “the brave citi zens of these States were led to believe, that if they risqued their lives and gave their present services, nothing more was ever to be required of them” meaning, I suppose, as he says afterwards, that, “these lands and the King’s quit rents, would render unnecessary any tax which might be laid, and prove a sinking fund of itself, sufficient to wipe off every public debt.” 2 Without making any strictures on the injustice of some of the States appropriating to themselves all these lands, contrary to the spirit of the confederation; to the prejudice of the others, who have equally fought and bled for them; on the danger that will hereafter arise from the great superiority they will derive from the settlement of such immense tracts of territory; the evils that will accrue from opening a Land-Office at this time,—or without censuring those servants of the public who signed away the unalienable rights of their constituents, without reflection or reserve. I will give the inhabitants of the Thirteen United States of America, a calculation of the number of acres, and the value of the Crown Lands which Virginia alone claims, westward of the Alleghany mountains; for the sale of a part of which, an office is to be opened by that State, in October next, at Williamsburg. From this calculation they will be able to judge, whether or not the author was mistaken, when he says, “These lands, and the King’s quit rents would render unnecessary any tax,” &c.—or whether it is not an object to them of consequence sufficient to give instructions to their Delegates in Congress, to insist on the King’s unappropriated Lands being sold or reserved for the benefit of the States at large? The lands Virginia claims upon the south-east side of the Ohio river, (for the sale of the greater part of which they propose to open an office next October) is contained within the following boundaries, to wit: Beginning at the West end of the Southern boundary line of the State of Pennsylvania, thence along the Western boundary line of the said State, to where it intersects the 40th degree of North latitude, thence along the said 40th degree to the river Ohio, thence down the said river Ohio to


[Page 488]
456 September 5, 1779 of securing its essential Objects, Liberty & Independance, is unalter able; that, they are determined by all the Exertions in their power to advance the Common Cause, and to demonstrate, that while they are attentive to their own Interests, they ardently desire to approve themselves not only faithful but affectionate Allies. Your Residence in America for more than thirteen Months, has enabled You to form a competent Judgement of the Difficulties We have had to encounter during that period; and, We are convinced, your Candor will render You an unexceptionable Witness, how far by these our Efforts have been prevented from corresponding with our Inclinations. Sir, We should be very deficient in the Respect due to distin guished Merit, if We did not embrace this opportunity of testifying, the exceedingly high Esteem, which You have obtained throughout this Country by your public & private Conduct. You have happily combined a vigilant Devotion for the Dignity & Interests of our most excellent & illustrious Ally, with a zealous Attachment to those of these States. Your Prudence, Integrity, Ability & Diligence in dis charging the eminent Trust reposed in You have deserved our entire Confidence, & now sollicit from the strongest Declaration of our perfect Satisfaction in your Behaviour. That the Divine Goodness may grant you the Approbation of your Sovereign, a favorable Voyage, the Restoration of your Health & all Happiness, is among the warmest Wishes of every Member of this Body. MS (PHi: Logan-Dickinson Collection). In the hand of Dickinson and endorsed by Henry Laurens: “Answer to Mr. Gerard.” Dickinson’s rough draft of this address, heavily revised and interlined, is also preserved in the Logan-Dickinson Collection. The text printed here is essentially a clean copy prepared for Laurens’ perusal and contains few revisions from the rough draft. 1 On September 3, a copy of the speech by which the French minister “means to take leave of Congress” was referred to a committee consisting of Dickinson, Henry Laurens, and William Paca with instructions to “prepare an answer.” On the fifth Dickinson sent this draft reply to Laurens with the following note: “Sunday Morning. Mr. Dickinson presents his Compliments to Mr. Laurens, & sends him the Copy of the Minister’s Speech, with a rough Draft of an Answer, which he desires Mr. Laurens will please to alter or correct in such Manner as will be most agreable to his sentiments.” Since the text bears only a brief endorsement in Laurens’ hand, he apparently pro posed no significant changes. The committee’s report was read in Congress on Sep tember 6 and was debated and approved the following day. In a private audience with Congress on September 17, Gerard read his speech and John Jay read Congress’ reply, which varies only slightly from this Dickinson draft. See JCC, 15:1018, 1032, 1035, 1072-74, 1085.


[Page 489]
September 6, 1779 457 John Fell’s Diary [September 6—7, 1779] Monday Sepr. 6th. Coml Committee. Congress. Sundry Letters, Memorials & Petitions. PM Marine Committee. Tuesday Sepr 7th. Coml Committee. Congress. A number of Letters, One from the Duke De Virgens advising of his suspicions, of making Peace without his Court. Refferd to a Committee of three vizt. 1 MS (DLC). 1 For the letter from the comte de Vergennes “advising of his suspicions” submitted to Congress this day, see John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney, September 8; and John Jay to Conrad Alexandre Gerard, September 25, 1779. Fell failed to enter the names of the three committee members—William Churchill Houston, Samuel Huntington, and John Mathews. JCC, 15:1034. John Jay to Thomas Jefferson Sir, Philadelphia 6th Septr. 1779. You will receive herewith enclosed a copy of an Act of Congress of the 4th Inst, giving Lieut. Colonel Simms leave of Absence from his Regiment until the 20th Novr. next, together with copies of two letters on that subject, one from General Washington of the 19th Ulto. the other from Lieut. Coll. Simms of the 2nd Inst. It is the wish of Congress that Coll. Simms may be enabled to join his Regiment as speedily as possible & that such measures may be taken relative to the business which calls him to Virginia as may render applications for like Indulgences from other officers under similar circumstances unnecessary. 1 I have the honor to be, With great Respect and Esteem, Your Excellencys Most Obedient Servant, John Jay. Presid RC (Vi: Continental Congress Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay. 1 Congress had referred Lt. Col. Charles Simms’ request for leave to General Wash ington on August 7, and in an August 19 response to Congress, Washington had explained his opposition to Simms’ request. But notwithstanding the commander in chiefs opposition, Simms renewed his appeal on September 2, and on the fourth Congress resolved to grant him leave “till the 20th day of November.” Despite this victory, Simms subsequently decided he could not rejoin his regiment and on Novem ber 18 submitted his resignation from the army. Ina letter of December 8, 1779, Pres. Samuel Huntington notified him that Congress had accepted his resignation. See Jay to Washington, August 8; JCC, 15:1018, 1025, 1357; PCC, item 14, fol. 244, item 78, 20:459—62, 479—82; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:129-30.


[Page 492]
460 September 6, 1779 offended as to oblige him to complain of me to Congress. He denied his having made any complaint and asked, who informed me. I told him, Some members of Congress. He said, it is a damned lie. They are damned liars that informd. The expression struck me dumb with surprize. He left the room. Turning around I happened to see one of the gentlemen who gave me the information. I repeated to him what had passed. We walked out together. The night was dark; As we passed the end of the house conversing on the subject, he had stopped and hearing our conversation, though we did not see him, he repeated aloud, It is a damned lie. I cannot say which was greatest, my astonishment or resentment. However we passed on without making reply, and I determined before I took any farther steps in the matter to consult with my friends. But in a short time after my resentment was lost in grief and amazement, when, in the midst of the public distress, I saw him at the afternoon sessions so far unmind ful of his station and dignity as to rise and debate questions as a delegate, then sit down and as president hear himself replied to, and at one of those debates or altercations so far forget himself as to answer an honble member from North Carolina 3 by singing aloud, when in the chair “Poor little Penny, poor little penny; sing tantara rara” And at another time when he was reading a report brought in by an honble member from the state of Massachusetts bay which was under debate, to stop in the middle of a sentence and exclaim “Solomon gundy! Did you ever see such a solomon gundy!” which raised such indignation that the honble. member left the room and Congress was adjourned. Upon seeing this conduct, I took no far ther notice of what had passed respecting myself determining how ever to be upon my guard and to give as little cause of offence as possible. This I found the more necessary as he continued by a thousand undescribable ways to teize, irritate and provoke me. 4 During that winter I enjoyed but a very indifferent state of health & had very little assistance in the office, while at the same time by the critical state of public affairs and occurrences which happened, the business of the office was accumulated to a very great degree and the sitting twice a day allowed me less time to dispatch it. This gave him many favourable opportunities which he studiously embraced to teize me with messages and sending for papers which he must have been convinced it was not in my power to have ready and which he must have known would have been sent to him as soon as finished; These messages were generally brought by his coachman James, and were commonly sent to me when I was at dinner or Supper and sometimes when I was going to bed. For it seemed to me that he carefully attended to my hours of refreshment and rest and wished me to enjoy as little of either as possible. This however I bore patiently without murmur or complaint and, I think, without shewing any marks of discontent or uneasiness; though for months together scarce a day passed without visits from his coachman James at improper


[Page 496]
464 September 6, 1779 necessary be examined. What epithet the committee will be pleased to affix to this conduct I must submit to their judgment. As to the information that “since that time I have suffered papers to be taken even out of the secret depository and carried away without the per mission of Congress” I have to say that I never refused any member the free liberty of taking, without permission asked of Congress or receipt given, any paper he desired down into the Congress room or into the chamber adjoining and there reading or making extracts as he pleased until the adjournment, and 1 will also confess that at the adjournment several members have through inadvertence or with out recollecting the rule carried papers home with them, at which I have expressed uneasiness & dissatisfaction, but that I have know ingly & designedly violated the rule will rest with him to prove. 5. 12 This paragraph hinting what he could do, I apprehend is thrown in to shew his skill in oratory and his art in wounding his antagonist by affecting to conceal or pass over charges, which he is conscious he cannot support. He has informed Congress that he kept minutes of my conduct, and by going back a far as 1778 which was the time when the transaction respecting Mr Laneuville happened he has sufficiently evinced that if he had any instances of my gross partiality and Arbitrary conduct, he would not fail to pro duce them. As 13 to the late affair which constitutes the last charge, I am free to declare that I had not the most distant thought or intention of giving offence to him or any other Member. I had frequently heard Mr Lovell who had a principal direction and management in printing the weekly journal and ordering the distribution, for as to myself I never took any concern in the matter as I did not consider it any part of my business. I say I had frequently heard him mention that there was only one copy for each of the members printed upon a fine paper and that if any member wanted to send copies to their state they might be supplied with an [other if] wanted out of those printed on common paper. I had heard him likewise complain that by some members taking more than one, others were deprived and by that means their setts were broken and if they should incline at the end of the year to have them bound into a volume, they must supply the deficiency with those on common paper which would disfigure the volume. For this reason when I took up the bundle to distribute among the members, Mr Lovell being absent, I determined to oblige by delivering to each member one copy. And as there were several members, and among the rest Mr Laurens, at the table when I opened the bundle I thought I paid him particular respect by deliver ing him one first. When he asked for another I desired him to wait until I had delivered one to each member. When he repeated his demand he did it with a tone and in a manner that I confess gave me offence and at the instant determined me to pursue the resolution I had at first taken; when he persisted and seized the bundle in my left


[Page 498]
466 September 6, 1779 great respect at Versailles & I see no reason to object to it. Pray let me know what the question is about it.’ ” 8 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “After Congress re turned ... to ignorant of,” a reference to paragraphs 13 and 14 of Laurens’ charges against him. 9 Belcher P. Smith and Thomas Edison. 10 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “Sometime in May last &c . . . to permission of Congress,” a reference to paragraphs 15 and 16 of Laurens’ charges against him. 11 George Bond, a clerk in the secretary’s office, and later Thomson’s deputy secretary. 12 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “I could recite . . . will be so,” a reference to the first sentence of paragraph 17 of Laurens’ charges against him. 13 In the margin of the FC Thomson wrote at this point “The particular comp laint . . . &c to the end,” referring to the three concluding paragraphs of Laurens’ charges against him. 14 At this point in the FC Thomson inserted a “c” to which he keyed the following note at the foot of the page. “This outrageous language & insolent behaviour may be attributed to his want of education and to his having been bred among negro slaves over whom he had been accustomed to tyrannize & against whom he could vent his ill humours & turbulent passions not only with impunity but to effect. ‘Nothing,’ says a sensible & ingenious author, ‘is so insolent as a man who lives almost always with his inferiors; but when those inferiors are slaves accustomed to serve infants and to fear even their crying for which they must suffer punishment, what can be expected of masters who have never obeyed, profligates, who have never met with chastisement and madmen who load their fellow creatures with chains?’ Histoire philosophique et politique des etablissemens des Europiens de deux Indes. T[ome] 4, p 201.” Thomson’s quotation is a careful translation of Guillaume Thomas Francois Raynal, Histoire philosophique et politique, des etablissemens id du commerce des europiens dans les deux Indes, 7 vols. in 5 (Amsterdam, 1772 — 74), 4:201—2. The survival of this manuscript is noteworthy in view of reports that Thomson eventually destroyed most of his personal papers and refused to write a history of the American Revolution, despite the repeated urgings of friends, out of regard for the reputations of many of his contemporaries. His bitter denunciation of Laurens and the explanation quoted in note 4 above that Congress was reluctant to sit twice daily because delegates were often drunk in the afternoon underscore how deeply this experience rankled within him. The notes containing these remarks are found only in the FC Thomson retained in his personal papers, and do not appear in the MS from the Laurens Papers at PHi or in the text printed in Potter’s American Monthly and reprinted in Burnett’s Letters, 4:401—8, which were probably the copies prepared for the committee and for Laurens. For Thomson’s sensitivity to the reputations of the founding fathers, which rests heavily upon the authority of Benjamin Rush, see J. Edwin Hendricks, Charles Thomson and the Making of a New Nation, 1729—1824 (Rutherford, N.J.: Fairleigh Dickinson University Press, 1979), p. 189. That Laurens was not the only delegate Thomson had difficulty getting along with seems clear from a brief reference by Samuel Holten to an incident a few months later in which Thomson and James Searle of Pennsylvania exchanged blows with their canes, though whether the the affair took place in or out of Congress is not recorded. See Samuel Holten’s Diary, January 19, 1780. John Collins to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr. the 7th. 1779 Their is no impropriety in addressing me on any Subject that Concerns yourself, or on any other subject Relating to publick affairs,


[Page 499]
September 7, 1779 467 and Shall be allways ready to give you, the best information in my power. The views of Congress Some times air misterious and past finding out, but not designingly unjust. I have that Charity for the greatest part of Congress that they mean to do that which is Right and best for the good of the whole, but their plans dont allways opperrate for the best. I am fulley persuaded much the grater part of the members of Congress wish to do Strict Justis to the army, but the Confused State of our money makes it Extreme difficult to know what to do. I am fulley of your opinion that Clamours against publick Abuses & publick measures are mostly from men that have not the good of their Country at hart, but air Activated by views to Rais themselves into importance by Sowing discord and Endeavouring to throw the Publick affairs into discord. I have not heard any Complaint against you as Quartermaster General, (but many Against the inferiour officers in your depart ment), nither do I think their is any attack, Designed agains you; if I should discover any Such design, you may depend I will give you speedy information. The suspitions I hinted to you last summer I still Concive to be justly grounded, but flater myself that party are looseing ground in Congress fast. The attack made on me last May I am fully Convinced originated from that quarter, and went from Congress to the State, for I stood much in the way of what they Called the New England 1 intrest, and I make no doubt but Mr. S.A. & Mr. W.E. 2 will use all their influance to damn me with the People, but they may be Damd. them Selves for what I Care for them or their party. I will Act my part as I think best for the publick good, and Suffer no junto or party to influance me or lead me from what I think best for the good of the whole, it is well known I am not a begot to any party, Religious or Sivil, but have Endeavored to Support the Carrectar of an honest independant man. I have inclosd you a journal of Congress least by any mistake you have not had one Sent you—you will observe the votes on July the 9th. 3 You must be the best judge of your own department and what part to act—but in a friendly maner I would advise, not to be over warm in defence of them that Act under you, but do them Strict justice and leave their defence to them Selves. Any affair in Congress that may heave up, you may Enquir of me freely, and you may depend I will inform you as far As is Consistant with my duty to the publick—if Any thing Worthy notice in the Camp a line from you would be Agreeable. I am with Esteem & Sincerity your friend that is Allways Ready to Serve, John Collins RC (DLC: Greene Papers).


[Page 503]
September 7, 1779 471 countermanding the Orders given in that letter respecting the pur chase of the Prize Brigantine Chance’s Cargo. It is now our desire that the whole of that vessels Cargo may be set up to sale, and no part of it reserved or purchased by you for the public Account except the Vinegar which you are to purchase let the price be what it will and send forward to this place. We are sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Marine Committee to John Langdon Sir Marine Committee, Philadelphia Septr. 7th 1779 Should any of the Prizes taken by the Continental Ships Providence, Queen of France & Ranger on their late Cruise come under your direction, we desire that you will reserve the Continental Share of the Rum & Sugar on board of them for the Public use, having it Stored and kept for the further Orders of this Committee sending a particular Invoice of the same. We are Sir, Your very Hble Servts, Wm. Whipple Chairman 1 RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). Written and signed by William Whipple. 1 The committee also sent the following, similar letter to the Continental agent at Boston, John Bradford, this day. “We are favoured with yours of the 26th Ultimo covering a Schedule of the Cargoes of the Prizes taken by the Providence, Queen of France, and Ranger, on their late Cruize. We now desire that you will reserve the Continental Share of the Rum and Sugar on board such of those Prizes as may come under your direction, for the Public use having it safely Stored & kept for the further orders of this Committee and transmitting to us a particular Invoice of the same.” Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:107. Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett My Dear sir, No.7 Philad. Sept 7h. 1779. Your kind favour of the 21 ulto 1 inclosing one from Mrs Peabody I have duly reed and am extreamly oblig’d by the Care you have taken in forwarding Letters to & from me—I inclose you Several papers, & extracts by which you will have some information &c. The Spanish ambassador left the British Court the 18h of June last and went immediately to France. The British Court have Sent out two Emissaries to Seduce these States from their Alliance with France. 2 I Should forward a long Copy of Mr. J. A—ms report upon important matters of Public Concernment, 3 made officially, Since his return—but you will Soon have it by Genl Whipple who Sets off for home in Consequence of Mr L—d—ns 4 arival here the 3d


[Page 505]
September 7, 1779 473 Copy Extra—of the Acts of the Genl. Assembly, to the End we may be enabled to make the Communication requested, to the Delegates of New Jersey. This may perhaps be introductory of one more general, and which must prove very beneficial. We inclose your Excellency two of the Weekly Journals, in Course to those heretofore transmitted down to the 7th of August last, and the last Weeks News Papers. We congratulate your Excellency upon the brave Exploit at Paulus Hook—upon the good News from Spain— The further Success of Genl Sullivan against the Indians—and we trust, upon the Reduction of Fort Detroit by the celebrated Col. Clarke, whose Exploits at the Illonois, &c & in the Capture of Govr. Hamilton were not long since announced to the Publick. The Cap ture of ten of the Jamaica Fleet is a most capital Stroke. Several have been brought into the Southern Ports. Col. Talbots Exploits and good Fortune are highly pleasing—and he continues to gain with hasty Steps much Honor to Himself and the State. Upon the Applica tion of the Town of Providence, We have procured a Resolution of Congress for erecting Barracks at the Expence of the United States, for quartering the Troops in the State of Rhode Island in such Place, as Genl. Gates shall approve of. 2 As this must greatly releive the Distresses of many of Our Constituents we flatter Ourselves it will not be an unacceptable Peice of Service for that Confidence, & with full Assurance of our unremitted Zeal to serve the State We have the Honor to represent we are Your Excellencys most obedient & very humble Servts. Hy Marchant John Collins RC (RHi: Marchant Papers). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Collins. 1 See also Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council, August 24, 1779, note 1. 2 See the following entry. Rhode Island Delegates to the Committee of Providence Gentlemen, Philadelphia Sept. 7th. 1779 Your Letter of the 16th of July was reed, on the 23d of the same Month, and as soon as possible laid before Congress together with the Vote of the Town of Providence. They were committed to the Board of War, and upon a Report of the Board of War the inclosed Resolution of Congress was made, which We conceive will entirely answer the Expectations of the Town of Providence and much ease the Good Inhabitants of the State who have long sustained an unequal Burthen of the most disagreable Nature. 1 The Application to Us of so respectable a Number of Our Constituents could not fail of demanding our immediate Attention, and most strenious Endeav-


[Page 506]
474 September 7, 1779 ours for their Relief—at the same Time we conceived it highly proper to obtain a Resolution upon so broad a Basis, that Barracks might be erected at the Discretion of Genl. Gates at other Places within the State than the Town of Providence or its immediate Vicinity, that so some other Parts of the State might be releived from similar Inconve niences with what the Town of Providence have so peculiarly sustained. An Answer to your Letter was omitted earlier, as We were in daily Expectations of a completion of the Business. We shall at all Times religiously attend to tbe Wishes of Our Constituents, and shall be happy to have in any Instance obtained Relief for, and answered the Expectations of the Good People of the Town of Providence. You will be pleased Gentlemen to lay this Letter before the Town at their next Meeting and assure them that we shall at all Times study to deserve their Approbation—and that we are with great Truth their, very humble Servts. Hy Marchant John Collins RC (RPJCB: Brown Papers). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Collins. Addressed: “The Honorable Major Genl. James M. Varnum, Ephraim Bowen and Nicholas Cooke Esqrs. at Providence, State of Rhode Island &c.” 1 The committee’s letter had not been read in Congress until August 25; and on September 6 Congress directed that barracks be erected in Providence at Continental expense. See JCC, 14:993, 15:1031. Meriwether Smith to the Virginia Board of Trade Gendemen, Philadelphia Sep. 7th. 1779. The Delegates of Virginia reed, your favor of 7th ulto. requesting their Assistance to procure for John Moss esqr a Sum of continental Dollars, for which the Board of Trade in Virginia would be respon sible. In Consequence of which they obtained a Warrant on the Treasury for four hundred thousand Dollars in favor of John Moss esqr, for which the State of Virginia is to be accountable. 1 I expect Mr. Moss has acquainted you that he hath received the Money. With Respect to the Brandy you mentioned in your Letter, we should have given him the Assistance you requested, but he had settled the Dispute previous to your Application. I am, in Behalf & per order of the Delegates here, yr. most obedt. Sevt. Meriwether Smith RC (CSmH: Brock Collection). 1 In their August 24 representation to Congress the Virginia delegates had requested $400,000 “for the purpose of purchasing supplies of Cloathing & other Necessaries for the immediate Use of the Troops of that State in the Continental Army.” See JCC, 14:991; and PCC, item 71, 1:269-70.


[Page 511]
September 8, 1779 479 of the Courant. For the latter essay, see James Lovell to Samuel Adams, July 8, 1779, note 2. Although Ellsworth signed his rebuttal simply “A Friend to Truth and Fair Play,” he is identified as its author by Nehemiah Hubbard, deputy quartermaster at Hartford, in a September 7 letter to Jeremiah Wadsworth. See Burnett, Letters, 4:41 In.4. The essay is printed here because of the interesting insights into congres sional activities provided by Ellsworth, even though he had left Philadelphia in Febru ary 1779. It is addressed “To the Unknown Letter Writer in Philadelphia, who lately revealed to the public the situation of their affairs," and is dated “Hartford, Septem ber 1, 1779.” “I Cannot call you by name, Sir, but I see well enough what you aim at. You mean, if insinuations will do it, to overset the Congress and break up the union; and perhaps you think you are doing God service too; but you certainly use the devil’s means. If we did not know Congress better than we do you, we might perhaps believe what you say of them. If we had not tried them and proved them at home we might believe they are traitors and ass riden because you say it. In one thing you shewed your wisdom, it [tn?] hiting upon a lucky time for your appearance. People are always cross and jealous enough when things go ill, and it was just then a time of great darkness. But you made a wretched mistake in another place; you never tho’t that to do your work effectually it was necessary to conceal your malice; nor that saying things which could not be true would blast your whole design. “If you had only told us that Congress were a slow body, and let their business run behind hand no body would have questioned you; for we all know that such a body as Congress is can’t move otherwise but slow. There are too many men, too many states represented, of different interests, customs and habits to get along with dispatch. And sometimes they will seem to be forever about a thing before they can get it into such a shape as suits them all; and it may be a small matter too. But this is no new thing under the sun; nor is there any help for it. “If you had also gone further and told us that Congress sometimes grow warm and have high debates, and are zealous on one side and the other; this we could have believed to; for the same happens in all free assemblies under heaven. Freedom of thought and freedom of debate, among men of bold spirits, will sometimes make warm work, and would scare a clown out of his wits. “But that Congress should be ass-riden with a junto is a matter that wants proof. This junto, by your account of it, is as full of wonders as the beast in the Revelations is of horns, and near as powerful. It consists, you say, mostly of New England men; who we know are elected not without regard to their religion as well as their politics: Yet they are here combined to vote alike in all cases, let oath and conscience go where it will, and let the public interest go where it will. They are to take care of themselves and connections, and at all events hang together; and if all this is true they ought all to hang in one haltar; and I should have no objection, Sir, if you crave the jobb to your being hangman. This junto you tell us was formed in the first Congress, five years ago, and has continued and governed Congress to this day; carrying the votes just as they please; and whom they would they set up and whom they would they pull down; and the rest of Congress, the virtuous part, tho’ a great majority, have all the while crouched down and born it. And what is more astonishing still, the matter has to this day been kept a profound secret. A wonderful work of great wickedness has been carrying on in Congress for five years and yet no mortal ever heard of it; neither from good men within doors nor from bad ones without. Another wonder in the matter is, that this wonderful combination has held its own so long. The members of Congress have been continually changing from the beginning, so that scarcely one of the first set are left behind; yet this junto, ordained to last forever, remains fixed as fate—and are preserved, you inform us, by a sort of Contrivance—they so contrive it as to keep in. This is the ne plus of the matter, and ends in magick and mystery. I must not however omit to observe, that the effects produced by this junto, are quite as inexplica ble as the manner of its existance. To instance only in the case of Mr. Dean, to whom it is said to have been ever unfriendly and wrought against him. If so how can we account for his appointments from Congress one after another till he got to be their


[Page 512]
480 September 8, 1779 minister? This junto being all the while unfriendly and working against him, and all the while governing Congress at pleasure. This with some other difficulties you will note, Sir, to be explained in your next address. But to proceed and “Attend a little to the account you give us of our Commissioners at Paris. These you represent as totally ignorant of what is transacted in France, Spain, or England and that Congress gain no information from them. Do you believe this, Sir, yourself, or expect that any body else should? What have you to say of Dr. Franklin? Has he no discernment? Who discovered and taught us how to manage the lightning, and lead it about with a thread? Was not the Doctor received at the Court of France with unusual marks of honor and confidence? Does not Mr. Dean in his narrative, which it seems you had a sight of, celebrate him highly as a politician and philosopher as well as his friend: Yet you would now persuade us that he is perfectly insignificant and a fool! And what, Sir, have you to say of Mr. Adams, whose character as a warm and enterprizing patriot, and able statesman, is I trust too well established in both coun tries to suffer by the attacks of envy. As to Mr. Lee, be his other talents or graces what they may, you know, if you know any thing about him, that it is the soul of that man to be forever prying into secrets and communicating them to his employers, and that he has written letters enough himself to Congress, since he has been in France to have made a volume; and among much other interesting intelligence, has not failed to furnish them seasonably and very particularly from time to time with the secrets of the British cabinet. And I will venture to add had he wrote somewhat less than he has he might have been less obnoxious to men both on that side of the water and on this. And yet, Sir, you would persuade us that since the recal of Mr. Dean [Congress?] have entrusted our foreign affairs to men of little discernment and no information at all. “Not less groundless and malignant is your reproach of Congress upon the subject of a foreign loan. This you insinuate they might have obtained, if, according to Mr. Dean’s opinion when he returned from France, they had immediately sent a proper person after it; but that instead of sending immediately, they have been quarreling amongst themselves, and not able to this day to agree who shall go after and have the handling of it. Do you not know, Sir, or do you suppose that others do not, that Congress, before Mr. Dean’s return, had instructed their commissioners respecting a foreign loan; and that the most likely courts in Europe from whence to obtain it had been sounded upon the subject more than a year ago, and the reason why it was done without success must be obvious to every one who will consider but for a moment that the warlike appearances and preparations in that quarter of the world make a good market for all their money nearer home, and borrowers enough that can give more unquestionable and established security than we as yet can. Nor ought we perhaps to regret the disappointment. We are now reduced to the necessity of taxing ourselves and paying as we go; which though more irksome for the present, may be less so hereafter than a foreign debt and less dangerous to the liberties of the people. Nor are our finances by any means in that distressed and languishing state as that they must fail without foreign support. Since the expedient of taxing copiously has been adopted they have not languished. For three months past the money has sunk none; I appeal to all purchasers and men that handle it. But, Sir, to proceed to your “Fourth and last charge against Congress. Which is that they have neglected the proper means when offered to them for bringing the war to a close. That Spain was disposed to have negotiated with Great-Britain, and obtained a peace for us; could she but have known what our terms were. That Congress was acquainted of this so early as February last, and then and ever since pressed upon to give Spain an answer, but have never yet done it; through which neglect her mediation has been delayed and she kept back and prevented doing anything for us or herself. That Spain has ever applied directly or indirectly to know our terms is false, absolutely so. She and all the world knows that we claim to be independent; and that Great Britain must be brought to acknowledge or cede that claim, before there is a possibility of a treaty between us upon national grounds. She must first yield to us the great point that we are in fact a nation or States independent of her, then and not till then may we go on to treat and settle our extent, appendages, rights of commerce, etc., and draw the


[Page 514]
482 September 9, 1779 whether publick or private, and that therefore Congress had a right to expect from the Memorialist upon his Arrival at Philadelphia, circumstancial and accurate Accounts of his Contracts if any, and a regularly-stated Account current of all receipts and Payments of Money for these States, together with Invoices and Bills of Loading for Goods shipped, and receipts or other satisfactory Vouchers for Payments made [by him]. That the Memorialist ought to have brought with him from France, and to have laid before Congress, a fair Abstract of all Engagements on Account of these States so far as he had proceeded in them, which is the Duty and the Practice of every faithful Agent acting for private Persons or publick Bodies. That no good and deciding Reasons have occurred to the Commit tee sufficient to convince them, that it was necessary the Memorialist should return to America in the Count D’Estaing’s Squadron, rather than by a Conveyance somewhat later, after having taken the proper Steps to afford Congress the Satisfaction they were entitled to as to his Transactions and Accounts; or sufficient to justify the Memorial ist in leaving his Accounts and Vouchers in France, not in the Hands of the Commissioners, and in such a State as not to be settled without his returning thither. That the Committee are of Opinion the Memorialist ought to have deposited in the Hands of the other Commissioners at the Court of Versailles, the Originals or Copies satisfactorily authenticated, of all his Accounts and Transactions as aforesaid, especially as he was duly informed that another Commissioner was appointed to supply his Place, whence he could have had no Foundation for presuming that he was to return. That there is no Evidence arising from any Vouchers produced by the memorialist that a considerable Balance or indeed any Balance at all is due to him from the United States; and that it would be highly improper to give Orders for the Payment of any such Balance in Europe, while the Claim is rested on no better Foundation. That the Committee are of opinion the Memorialist ought to be informed Congress have received the Vindications of the Honorable Arthur and William Lee, Esquires, against certain Charges and Insinuations respecting their publick Conduct published by the Memorialist in the Pennsylvania Packet of 5 December 1778; and also of such Charges, as the said Arthur and William Lee have set up against [him]. That the Comittee are of Opinion if it be consistent to detain the Memorialist, he ought to be detained, and directed to send to France for all Accounts and Vouchers of his Transactions, in Order to adjust his Accounts at the Treasury Board, and to answer the Charges set up against him by the said Arthur and William Lee, and that the said Arthur and William Lee should be directed forthwith to attend Congress as well for the final Adjustment of their own Accounts as


[Page 521]
September 9, 1779 489 Laurens’ interest in the related issue of free navigation of the Mississippi, see also Laurens’ Notes on Negotiating Instructions, August ? 1779. 2 Shortly after Congress resolved on September 17 to offer Spain a guaranty to her claims to the Floridas, the Spanish agent in Philadelphia, Juan de Miralles, sent the following interesting report to Jose de GAlvez, Minister of the Indies in Madrid. “The Congress has agreed,” Miralles wrote on September 24, “upon the points which will be presented to the Court of the King our Sire by the Minister Plenipoten tiary whom they will name to represent them there. I have learned that they are the same points which I have had the honour of reporting to Your Excellency, except that now they claim free entrance and egress on the Mississippi River. This claim has been advanced by the members from the northern provinces, which actually are the prov inces to which that privilege is least profitable. 1 have tried as well as I am able, lacking authority to do so otherwise, to inform and to convince them that our King will never accede to that demand, and Monsieur Gerard has helped me by doing the same. “The opposing party, to which the President belongs, is convinced by our persuasion. They have agreed to include that claim only in order to avoid controversies and to accelerate the passage of the resolution, which was being delayed by disputes. They believe that, although it is not to have any effect, it will serve as a basis for the opening of negotiations, which they are sure will be concluded to the satisfaction of His Majesty, because all the members of Congress unanimously express their desire to concur with whatever may be to the Royal pleasure of His Majesty. They and the general public base their hopes of future happiness on his protection and friendship. “The list of instructions for the Minister who is to be chosen has been completed. He has not yet been named, but they say he will be chosen by tomorrow. Many people favor Arthur Lee for the post, but his opponents expect to prevent his appointment and hope that the position will be given to another. If one is named before the departure of the frigate on which Monsieur Gerard will travel I shall have the honour of reporting his identity to Your Excellency. “If His Majesty were pleased to permit the Americans who are already settled on the Ohio River and those who will settle there to ship their productions down the Mississippi River to Nueva Orleans, making that city a depot at which to sell their products to subjects of the King and to receive in exchange products imported from Europe, the transactions would be very profitable to the Royal Treasury and to the Spanish nation, as Your Excellency’s keen understanding will perceive. . . . This method would be adopted very gladly by the Congress and all the investors in those settlements, and perhaps would lead to the concession of other claims on the part of His Majesty.” Audiencia de Santo Domingo, Legajo 2598, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (Aileen Moore Topping translation, Manuscript Division, DLC). Jesse Root to Jeremiah Wadsworth Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr 9th, 1779 Congress have resolved not to emit on any Account Whatever more than 200,000,000 dollars & Expect to depend on the States to Supply the Treasury by Taxes & loans. By official accounts from France Spain has taken an active part in the war against England, and its thought in France that England, to avoid the hard necessity of acknowledging the Independance of America will Send Commissioners with power to with draw the Troops from America & attempt a Seperate Treaty, thereby to detach us from the Alliance. They may make a Merit of necessity—being obliged to with draw their Troops to protect their own territories,


[Page 522]
490 September 9, 1779 make it a ground of Treaty with us—but they must, however hard & humiliating to the pride of Britain, they must acknowledge America to be Independant. Your letter to the Committee respecting the prize goods being purchased for the use of the army is referred to the Marine Committee with orders to detain the whole of the united States part for the use of the Army. While this was writing yours of the 4th Inst came to hand. The prize flour brot into this place is all distributed amongst the In habitants. Colo Blain went to Delaware & Maryland last Tuesday to purchase flour, have not heard from him Since, but he Said before he Set out he Should Send on 1,000 barrels flour this Week, we Sent of an Express immediately to him with a Copy of your letter urging him to push the flour with all possible dispatch, I am dear Sir, with much esteem your humble Servt, Jesse Root RC (CtHi: Wadsworth Collection). John Fell’s Diary [September 10—11, 1779] Friday Sepr. 10th 1779. Commercial Committee. Congress. Sun dry Letters &c. Report from the Board of War for the States to Provide Cloathing for their Troops &c. Reports from Mr Dickinson for a Negotiation with Spain, another by Mr. Huntington. 1 PM Marine Committee. Saturday Sepr. 11th. Coml Committee. Congress. This whole day taken up in the Proposals for a negotiation with spain. MS (DLC). 1 For John Dickinson’s “report,” which was entered in the journals under Septem ber 9 rather than 10, see John Dickinson’s Notes, September 9—17, 1779, note. For Samuel Huntington’s September 10 motion, see JCC, 15:1045—47. John Fell’s Diary Monday Sepr. 13 [1779]. Coml Committee. Congress. A great number of dispatches took up the whole day till 5 O Clock. Dined with Governor Livingston at Mr Jays. MS (DLC).


[Page 523]
September 13, 1779 491 Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington Sir Philadelphia 13th September 1779 I return you my greatfull Acknowledgements for your favour of the 3rd Instant, a Correspondence as at all times agreable, but at the present, profitable as well as pleasant; & may prove advantagous to the public as well as my Self in my present Situation to know what is done & doing in distant parts & particular in Connecticutt. It is doubtless wise & proper to keep N London & the Coast in general guarded as well as possible tho, I begin to hope the Enemy will make no further Incursions into Connecticutt or none consider able. The Recruits arrivd with Arbuthnott by the best Intelligence we can obtain are between 2 & 3 thousand & many of them Sickly and we have Just receivd Intelligence from N. York that a number of troops are Embarking, their distination unknown but Conjectured for Some Warmer climate as the Officers are providing themselves with thin Light Cloaths. A Packet is arrivd from England at N. York which came out Since the Spanish Manifesto was published, but nothing as yet Transpires. We have it from high Authority in France that Since Spain have taken decisive measures in their favour, it is Supposd the Brittish Cabinet were Sending out Emissaries to Congress in Some Shape or other to offer a truce with us & withdraw all their troops provided America will renounce her Alliance & Connection with France; whither there be any foundation for this Supposion or not time must discover, Indeed nothing but their past folly could induce any belief they would be Such fools. You may be assured that all the Insinuations you have heard that Congress might have made peace but prevented the terms &c are wholly groundless & published or propagated by Ill minded persons with an evil design. Congress are desirous of peace the moment that Safe & honorable terms are offered and in all probability the day is not far distant when dire Necessity will bring Brittain to those terms. I have the pleasure to inform you A very good harmony Subsists in Congress. They have come to a Resolution to Stop Emission which you will Soon See with the plan adopted, & address on the Subject. 1 This Step with proper Oeconomy & Such other measure as may be adopted I cannot but hope will have a Sensible beneficial Effect upon the Currency. I am Sir with Sentiments of Esteem & Regard, your humble Servt, Sami. Huntington P.S. Letters by the post from the Eastward of late come to this City very regular & Safe so that Intelligence may readily be conveyed in that way.


[Page 524]
492 September 13, 1779 RC (NRom: Huntington Collection). 1 The “address” was approved by Congress this day and sent to the states the next day. See John Jay to the States, September 14, 1779. Henry Laurens’ Notes [September 13? 1779] 1 Notes for my Remarks in Congress Finances, are the Revenues of a State or kingdom. Financiers, are Men who devise ways & means for assessing & collecting revenues. He is the best financier who points out particular subjects in his State for assessment, from whence the largest revenues may be drawn, with the least expence, & which the people will pay with the least murmuring. For taxes & murmuring more or less, are inseparable Companions. The duty of Congress is to be watchful over the expenditure of the Public Money, to call those Men in whose hands such Money has been entrusted to strict accounts at stated periods—to make an Esti mate year by year of the public debt & to assign just proportions of the whole debt to be raised by the States respectively in order to discharge the whole annual Amount. It is the duty of the several States to finance, agreeably to the custom or local circumstance of each, & to assess & collect by ways & means of their own devising, the proportion of the general debt, which shall have been assigned to each & to remit such proportions into the general Treasury within stated periods. 2 Congress have in no Instance acted the Financier, except in the single article of Loan or borrowing Money. How that branch has been ceconomised both abroad & at home is known only to a few Members of this House, the rest are almost ignorant, our constituents at large are altogether so—when the bur thens of Taxes fall heavily upon them, they will open their Eyes & enquire—and then—but here I draw a Veil. Congress being the most mutable public body on earth is not tangible. Who shall applaud it for the benefits or censure it for the Evils arising from the Mancevres & voices of Men whose names are not upon Record, or from the dead preengaged Vote of one, whose voice has established many an important point when he had no right to sit here 3 —& whose detection & consequent cecession has neverthe less been much lamented. MS (PHi: Laurens Papers). In the hand of Henry Laurens. 1 It is not known for what purpose Laurens drafted these notes. They are so general he could have used them on a number of different occasions. They have been placed here simply because Laurens was a member of a committee “appointed the 3d Instant


[Page 530]
498 September 15, 1779 [P. S. ] Permit me to recommend the bearer Captain Campbell 2 who will relate to you his Situation for your advice & good Offices with his Excellency—on whos behalf I shall also write a line 3 to Genl. St. Clair. Also to recommend Major Swaine 4 Brotherinlaw to Genl. Muhlenberg who doubtless will be Obliged by yr. advice, being appointed the State Cloathier for the Pennsylvania Line of the Army. RC (PHi: Wayne Papers). 1 At this point Armstrong inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the name “Solomon” at the foot of the page. 2 Perhaps Capt. Robert Campbell, of the Invalid Corps, who had lost an arm and was taken prisoner at Staten Island in August 1777. Campbell had escaped in August 1778, but the question whether he had been a prisoner on parole had been raised and he was seeking clarification of his status and a possible exchange for a British officer of equal rank. See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:337, 361. A September 22 letter from Campbell to Washington is in the Washington Papers, DLC. 3 Not found. 4 Francis Swaine, who was married to Gen. John Peter Gabriel Muhlenberg’s sister Anna Maria Catherine, and was formerly adjutant of Muhlenberg’s 8th Virginia Regiment. John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia Septr. 15th, 1779 By a late Letter from the Board of War it appears, that they despair of being able to provide Cloathing for the troops. The several States will be depended on by Congress for the necessary requisite for their respective Lines. 1 I therefore think it my Duty to give You this Intelligence, as I do not doubt but immediate and effectual Measures will be taken in our State, for comfortably cloathing our worthy & brave Officers & Soldiers. I am, Sir, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (NN: Rodney Letters). 1 Dickinson is referring to the Board of War recommendation adopted by Congress on September 10 “that each State should provide cloathing for its own quota of [Continental] troops.” JCC, 15:1044—45. John Fell’s Diary Wednesday Sepr 15th. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. After reading the Journals, the Delegates moved for their motion made Yesterday to be Enterd 1 which caused a long debate on Point of order, and I not being well I left Congress.


[Page 531]
September 16, 1779 499 MS (DLC). 1 Fell may be referring to the motion made by the Virginia delegates that he had recorded in his diary entry of the preceding day. The journals contain no mention of the new motion or the “long debate.” Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 15—16, 1779] 15. Wednesday. I met the medical committee at evening. Very cold. 16. Thursday. Mr. Gerard came to take leave of us, but we were all from home. The weather is cold. MS (MDaAr). John Jay to George Washington Sir, Philada. 15th Septr. 1779. Congress have by a Resolution of which the enclosed is a copy confirmed the Arrangement of the Officers of the Massachusetts- line, & directed Commissions for them to be issued accordingly. 1 I have the Honor to be &ca. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 By the enclosed resolution of September 6, Congress had confirmed the recom mendations on seniority in the Massachusetts line that Washington had submitted in his letter to Jay of August 5, 1779. See JCC, 15:1033; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:33, 51-53, 261, 332. John Jay to George Clinton Dear Sir Philadelphia, 16 1 September 1779 Your Favor by Mr. Phelps has arrived? I approve much of your Resolutions respecting Vermont. It is a Pity they had not taken Place two Years ago. There were committed; 3 a Report I {am told will) believe will be made To Day or Tomorrow {whether it will be sufficiently explicit or pass in its present Form) is uncertain. My Endeavours [to] render it proper neither have or shall be wanting. {I am now in Congress and a very extraordinary Vote has this moment passed. 4 The Proprietors of Indiana and Vandalia, claiming a Right to the Sovereignty and Soil of a Tract of country which Virginia says is within her Lines petitioned Congress to interpose in their Behalf. On reading the Peti tion separate Independent Government by Virtue of certain Acts of the British King and Council previous to our Independency.)


[Page 536]
504 September 17, 1779 John Jay to Certain States Sir, Philada. 17th Sept. 1779. With my letter of the 14th Inst, was enclosed a copy of a circular letter from Congress to their Constituents. In that copy there is a mistake in the amount of the ballance of our foreign debt; instead of two it ought to have been four millions of dollars. 1 This Error was yesterday observed & corrected by Congress. The enclosed copy is correct. I have the honor to be, With great Respect, Your most Obedient Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). Addressed: “To Governor Clinton. N.B. The same to Govrs. Trumbull, Greene, Powell, & Weare [i.e., to New York, Connecticutt, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, and New Hampshire].” 1 See Jay to the States, September 14, 1779, note 3; and JCC, 15:1052. John Jay to Ernst Ludwig de Widdersheim Sir, Philada. 17th Septr. 1779. You will perceive from the enclosed copy of an Act of Congress of the 16th Inst, that altho’ Congress entertain a proper sense of your Offer to enter into the service of these States, yet it is impracticable to employ You in the line of the Army consistent with the Arrange ment thereof. 1 The Documents & Certificates which accompanied your Memorial are herewith enclosed. I am Sir, Your most Obedient and very Humble Servant. 2 LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 A memorial from “Ernst Ludwig de Widdersheim, Major in His Majesty the King of Danemarc’s Service,” was received by Congress on September 13 and referred to the Board of War. Congress adopted the board’s recommendation that Widder- sheim’s offer of his services to the army be rejected, but ignored their suggestion that he be provided expenses to return to Europe. Having no means to return home, Widdersheim petitioned Congress for such a grant on September 22, which was ignored, but when he submitted a third memorial on October 29, Congress immedi ately ordered the Marine Committee to provide him “passage to Europe by the first opportunity,” a decision that Pres. Samuel Huntington transmitted to him in a brief letter of the same date. See JCC, 15:1048, 1070—71, 1104, 1219; and PCC, item 14, fol. 217, item 41, 10:391-98. 2 This day Jay also wrote the following brief letter to John Boreman. “I have the pleasure of transmitting to you herewith enclosed an Extract from the Minutes of Congress of Yesterday from which you will perceive that you are appointed Pay- Master for the Western District in the Room of Mr. John Baynton resigned.” See JCC, 15:1071; and PCC, item 14, fol. 187.


[Page 539]
September 17, 1779 507 ties from the State House to the Hotel; but I cannot say that I ever discovered a consequent Manifestation of Dislike. Those Browbeat ings however are never practiced against manly Indifference. Per haps it would have been better if several of us had not, from an aversion to even the appearance of Sycophancy, left a Stranger with out proper Warnings against that insidious Class. Ford has not been here. You know by my Letters of April 11 that he was judged by the State of Virginia to be not fit to be near the Person of an American Commissioner. R H L has been greatly indisposed but is mending now in his Health. I doubt whether you will by this opportunity know any thing decisive of our opinion respecting the 2 Spanish points of negociation; but you may depend on it that we are dis posed to do every Thing to cement a triple Alliance whenever Spain shall signify her Wishes through you or other regular Channel. The Floridas are not ours; they belong to our Enemy. A free Navigation of the Miss’pi. is to be wished for but cannot be claimed if S 12 owns both Banks near the Mouth though millions of Acres of Vir ginia lay also on the Waters of that River higher up. Are you so munified with orders from the State of Virginia that if a Vessel with Goods sent by you for that State should be lost you will not be made to bear the whole burden? I have been told such a Thing is whispered here. Pray be on yr. Guard. Caution is what an honest Man may condescend to learn from Rogues. I must endeavor to speak a good Word for Daddy Dumas. 13 He has been very particular in the margins of the Leyden Gazette Feb. 23 to write where it respects you. “Je nai aucune part a toute cette insertion; & je n’ai pu la voir qu’ avec affliction”. I should think he would not hesitate to tell the author of that rascally Paragraph which is in the Gazette of March 30. How wou’d the Refusal consist with his written profession above mentioned? You have had an abandoned set at your Elbow to watch over. And you made some here very rancorous at the first of yr. Correspondence. I never cou’d find by the Books of the Comtee. who the two were that you was mistrustful of. 14 The Letter Book is not signed, so as that I can see who were 2d & 5th. It will not do to take them as they stand on the Journals when elected. But if Complaisance put Franklin in the Chair I get Harison & Jay. You also once said something about Mr. Duane’s Servant. An Attempt was made to embitter the Mind of Govr. Reed who hap pened to be a Member of Congress when the Dictionary came to light. But Mr. Reed says you did your Duty well. 15 Something in yr. Letters to the Comtee was in Cyphers. Merryweather Smith decyphered it readily otherwise I must have sent it on to Vir ginia to yr. Brother. I know that R H L thinks that mode is now as useless as if Deane knew it; need I say more? I think it would be clever to have a Cypher in Comtee, but not to be also used to your Brother or yr. Friend; those should be distinct ones. We have never yet got but one Treaty printed in French by Authority. I mean one


[Page 542]
510 September 17, 1779 Order them advances to be made, but with a sparing hand. We have the honor to be, Your Excellencys, Very Hble servants P. S. We have the pleasure to inform you that our frigates have lately had very great Success, having among many other Captures, taken ten homeward bound Jamaica Men fully ladened and two packets One Outward and the Other homeward bound—For partic ulars beg leave to refer you to the Papers. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 In this June 3 letter, which was misdated June 2, 1779, in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 3:201—2, Franklin had reported a mutiny aboard the frigate Alliance, “which you were pleased to put under my orders. There has been a conspiracy on board,” he explained, “to seize and run away with the ship to England. Thirty-eight of the crew concerned in the plot were brought in under confinement, and the captain was much embarrassed with them and suspicious of many more. We could not try them here for want of officers sufficient to make a court-martial. The French admi ralty could not take cognizance of their offense. The captain objected to carrying them back, as both troublesome and dangerous. In fine, we got leave to land and confine them in a French prison, where they continue till further orders.” PCC, item 168, 1:683-86. Marine Committee to Seth Harding Sir September 17th 1779 The Ship Confederacy under your command being destined to carry His Excellency the sr. Gerard Minister Plenipotentiary of his most Christian Majesty and his Suit to France, you are to receive them on board and immediately set Sail making the best of your way to any Port which the Minister may think proper to direct and on your passage you are carefully to avoid coming to action with any vessel of equal or superior force. Your Ship being entirely designed for the Accommodation of the Minister you are in all things as far as may be, to comply with his wishes and to treat him with the respect due to his character. On Your Arrival in France you are to forward to his Excellency Benjamin Franklin Esqr. Minister Plenipotentiary of the United States at the Court of Versailles the Letter Given you herewith together with a state of your Ship who will give you orders for your govern ment, you are to apply to the American Agent in the Port at which you arrive for Such necessarys as may be wanted and immediately proceed to give your Ship such repairs as may be needful fitting her again for the Sea with all possible dispatch. You are to take on board your Ship such Stores for the use of these States as may be offered by the Agents in France, so as not to incommode your vessel as a Ship of war and when you have received the Orders of our Minister you are immediately to make the best of your way back to this Port or into Chesapeake Bay, and if into the latter you are to inform us of


[Page 543]
September 18, 1779 511 your arrival. As it is probable that you and your officers will stand in need of Some advances in France, we have requested our Minister to give Orders for that purpose and if necessary that your Crew have Clothing and a little Money in which we desire you will be very frugal. Should you take any Prizes and Order them to france they are to be put under the care of such persons as our Minister may direct, and such Prizes as you may order to these States are to be directed to the Continental Agent of the State in which they arrive. If you can procure a Set of good 18 Pounders when in France and you are of opinion that the Confederacy can bear them, you are at liberty to mount them & put those you have now on Deck into your hold. We desire you will be careful of the Confederacy her Materials and Stores and that you will not delay any time unnecessarily in France but be diligent for dispatch. Wishing you health & Success We are sir, Your Hble Servants P. S. We have agreed that Major Scull & Mr. Williamson shall take their passage in the Confederacy and that Mr. Clarkson an Acting Midshipman on board shall have leave to stay in France for his education. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). John Jay to Marriot Arbuthnot Sir, Philada. 18th Sept. 1779. Your favor of the 30th Ulto. was immediately on its arrival commu nicated to Congress, & by them referred to the marine Committee for the purpose of ascertaining the Facts mentioned in it. You will perceive by their Report a copy of which is herewith enclosed that You have been misinformed/ I am with due consideration, Sir, your most Obedt. Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 In his August 30 letter to Congress, Arbuthnot, “Vice Admiral & Commander in Chief of the British Squadron in North America,” had complained of the treatment of two British naval prisoners and asked Congress to “assign satisfactory reasons for this treatment that no improper retaliation may take place here on our part.” The letter had been referred to the Marine Committee, which reported that the prisoners were not “in close and cruel confinement” as stated by Arbuthnot, and Congress immedi ately resolved to report this finding to the admiral. See JCC, 15:1037, 1075; and PCC, item 78, 1:313-16.


[Page 544]
512 September 18, 1779 John Jay to Horatio Gates Sir, Philada. 18, Sept. 1779. Your favor, transmitting the Intelligence from Mr. Proud, has arrived—a confirmation of it would give us great pleasure. 1 The enclosed for Capt. Talbot, contains an honorary Reflection in his favor, be so obliging as to transmit it to him. 2 I have the honor to be, Sir, Your most Obedient and humble Servant. John Jay. Presidt. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). In the hand of Henry Brockhoist Livingston and signed by Jay- 1 An extract of John Proud’s September 5 letter to Gates, which Gates had enclosed in a letter of the sixth and General Washington had enclosed in one of the 12th, is in PCC, item 152, 7:759. JCC, 15:1072. Proud had reported from Rhode Island that 13 days previously Admiral d’Estaing had been sighted at “latitude of 25 & longitude of 70,” with 25 sail of the line, 18 frigates, and 6,000 troops, steering northwest. 2 See Jay to Silas Talbot, this date. John Jay to Alexander Hamilton Dear Sir Phi. 18 Septr. 1779 Your favors of the 25, 26, & 30 July & 12 Inst 1 have thus long remained unanswered. This Circumstance would naturally lead you to think me inattentive; others will induce you to ascribe it to a different Cause. Exclusive of Business which I never admit or urge as an Excuse for such omissions, want of Health has rendered me less punctual in my private Correspondence than I would wish. The approaching Season will give me Health & Inclination will always prompt me to support a Correspondence with those I value & esteem, in which number I have long considered you. Your sentiments respecting the Gentleman named in your first letter perfectly correspond with my own 2 and tho I wish to see him in a Situation agreable to himself & distant from the Place of his Residence, I cannot prevail upon myself to propose his appointmt to the one you mention, which is daily growing into Confidence & Importance. My Doubts respecting this Gentleman are of long stand ing and arise from Circumstances which made deep Impression on my mind. I should never forgive myself if before these Doubts are removed I should recommend him to an office in the execution of which they should become fully justified. Our opinions of his Tal ents Disposition & Passions are the same & I am well apprized of the Consequences which wd. result from their being exerted to obtain the objects of his Pursuit. Some other mode of diverting them may perhaps offer. I have seen, respected & pitied Monsr. Neuville. 3 Considering how some of his Countrymen have been promoted, his feelings have


[Page 546]
514 September 18, 1779 With great Esteem I am Sir, Your most Obedt. & Hble Servant. LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 For the “honor done” Talbot, see JCC, 15:1075—76; and Henry Marchant to Talbot, August 9, 1779, note 2. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen September 18 th 1779 We have received your favour of the 8th instant 1 which came by Express and informs us of the arrival of the Deane & Boston frigates with their Prizes viz the Sandwich & Thorne Packets. If on full examination you find that those two Prizes are Suitable for the Pub lic service as cruizing Vessels, we desire that they may be purchased for that purpose on the best terms you can, giving us the most early notice thereof and fitting them with all expedition for the Sea. In Answer to the other parts of your letter we deem it necessary to enclose You a Copy of what we wrote you the 7th instant least by any accident that letter should miscarry. We are Gentlemen, Your Hble servants P. S. We expect no time will be lost in fitting out the Deane & Boston and sending them to Cruize with the other Vessels. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The board’s September 8 letter to the committee is in the Eastern Navy Board Letterbook, NN. Marine Committee to Okey Hoagland Sir September 18th 1779 We are favoured with yours of the 13th instant. As the Laws of your State 1 will not admit of any division being made of the Prize brigt. Chance’s Cargo the whole must be sold, and it is our desire that you will attend the sales and make purchase of the articles which we have directed, provided they are good in kind, and are sold upon such terms as that they will afford the Expence of transportation to this place. If any purchasing Commissary should be at the Sales you may leave the purchase to be made by him. We are sir, Your Hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Hoagland was the Continental agent in New Jersey.


[Page 550]
518 September 20, 1779 ence & power in any of these States so lost to public Virtue & patriot ism as to engage in the Sale of his Country for a Mess of Potage, all those with whom I have conversed speak of this matter with abhorance! Its a damned thing to be poor, human nature is frail! Gold has many powerful Charms! Have you never seen Men in a Boat rowing very hard one way and looking directly another? But I will not harbour the Idea, the Virtue of America that has carried us so far through this Contest will not now submit to Temptation. The Marquis La Fayette writes to Carmichael that the Grand Fleet of France with a large Army on board Transports had sailed for Ireland, what think you, do they mean to Conquer it or to give Freedom and Independence to that Country, whatever their Views may be they will distress Britain and that Affords some pleasure from the consid eration that it will hasten a disposition in her to give us peace. I am dear Sir, your mo Obed Servant, Joseph Hewes 2 RC (MH-H: fMS Am 1300). 1 See John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney, September 8, 1779. 2 Hewes’ last known letter as a delegate was written to Tench Coxe on September 30, 1779, covering an order repaying an obligation on behalf of Isaac Collins of Edenton. Coxe Papers, PHi. Hewes died in Philadelphia on November 10. JCC, 15:1252; andjohn Fell’s Diary, November 10 — 11, 1779. Marine Committee to James Nicholson Sir September 20th 1779 Having appointed you to command the Frigate Trumbull 1 now at New London in the state of Connecticut we desire that you will immediately repair to that place there to take the command of the said frigate and in your way call upon us at this place for our further Instructions. We are sir, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 The committee’s appointment of Nicholson, the senior captain in the Continental Navy, to command the frigate Trumbull is explained in Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, October 6, 1779. James Forbes to Thomas Sim Lee Dear Sir Philadelphia Septr 21st 1779 Yours of the 16 Currt I have before me. Mr. Gerard has taken his leave & only waits to see his Sucksessor (who is expected in Town every day) and then Embarks at Chester on Board the Confederacy for France. If I can obtaine the particulars you wish to be informed of, respecting the New Minister, before the post goes off, you shall


[Page 551]
September 21, 1779 519 have it, if not expect it in my next. Our loss of men at Penobscot is not yet known, no doubt it will be considerable, and as to Ships it may be said to be allmost total, as but one escaped most of them were burnt by our own people, I believe the Eastern people are asshamed of that expedition which is the reason we have never yet had a particular account. Inclosed you have a Circular Letter from Con gress to the States, which will fully informe you as to our Emissions &c.' This day Congress goes into a Committe of the whole to con sider of ways & means for supplys to carry on the War, at present they have in view a requissiation on the States for Taxes & Loans to an amount that I am affraid will not be complyd with. I was with a very small Minority on this grate question for stoping the Press, not that I thought the measure rong, but that it was necessary first, that the State should engage to furnish supplys, I shall be very happy to find I was mistaken by the several States furnishing their Quotaes as requested by Congress, which requissian you may expect next week. Your Acco’ of the Emigration, from our frontier Counties are very allarming and the measures pursuing in Virga of disposing of their Lands at this critical time I think should be put a stop to, but I see no inclination in Congress at this time to take it up. I am not disappointed on learning that the Law intended to put a Stop to Ingrosing &c has not had the wisht for effect. The Committe of this place I think has don much hurt, and now are resigning their power into the hands of the Legislature, wheather they will attempt a regulation is uncertaine. I fear they will take off the Embargoe. I ever am, Dear sir, Your afft Friend & Servt, James Forbes RC (PHi: Dreer Collection). 1 See John Jay to the States, September 14, 1779, note 3. Cyrus Griffin to Burgess Ball My Dear Sir Philadelphia, Septem. 21st 79. I have reed, your letter dated on the 4th. No person upon Earth can be more welcome to what little satisfaction I am able to give him in the way of writing now and then. The subscription to Dunlap’s paper I think is 80 dollars by the year; I shall not order that matter untill you again write me for the purpose. I fancy the Enemy will attempt nothing great notwithstanding the arrival of Arbuthnot. I wish we could know with Certainty to what place the Regiments lately embarked from N. York are intended; perhaps the Count D. Estaing may fall in with them, the Count having quitted his former station. I am almost as sanguine as yourself that the present Campaign will finish the Contest; the opposition to Great Britain is very formidable indeed; and yet when so conspicuous a nation begins to fall, perhaps


[Page 552]
520 September 21, 1779 she may go on to the brink of destruction, and of consequence the war may be lengthened a considerable time to come. The resolutions of Congress relative to the Army were but so many Acts of Justice; and I hope the different states will provide half pay exactly conform able to the English establishment. 1 Congress have done and are doing all they can to appreciate the money; yet the states and Individuals can alone apply the most effectual remedy by loaning and taxation. Enclosed you will find a handsome address upon this subject; writ ten by our president; 2 it contains to my Judgment a great deal of sterling sense and the most solid reasoning. I do not absolutely con demn your associations: but perhaps in consequence of them you may want many comfortable private supplies. I shall take notice of what you mention about the adjutants, paymasters, and Clothiers, I thank you exceedingly and General M. 3 for a sight of those papers enclosed to his Brother. 4 They greatly expanded my Ideas upon the subject; our officers write and fight in the same spirit. Your circumstantial account of that affair has given me pleasure tho I feel exceedingly for your situation—and yet w[hen] the public are acquainted with the whole matter as more praise will be given you as the brave and fortunate officer who executed the command. I would take a trip to Camp with the utmost satisfaction; but Smith and Fleming are seting off to Virginia, 5 and there only remains a bare delegation. Compli ments of the Fam[ily] attend you, My dear Sir, Yours affly. C. Griffin RC (CSmH: HM 39002). 1 See John Fell’s Diary, July 27, note; andjohnjay to Washington, August 20, 1779. 2 See John Jay to the States, September 14, note 3. 3 Brig. Gen. john Peter Gabriel Muhlenberg, who commanded the 1st Virginia Brigade to which Ball’s 1st Virginia Regiment was attached. 4 Frederick Muhlenberg, a delegate from Pennsylvania. 5 For the departure of William Fleming and Meriwether Smith from Congress, see Fleming to Thomas Jefferson, August 10; and Smith to the Virginia House of Delegates, November 25, 1779. Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 21-22, 1779] Sepr. 21. Tuesday. I wrote to Mr. Avery & Mrs. Holten (No. 75). 1 The Chevalier de la Luzerne, Minisr. Plena, from the Court of France arrived here from Boston. 22. Wednesday. I made a short visit to the new minisr. & wel comed him here. I dined with the president of Congress. MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found.


[Page 558]
526 September 21, 1779 think & judge in Support, if you can honestly, of that very Congress which has been so “ 2 what shall I call it?” in regard to you. I think the Remarks or Observations in the last Pages of the Pamphlet, now sent for the Exercise of your Genius & Humility, are very good. Brother Dana has now & then appeared to me to dissent from my Ideas of the necessary Powers to be with the Arbiter of Peace & War in Admiralty Concerns. You will oblige me by conversing with him after you have read what I now send. I cannot repeat to you what I have scrawled to S A 3 respecting the State of the Business which concerns the Honor of A Lee for whom you performed a capital Act of Justice on the 11th of February. I have taken up my Pen at a Table, while Congress in Committee of the whole is inventing Ways to get money, after having resolved to stop the press. 4 The Tragedy will soon be over if the States will not instantly supply us with monies for greater Expences than ever were before known for supporting an Army. Having been very ill I find myself hurt by the Addition of private friendly Correspondence to what lays upon me alone of a public Kind just at this Moment of the sailing of Mr. Gerard. By Moment I mean no more or less than 24 uncertain hours. He may go this Afternoon or not till Tomorrow. Don’t you inform the Enemy. It is a Secret that has only been known to every body in this City 8 or 9 Days. Your most affectionate, humb Servt, J.L. RC (MHi: Adams Papers). 1 Adams had been chosen Braintree’s delegate to the state constitutional convention that convened in Boston on September 1. He served on the committee of 31 members assigned to draft the constitution; and it was he who wrote most of the first draft of the document, which with minor variations was adopted as the state constitution in 1780. 2 In the margin opposite this passage Lovell drew an “index,” ry to which he keyed the following comment at the foot of the page: “For Explanation of the Blank consult my lovely Correspondent Portia.” 3 Samuel Adams, for whom see the following entry. 4 For a discussion of Congress’ efforts to resolve its continuing fiscal crisis, see John Mathews to Thomas Bee, this date. James Lovell to Samuel Adams Dear Sir, Sepr 21st 1779 Your Favor of the 9th reached me yesterday with so good an Apology for appearances of Delinquency, that I shall strive to forget that I have sometimes lately thought I had Cause to fret at you on Post Days. I have been very ill as have Multitudes in the City. Our Family in particular has had its full Portion. Mr. Langdon being


[Page 559]
September 21, 1779 527 taken with very fierce Symptoms on Monday, Genl Whipple put off his Journey home intended to have been on that day. Resolves have passed respectg. the main one of the two Questions asked us in Augst, if not in April 1778 and again in Octr with Information that A.L. would not think himself authorized to treat on those Points with Spain without our special Direction. 1 But lo! now, their is an Intention to send the Answer to A.L’s Question to Doctr. F or to somebody to be appointed. So that the 4 to 4 & 4 divided is probably to be a resumed Question. 2 I am prepared to inform new Members and to make the old ones sin with Conviction before their Eyes, if they are bent upon sinning. My opinion is that, if De Vergennes wrote on Octr. 19th 78 3 that he “feared Mr. Lee & those about him”, yet that he pd. so much Regard to the Testimony given by Mr. J. Adams on the 11th of Feby and will be so desirous of confirming his own Assertion made a few days after “that he had none of the Prejudices endeavored to be excited in America”, that he will treat A L with Confidence, and even be anxious to repair the Injury connected with former Diffidence by super rogatory Complai sance in future. 4 If a Slight is to be in this Instance put upon A L, I will proceed in two Peices of Business which I have suspended; one of which you mention in your Letter, 5 and the other I have before hinted to you. I hope that the one you mention is not talked of in your Quarter. For, tho’ I have maintained a Right of Suppression of what is sent thro the Discretion of a private Friend by a public officer, yet I do not want to have a noisy Discussion of the Question. I will attend to what you say about Flour though I think it a desperate Plan to send it from hence in Waggons unless in Cyder Barrels. Perhaps I shall get some on the other Side of Hudson’s River which will save many miles Risque. We are struggling very hard about our money. Gerry will not have a Tooth or Nail left if several whimsical Financiers do not go home soon. He is truly anx ious to have something decisive done, and he labors at it Night & Day. I am pleased with the Circumstances you mentioned in regard to the Conventions. J.A. tells me, in one of his Letters from France, that he is so far profited by some of our Proceedings as to see that he was what is called, in Tabernacle Language, a nothing-Creature. 6 His Vanity it seems is not incorrigible. With that Remark I quit the delicate Subject. Adieu. J [L] RC (NN: Adams Papers). 1 In an August 31, 1778, letter Arthur Lee had asked the Committee for Foreign Affairs for instructions on providing the Spanish navy with masts and ceding Florida to Spain, “should it be conquered.” Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:699. And in a resolve of September 17, 1779, Congress conceded that should Spain conquer Florida, “these United States will guaranty the same to his Catholick Majesty: Provided always, that the United States shall enjoy the free navigation of the river Mississippi.” See ]CC, 15:1084; and Henry Laurens’ Notes, September 9—17, 1779.


[Page 561]
September 21, 1779 529 2 That is, William Henry Drayton, who had died on September 4. 3 That is, James Duane and Gouverneur Morris were absent from Congress. 4 That is, John Fell and Woodbury Langdon were ill, but John Jay was still in the president’s chair. 5 The “Farmer” and “Fidler” were certainly John Dickinson and Meriwether Smith; the “Boatswain” was probably William Carmichael or William Paca. 6 See Lovell to Arthur Lee, September 17, 1779, note 8. 7 Samuel Adams. 8 That is, Samuel and John Adams, who were members of the Massachusetts consti tutional convention. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentlemen September 21. 1779 We shall very shortly want the Deane, Boston & Queen of France for a very important service for which reason we request that you will use every endeavour to have those Vessels fitted for the Sea with all possible dispatch and hold them ready to proceed Agreeable to the Orders which we shall transmit to you. 1 We are Gentn, Your Hble Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, September 22, 1779. John Mathews to Thomas Bee Dear Sir. Philadelphia Septr. 21. 1779. I inclosed you a few days ago, An Address of Congress to the several States. 1 It is a matter of the last importance, & to reconcile it to the minds of men, will require deep reflection. When I left Con gress last year a System of Finance was then nearly compleated; & was afterwards finally so. But soon after, those who did not like it, took the opportunity of moving a reconsideration of the whole & succeeded, which set the whole plan afloat again, & before anything effectual could be done upon it Congress were apprised of the medi ation of Spain, to bring about a peace, between Britain, France, & America. This necessarily led them into a discussion of points which were proper to be insisted on as the Ultimata for peace. This single object (I may justly say so, for no other business of importance was done) engrosed the attention of Congress, from the ninth day of February, untill sometime about the beginning of August. 2 To find things in this situation, no less chagrined, than astonished me, which produced from me some Phillippics not very pleasing, & which I really believe in the end had a good effect. You are doubtless no Stranger to the grand obstacle to the completion of this business, to Wit, the fisheries. The New England States had got some others to join


[Page 562]
530 September 21, 1779 them in a determination to make no peace, unless Britain acknowl edged their right to an equal participation of the fisheries on the American coast. This Subject was twisted, & tortured, in all the variety of modes human genius could invent to gain & to oppose, this important object. I took the opportunity when this point was warmly agitated, to deliver my sentiments fully & freely on it. I had taken pains to inform myself of the progress & the state of the business, and had well considered the importance, & consequence, of the claim, & was prepared to decide on it. I was a fresh hand. No man knew my sentiments, & [every one] listened with avidity to hear on which [side I should d]etermine. It was [. . .] 3 and grievously dis tressed country, for reasons too well known to be herein mentioned. Here the matter rested, the question was taken, & finally decided on. This relation looks too much like ostentation, to be communicated elsewhere, I mean it only for yourself, as I know your indulgent friendship will induce you to make me all the necessary allowances. This matter then being settled, the State of our money called loudly on us to pay a serious attention to it. But the precious days, & months that had been spent on the last mentioned business, were never to be recalled, with this wanton waste of time, was our money as wantonly sported with, untill it was at last reduced to its last stage of annihila tion, when the alarm bells from all quarters din’d so incessantly in our ears, that we were at last roused by its call. What was to be done? resounded from all parts of the house. Stop the press was replyed. This expedient was taken hold of & after a mature consideration was resolved on. No alternative remained, one more emission must have struck it dead. The nominal depreciation was thirty for one, This made the value of a dollar no more than three pence but in fact it was no better than One penny. Thus by Congress spending Six months on a business, which at a very large allowance, ought not have taken more than one, & for this object neglecting all others, we are reduced to this horrid dilemma. Whilst lounging in their seats, they could by a single vote, call forth Million after million from the press. They gave themselves but little concern, what was to be the event, untill ruin stared us in the face. Then by inspiration every member was at once to rise up an able financier. Thus when the Patient is gorged almost to suffocation, The faculty are called to a consultation. One sett prescribes lenitives to make him disgorge by degrees, as too violent an operation at first would probably throw him into convultions. Another is for craming him still more, by which means it will make him thrust it out at the other end. The third is for giving him a strong emetic, & oblige him to cast up the whole at once for as the disease is desperate it must require a desper ate remedy. I am among the latter class of Quacks (I think like Doctor Rock’s, our motto should [. . . ] Quack, Quack). Let us [. . .1st. . . ] 4 experiments will never do, for it never produced above a tenth part of what was necessary for the annual supplies. 2d. Stuffing one


[Page 563]
September 21, 1779 531 end to force it out at the other. That is, emitting more money. Even a Quack can tell this must be instant death, for one more emission would strike dead the farther circulation. 3d. The strong emetic, to produce a copious discharge. That is, a heavy tax. Now as I take you to be full as good a Quack as I am, I will leave you to Judge, which of the three remedies you think most likely to succeed. My plan always was to procure money in Europe & draw bills for it, either to pay of a part of the debt incurred here, or keep it as a fund for carrying on the War, at the same time tax the people as far as they could bear. Thus we should have been enabled either to pay of a part of the circulating cash, by which means the farther emissions would not have been so much felt, or by appropriating it, for our immediate expences, would have stopped the press & brought the paper money to a fixed value, which was certainly a most desirable object. But the day for this, is now past. Our Great Politicians say we ought by no means to incur a larger foreign debt than is indispensably necessary & that only in procuring Arms, ammunition, & Cloathing for the troops, which cannot be procured here—Our only resource now is taxation & internal loans. Let us examine the practicability of this method’s producing a sufficient Supply. There remains to be emit ted of the 200,000,000 a Little better than 40,000,000. There is a tax of 60,000,000 already called for, & which is to be paid in by the first of January. There is a negociation on foot for an internal loan 20,000,000. This makes in the whole 120,000,000. Deduct for the nonpayment of the Quota of So. Carolina 5,000,000 Say of the bills of April & May paid in by way of taxes 20,000,000—in the whole 95,000,000 remains. This is Computed to carry us on to the first of March next. What are our monthly expenditures? 15,000,000. Don’t stare so. If you look so aghast now, what will you do before I am done. I Say 15,000,000. This for the Six months up to the first of March is 90,000,000. Thus far it is all plain sailing. Then it devolves on the States to Supply the Continental Treasury. By an Allotment of 15,000,000 [ . . . ] 5 the New England fashion. All the Eastern & Middle States Say it is. Virginia & North Carolina Say they think not. So. Carolina Says No. You’ll of course ask, how I can [. . . ] adopt the plan then. I’ll tell you. I voted first for stopping the press, because I saw no alternative, & I must be in favour of this plan because I can suggest no better. A poor reason you’ll say. True—But the principle I go upon is this. The farther emissions being stoped will bring the money to a fixed point, & prevent the farther depreciation. There being such a superabundance in circulation, the people are eager to lend their surplussage, provided they could be certain of receiving their own money again. (The direct contrary of which has hitherto been the case.) This point being fixed, they will not only be certain of receiving their money at a future day, of the same value as when they lent it, but a chance of it’s being better, because as the deprecia tion has been arbitrary, owing to the constant emissions, the emissions


[Page 569]
September 22, 1779 537 lawful per Annum. Besides which he has been allowed for extra ordinaries from 100 to 150 Pounds a Year. In May last the Assembly agreed to give him for the current year on account of the deprecia tion twelve for one, which is 3600 pounds lawful money equal to 12000 dollars. New York has new modeled and settled its constitution. It has a Governor. His salary is 2000 pounds or 5000 dollars per Annum, On account of the present times, the Assembly have added one thousand pounds more or 2500 dollars. So that he is now allowed 7500 dollars for the present year. He has no house allowed him, nor any perquisites. New Jersey have also new modeled their constitution. They have a governor. I have not been able to find what his salary is. He has been allowed, the present year, something on account of the times. But his whole present allowance is supposed not to exceed 3000 pounds or 8000 dollars per Annum. Delaware has new modeled its constitution. The chief Magistrate is a president who is annually elected. His salary is 200 pounds or 533 1/3 dollars a year. I do not find that he has any perquisites or that he has had any allowance made him on Account of the depreciation. Maryland has new modeled its constitution. The chief Magistrate is denominated Governor. His Salary is 2500 pounds or 6666 2/3 dol lars a year. But lately the legislature unwilling to set an example of raising Salaries, and at the same time unwilling that the Officers of government should suffer too much by the depreciation, have resolved to pay the reasonable expences of all the Officers of Government. Virginia has in its new constitution established a governor. His salary is 4500 pounds or 150[00] dollars per annum. He resides in the palace [& has] the use of the Stables & a piece of pasture ground thereto belonging and also of some furniture which in 1774 cost 1500 pounds or 5000 dollars. I do not find that any allowance is made on account of depreciation. North Carolina under its new constitution has a Governor. He has no fixed salary. In the present state of the currency he is allowed 15000 dollars a year and has some trifling perquisites, but he finds his own house. South Carolina has new modeled its government. It has a Governor. His salary is 2000 pounds or 5333 1/3 dollars. He enjoys no perquisites, has no house found for him, nor has he had any allow ance made to him on account of the present depreciation. With regard to Georgia, there is no person of whom I can enquire concerning it. I am Sr, Your obedient humble Servt, Chas Thomson RC (PHi: Society Collection). In the hand of Thomas Edison; and addressed, dated, and signed by Thomson.


[Page 570]
538 September 23, 1779 1 General Mifflin had apparently asked Thomson to inquire of the various dele gates in Congress about the executive officers and their salaries in the 13 states. Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 23 — 24, 1779] 23. Thursday. Congress spent part of the day upon the affairs of Vermont. 24. Friday. I am somewhat unwell. Congress passed a number of resolves respecting Vermont. 1 Cool weather. MS (MDaAr). 1 See John Jay to Thomas Chittenden and to George Clinton, September 25, 1779. John Jay to the Continental Army Auditors Gen. Pha. 23 Sept 1779 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of a Letter of the 21 Ult. from Col. Butler to his Exy General Washington, and a Copy of an Act of Congress directing the Sum mentioned in it to be paid him on his making oath to the Facts set forth in the Letter. 1 I am Gent, Your most obt. Servt. JJ. LB (DNA: PCC item 14). In the hand of John Jay and endorsed by him: “Sent 24 Inst to Col. Mitchells.” Addressed: “The Auditors of the Main Army.” 1 Col. Richard Butler had written to Washington on August 21 to explain that he had been robbed of $2,316, which had been advanced to him for rations for his regiment. Washington had forwarded Butler’s letter to Congress, recommending him “as a Man of strict honour and probity,” and on September 15 Congress adopted a Board of Treasury recommendation to allow him reimbursement for the loss “on his making oath.” See JCC, 14:1005, 15:1067 — 68; PCC, item 152, 7:669—76; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:156—57. John Jay to George Washington Sir Pha. 23d Sep. 1779 I have had the Pleasure of recg your Exys Favors of the 14 and 18 Inst with the Papers mentioned in them. 1 The enclosed is a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 22d Inst directing the North Carolina Troop to proceed by Land to South Carolina. 2 With perfect Respect & Esteem I have the honor to be your Exys most obt Servt


[Page 573]
September 25, 1779 541 every practicable place, we have on both parties the choice of difficul ties held out to us, the wisdom of both would appear in advances toward a Treaty for Peace; we are heartily disposed to close the War, but by no means, despondent. The depreciation of our Paper Money is a heavy weight on these States, Congress have done & are doing every thing in their power for recovering its Credit, nothing but tbe virtuous exertions of our Constituents can accomplish a radical Cure. These exertions I fear will not appear until the People are animated by a convulsion. Every Man seems to be dead in trespasses & Sins against the Public Interest, & without consciousness of the truth, against his own. With my best wishes for your health & success I have the honor to be, Dear Sir, Your obedient & most humble servant. Henry Laurens RC (NjMoHP: Lloyd W. Smith Collection). 1 Lincoln’s letters of July 20 and 27 are in the general’s letterbooks, Lincoln Papers, MHi. 2 Lincoln’s letter of the 27th had been delivered to Laurens by Richard Mercer, purveyor of the hospitals in the southern department, whom the general had sent to the Board of War “for a number of articles necessary in this department which cannot be supplied elsewhere.” 3 Dr. David Oliphant, who had been director general of hospitals in South Carolina since June 1776, had recently complained that he had been ordered by Dr. William Shippen, Jr., to submit regular reports to him as director general of the medical department. This he refused to do, stating that he was responsible only to the Conti nental commander of the southern department and to Congress, and that his appoint ment was senior to Shippen’s. He had, he explained, been operating in this manner nearly three years, to the satisfaction of every commander of the southern department. He had submitted the plan of his establishment to Congress shortly after his appointment, and although it had never been acted upon, he presumed that the arrangement was agreeable, for he could not imagine that he would have been permit ted by Congress to operate in error for so long. Laurens’ surmise that Congress’ determination would be “satisfactory to the Doctor” was correct, although a compromise congressional resolution acceding to Oliphant’s demand—“to make monthly returns to the Medical Committee” rather than to Shippen—was not adopted until February 25, 1780. See JCC, 14:991; 16:204; PCC, item 72, fols. 510—19; and Samuel Huntington to David Oliphant, February 26, 1780. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Please your Excellency Philadelphia Septr. 25th 1779 Inclosed is an Extract of a letter from Mr. Fox which is Confirmed by Similar Accounts Contained in a letter from Genl Washington. 1 Captn Nile’s papers & accoumpts have been laid before Congress & are referred to the board of Treasury who have not yet reported thereon. 2 Proper attention will be paid to your Excellencys wishes respecting your Son & nothing will be wanting on our part to fur ther them in Case an appointment of the kind Should be Judged


[Page 574]
542 September 25, 1779 necessary. The New Minister of France the Chavilier de la Luzern arrived here last Thursday but has not yet been formally anounced to Congress. Mr. Gerard will Sail Soon in the Confederacy for France. Our foreign affairs are brot. nearly to a Close. The great business of Finance grows daily more & more pressing & Important. Some resolutions ascertaining the Sum that will be necessary to Supply the Treasury—assigning to the States their respec tive quotas, and fixing the time of payment, are under Consider ation & will Soon be passed upon and transmitted to the States. There is not hard money in the Treasury otherways your Applica tion would have been Complied with. No Journals have Come out Since our last. We Send herewith a Code of the Jersey laws presented to us by that State through their Delegates for the purpose of opening a Communication of laws with the different States, also a pamphlet on finance wrote by Mr. Webster. Septr. 26th. Last evening an Express arrived here from Charlestown South Carolina 3 & With dispatches Containing the most agreeable advices of the arrival of the Count De Estange off the Savannah the 5th Inst. With his fleet and a considerable land force—that he immediately Sent an officer to the Governor of South Carolina & to General Lincoln to Consult & Settle the Mode of attacking the Enemy—which being Concluded on was Sent back to the Count— and the Attack on Savannah was to be made on the 9th. This affords the most flattering prospects respecting Georgia & our affairs in that Country. The assistance of the Count with his fleet will be of most essential Service to us this Campaign provided he Shall be at liberty to Cooperate with us through the Season—which we have reason to hope. 4 The large Embarkation of 8,000 Troops making at Newyork for the southward will probably be Stoped. Capt Taylor a privateer from this Port has taken a transport Ship with 350 Hessians on board Supposed to be a part of the detachment which Saild Some time past from Newyork & were returning on account of bad weather. A woman was taken up at Reading in this State going from the Convention Troops in Virginia to New York had with her plans & Charts of James river & the adjacent Country. We have the Honor to be with the highest esteem & respect your Excellencys Most obedt & most humble Servants, Sami. Huntington Jesse Root RC (Ct: Trumbull Papers). Written by Root, and signed by Root and Huntington. 1 Edward Fox’s September 24, 1779, letter tojames Forbes, which reported a large embarkation of British troops from New York and was read in Congress on Septem ber 25, is in PCC, item 78, 9:287 — 90. JCC, 15:1103. For General Washington’s


[Page 575]
September 25, 1779 543 September 19 letter to Congress containing “Similar Accounts,” see PCC, item 152, 8:33—36; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:311 — 13. 2 Capt. Robert Niles’ claim for payment for carrying dispatches to France in May, 1778, was read in Congress on September 20 and referred to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 15:1087. 3 See Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington, September 24, 1779, note. 4 Extracts of two other delegate letters containing this intelligence were also printed in the October 5 issue of the Connecticut Courant and the Weekly Intelligencer at Hartford with the following captions. “Extract of a letter from a member of Congress to a gentleman in this town, dated Philadelphia, Sept. 26, 1779. “I congratulate you on the arrival of the Count D’Estaing with his fleet and a considerable land force off Charlestown, the 5th instant: He has sent to Gen. Lincoln and the Council of South-Carolina to consult on the mode of attacking the enemy, which was concluded and sent back to the Count. The attack was proposed to be made on the 9th instant. This intelligence comes by express from Charlestown, who left there the 9th instant; there is the highest reason to believe that Georgia and the British forces in those parts are before this in our possession.” “Extract of another letter from a member of congress to a gentleman in the State of New-York dated September 26. “I have only time to communicate the joyful news, that by express arrived last night in 15 days from Charlestown South Carolina, with letters from Count D’Estaing, who arrived with his fleet of 21 ships of the line, with frigates, &c. the 5th instant off Georgia. The State must exert themselves to fill their magazines with flour, as it will be wanted for the fleet and our army; The farmers should thresh out their grain immediately .” John Dickinson to Caesar Rodney Sir, Philadelphia, September 25th 1779 I have the pleasure to inform You, that the President of Congress, this Moment call’d upon Me, to inform Me, that he has receiv’d Advice, that the Count D’Estaing with a formidable Fleet has arriv’d at Georgia, 1 with a very considerable Body of Troops on Board. One of the principal Officers landed in South Carolina, held a Council of War there, in which the Plan of Operations was settled, and then return’d to the Count—and, if no Blunder is committed, the Event will be what we wish it to be. The Enemy is fortifying New York incessantly. They have done a great Deal, but still are not contented. Our Intelligence is well authenticated, that they meditated an Embarkation of several thou sand Men. The Count’s arrival in all probability will put a stop to it, unless they slip out to the West Indies, while he is ap—proach—ing— which is not unlikely. General Sullivan has beat the collected Force of the Enemy, of which too formal an Account is published—tho, the Consequences are said by such as understand Indian Affairs, to be of Importance to the peace of our Frontiers. Mr. Gerard has taken Leave of Congress, & is expected to sail every Day in the Frigate, Confederacy. We have dismist him with as


[Page 576]
544 September 25, 1779 honorable Testimonials respecting his public & private Conduct as we could give. 2 I have been for some time exceedingly indisposed. I intend soon, if I get better, to make a Trip to Kent—& if the State has any parti cular Business requiring immediate Dispatch, I should be glad to have Advice of it as early as possible. I [beg le]ave to recommend in the most earnfest] Manner, the providing every kind of Cloathing for our Battalion of brave & worthy Officers & Men and also the having our Militia in the most respectable Readiness for Action. I speak the sense of Congress on these Subjects. I am with great Regard, Sir, your very hble Servt. John Dickinson RC (DeHi: Rodney Papers). 1 See Samuel Huntington to Benjamin Huntington, September 24, 1779, note. 2 For Dickinson’s involvement in the ceremony attending the farewell speech of the French minister, which was read in Congress on September 17, see Dickinson’s Draft Reply to Gerard, September 5, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Saturday 25th [September 1779] First day I went abroad since being Sick. It was moved that a Minister to Negotiate a Peace with great Britain and a great deal of disagreeable altercation and debate occasiond by Mr Lees being so often mention’d, at last Mr Jay, Mr Adams and Mr Lee were Put in Nomination, 1 Adjournd. MS (DLC). 1 Although Arthur Lee was repeatedly mentioned during the debate in Congress this day, only John Adams and John Jay were officially nominated for the post of minister to negotiate a treaty of peace with Great Britain. The names of all three men were advanced the following day for the position of minister to negotiate a treaty of alliance and of amity and commerce with Spain. See JCC, 15:1107, 1109—10. Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 25, 1779] 25. Saturday. An express arrived here with the account, that the Count Estaign arrived of Georgia the 5th instant. I wrote to Mrs. Holten by Genl. Whipple (No. 76). 1 I’m unwell. MS (MDaAr). 1 Not found.


[Page 581]
September 25, 1779 549 You will find the Recitals and particular Resolutions numbered in the Margin of the Copy herewith enclosed, from 1 to 13, 4 I shall trouble you with a few explanatory Remarks on each of them— under Heads numbered in like Manner. 1 & 2. These Recitals were inserted to shew the Reason why Congress now proceed without the Report of the Committee, after having resolved to postpone the further Consideration of the Sub ject till their Report should be made. 3. This Recital jutifies the Facts set forth in your Representations, and in Case an appeal to the public shd become necessary, may be used with advantage to New York. 4. This Recital destroys the Doctrine that the union (independent of the Articles of Confederation) had no other object than Security against foreign Invasions. 5. This recital is calculated to impress the People with an opinion of the Reasonableness & Policy of the Requisition or Recommenda tion which follows, and therefore will the more readily induce these States to adopt the Measures recommended to them. 6. You may enquire for what Reasons I consented to this Recital, as it puts Massachusetts & New Hampshire on a Footing with New York whereas I well knew that New York alone had a Right to claim Jurisdiction over Vermont. My Reasons were these—Vermont extends over Connecticut River into the acknowledged Jurisdiction of New Hampshire—as to Massachusetts, the Recital admits only her Claim, not her Title—and it is as Impossible to deny the Exis tence of Claims when made as it is to prevent them. Their Delegates pointedly asserted & insisted on the Claim of Massachusetts, and it appeared to me expedient to provide for a speedy Determination of all Claims against us, however ill founded. You may further ask why Vermont was Made a Party? The Reason is this that by being allowed a Hearing the Candor and Moderation of Congress may be rescued from Aspersions, and that these People after having been fully heard may have nothing to say or complain of in Case the Decision of Congress be agt them—of which I have no Doubt. 7. It is true that by this Resolution the Merits of former settle ments with these States will be again the Subject of Inquiry, Discussion, and Decision—and therefore it may at first Sight appear improper—but these Settlements will still remain strong Evidence of our Rights however objectionable they may be represented to be by those States. Nor will Congress be easily prevailed upon to annul them, because in that Case all their Boundaries would be afloat. Besides in my Opinion it is much better for New York to gain a permanent peace with their neighbours by submitting to these Inconveniences, than by an impol[it]ic Adherence to Strict Rights, and a Rigid Observance of the Dictates of Dignity & Pride remain exposed to perpetual Dissensions and Encroachmt. Peace and estab-


[Page 583]
September 25, 1779 551 hend that this Matter was in a more positive manner confided to me than to my Colleagues, tho some of them considered it in that Light. The Commission vested me with no further Powers than what any other of your Delegates possessed nor was any Matter given more particularly in Charge to me than to the others by the Legislature. Their late Instructions however speake a different Language. I am satisfied to be viewed in that Light, that is to be the responsible Man, & provided the Measures I adopt are not thwarted I am confident that I shall be able to bring all these Matters to a happy Conclusion. I hope however that this will not be considered as a Hint for my being continued in the Delegation. I assure you nothing but an adherence to the Resolutions & Principles of action I adopted and professed at the Commencement of the War, would induce me to remain here at the Expense of Health as well as property, for tho I shall always be ready to serve my Country when called upon, I shall always be happy to find it consistent with my Duty to remain a private Citizen. I am Sir, Your Most Obedient Servant, John Jay P.S. I forgot to mention that Mr Phelps has been enoculated, & therefore could not be the Bearer of the Dispatches. 5 Be pleased to advise to this Distinction between Laws & Resolutions, and that the former are preferable in the general Estimation. I have very often been asked why our Legislature passed Resolutions rather than Acts for quieting Possessions in the Grants. Some suspected there was Finesse in it. ENCLOSURE. In Congress 24th Septr 1779. 1 Whereas on the first Day of June last Congress by a certain Resolution, reciting that “Whereas divers applications had been made to Congress on the part of the State of New York and of the State of New Hampshire relative to Disturbances, & animosities among Inhabitants of a certain District known by the name of “the New Hampshire Grants” praying their Interference for quieting thereof did resolve “that a Committee be appointed to repair to the New Hampshire Grants & enquire into the reason why they refuse to continue Citizens of the respective States which heretofore exer cised Jurisdiction over the said District; for that as Congress are in duty bound on the one hand to preserve inviolate the Rights of the several States, so on the other they will always be careful to provide that the Justice due to the States, does not interfere with the Justice which may be due to Individuals. “That the said Committee confer with the said Inhabitants, & that they take every prudent measure to promote an amicable Set-


[Page 584]
552 September 25, 1779 demerit of all Differences & prevent Divisions & Animosities so prejudicial to the United States” and did further resolve “that the further Consideration of this subject be postponed until the said committee shall have made report.” 2 And whereas it so happened that a Majority of the Committee appointed in pursuance of the aforementioned Resolutions did not meet in the said District and therefore have never executed the Business committed to them, or made a regular Report thereupon to Congress, Ordered that the said Committee be discharged. 3 And whereas the animosities aforesaid have lately proceeded so far and & risen so high as to endanger the internal Peace of the United States which renders it indispensably necessary for Con gress to interpose for the Restoration of quiet and good order. 4 And Whereas one of the great objects of the Union of the United States of America is the mutual Protection and Security of their respective Rights. 5 And Whereas it is of the last Importance to the said Union that all Causes of Jealousy & Discontent between the said States should be removed, and therefore that their several Boundaries and Juris diction be ascertained and settled. 6 And whereas Disputes at present subsist between the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay & New York on the one part, and the People of a District of Country called New Hampshire Grants on the other, which People deny the Jurisdiction of each of the said States over the said District; and each of the said States claim the said District against each other as well as against the said People, as appertaining in the whole or in part to them respectively. 7th Resolved unanimously, That it be and hereby is most earnestly recommended to the States of New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay & New York forthwith to pass Laws expressly authorising Congress to hear & determine all Differences between them relative to their respective Boundaries in the mode prescribed by the Articles of Con federation so that Congress may proceed thereon by the First Day of February next at farthest. 8 And further that the said States of New Hampshire, Massachu setts Bay & New York do by Express Laws for the Purpose refer to the decision of Congress all Differences or Disputes relative to Jurisdiction, which they may respectively have with the People of the District aforesaid, so that Congress may proceed thereon on the said first day of February next. 9 And also to authorise Congress to proceed to hear & determine all Disputes subsisting between the Grantees of the several States aforesaid with one another or with either of the said States respect ing Title to Lands lying in the said District to be heard and deter mined in the mode prescribed for such Cases by the Articles of Confederation aforesaid: And further to provide that no Advantage be taken of the Non-performance of the Condition of any of the


[Page 596]
564 September 27, 1779 could hear such sentiments & forbear laughing inwardly—finding me to be clear in his opinion that on the present occasion we ought not to appoint a Member, he earnestly requested me to think of a proper Character out of doors, after some hours reflection I named to him Mr. John Adams as a Gentleman in every respect well qualified, against whom there could be no exception & to whom these States were much indebted—there rested the matter, until the proposed Resolution & its proposed amendment were ousted by Yeas & Nays. When the Ballots were about to be taken, my Colleague declared for Mr. Jay, I expostulated with him on what had passed between us; observed, that among other motives, I had nominated Mr. Adams on his own principles & candidly & honestly declared to him such exceptions against Mr. Jay as neither himself nor any Man could remove. He nevertheless persisted & South Carolina was deprived of a Vote. I explained to Congress in terms nearly as above written the ground of our division as an apology for my own conduct. I think no honest Man will censure me, nor would I have it under stood that I mean to censure Mr. Mathews, we are perfectly good friends & I believe him to be a very honest Man. I am also persuaded he had not been let into the secret of his self-denying motion, but this must be reserved as a subject for a future moments discussion. 1 These things I say to you & to my good friend Gervais, & to no body else, unless you shall find it necessary, which I hope will never happen. Mr. Solikifer has just informed me, that Sir Charles Hardy’s Cruize had been made for reconnoitering & scouring the British Channel, finding it clear, he had returned into Port & immediately after, a fleet of upwards of forty Sail of Merchant Men, probably under some small convoy sailed from Spithead or some port in England, these were more lucky than Sir Charles, they fell in with the french or perhaps the combined Fleets, & were every skin of them con ducted into Brest—this, Mr Solikoffer says he read in a Letter from Bourdeaux 42 days old & he is gone to look for the Letter, if it comes in proper time you will receive an extract. When I writ to Mr. Gervais yesterday 2 I held my self confined to a moment & said I should not write to you, but a violent rain & other circumstances I suppose were impediments to Mr. Down’s depar ture earlier than this Morning. You will now be so good as to present my Love to my friend & communicate these contents. I learn your black Air Castle is blown up, 3 with contemptuous huzzas—a Man of your reading & of your Philosophy will require no consolatory rea sonings for reconciling him to disappointment. I pray God to bless & protect you. Henry Laurens. RC (ScHi: Laurens Papers, no. 34). 1 At this point in the manuscript Laurens inserted an asterisk, to which he keyed the following note written on a separate sheet. “This Morning Monday the 27th September according to my imaginary foresight


[Page 598]
566 September 27, 1779 not agree. The mover of the motion above not being likely to consent with bis Colleague to carry it into effect, The baloting was postponed. 7 It had been frequently pressed on the members to order some Resolves now on the Table, and but very lately passed (respectg. points on which the temper of Spain towards us greatly depends) to be forwarded to the Commissioner at that Court, as answers to the Questions which he hinted to us in 6 days after the Treaties with France, again on the 2d of Apr., again plainly & urgently for our Answr. on Augst. 27 again more urgently on Oct 19 again on Deer. 5th &c. &c. 8 A cut and dried Commission such as must pass hereaf ter was produced, moved for & seconded out of order. A motion was then made & seconded for chusing a Minister plenipotentiary to do exactly what a Commissioner is now fully authorised to do; as much so, exactly, as were the 3 at the Court of France. The Pretence for this was the accepted 2d Paragraph of a Report—vid Apr 15 th that Ministers plenipotentiary were only necessary at Versailles & Madrid. 9 The Spirit and Intent of which Paragraph lay in the word only and not in a technical use of Ministers as setled by France and us on the Arrival of Mr. Gerard. Some good and notyowng Men, on this question, saw not the Trap under the Chaff. Who could deny that we have assented to additional parade & expence in a Minister above a Commissioner? Who could deny that two Persons would be in pay, for a time, at once, to do the same business? Who could deny that A. Lee’s compleat Vindications were on the Table of Congress? This last Matter and all characterising was said to be untimely, as much as in a question about creating a Quarter Master General when we had a Quarter Master; for that A Lee stood as fair for nomination to the new Commission as any Man else, and then we should be allowed full Liberty to speak to Character. A Majority can thus kill but it requires seven to make alive. But seven thus killed. For, Mr. Laurens tho’ he spoke against the Question voted for it, and then nominated A Lee. This last act of his in such a desperate case does not make up for depriving a much injured man of the advantage of showing that he was artfully knocked down by six upon a presumption that seven could not be found to assist in recovering him from the Violence of the Blow. 10 Mr. J. Adams was also nominated for Spain by Mr. Paca, Mr. J Jay by Mr. Mercer of Virga. This Accommodation Scheme had been proposed in Whispers early in the Morning, to provide places for the two nominated the day before. One to have a Post of the highest honor, and the other to take the Post of a Man murdered on purpose to make Room. 11 Are not these doings a compleat Appendix to the Report of the Comtee of 13 and the proceedings thereon months ago? Look at the Names! Here I must join in an old Exclamation of F. L. L. 12 when he had seen a whole day wasted. “What d d dirty Work is this of Politicks”! I will now state the votes, Remarking, that, being Sunday, Mr. McKean was able to attend; but yr. sworn Friend the Farmer 13 will


[Page 604]
572 September 27, 1779 It is said a second Division of Arburthnots Fleet is arrived at New York, with some Hessions & Wild Irish Troops. About sixty Sail were seen going into New York—Some Ships of War, & large Trasports. A large Embarkation it is also said has been taking Place at New- York with Waggons &c &c—Some presume for Virginia, to regain the Convention Troops—an Object perhaps not out of their Reach, if Count DeStaing was out of the Way. Monsr. Gerard is not yet gone, but has taken Leave of Congress in a private Audience. The New Minister has not yet been reed. Nor is the Day appointed. A few Days must give Us important Advice from Europe And a few weeks in the Close of this Campaingn may be big with Events. That They may be Honorable & Happy to Us & Our Country, is the sincere Wish of Yr. Friend & Servt. Hy. Marchant P. S. You must receive Scratches from me—I have not Time to copy. RC (NHi: Gates Papers). 1 For the achievements and promotion of Silas Talbot, see John Jay to Gates, July 30; and Marchant to Talbot, August 9, 1779, note 2. Committee of Congress to John Chaloner and James White Philadelphia Sept. 28th 1779 Gent. You will do the best you possibly Can to Comply with the within requisitions of Mr Holker 1 for the use of Count De Estaings Fleet. Per order of the Commttee of Congress on the Comsy. & Qr Mst J. Root Chairman Dpts. RC (PHi: Chaloner & White Papers). Written and signed by Root. 1 Root wrote this brief letter on the verso of a list of “Wants for the fleet” written and signed by Jean Holker, dated September 27, 1779. John Fell’s Diary Tuesday 28th [September 1779]. C. Committee. The Congress. Elected a New President by Ballot, vizt. Mr Huntington. 1 A Secretary for the Embesey were Put in nomination vizt Mr. Carmichael & Mr Searle. P M Marine Committee. Dined with Jos Wharton. MS (DLC).


[Page 605]
September 28, 1779 573 1 In a letter of this date to Jose de Galvez, Spanish agent Juan de Miralles reported an aspect of the election not recorded by Fell or in the journals: “Henry Laurens, a former President, received six votes on the first ballot, but withdrew his name. Mr. Huntingdon was elected on the second ballot.” Audiencia de Santo Domingo, Legajo 2598, Archivo General de Indias, Seville (Aileen Moore Topping translation, Manuscript Division, DLC). In a letter of the previous day, Miralles had speculated that Laurens would indeed withdraw if nominated. See James Lovell to John Adams, September 27, note 6. The source of Miralles’ information is not mentioned in his correspondence. Samuel Holten’s Diary [September 28, 1779] 28. Tuesday. I wrote to Capt. Shillaber, The President of the Council, & Spkr. of the house, to Dr. Cooper & Mrs. Holten (no. 77). 1 Mr. Huntington chose P. of Congress. MS (MDaAr). 1 Only Holten’s letter to the Massachusetts Council, the following entry, has been found. Samuel Holten to the Massachusetts Council Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 28th, 1779 The author of the inclosed pamphlet, left two of them, with the Delegates of Massa. Bay, with a desire that they might be forwarded to their Court; Therefore, I do myself the Honor to inclose one for the Honble. Board, and the other, I have inclosed to the Speaker of the House. The new Minisr. plenipotentiary, with his suit, arrived here on Tuesday last; I have had the honor of paying him my respects & congratulating him on his safe arrival; and he particularly noticed the kind treatment he had received in Masstts. I consider it as a favorable circumstance, that his first arrival was in our state. Mr. Gerard, has taken formal leave; & I expect the Chevalier De La Luzerne the new Minisr. will soon be admitted to a public audi ence with Congress. Last Saturday evening an express came in here, with the agree able intelligence, that the Count De Estaign arrived off Georgia the 5th instant. I have the Honor to be with the greatest respect, sir, your most obedient servt. S. Holten P. S. The disputes between the state of New-York & the people stiling themselves the state of Vermont, have arisen to such a height that Congress have been obliged to interpose (to prevent a civil


[Page 616]
584 September 28, 1779 join the french fleet or to such other place as may be directed by General Washington or the Count DEstaing. You are also to provide and engage a Sufficient Number of Skilful Pilots for the said fleet for Newfound Land, Hallifax, Penobscot, & Rhode Island, who are to go on board your ships. You are to Observe that General Washing ton and the Count are to Co-Operate with each Other, 1 and there fore Congress have thought proper that the Captains of the Conti nental ships & armed Vessels should be Subject to their orders. We are Gentn, Yr. hble servts. (Signed) Jno Mathews Chairman Copy Tr (DLC: Washington Papers) LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Commit tee Letter Book). 1 Mathews also sent Washington a copy of this letter to the board under cover of a brief letter of transmittal of this date. Washington Papers, DLC; and Paullin, Marine Committee Letters, 2:119. On October 6, Washington wrote the Marine Committee that he was “happy in the correspondence of your ideas with mine upon the subject of it [i.e., the proposal to redeploy three frigates to South Carolina]. I wrote Congress on the 4th Instant, and suggested to them the eligibility of the plan which you had already adopted.” Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 16:420—21. Rhode Island Delegates to William Greene Sir, Philadelphia, Sepr. 28th. 1779. We reed. Your Excellency’s Favour of the 3d. Instant, enclosing a certifficate of the Valuation of the black Regiment. 1 As Congress have agreed to stop the Press, and all Supplies must now come from the States, Your Excellency will perceive that there can be no great Prospect of procuring the Ballance of Our Account—However at any Rate the Charge of the black Regiment may as well stand as it now does Blank, for some time, as we might be very happy to prove the Ballance exclusive of that Charge. There will very probably be some Charges that will not finally be allowed. We will do all in our Power to procure an Order on the Treasury at Rhode Island for a Sum amounting as near as may be to our Ballance; But we are so doubtful of Our Success herein, that we would wish the State not to build much upon it. Great will be the Calls for Money—And great must be the Exertions of the States. The Time is come when we are called upon to fulfill the Engagements which every One most chearfully made at the Begining of this Contest. We must part with some Share of our Interest, to save the Rest. And if we are obliged to sell some Part of our Estates, to secure the noblest Cause on Earth who is the Man that will shrink from the TryaL Our Grand Exer tion in freely giving and lending, will under the kindness of Heaven, put our Affairs in a State of Security beyond the Reach of Our Enemies to injure.


[Page 619]
September 29, 1779 587 Edmd Jennings, Mr Laboushire, 3 & Mr. Joshua Johnson first Ballot 13 6 second do 4 7 Mr. Johnson was Ellected. A Report was brought in from the Committee, to allow the Minis ter Plenoptentiary £3000 Sterlg. Per annum and the Secretary £1000 Sterlg Per Do. Postponed. MS (DLC). 1 That is, the Committee of Commerce. 2 For the resolutions authorizing the appointment of this commissioner, see Henry Laurens to Richard Henry Lee, August 10, 1779, note 4. 3 Possibly one of the Labouchere family connected with the banking house of Hope & Company in Amsterdam. William Fitzhugh to Benjamin Harrison Dear Sir Philadelphia. Septr. 29. 1779. When the Assembly appointed me a Delegate to Congress, 1 it afforded me that Kind of Pleasure only, which every Man must natu rally feel, who is honour’d with the Confidence of his Country. I accepted of the appointment with reluctance, because I thought, at that critical Moment, it was necessary to commit a Trust of so much Importance, to Men of the most distinguish’d Abilities, & Integrity amongst us; but finding our first Characters unwilling to engage in publick Business, I determined at every Hazard to contribute my Mite, towards compleating the great Object in View, which we have hitherto supported with so much Firmness, & which I hope we shall in the End obtain. The contracted Sphere in which I have moved, makes it impossi ble that I shou’d render any essential Service at this particular Time. I have been long enough in Congress to know, that it requires Men of extensive Knowledge, as well as of unshaken Fidelity to conduct the great Business of America with Propriety. I must therefore beg of you Sir to offer my sincere thanks to the Assembly for the good Opinion they were pleased to entertain of me, and to desire them to appoint some one to succeed me for the ensueing Year, which I am informd commences early in November. One principal Motive that induces me to make this Request, I have already given, I may also add that I have for some Time past been in a declining State of Health, 8c as close an Attention to Business as I must necessarily subject myself to, is more than a weak Constitution can bear. I am Dear Sir, Your mo. Ob. Ser. William Fitzhugh


[Page 620]
588 September 29, 1779 RC (CSmH: Brock Collection). 1 The Virginia delegates’ credentials for their June 18 election had been presented by his colleague Edmund Randolph on July 22, but Fitzhugh did not take his seat in Congress until September 13.JCC, 14:861—62, 15:1048. Elbridge Gerry to John Adams My dear Mr Adams Philadelphia Sepr 29. 1779 It is with the greatest pleasure, that I inform You of the late Arrangement of our foreign affairs, in which You are appointed to negotiate the Treaties with G Britain & our Friend Mr Dana to be your Secretary. Mr Jay is to negotiate with Spain, Mr Carmichael to be his Secretary, & Colo John Laurens, Son of the late president Laurens, to be Secretary to Doctor Franklin. I shall not be able at this Time to give You a History of the proceedings of Congress, relative to their foreign Affairs; the Embarrassments, Difficulties & Delays attending this Business, in Consequence of the Disputes between the late Commissioners, have exceeded every thing of the Kind, which I have before met with: So far have some of their Friends in Congress been influenced by Attach ments & prejudices, as to render it impossible to preserve their Friendship & Confidence, & at the same Time to act with becoming Freedom & Independence. I flatter myself that You will not hesitate a Moment, at accepting the highest office of Honor & Trust, under the United States, when elected thereto by the Voice of eleven States. Indeed it may be called unanimous, as there was only a single Vote for Doctor Franklin, who was not in Nomination, & it was said to have been put in by Delaware, at that Time represented by your old Friend Mr D n. 1 Great Exertions were made to send You to Spain, & Mr Jay on the other Embassy, but the Opposition of your Friends produced from the Gentlemen in Favour of Mr Jay, a proposal of Accomodation, in Consequence whereof he was appointed by eight States. The Appoint ment of Mr Dana is in my humble opinion of the next Importance, & should he accept it, he may stand Candidate for the next Vacancy in Europe. It is almost Time to acknowledge the Receipt of your esteemed Favours of the 27th of Novr 1778, & of the 10th & 11th Instant. 2 The first is of so early a Date as not to require an Answer, & a prudent Use shall be made of the last. Agreable to your Request in the other, I transmit by the Bearer Mr the Journals of Congress to the present Time, as far as they are printed, those for 1778 are now in the press. With Respect to the Circumstances of your first Appointment, It was in Consequence of a Nomination which I ventured to make, after having endeavoured to discover your Sentiments, on the Subject. I remember You was more reserved


[Page 626]
594 September 29, 1779 provide for a Representation of your State here the better—God grant it may be an able one. The Resolutions respecting Vermont if prudently managed will establish perpetual Harmony between you and your Neighbours. I am confident of this. Temper & firmness will be indispensable. Let us not differ with them about Triffles, or by unnecessary Heats retard a Settlement satisfactory to all. It gives me Pleasure to assure you that the State stands high in the Esteem of the Confederacy, and a Continuation of the same means by which it was obtain’d will be necessary to perpetuate it. At this Season it is particularly expedient that your Delegates should be wise and prudent Men. You will then find it easy to settle your Disputes advantageously. I sincerely wish that the Chancellor and Mr. Hobart may be sent here, 1 as you know their Characters you will be at no Loss to perceive my Reasons for it. Mr. Duane will be a useful Man, but in my Opin ion his Attention should be confined to general Objects, and ought by no means to interfere respecting the Vermont & New England Business, further that as a private, out of Door Counsellor. Morris will be serviceable 2 —His Abilities enable him to promote every Cause he may advocate, but if I may be permitted to advise he should restrain himself from taking any Part or pushing any Measure respect ing your Disputes, without previous Concert with Livingston and Hobart. If this Plan be persued I have not the least Doubt of Success. I found it the most delicate affair to manage I ever was concerned in, and whoever it may be committed to, will soon concur with me in this Sentiment. It is of such great Importance to the State that no means however inconvenient, ought to be omitted to bring it to a happy Termination. Some members of Congress have just come in to do Business with me. Coll. Livingston will set off directly. I must, therefore, reluctantly conclude this Letter with assuring you that I am, your obt. & affect. Serv’t, John Jay. RC (N: Clinton Papers). Clinton, Papers (Hastings), 5:288—91. RC damaged; missing material supplied from Tr. 1 That is, Chancellor Robert R. Livingston and John Sloss Hobart (1738—1805), a justice of the New York supreme court. DAB. 2 That is, Gouverneur Morris. John Jay to Robert R. Livingston and Gouverneur Morris My Dear friends Philadelphia 29 Septr. 1779. 1 I address this Letter to you both because I have not Time by this opportunity to write to each separately. In a few Days I shall write you both particularly. Mr. Gerard being about to sail happily pre vailed upon Congress to proceed rapidly & unanimously in arrang-


[Page 628]
596 September 29, 1779 both and a Promise to submit to our Decision. Jay pushed that because two Parties had consented to leave their whole dispute to us, we shd. oblidge others to do the same. 1 But I hope our State will never let Congress be a Tribunal to decide Bounds & Right of Soil. I think we have got so far without committing Enormities, in that Case. But can I say so in Regard to Arthur Lee? However, I persude myself, his Honor is safe, and that he will spare a certain Body of Men as much as he possibly can and not be highly unjust to himself. You will hear much about acting in Concert with Count D’Estaing, and driving the Enemy from New York. But, I wish you would promote a Forwardness for aiding in a Blow to destroy Halifax. I tell you in Confidence that I more than suspect it to be his main Object, as the Supplies from thence are the only means of Byrons being in any Posture for operating. The Nova Scotians want only arms & amunition to enable them to do their own fighting and purchase Independence. I will get the Name if possible of the Scoundrel who wrote the french Letter. I have been very ill; but am mending. But this sitting up till Morning will soon throw me aback unless I quit the Practice. I have much to say but my Head is not clear. I must go to my Pillow. Affectionately, Yr humb Sert. JL RC (NN: Adams Papers). 'See John Jay to Thomas Chittenden and to George Clinton, September 25, 1779. James Lovell to Arthur Lee Sir [September 29? 1779] 1 I have lately heard what it is interesting to you to be apprised of. It is said that Congress, having determined to appoint a Minister Plenipotentiary in Lieu of a Commissioner for the Court of Spain, did on the 27 of Sepr. appoint J Jay who was in Nomination with you & one other: That on the 29th Mr. Carmichael was chosen his Secretary: That Silas Deane has been arrested in yr. Name. A Friend to your merits. RC (MH-H: Lee Family Papers). In Lovell’s hand, though not signed. ’This undated letter was probably written on or soon after September 29, the day William Carmichael was selected as John Jay’s secretary, a decision reported in this brief letter.


[Page 629]
September 30, 1779 597 Nathaniel Peabody to Josiah Bartlett No. 9. Wednesday morng 29th Sept 79. 1 Mr. Peabodys Compliments to the Hon[orab]le Mr. Bartlett, & begs leave to inclose a paper, & Some Copies of Genl Burgoynes Private letters—the Post did not arive here till ten Clock last eveng is now Going off. Mr. Peabody is happy to inform that, Count D Estaing is Now on our Coast with 21 Ships of the line, 6 frigates & 6,000 land forces, to Cooperate with the American Arms the remainder of this Campaign, at the direction of the french minister here—in Conse quence of which the necessary orders are Sent to Genl Washington with ample Powers. The Strength of the french fleet & army is to be kept a Secret as well as the intended opperations. The States will be addressed to lend Such aid as the Genl, may request. 180 Hessian prisone[r]s arived at Philad—the 26. RC (NhD: Bartlett Papers). In Peabody’s hand, though not signed. 1 This day Peabody also wrote a letter to William Whipple, which has not been found, but in his October 18 reply Whipple wrote: “Your favor of the 29th Sepr came to hand before I left Boston, but time not permitting me to acknowledge the receipt of it per last post, I take the earliest opportunity after my arrival here to thank you for the information it contains.” “Surprising events it seems have taken place since I left you—the causes you leave me to conjecture ’tho you flatter me with hopes of something more particular hereafter. I hope my curiosity will be satisfied per next post for I assure you it is much raised, were it not for the trouble it wod give you I should ask for a particular History of a few days subsequent to the 25th Sepr. I am puzled to find out from whom the 8 Votes could come, I could not possibly suppose so large a proportion could be lost to every sense of Honour and justice, however, I am sure the Character that the Malevolence of some People are endeavoring to destroy will rise superior to all his Enemies. The other Vote is not so much to be wondered at, for in days not more Corrupt than the present even the presence of the Deity did not keep a greater proportion than Eleven out of twelve in the paths of Virtue, but is there not some mischief still lurking behind the curtain. Why should one person be called Minister Plenipotentiary, and the other whose Business is of much greater importance have the title of Commissioner only? I must defer saying any thing more to you on this subject till I have a more particular accot. of things.” Roberts Collection, PHC. John Fell’s Diary Thursday Sepr. 30th. 1779 Commercial Committee. Congress. A number of Letters, Memori als &c were read. PM Marine Committee. Capt Read 1 appointed to the Frigate Bourbon. MS (DLC). 1 Capt. Thomas Read, who had previously commanded the Continental frigate Washington and the brigantine Baltimore.


[Page 630]
598 September 30, 1779 Samuel Huntington to Thomas Jefferson Sir Philada 30th Septr 1779 You will receive herewith enclosed a Copy of an Act of Congress of the 29th instant with Copys of the letters refferred to in it reccomending to the Executive of Virginia the stationing of and safe keeping of the Convention Troops in case of invasion and to advise the Board of War of their proceedings. 1 I have the honour to be with great respect, your Exy’s most obt & hble Servt, S. H. President LB (DNA: PCC, item 14). 1 On September 27 the Board of War delivered to Congress two letters from New Jersey, by Maj. Elisha Walton and Lt. Jacob Wolcott, reporting the recent arrival of British reinforcements at New York and prospects for a new southern expedition. These were immediately referred to the Virginia delegates, who were ordered to “confer with the Board of War, and report thereon with all convenient dispatch,” which they did on the 29th. The delegates’ report, in the hand of Cyrus Griffin and written on the verso of the Board of War’s September 27 letter to Congress, reads: “The delegates of Virginia to whom were refered some Intelligence from the Board of War of September 27th beg leave to report. “That should an expedition take place by the Enemy of eight Thousand Men to the State of Virginia they are of opinion the Convention Troops might be rescued with great facility unless some expeditious and effectual measures are taken to prevent it. Therefore resolved that the Governor and council of Virginia be authorised and requested to seperate the said Troops of the Convention if necessary, or to do what ever shall appear to the executive best calculated for the safety of those Troops and the public service.” The enclosed September 29 resolve simply endorsed Griffin’s recommendations and ordered copies of Walton’s and Wolcott’s letters transmitted to the Virginia governor. Although Secretary Thomson did not record the matter in the journals, Congress also received this day another, related letter from the Board of War, one calling attention to the concern of Col. Theodorick Bland, commander of the Conven tion Army guard at Charlottesville, to the vulnerability of his post to enemy raid. As this letter is endorsed by Thomson “read 29,” it seems probable that it was discussed during the debate on Griffin’s report. SeeJCC, 15:1111, 1126—27; and PCC, item 147,2:485-96,501-4. James Lovell to Horatio Gates Dear General Confidential Phila. Sep. 30th 1779 Your favor of the 26th has reached me wth. 3 inclosed. Arthur Lee is sacrificed. John Jay goes to Spain with Carmichael for Secretary. John Adams is to Negociate Peace and alliance with England, Dana is chosen his Secretary; and Col. John Lawrence is chosen Secy, to Franklin at Versailles. 3 of the 5 carry no ill Look. I was nominated for Versailles as Secy. 1 and am sure that my Resolution is wanted there to disperse the fascinating crew of Stockjobbers who live upon the Secrets of our Minister. But having from seven Months Convic tion in an Heel-tripping Contest seen the Necessity of pushing a


[Page 641]
Index 609 Arnold, Thomas, 9 Articles of Confederation; see Confederation, Articles of Ashmead, John, 53, 411 Atlee, Samuel J.: letters from, 102, 116; letter to, 76; report, 201; ☆ attends Con gress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; Vermont committee, 13, 18, 76, 103, 117, 143, 199, 201, 208—9; interviews Vermont settlers, 103; submits Vermont report, 201—3; nominates secretary to mission to France, 581; mentioned, 21 Auditor general, xxvi Auditors, 349, 538 Austin, Jonathan Loring: accounts, 93; mentioned, 92, 301 Austria, 148 Avery, Elisha, 35 Avery, James, letter to, 359 Avery, John, 28, 168, 380, 468, 520 Ayen, Jean-Paul-Fran^ois de Noailles, due d’, 304 Aylett, William: letters to, 94, 293; ☆ marine committee instructions, 94, 293; accounts, 293; and Convention Army needs, 447; mentioned, 361 Babcock, George, Bradford v. Babcock appeal, 338 Baldwin, Mr., 4 Ball, Burgess: identified, 346; letters to, 345, 519 Ball, Lebbeus, letter to, 138 Baltimore, Md., 55, 110, 160, 211, 327, 361 Baltimore (Continental brigantine), 14, 54, 438, 597 Bancke, John: seeks Continental commission, 162; denied Continental commission, 196, 217; mentioned, 219, 221 Bancker, John, protests abolition of barracks post, 391 Bancroft, Edward, 93, 302 Barnett, James, 302 Barrackmaster general, retrenchment of expenses sought, 31—32 Barracks: for Rhode Island, 474; mentioned, 260 Barracks department, reorganized, 391 Barron, Mr. (of Hampton, Va.), 113 Barry, John, 94, 282 Bartlett, Josiah: letters to, 86, 141, 142, 198, 212, 269, 305, 322, 356, 383, 414, 439, 471, 475, 533, 597; ☆ and Vermont controversy, 88; mentioned, 95, 182 Bavaria, 300 Bayard, John, 502 Baynton, John, resignation, 504 Beall, Capt., 35 Beatty, John: letters to, 13, 153, 376, 393, 438, 469; ☆ marine committee instruc tions, 13, 376, 393, 438, 469; ordered to investigate Boston deputy commissary, 469; mentioned, 68. Beaumarchais, Pierre-Augustin Caron de: and commissioners at Paris, 57; remit tances for authorized, 80; mentioned, 107, 113, 337, 349, 381; see also Francy, Jean-Baptiste Bedel, Timothy, 366 Bedford, Conn., 262 Bee, Thomas: letter to, 529; requests aid from Virginia, 27 Beef: for French fleet, 287, 397; mentioned, 212 Bell, Whitfield, John Morgan, 21 Beniowski, Maurice, seeks Continental commission, 469 Bennet, William, 423, 436 Bennington, Vt., 202, 212 Benson, Henry: seeks ship command, 152; mentioned, 208 Berkenhout, John, 227, 234, 291, 381 Berlin, 240, 300, 350


[Page 645]
Index 613 Clay, Joseph, sent money, 432 Claypoole, David C., 23, 240 Clinton, George: letters to, 3, 7, 12, 17, 18, 50, 63, 76, 78, 119, 127, 162, 218, 307, 369, 375, 386, 389, 406, 419, 446, 495, 499, 504, 546, 547, 559, 593; ☆ requests congressional action against Vermont, 8; reports seizure of New Yorkers by Vermont, 77; mentioned, 93, 117, 153, 223, 275, 350 Clinton, Henry: letter to, 272; ☆ occupies Hudson River posts, 38; satirized by Wil liam Henry Drayton, 272—75; orders Rhode Island evacuated, 332; mentioned, 36, 43, 49, 67, 91, 219, 238, 265, 267, 269, 297, 346, 352, 357 Cloth, imported, 351 Clothier general: nominated, 90; appointment declined, 155; salary, 248; mentioned, 105, 174, 185, 221, 289, 341 Clothier general’s department: rules and regulations, 248; staff deficiencies, 389; mentioned, 498 Clothing: imported, 187; state responsibility for recommended, 498; mentioned, 226, 373, 388, 425, 474, 490, 494, 544 Clowes, John, 314 Clymer, Daniel, 210 Coakley, James, 230 Coats, William, exchange proposed, 236 Codman, John, represents Capt. Duarti, 158, 183-84 Coit, Joshua, 397 Cole, Thomas, 9 Collier, George: “Address to the Inhabitants of Connecticut,” 263, 274; destroys Penobscot expedition, 268; mentioned, 129, 130, 273, 346, 352, 354, 408, 447, 560 Collier, William, 419 Collins, Isaac, 518 Collins, John:letters from, 8,23,71,214,332, 343, 354, 466, 472, 473, 583, 584, 585; notes, 40; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; naval reform plan, 40-41; criticizes factionalism, 467, 585-86; marine committee, 583; returns home, 586; committee on marine reform, 602; mentioned, 410 Commerce; see Trade Commissary general’s department: letter to, 30; ☆ retrenchment of expenses sought, 31-32, 74—75, 284-85; abuses investigated, 115, 468, regulations revision proposed, 170-72; states authorized to investigate, 218; provides rations for frontier troops, 360; mentioned, 102; see also Committee of Congress (to superintend the commis sary and quartermaster departments); Wadsworth, Jeremiah Commissary of prisoners: retrenchment of expenses sought, 31-32; pay and allowances, 392; see also Beatty, John Commissioners at Paris: and Beaumarchais accounts, 57; infrequent news from, 204, 228; negotiating instructions debated, 242-48; pay and allowances, 319, 332-33, 340; audit of accounts ordered, 349, 586-87; correspondence reviewed, 424; recall debated, 589-90; mentioned, 182, 339, 480; see also Adams, John; Deane, Silas; Franklin, Benjamin; Lee, Arthur Commissioners of accounts, retrenchment of expenses sought, 31—32 Committee at camp, 348 Committee for foreign affairs: letters from, 49, 57, 170, 182, 228, 229, 239, 240; ☆ retrenchment of expenses sought, 31—32; replacement proposed, 62, 336, 508; solicits French loan, 228-29; instructs eastern navy board, 239; reorganization proposed, 251; mentioned, 188, 208, 238, 316, 424, 430, 527 Committee for Indian Affairs, letter from, 11 Committee of commerce: letters from, 256, 271, 287; ☆ retrenchment of expenses sought, 31-32; imports arms, 42; and Beaumarchais contract, 80-81; instructs Oli ver Pollock, 256-59; instructs Benjamin Franklin, 271; requests payment of bills of exchange, 272; requests embargo exemption, 287; accounts, 295; mentioned, 3, 17, 22, 33, 35, 41, 44, 47, 49, 53, 64, 67, 75, 79, 82, 90, 104, 105, 111, 114, 117, 119, 128, 133, 135, 137, 154, 158, 161, 164, 173, 185, 186, 203, 212, 216, 221,231, 266,


[Page 646]
614 Index 276, 285, 293, 307, 308, 310, 317, 320, 326, 329, 332, 337, 339, 358, 361, 366, 369, 375, 428, 430, 439, 441, 446, 449, 451, 457, 478, 487, 490, 493, 498, 562, 572, 597 Committee of conference, report, 373 Committee of Congress (on boards and departments): letters from, 30, 391; mentioned, 172, 285 Committee of Congress (on Duarti claim), letter from, 157 Committee of Congress (on Laurens-Thomson dispute), letters to, 442, 458 Committee of Congress (on muster department), letter from, 448 Committee of Congress (on Silas Deane’s accounts), report, 481 Committee of Congress (to correspond with the southern commander): letter from, 364; ☆ appointed, 174; mentioned, 334 Committee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster depart ments): letters from, 26, 79, 109, 441, 447, 516, 572; ☆ sets state flour quotas, 448; mentioned, 287 Committee of secret correspondence, 481 Committee on appeals: decrees, 338, 377, 427, 475; ☆ retrenchment of expenses sought, 31—32; avoids jurisdictional confrontation, 106; Doane v. Penhallow appeal, 114; Price v. The Success appeal, 266; Murphy v. Hawke appeal, 315, 475-76; Bradford v. Babcock appeal, 338; Ingersoll v. Recovery appeal, 377; Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 427; Godwin v. The Schooner Fortune appeal, 476; see also Admiralty proceedings “Common Sense,” 176, 226, 291 Conand, Joseph, committee of commerce transactions, 256-59 Concord, N.H., constitutional convention, 199 Confederacy (Continental frigate), 14, 34, 54, 56, 60, 73, 87, 113, 129, 137, 152, 192, 403, 410, 449, 509, 510, 518, 542, 543, 560 Confederation, Articles of: Maryland opposition to, 37; mentioned, 282, 455 Congress: chronology, xi; denounced by “Leonidas,” xxiv; reorganizes treasury, xxvi; debates Vermont dispute, 3, 7, 144; requisitions, 10; defrays expense of Indian delegation, 11; appoints committee to visit Vermont, 13, 15—18, 77-78; appropria tions, 22, 97, 126, 150, 170, 224, 432,474; authorizes prisoner-exchange negotiations, 23; authorizes domestic loan, 24, 47; seeks retrenchment of department expenses, 30-32, 75; recalls Ralph Izard and William Lee, 35, 240; denies Jeremiah Wadsworth request to resign, 36; appoints marine reform committee, 41; debates recall of commissioners abroad, 44-45,47-48,59-63,72-73,589-90; rules debated, 45; investi gates wagon department, 47; debates interest rates, 64, 79; denounces Vermont seizure of New Yorkers, 64, 76; recommends militia exemptions for wagoners, 76; orders William Shippen, Jr., investigated, 77, 128; refers salary determination to navy board, 77; solicits French loan, 78, 187-88, 228-29; debates peace terms, 79, 82-84, 105, 133-34, 191, 242-48, 267, 276-81, 288, 317, 440-41; draws bills of exchange on Benjamin Franklin, 80; authorizes prisoner exchange, 85, 98; affirms confidence in quartermaster general, 102; authorizes states to investigate staff officers, 115, 218; appeals to states for troops, 119; affirms state appointing authority, 120; protests Pennsylvania impressment of French citizens, 121; recommends recruit ment of blacks, 126; debates freedom of press, 137, 139-41; fiscal policies attacked, 141; fiscal policy, 147, 529—33; studies price regulation, 149; antimerchant senti ment in, 156; upholds Duarti claim against illegal seizure, 158, 184; authorizes domestic loan, 162; factionalism decried, 168-69; ignores state taxation of Continental officials, 173; confers with Gerard, 191, 196; rejects proposal to reinforce south ern department, 207; refuses to accept Vermont report, 208; secrecy rule violations, 211; rebuffs Vermont emissaries, 213; debates Gerard conference, 216; reim burses foreign officers, 217, 426, 469; refuses to exchange civilian prisoners, 218; merges Continental units, 222; voting alignments analyzed, 225; protests prisoner treatment, 248; adopts measures for preserving Continental property, 260; dis misses James Easton from Continental Army, 260; rejects claim for mining subsidies, 260; proposes retaliation for destruction of Connecticut towns, 261-64; retaliates against Carlisle commissioners, 263; appoints James Wilkinson clothier general, 289; condemns illegal seizure of Portuguese vessel, 293, 318; debates half-pay plan,


[Page 649]
Index 617 Currency, see Paper currency Curson, Samuel, 186 Curson & Gouverneur, 370 Cushing, Nathan, admiralty court decision, 338 Cushing, Thomas: letter to, 391; reports French naval intelligence, 392; mentioned, 367, 368 Custer, James: and Laurens-Thomson dispute, 442—46; mentioned, 54, 81, 83, 184, 219, 247, 281, 460, 462 Dagworthy, John, and Godwin v. The Schooner Fortune appeal, 476 Dana, Francis: letter to, 592; ☆ elected to Congress, xviii; recommends retaliatory warfare, 263; nominated secretary to minister plenipotentiary, 581; appointed sec retary to minister plenipotentiary, 582, 586, 588, 592—93; mentioned, 28, 211,235, 526, 570, 591, 595, 598 Danbury, Conn., 22 Daphne, 580 Daphne (H.M.S.), 334 Davis, John: identified, 102; letters to, 101, 132 Deane, James, 127 Deane, Silas: requests reimbursement, 38; motion to detain in America debated, 44, 47-48, 56, 62, 72—73; denounces Lee family, 59; publishes charges against Arthur Lee, 299-304; accounts, 333, 393, 433, 481-84, 578; authorized to return to France, 333, 348, 393, 407; commended, 335; mentioned, xxv, 13, 91, 100, 110, 184, 226, 231,251,292, 316, 319, 321, 381, 423, 436, 479, 480, 507, 508, 569, 580, 582, 596; see also Commissioners at Paris Deane (Continental frigate), 35,54, 112, 113, 137, 152, 192, 505,514,516, 522, 529, 535 Deane-Lee controversy, 44—45,56,59—63,168—69,228,231,233—35,249,251—54,292, 316,321-22,333, 335-36, 348-49,361,363, 367-68,379,381,403,423-24,433-36, 483, 506-8, 566, 580, 596 Debt, public: estimated, 495, 504; interest rates published, 605; mentioned, 497 Defense; see Continental Army; Continental Navy; Militia Defense, (ship), 110, 160 Delagaye, John, 221 Delap, Samuel & John H., 258, 271, 304 Delaware: fiscal quota, 53; investigates deputy quartermaster, 99; Continental offi cers oppose reorganization, 148—49; militia, 315; loyalists, 330; asked to extend embargo, 429; flour quota, 448; compensation of chief executive, 537; see also Rodney, Caesar Delaware admiralty court: Murphy v. Hawke appeal, 314—15, 475—76; Godwin v. The Schooner Fortune appeal, 476 Delaware delegates: letters from, 118, 148; attendance, 73 Delaware (H.M.S.), 14, 87, 334 Delaware Indians, plot against reported, 11 Delegates; see individual delegates and state delegations Denmark, U.S. trade with proposed, 351 Denning, William, nominated treasury commissioner, 487 Dexter, Daniel, 9 Dexter, John, 9 Dickinson, Capt., 35 Dickinson, John: letters from, 43, 74, 118, 148, 230, 281, 282, 391, 477, 498, 543; notes, 31,45, 130, 284, 485, 599; proposed resolves, 170, 288; proposed circular let ter, 215; draft instructions, 242; draft petition, 277; speech, 278; draft commission, 325; draft reply to Gerard, 455; ☆ attends Congress, xvii; elected to Congress, xvii; committee on boards and departments, 30—32, 172, 284—85, 391; proposes naval reform plan, 41; investigates wagon department, 45—47; committee for retrenching expenses, 74—75; investigates quartermaster department, 99; interest


[Page 650]
618 Index rate proposal, 104; recommends Prudence Moore, 119; discusses domestic loan terms, 130—32; affirms military reorganization proposals, 148—49; drafts Continen tal reorganization plan, 170—72; urges filling Continental troop quotas, 215—16; proposes Congress reconvene near Continental army, 216, 249; proposes negotiat ing instructions, 242-48, 278-81, 486; on fisheries claims, 277-78, 288; on fiscal policy, 282, 284—85; on congressional rules, 313; drafts commission for minister plenipotentiary, 325-26; mediates Laurens-Thomson dispute, 445; drafts farewell address to Gerard, 455—56, 544; on peace terms, 477; proposes appointing minis ter to Russia, 486; and Vermont controversy, 554; nominates minister plenipoten tiary, 557; proposes reorganization of marine affairs, 599—603; attendance, 603; mentioned, 73, 76, 196, 289, 490, 509, 529, 566, 582, 592 Dickinson, Philemon: letter to, 33; mentioned, 43, 58 Diligent (Continental brig), 238 Doane, Elisha, and Price v. The Success appeal, 266 Doane v. Penhallow, committee on appeals decision, 115 Dobr^e, Peter F., accused of spy activities, 369 Dobree, Thomas, 369 Dodge, John, 96 Dolphin (Continental cutter), 55 Donnell, John, 35 Douglass, John; prosecuted for illegal seizures, 370; mentioned, 375 Douw, Volkert, Indian affairs commissioner, 128 Downs, Jonathan, 564 Drayton, William Henry: letter from, 272; draft report, 183; ☆ attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; and John Morgan petition, 19; relations with Henry Laurens, 19—20, 53—54, 83—84, 133—36, 184, 434; on state quotas, 53—54; and recall debate, 57; on fisheries claims, 134, 278; on Olympic games tradition, 135-36; investigates illegal seizure claim, 158, 184; and congressional secrecy rule, 191; proposes Congress reconvene near Continental army, 216, 249; committee on appeals, 266, 338; and peace terms debate, 267; satirizes Henry Clinton, 272—75; and Deane-Lee controversy, 363; health, 434; death, 451, 478, 496; mentioned, 77, 79, 129, 130, 226, 378, 381, 506, 528, 582 Duane, James: letters from, 7, 11, 12, 50, 52, 63, 66, 78, 115, 127, 160, 203, 275; ☆ attends Congress, xix; elected to Congress, xix; committee for Indian affairs, 11; requests protection for Delaware Indian chiefs, 11; recommends punishment of Indians, 50—51, 66; and Vermont controversy, 63—64, 419, 594; laments Philip Schuyler’s resignation, 66; board of treasury, 116, 203; on Indian affairs, 127; and Deane-Lee controversy, 255, 403, 434; on congressional rules, 313; returns home, 353, 386; committee of conference, 374; mentioned, 79, 90, 104, 133, 226, 375, 379, 390, 420, 507, 528 Duane, Mary Livingston (Mrs. James), letters to, 52, 160, 275 Duarti, Juan Garcia: seeks compensation for illegally seized ship, 157—58, 183-84; mentioned, 204, 276, 293 Dubois, Lewis, seniority claim, 33 Duck, 351 Dudley, John, 142 Dueling, 345 Duer, William, 442, 443, 446, 461, 462 Duffield, George, 89, 145, 524 Dull, Jonathan R., French Navy and American Independence, 340 Dumas, Charles William Frederic, 334, 507 Dunlap, John: criticized for publishing insult to Congress, 139—41; mentioned, xxiv, 165, 201, 249, 267, 275, 310, 344, 434, 519 Dyer, Eliphalet, elected to Congress, xvi Eagle (brigantine), 411 Eagle (packet), 53


[Page 665]
Index 633 Molasses, 258 Money; see Paper currency Montgomery, James, 15 Montgomery, Janet Livingston (Mrs. Richard), 500 Montgomery, Robert, 197 Montresor, John, 384 Moore, James, exchanged, 119 Moore, Prudence, seeks pass to visit New York City, 118 Moore, William, accounts, 347 Moore, Hall, Pa., 348 Morain, James, 256 Morgan, Daniel: seniority claim, 286; leave of absence, 345; mentioned, 266 Morgan, George: reports plot against Delaware Indians, 11; represents Indiana Com pany claims, 493 Morgan, John: petitions Congress, 18-21; charges William Shippen, Jr., with fraud, 77, 128, 267; mentioned, 22, 53 Morgan, William J., Captains to the Northward, 268, 312, 343 Morris, Gouverneur: letters from, 7, 26, 79, 81, 104, 109, 175, 176, 211, 283, 289, 327, 353, 382, 411,453; letter to, 594; ☆ attends Congress, xx; elected to Congress, xx; urges moderation in Vermont dispute, 8; superintending committee, 26, 79, 104, 110, 212, 327, 441; and peace terms debate, 83-84, 247, 267; “Cato” letters, 85, 176—81, 228, 292; warns Jean Holker of fraudulent procurement practices, 110; feud with Pennsylvania Council, 175; relations with Benedict Arnold, 175; responds to “Common Sense,” 176—81; on fisheries claims, 178—81; denies identity as “Americanus,” 180; recommends retaliatory raids against British towns, 263; attacks Thomas Paine, 289—92; proposes half-pay plan, 296; drafts commission for minister plenipotentiary, 326; committee to instruct minister to Spain, 328; leave of absence, 353, 387; and Deane-Lee controversy, 367—68; drafts address to the states, 370; opposes price regulation, 411; criticizes Pennsylvania politics, 412; conduct defended, 420—21; opposes Virginia land claims, 453—55; “An American” letters, 454; on west ern lands and Continental fiscal policy, 454; mentioned, 120, 357, 375, 419, 493, 528, 582 Morris, Robert: letters to, 157, 163; ☆ transactions with Jean Holker criticized, 110; denies liability in prize case, 158; defends commercial practices, 164—65; secret committee accounts, 164; privateering activities, 184; mentioned, 105, 226, 412 Morris, Robert (1745-1815): letters to, 57, 81, 185 Morris, Theophilus, 384 Morris, Thomas, xxv, 300 Morris (ship), 258 Mose, John, 440 Moses, 459 Moss, John, 474 Mouchy, Philippe de Noailles, marechal-duc de, 304 Moultrie, William, 161, 166, 186, 195, 365 Muhlenberg, Frederick A.: attends Congress, xxi; elected to Congress, xxi; mentioned, 520 Muhlenberg, Peter, 498, 520 Mumford, Thomas: letter from, 413; mentioned, 126 Munitions; see Arms and ammunition Murphy, Daniel, Murphy v. Hawke appeal, 314—15, 475—76 Murphy, Orville T., Charles Gravier, Comte de Vergennes, 340 Murphy v. Hawke, committee on appeals decree, 475—76 Muskets, 365 Muster department: abolished, 402, 449; pay and allowances, 402; mentioned, 68 Nancy (ship), 338 Navy board; see Eastern navy board


[Page 666]
634 Index Navy; see British navy; Continental Navy; French navy; Spanish navy Negroes; see Blacks Neilson, John, promoted, 186 Nelson, Thomas, 107 Nesbitt, John Maxwell, 438 Netherlands, United Provinces of the, 148, 306, 316, 351, 416, 561 New England convention (October 1779), price regulation proposals, 138 New England delegates, factionalism of criticized, 467 New Hampshire: and Vermont committee, 24; and Vermont claims, 87, 199, 322; and fisheries claims, 142; loyalists, 142; proposed new constitution, 199, 213; taxation, 212; ignores Rhode Island pleas for reinforcements, 214; infrequent communication with delegates lamented, 413; compensation of chief executive, 536; requested to submit Vermont dispute to congressional arbitration, 546—54; see also Weare, Meshech New Hampshire admiralty court, Doane v. Penhallow appeal, 115 New Hampshire Council, 265 New Hampshire delegates, attendance, 25, 87, 142, 324, 357, 439, 472, 475 New Hampshire grants; see Vermont New Haven, Conn., raided, 194, 197, 204, 2Q8, 221-22, 236-38, 249-50, 259, 270, 352 New Jersey: militia, 43, 186; loyalists, 68; taxes Continental officials, 79, 173, 186; protests infringement of state appointing authority, 104, 120; seeks general exchange of legislative acts, 405-6,472-73,542; flour quota, 448; Continental agent appointed, 451; flour requisitioned, 517; compensation of chief executive, 537; see also Livingston, William New Jersey admiralty court: Price v. The Success appeal, 266; Ingersoll v. Recovery appeal, 377 New Jersey delegates: attendance, 73, 173, 185, 293, 375; pay and allowances, 223, 390 New London, Conn., 491, 518 New Orleans, 257, 271, 489 New Providence, Bahamas, 4, 6 New York: Vermont dispute, 3, 6, 7, 12—13, 15—18, 24, 37, 63—64, 75, 102—3, 116—17, 212-13, 322, 419, 446, 478, 499, 547-54, 573, 595-96; and Indian land claims, 50; protests seizure of citizens by Vermont, 77—78; neglect of Indian affairs criticized, 127; compensation of chief executive, 537; requested to submit Vermont dispute to congressional arbitration, 546—54; see also Clinton, George New York Assembly, drafts Vermont instructions, 421 New York Council, letter to, 387 New York delegates: letters from, 7, 78; ☆ pay and allowances, 223, 390, 420; attendance, 353, 419 New York Journal, 380, 382 Newfoundland, 363, 368 Newman, Wingate, privateering activities, 376 Newport, R. L: evacuation ordered, 332; mentioned, 214 Nicholas, Francis, seeks reinstatement of commission, 157 Nicholson, B., 302 Nicholson, James: letter to, 518; ☆ marine committee instructions, 518; mentioned, 55 Nicholson, John, acquitted in loss of Hornet, 124-25 Nicholson, Samuel: identified, 55; letters to, 54, 136, 516; ☆ marine committee instructions, 54, 113, 136, 516 Nicola, Lewis, 144 Niles, Robert, accounts, 541 Noirmont de La Neuville; see La Neuville, Ren^-Hippolyte Penot Lombart de Noirmont de North, Frederick (Lord), 301


[Page 669]
Index 637 Perez, Luiz, 256 Perkins, John, 34 Perkins, William, 138 Pettit, Charles: letters to, 149, 173; ☆ seeks relief from New Jersey tax, 79, 133, 173, 186; recommends price regulation, 149; mentioned, 23, 161 Petty, William; see Shelburne, 2d earl of Phelps, Charles: and Vermont controversy, 546, 554, mentioned, 499, 500, 551 Philadelphia: view of, end papers, xxiii; opposes export of flour; 110; independence day celebration, 136, 144-45, 150; delegate lodgings, 154, 286; price regulation movement, 205, 294, 313, 411; cost of living, 286, 379; protests Jean Holker pro curement practices, 320 Philadelphia committee: probes flour purchasing practices, 164-65; mentioned, 521 Phillips, William: letters to, 98, 115, 419; ☆ seeks prisoner exchange, 98; and Conven tion Army accounts, 115-16; requests travel permission for Convention Army officers, 406—7; protests prisoner treatment, 407; 418-19; parole revoked, 575; mentioned, 85 Phoenix (schooner): prize case, 158, 183, 293; mentioned, 318 Pickering, Timothy, 22 Pickering (privateer), 560 Pierce, Daniel, 9 Pigot (H.M. Schooner), 342 Pittsburgh, Pa.; see Fort Pitt, Pa. Plater, George: letters from, 6, 38; ☆ attends Congress, xviii; elected to Congress, xviii Plombard, Monsr. J., 524, 539 Pluto, 227 Pollock, John, 88, 102 Pollock, Oliver: letter to, 256; ☆ secret committee transactions, 256-59; draws bills on committee of commerce, 271 Pondicherry, India, captured, 4 Pork: for French fleet, 287; mentioned, 104, 212 Porter, John, letter to, 138 Porterfield, Capt., prisoner-of-war status, 438 Portsmouth, Va.: captured, 4; mentioned, 263 Portugal, 158, 293, 318, 416 Post Office: New England route changed, 9; retrenchment of expenses sought, 31-32 Potts, Louis W., Arthur Lee, 528 Powder: imported, 42; mentioned, 124, 360, 365, 410, 470, 478 Powell, Jeremiah, letters to, 318, 504, 546, 559 Presbyterians: observe fast day, 276; mentioned, 468 President of Congress; see Huntington, Samuel; Jay, John Preston, Moses, 468 Prevost, Augustine, 74, 125, 189, 195, 220, 228, 231, 364, 432 Price, John, and Price v. The Success appeal, 266 Price, Richard, 319 Price v. The Success, committee on appeals decision, 266 Prices: gold, 4, 86, 90; Philadelphia price regulation movement, 110; regulation recommended, 149, 199, 205, 222-23; of imports decline, 222; sugar, 294; regula tion opposed, 313, 411 Printers; see Claypoole, David C.; Dunlap, John; Goddard, Mary Katherine; Goddard, William; Hall & Sellers; Holt, John; Rivington, James Prisoners, political: Thomas White released, 330; mentioned, 562 Prisoners of war: retaliatory treatment proposed, 13-14, 248; Amboy conference report, 23; exchange proposals, 23, 85, 98, 153, 236, 376; retaliation against offi cers on parole threatened, 68; treatment protested, 206, 407, 418-19, 438, 511; status of civilian prisoners, 218-19; naval, 374, 394; captured by privateers, 376; exchange of French seamen proposed, 393; travel requests denied, 406—7; pro-


[Page 670]
638 Index visioning, 447; deputy commissary of prisoners investigated, 469; paroles revoked for Convention Army accounts arrearage, 575—76; treatment, 583; mentioned, 118, 285, 359, 409, 498; see also Beatty, John; Convention Army Privateering: regulation of by Continental officers, 106; Connecticut commissions, 150; illegal seizures, 158, 370; mentioned, 65, 112, 184, 256, 317, 338, 342, 360, 375, 376, 377, 425, 505, 571 Prizes: share distribution, 256, 439—40, 476; Continental agent instructions, 450; mentioned, 56, 60, 65, 73, 87, 95, 112, 129, 208, 295, 338, 382, 425, 471,490, 505, 514, 560 Proctor, Thomas, 68 Proud, John, 512 Providence, R. I., 162 Providence committee: letter to, 473; requests Continental funds for barracks, 473 Providence (Continental frigate), 152, 154, 410, 471, 516 Providence (Continental sloop), 34, 153, 338 Provisions, see Commissary general’s department; Committee of Congress (to superin tend the commissary and quartermaster departments); Continental Army; Conti nental Navy; Embargo; French navy; Holker, Jean Prowell, Joseph, demoted, 33 Prussia: and American independence, 322; mentioned, 299, 416 Public debt; see Board of treasury; Continental loan office; Debt, public; Interest; Loans, domestic; Loans, foreign Pulaski, Casimir, 162, 166, 469 Purysburg, Ga., 6 Putnam, Benjamin, privateering activities, 317-18 Putnam, Israel, 384 Quartermaster general’s department: letter to, 30; ☆ retrenchment of expenses sought, 31-32, 74-75, 284-85; abuses investigated, 99, 468; regulations revision proposed, 170—72; states authorized to investigate, 218; absorbs barracks department, 391; provides cost estimate, 391; criticized, 437; mentioned, 102, 173, 467; see also Com mittee of Congress (to superintend the commissary and quartermaster departments); Cox, John; Greene, Nathanael; Pettit, Charles Queen of France (Continental frigate), 94, 152, 154, 410, 471, 529, 535 Quotas; see Requisitions Raisonable (H.M.S.), 65 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 440 Ramsay, David, 122 Randolph, Edmund: letter from, 304; ☆ attends Congress, xxii, 423, 588; elected to Congress, xxii; committee on appeals, 338, 377 Ranger (Continental ship), 94, 95, 152, 154, 300, 410, 440, 470, 471 Rathbun, John Peck: captures Nancy, 338; mentioned, 95 Raynal, Guillaume Thomas Francois, Histoire philosophique et politique, 466 Read, Thomas, 14, 54, 597 Recovery (brigantine), 377 Recruiting, see Continental Army, recruitment; Mercenaries Reed, Joseph: letters to, 76, 115, 119, 121, 162, 175, 218, 236, 287, 307, 318, 330, 369, 394, 396, 406, 426, 495, 559; ☆ arranges embargo exemption for French forces, 287; forwards intelligence report, 309; confers on Jean Holker procure ment practices, 320; protests Continental impressment, 395; mentioned, 15, 197, 389, 442, 507 Religion, see Bible; Catholics, Roman; Presbyterians Requisitions, quotas increased, 10, 12, 53-54, 91, 206, 212 Revenge (Continental cutter), 13, 153 Rhode Island: Continental officer arrangements, 8—9; requests post route change, 9; loyalists, 10, 342; Continental troops clothed, 35; requests money, 71; sent money, 125—26, 268; accounts, 126; raises black regiment, 126, 584; fears British raid, 214;


[Page 671]
Index 639 seeks Continental reinforcements, 354,408,473-74; compensation of chief executive, 536; mentioned, 332, 502, 571; see also Greene, William Rhode Island admiralty court, Stanton v. Champlin appeal, 427 Rhode Island delegates: letters from, 8, 23, 71, 125, 126, 214, 354, 472, 473, 584; ☆ recommend confiscation of loyalist property, 10; request Continental reinforcements, 214; factionalism lamented, 585-86 Rice, Nathan, 154, 197, 206, 211, 236, 250 Rice, 351 Ridgely, Charles, 86 Riedesel, Friedrich Adolphus, Baron von, parole revoked, 575 Risberg, Gustavus: letter to, 26; flour purchases opposed, 26 Risch, Erna, Supplying Washington's Army, 32, 218 Rivington, James, 36, 122, 123, 139, 141, 249, 408, 451, 525 Roberdeau, Daniel, 582 Roberts, Owen, 525 Roberts, Richard B., 522 Robinson, Hardy, 239 Rodney, Caesar: letters to, 43, 76, 98, 118, 119, 162, 218, 230, 281, 307, 330, 369, 406, 429, 447, 477, 495, 498, 543, 559; ☆ seeks release of Thomas White, 330; requests instructions on embargo extension, 429; mentioned, 315 Rodney, Thomas, letters to, 282, 314 Rogers, David, 257 Rogers, Robert, 9 Roman Catholics; see Catholics, Roman Romulus (H.M.S.), 334 Roosevelt, Mr., 222 Root, Jesse: letters from, 143, 384, 397, 398, 413, 441, 447, 478, 484, 489, 516, 541, 572; letters to, 13, 76; ☆ attends Congress, xvi; elected to Congress, xvi; portrait, xxvi, 399; Vermont committee, 13, 18,76, 103, 143, 199, 271; committee on appeals, 377, 428, 476; confers with Washington, 384, 398; on fiscal policy, 414; super intending committee, 441, 448, 517, 572; mentioned, 17, 21, 166, 567, 583 Ross, George, death, 217, 237 Ross, John, 408 Rosswurm, Stephen J., “Arms, Culture, and Class,” 111 “Rowland” (Richard Henry Lee pseudonym), 341, 379, 380, 434, 570 Royal Gazette, 141, 408 Rudolph, Michael, promoted, 575 Rum, 129, 440, 471 Rumford, Jonathan, Jean Holker agent, 110 Rush, Benjamin: “Leonidas” letter, 141; mentioned, 466, 582, 583 Russia: congressional envoy to proposed, 486; mentioned, 400, 485 Rutledge, Edward, 532 Rutledge, John: letters to, 76, 119, 162, 218, 307, 362, 369, 406, 495, 559; mentioned, 20, 122, 129, 161, 174, 186, 195, 231, 365, 542 Sailcloth; see Duck St. Clair, Arthur, 498 St. Croix, 350 St. Eustatius, 49, 129, 186, 324, 329, 411 St. Hilaire, Monsr. de, appointed French consul in Virginia, 111 St. Johns River, 488 St. Kitts, 343, 350, 364 St. Lucia, 323, 343, 355, 364 St. Thomas, 351 St. Vincent: captured by France, 201; mentioned, 186, 323, 371 Sallust, 506 Sally (sloop), 375
