Letters of Delegates to Congress, 1774-1789 - Volume 7, May 1, 1777 to September 18, 1777
Source: https://www.loc.gov/resource/lldelegatesvol.76002592_07/
Library of Congress item: https://www.loc.gov/item/76002592/



[Page 7]
Editorial Method and Apparatus In its treatment of documents this edition of delegate letters strives to achieve a middle ground between facsimile reproduction and thorough modernization. The original spelling and grammar are allowed to stand except in cases where editorial changes or insertions are required to make the text intelligible. For example, when a badly misspelled word is misleading, the correct spelling is inserted in roman type in brackets after the word. Moreover, words omitted through oversight have been supplied at appropriate places in italic type in brackets. Obvious slips of the pen and inadvertent repetitions are usually silently corrected. Capitalization and punctuation have been standardized according to certain conventions. Each sentence begins with a capital letter, as do all proper and geographic names as well as days of the week and months of the year. Doubtful cases have been resolved in favor of modern usage; otherwise the usage of the original texts has been followed. Generally, abbreviations, contractions, and monetary signs are preserved as they appear in manuscript except when they are ambiguous or misleading. On the other hand, the thorn and the tilde are consistently expanded. “Ye” always appears as “The,” for instance, and “recvd” as “received.” Likewise, “pr.” and are always expanded to “per,” “pre,” or “pro,” as the case demands. Finally, superscript letters are always lowered to the line. Gaps in the text are indicated by ellipses in brackets for missing words and by blank spaces in brackets for missing numbers. Conjectural readings are supplied in roman type in brackets, and editorial insertions in italic type in brackets. Material canceled in manuscript but restored to the printed text is included in italic type in angle brackets (“square parentheses”). Marginalia in letters are treated as postscripts, and post scripts which appear without explicit designation are supplied with a P.S. in brackets. Documents are arranged chronologically, with more than one document of the same date being arranged alphabetically ac cording to writer. Documents dated only by the month or by the year are placed at the end of the respective month or year. Place-and-date lines always appear on the same line with the salutation regardless of their position in the manuscript. A descriptive note at the foot of each entry provides abbreviations indicating the nature and location of the document when it was copied for this project, except for privately owned manuscripts whose owner ship is fully explained. The descriptive note also contains information on iii


[Page 8]
iv Editorial Method and Apparatus the document’s authorship if explanation is necessary, and endorse ments or addresses are quoted when they contain more than routine information. Other editorial practices employed in this work are ex plained in the sections on editorial apparatus which follow. TEXTUAL DEVICES The following devices will be used in this work to clarify the text. [ ] [ I 1 [roman] [italic] (italic) One or two words missing and not conjecturable. More than two words missing; subjoined footnote estimates amount of material missing. Number or part of a number missing or illegible. Blank space in manuscript; explanation in sub joined footnote. Conjectural reading for missing or illegible matter; question mark inserted if reading is doubtful. Editorial insertion in the text. Matter crossed out in manuscript but restored. DESCRIPTIVE SYMBOLS The following symbols are used in this work to describe the kinds of documents drawn upon. When more than one symbol is used in the descriptive note, the first to appear is that from which the main text is taken. RC recipient’s copy FC file copy LB letterbook copy MS manuscript Tr transcript (used to designate not only contemporary and later handwritten copies of manuscripts, but also printed documents) LOCATION SYMBOLS The following symbols, denoting institutions holding the manuscripts printed in the present volume, are taken from Symbols of American Libraries, 11th ed. (Washington: Library of Congress, 1976). CSmH Henry E. Huntington Library, San Marino, Calif. Ct Connecticut State Library, Hartford CtHi Connecticut Historical Society, Hartford CtNIHi New London Historical Society, New London, Conn.


[Page 17]
Chronology of Congress xiii August 21 August 22 August 26 August 28 September 1 September 4 September 6 September 8 September 9 September 10 September 11 September 12 September 14 September 15 September 16 September 18 Endorses General Washington’s proposal to march his main army toward the Hudson River; receives news of American victory at Bennington, Vt. Learns of British invasion of the Chesapeake; alerts Washington to the British threat to Philadelphia and issues call for the Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, and Virginia militia. Requests Pennsylvania and Delaware to apprehend and disarm the “notoriously disaffected” within their states. Reverses decision to parole prominent Pennsylvania dissidents and orders their removal from the state. Orders inquiry into the failure of Gen. John Sullivan’s expedition against Staten Island. Orders further call-up of Pennsylvania and New Jersey militia. Directs clothier general to provide clothing bounties to troops. Rebukes Silas Deane for exceeding his authority in negotiating agreements with foreign officers in France. Orders General Washington to write Congress at least twice daily “advising the position and movements of the armies.” Adopts “ways and means” motion to pay interest accruing on loan office certificates in bills of exchange on the commissioners at Paris. Learns of the American defeat at Brandywine Creek. Directs Gen. Israel Putnam to reinforce Washington’s army. Orders General Sullivan’s recall until the inquiry ordered into his conduct is completed; resolves to con vene in Lancaster, Pa., if the evacuation of Philadel phia becomes necessary. Orders investigation of a conspiracy rumored to be impending in Pennsylvania. Grants General Washington broad powers to punish military officers and to impress supplies for the army; orders removal of supplies from Philadelphia. Evacuates Philadelphia.


[Page 22]
xviii List of Delegates to Congress Philip Livingston Elected: April 21, 1775; May 13, 1777 Attended: May 1 to August 8? 1777 Robert R. Livingston Elected: April 21, 1775 Did not attend in 1777 Gouverneur Morris Elected: May 13, 1777 Did not attend in 1777 Lewis Morris Elected: April 21, 1775 Did not attend May to September 1777 Philip Schuyler Elected: April 21, 1775; May 13, 1777 Attended: May 1-26, 1777 Henry Wisner Elected: April 21, 1775 Did not attend in 1777 NORTH CAROLINA Thomas Burke Elected: December 20, 1776; May 4, 1777 Attended: May 1 to September 18, 1777 Cornelius Harnett Elected: May 4, 1777 Attended: July 22 to September 18, 1777 Joseph Hewes Elected: December 20, 1776 Did not attend in 1777 William Hooper Elected: December 20, 1776 Did not attend May to September 1777 John Penn Elected: May4, 1777 Attended: June 23 to September 18, 1777 PENNSYLVANIA William Clingan Elected: September 14, 1777 Did not attend September 1777 George Clymer Elected: February 22, 1777 Attended: May 1—19; June 9 to September 9, \JIT1


[Page 25]
Illustrations View of Philadelphia endpapers “An East Prospect of the City of Philadelphia; taken by George Heap from the Jersey Shore, under the Direction of Nicholas Scull Surveyor General of the Province of Pennsylvania.” This detail is from an engraving by Thomas Jefferys based on an etching of the city published in Thomas Jefferys, A General Topography of North America and the West Indies. Being a Collection of All the Maps, Charts, Plans, and Particular Surveys, That Have Been Published of That Part of the World, Either in Europe or America (London: R. Sayer, 1768). Philip Schuyler 35 An aristocratic Albany, N.Y., landlord, Schuyler was one of the more controversial figures to mount the congressional stage during the Revolution. Named commander of the northern military department in June 1775, one of the three general officers Congress drew from its own ranks when creating the Continental Army, Schuyler soon demonstrated greater aptitude for supplying the army than for field command, in part because a major element of the northern army con sisted of New Englanders, who took a dim view of his aristocratic pre tensions. Although he skillfully organized the invasion of Canada led by Gen. Richard Montgomery in 1775, he did not escape censure for its failures, and the chronic problems that continued to plague the northern department throughout 1776 conspired to reduce still further his stand ing both in and out of Congress. New England delegates who longed to replace him with Horatio Gates listened sympathetically to rumors that he had mishandled public funds and even harbored secret sym pathies for the British. Schuyler’s own intemperate letters to Congress played into the hands of his opponents. By early 1777 it appeared that his congressional support had evaporated when he was admonished for criticizing Congress and Gates was granted an independent command in the northern department. But in April Schuyler thwarted his critics by resuming his seat in Congress, where he narrowly won vindication of his conduct and regained undisputed command over the northern department. His victory was only temporary, however, and scarcely three months after his departure from Philadelphia—where he had also served briefly as military commander of the city while in Congress—he was superseded by Gates for ineffectively opposing xxi


[Page 27]
Illustrations xxiii survives in the form of the correspondence of the Committee for Foreign Affairs of which he was a member. Returning to South Carolina, he served as a captain of artillery in the state militia and was taken by the British in the capture of Charleston in 1780, remaining a prisoner for over a year. Reentering public life after his release, Heyward served South Carolina in both legislative and judicial capacities until he retired to private life in 1789. Because so little of his correspondence survives, a characteristic that he shares with many delegates from the southern colonies where climate and events have wreaked havoc on the historical record, Heyward’s contributions in Congress are diffi cult to assess. Engraving by J. B. Longacre from a miniature. In John Sanderson, Biography of the Signers to the Declaration of Independence, vol. 4 (Philadelphia: R. W. Pomeroy, 1823). Henry Marchant 298 A Newport lawyer who had attended the College of Philadelphia and read law with the noted Massachusetts lawyer Edmund Trowbridge, Marchant was connected with one of Rhode Island’s most prominent political families through his marriage to a daughter of Samuel Ward. The breadth of his intellectual and personal interests was attested to by his long friendship and correspondence with the well-known scholar-divine Ezra Stiles. Marchant entered Congress in 1777 imbued with a strong belief in the wisdom of the people, which was at times reflected in his stand on issues that came before Congress. Thus when he opposed Philip Schuyler because the New York general lacked popular support, the secretary of Congress noted in his record of the debates that Marchant “has a great Opinion of the Judgment of the people. It is generally pure, uncorrupt and well founded.” He was indefatigable as a committeeman during his tenure in Congress (from 1777 to 1779), devoting his greatest energies to the demands of the Marine Committee and the Board of Treasury. Although reelected to Congress in 1783 and 1784, Marchant declined to attend and instead devoted himself to the Rhode Island General Assembly, where from 1784 to 1790 he distin guished himself as a defender of Rhode Island’s commercial interests and an exponent of the federal constitution. After ratification of the new constitution, Marchant was appointed a United States district court judge in Rhode Island, an office he held until his death in 1796. Etching by Max Rosenthal. Prints and Photographs Division, Li brary of Congress. George Clymer 349 Clymer was a Philadelphia merchant who played an active role in


[Page 28]
xxiv Illustrations Pennsylvania politics during the decade of prerevolutionary ferment and was elected to the Pennsylvania Council of Safety in 1775. He served as one of two Continental treasurers in 1775-76 and was one of the men Pennsylvania elected to Congress in July 1776 to replace her four delegates who had opposed independence. He therefore became a signer of the Declaration of Independence, although he was not present to vote for its adoption. As a delegate he drew several special assignments that exploited his business acumen. He was named to make an inspection tour on the supply and condition of the northern army in October 1776, and he was a member of the executive committee that remained in Philadelphia when Congress fled to Baltimore during the winter of 1776-77. Subsequently he was engrossed in the business that came before the Board of Treasury and the Board of War, and in July 1777 he was named to the Committee to Camp to inquire into the state of the army and “the causes of the complaints in the com missary’s department.” After he withdrew from Congress he spent four months at Fort Pitt as a commissioner to report on conditions on the western frontiers, but he returned to Congress to serve two additional terms in 1780-82. He was a member of the federal convention in 1787 and was elected to the first federal Congress, but after serving briefly in two appointive capacities during Washington’s administration he retired from public life in 1796 and devoted himself to private interests until his death in 1813. Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 26, 1777 381 Students of the American Revolution often find Secretary Thomson’s journals of Congress more tantalizing than satisfying. His principles for recording congressional proceedings have come down to us in the following statement, published in 1827, three years after his death. “With respect to the taking the Minutes: what congress adopted, I committed to writing; with what they rejected, I had nothing farther to do; and even this method led to some squabbles with the members, who were desirous of having their speeches and resolutions, however put to rest by the majority, still preserved upon the Minutes.” That he nevertheless sometimes recorded the substance of debates in greater detail is apparent from his notes that survive for July 24, 25, 26, and 28, 1777. Two pages from those of July 26—sparked by a motion to appoint Horatio Gates to the command of the northern department in the place of Philip Schuyler—have been reproduced here to under score the fragmentary nature of the official journals of Congress, which contain not a word on the subject recorded in the notes illustrated here. Charles Thomson Papers, Manuscript Division, Library of Congress.


[Page 30]
xxvi Illustrations to Lancaster, leaving Howe to occupy Philadelphia unopposed on the 26th. From An Impartial History of the War in America (London & Carlisle, 1780). Brandywine Defeat Broadside, September 11, 1777 648 After a summer of uncertainty, Congress learned of Gen. William Howe’s intentions when on August 22 word reached Philadelphia of the British invasion of the Chesapeake. Moving to impede the march of Howe’s army north from Head of Elk, where it had been disem barked, Washington took up positions on Brandywine Creek early in September, but Howe’s assault on General Sullivan’s position above the main American army collapsed Washington’s defenses. The day after receiving letters from Washington and his military secretary Col. Robert H. Harrison describing the defeat at Chadd’s Ford, Congress ordered a broadside published to alert the public to the dangers that now faced them. The defeat left Philadelphia open to Howe’s continued advance and within a week Congress evacuated the Pennsylvania capital for Lancaster. Rare Book and Special Collections Division, Library of Congress. William Williams 658 The son of a Lebanon, Conn., Congregational pastor, Williams was educated for the ministry but turned from his father’s path as a young man to become a merchant. He was an active opponent of British measures before the Revolution and held several local positions before he was elected to Congress in 1776. Although he did not reach Philadel phia until three weeks after the Declaration of Independence was adopted, he did take his seat in Congress in time to affix his signature to the engrossed document, the deed responsible for much of the attention since accorded him. He served on several committees charged with meeting the needs of the army and was appointed to the Board of War in October 1777. His congressional service is known largely through his correspondence with his brother-in-law Commissary Joseph Trumbull and his father-in-law, Gov. Jonathan Trumbull. Although that correspondence reveals him as one of the delegates most pre occupied with the “awful Frown of divine Providence,” he repeatedly reaffirmed his faith that God would ultimately save the American cause. Returning to Connecticut in December 1777, Williams held a number of state and local offices, including a long tenure in the Windham probate and county courts. Portrait by James J. Sawyer, 1873, after John Trumbull, Indepen dence National Historical Park Collection.


[Page 34]
4 May 1, 1777 RC (DLC). Addressed: “To Elias Boudinot Esquire near Baskenridge.” En dorsed : “Reed. May 5 & Answd. same day.” James Lovell to Horatio Gates Sir May 1st 1777 You will see by the resolutions sent to you at this time that new Ideas are taking place here in regard to the western side of Tycon- deroga. 1 I apprehend you will be better informed than we are what expecta tions you can form with confidence about the number of eastern troops and the exact time when they will arrive to a certain necessary amount for your plans. An absolute order to relinquish the western Lines & fort was pushed for, but you find did not prevail. You certainly have not such a predilection for them as to run great risques of losing yr. Reputa tion in their defence with a few troops, if only a few can be had. Nor are you of such a disposition as to leave them without much considera tion, if they appear to be highly essential to our defence, and you receive according to yr. wishes troops & military stores. If, after the liberty which is given to you, stores to a considerable amount and a number of men should be taken from you on the western side you will never hear the last of it. On this, I speak strongly, not fearing that I shall deter yr. Judgment & Spirit from deciding justly according to circumstances on the spot of deliberation. But, another matter besides the foregoing will be upon yr. mind, on which you will expect to hear from me by this bearer. The affairs to the northeast are in a critical situation for the state of N. York in particular. Disaffection, as you see, is greatly prevalent; and those who profess well to our cause judge & say that there is but one single man who can keep their subjects united against the common enemy; and that he 2 stands on our books as commandr. in chief in the middle, or, as it is sometimes called, the northern departmt; that his presence is absolutely necessary in his home quarters for their immediate succour & service as well as that of the united states necessarily con nected; that if he returns, he is a Genl, without an army or a Military Chest; And, “why is he thus disgraced”? It is said that it is nonsense to give you the command of the northern army at Tyconderoga and confine you to that fort and mount Inde pendence where you cannot have an extensive idea of the defence of the frontier of the eastern states, but only of one spot where the enemy are not obliged to confine their operations, and, as it were knock their heads against a single Rock. And if you are not so confined you intirely destroy the idea of their Chief to whom they profess devotion un-


[Page 35]
May 1, 1777 5 bounded. How this matter will be untangled I can not now exactly determine, but I suspect not intirely agreable to yr. sentiments. I wish to have these explicitly & minutely by the first opportunity after the receipt of this. I wish some course coud be taken which would suit you both. It is plain that all the northern army can not be intended for the single Garison of Ty. Who then has the distribution of the Numbers? This must depend upon one opinion or their can be no decision in the defence of the northern frontiers. It is an unhappy circumstance that such is the altercation at the opening of this campaign so early by the foreign enemies of these states. In every condition I wish you health, prosperity and honor, being sincerely Yr. friend & humb Servt. J. Lovell RC (NHi). 1 See John Hancock to Horatio Gates, April 29, 1777. 2 Philip Schuyler, who was at this time attending Congress as a delegate from New York. For further information on the reinstatement of General Schuyler to the northern command, see Philip Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6; and Lovell to Gates, May 22, 1777. Marine Committee to Aquilla Johns Si r May 1. 1777 A Resolution of Congress this day passed has suspended the Com mand of Captain James Nicholson in the Continental service for a limitted time, and we think it necessary to inform you thereof, requiring you to act in all things necessary on board of the Virginia Frigate during this suspension. 1 You are to discharge immediately on receipt hereof all such Men as have not received the Continental bounty and suscribed the Articles, you are to preserve strict discipline on board the ship and keep all the people belonging to her not included in the above discription constantly on board, employing them in such services as may be necessary for preparing her for Sea and in all matters that Occur we expect you to perform the duty of an Active Attentive Officer, vested with a temporary command until further orders from this Board. We are sir, Your Friends & Servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: “Lieut. Aquilla Johns, commanding officer of the Frigate Virginia.” 1 See following entry.


[Page 40]
10 May 1, 1777 Benjamin Rumsey to Thomas Johnson Sir 1777 May 1. Philada. I promised the Officers of our State passing thro’ this Town to write to you on a Subject that gives them much Concern. They have no Commissions and they say Government engaged to send them to this Place and if they are taken without they will be treated as private Soldiers. I could wish they might be satisfied. 1 Congress being informed to Day by Genl. Schuyler that 100 Men of Colo. Richardsons Men were now in this City have ordered them up to Camp and given You a Power to detain 100 or as many out of any other Men of any of the weaker Battailions in Maryland as are here of that Battalion. 2 An Act of Parliament has to Day been received making it Felony for our Men to fight on the Ocean agt the King of Britain. I have not seen or heard it. Mr. Smith has but does not remember it well enough to give a particular Acct. The Enemy are landing their Cannon &c on Staten Island supposed to be for an Attack on this Town. This Dr. Witherspoon hath this Day received Advice off. I am afraid the 2000 Arms will not be granted. 3 By a Letter from A. Lee of the 20th Feby from Bordeaux in his Way to Paris Burgoine with 10,000 Germans & 3000 British Troops are to attack Boston, How Philadelphia, Carlton the back Settlements &c. Yet we will take every favourable Opportunity We can to procure them. This will be from Carlisle I imagine. I need not apologise for the Delay of the Express. My Colleague and myself have done all We could to send him off sooner but the House have been 3 Days squabling abt. what might have been done in three Minutes. I am Sir, your Excellency’s most humble Servant, Benjamin Rumsey RC (MdAA). 1 Although the correspondence on this subject apparently does not survive, Governor Johnson had responded to this plea for Maryland officers’ commis sions by May 13 when Rumsey’s fellow delegate William Paca acknowledged receipt of the commissions requested. See William Paca to Thomas Johnson, May 13, 1777. 2 See JCC, 7:284-86, 319. 3 See Maryland Delegates to Thomas Johnson, April 28, 1777, note 2. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 1st. 1777. Issued two drafts on the Conti. Treasurer, Michl. Hillegas Esqr.


[Page 44]
14 May 2, 1777 Magistrates of States, and must treat them with the most profound respect. I never had more hopes of Congress than I have now. All seem sensible that the honour and dignity of the Magistrates of the States ought to be preserved sacred and inviolable; whether for applying the force of the States, or restraining abuses, and suppressing ambition. Your Excellency knows enough of my political creed to believe that this disposition is exceedingly pleasing to me. I have not time to add more, but that I have the honor to be, Your &c, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 This “intelligence” concerned the recent British raid on Danbury, Conn. See Burke to Caswell, April 30, 1777. 2 On May 1 Congress read an April 30 letter from Washington to President Hancock containing numerous enclosures describing the Danbury raid and di rected the committee of intelligence “to publish such extracts from them as they judge proper.” Later, however, Congress rescinded this order and erased it from the journals. See JCC, 7:319; PCC, item 152, 4:121—45; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 7:493-94. 3 James Nicholson. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen No. 1 In Committee for Foreign Affairs The former of those Letters will serve to shew that at the Time of writing them we had nothing material to inform you of, and are now sent rather for your Amusement than instruction. Philadelphia May 2d. 1777 Your dispatches dated Paris Feby 6th & 8th were safely reed about the middle of April. 1 We observe your Remarks on the Timerousness of the French Merchants respecting the forming Trading Companies which you say is occasioned by the change and fluctuation of News. That the Spirit for trade will always be governed by the rise or fall of Military strength is a maxim always to be admitted in the first attempts to establish a Commerce between any two Nations, because success in War is supposed to give Security or Protection to it; But this timidity ceases naturally as soon as a trade is opened for losing or gaining after that equally produces a Spirit of adventuring farther; Therefore, we wish to enter into a Commerce with them as soon as possible because as nothing can abridge or prevent their Profits but the Enemy making Prizes of their Vessels, the consequence will be, that they will either be en couraged by the gain, or aggravated by the loss to come to a Serious understanding with the Court of Britain. We advise you to be con-


[Page 45]
May 2,1777 15 stantly holding up the great advantages which the Crown and Com merce of France would receive by possessing themselves of the West Indies, and We Trust to your Wisdom in making all the use possible of the English Newspapers as a channel thro’ which to counteract the Tide of folly and falsehood of which you complain and rest assured that every Material Circumstance either for or against will be dispatched to you with the utmost expedition. By Information from N York it appears that the more discerning part of the English Generals begin to give up the thought of Conquest, and of Consequence the fear of totally losing the trade of America must accompany the despair of Arms, therefore we conceive that the English Papers are calculated to deter the French merchants from beginning to taste the sweets of our Trade. Their falsehoods rightly understood are the Barometers of their fears, & in Proportion as the Political Atmosphere presses downward the spirit of Fiction is obliged to rise. We wish it to be understood that we pay too much respect to the Wisdom of the French Cabinet to suppose they can be influenced by such efforts of Visible despair, and that We have too much reverence for the Honor of the American Congress to prostitute its authority by filling our own Newspapers with the same kind of invented Tales which characterise the London Gazette. We observe that General Howe in his Letter to administration printed in London Gazette of Deer. 30th apologizes for not having written to them since his taking possession of New York (nearly three months). Here is the proper field to speculate on Silence, because his business is conquest, ours, defence and repulse, and because likewise he has the sea more open to him than we have, had he any thing to send that would please; therefore silence on his part is always to be understood as a species of good news on ours. The Congress highly approves your dividing yourselves to foreign Courts, and have sent Commissions for that Purpose and likewise Commissions for fitting out Privateers in France. 2 The Mercury from Nantz is safely arrived at Hampsh., the Amphitrite and Seine we are yet in hopes of. 3 We shall Notice the Conduct of Nicholas Davis. We have presented Marshal Maillebois Sentiments on the Mode of War to Congress who are greatly pleased therewith and entertain a high respect for the Author. 4 Our last Accounts gave you the State of News down to March since which nothing material has happened. The Enemy wearied and dis appointed in their Winters Campaign still continue in a State of dor mancy at N York and Brunswick. The Congress is Returned to Philadel phia, Genl Washington remains at Morris Town and occupies the same Posts as when the last dispatches were sent you. The Principal object now is the Recruiting Service which has been greatly promoted by some late Resolves of Congress. Our Troops have been under inocula-


[Page 48]
w May 2, 1777 Battalion now remaining in your State. 2 I have the Honour to be with great Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 29, 1777 note 2 See JCC, 7:284-86, 319. Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn [May 2, 1777] We are now at the second of May and as you have been detained here so long for want of Men it may probably be too late to take in Stores at the Mole and return to the Continent, therefore you may deliver the flour to Mr. Dupuy and immediately proceed on a Cruize which you may continue to the 10th day of July and then open the sealed Instructions given you herewith 1 by which you are to be governed after that time and if during your Cruize you fall in with the Randolph, Captain Biddle, or Andrew Doria, Captain Robinson, you must receive orders from them to Cruize in Concert. You have Signals enclosed to know them by and, We are, sir, Your hble servants. LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). A continuation of Marine Committee to Benjamin Dunn, April 19, 1777. 1 See Marine Committee Instructions, April 29, 1777. Marine Committee to Isaiah Robinson [May 2, 1777] We are now at the second of May and as you have been detained so long for want of Men and may probably be some time longer before you get out to Sea we now direct that you embrace the first opportunity to push out and proceed for Cape Francois delivering the Letters given you herewith to Mr. Ceronio, also the Cargo, after which you need not take in any Stores nor attempt coming back to this Coast, but pro ceed from the Cape soon as possible on a Cruize which you may con tinue until the 10th day of July and then open the sealed Instructions 1 which are to govern you from that time. Should you fall in with the Randolph, Captain Biddle, you must receive Orders from him and Cruize in Concert. We are sir, Your obed servants P.S. We expect Captain Biddle to proceed to the Cape and he is directed to Convoy from thence the Brig Anne, Capt. Garrigues, and


[Page 51]
May 3, 1777 21 John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia April [i.e. May] 3. 1777 Yours of April 3d I reed. 1 I must confess that I am at a Loss to determine whether it is good Policy in Us to wish for a War between France and Britain, unless We could be sure that no other Powers would engage in it. But if France engaged, Spain will and then all Europe will arrange themselves on one side and the other, and what Consequences to Us might be involved in it, I dont know. If We <jould have a free Trade with Europe, I should rather run the Risque of fighting it out with George and his present Allies, provided he should get no other. I dont love to be intangled in the Quarrells of Europe, I dont wish to be under Obligations to any of them, and I am very unwilling they should rob Us of the Glory of vindicating our own Liberties. It is a Cowardly Spirit in our Countrymen, which makes them pant with so much longing Expectation, after a French War. I have very often been ashamed to hear so many Whiggs groaning and Sighing with Despondency, and whining out their Fears that We must be Subdued unless France should step in. Are We to be beholden to France for our Liberties? France has done so much already, that the Honour and Dignity and Reputation of Great Britain is concerned to resent it, and if she does not, France will trifle with her forever hereafter. She has reed our Ambassadors, protected our Merchant Men, Privateers, Men of War and Prizes—admitted Us freely to trade—lent Us Money and Supplied Us with Arms, Ammunition, and Warlike stores of every Kind. This is notorious all over Europe. And she will do more, presently, if our dastardly Despondency in the midst of the finest Prospects imaginable does not discourage her. The surest and the only way to secure her Arms in this Cause is for Us to exert our own. For Gods Sake then dont fail of a single Man of your Quota. Get them at any Rate, and by any Means, rather than not have them. I am more concerned about our Revenue than the Aid of France. Pray let the Loan officers do their Part, that We may not be compelled to make Paper Money, as plenty and of course as cheap as Oak Leaves. There is so much Injustice in carrying on a war with a depreciating Currency that We can hardly pray with Confidence for success. The Confederation has been delayed because the states were not fully represented. Congress is now full—and We are in the midst of it. It will soon be passed. God prosper your new Constitution. But I am afraid you will meet the Disapprobation of your Constituents. It is a Pity you should be obliged to lay it before them. It will divide and distract them.


[Page 53]
May 3, 1777 23 get off unhurt? Considerable reinforcements are coming forward, near 2000 are now marching from hence. Great exertions will be made against us this campaign, our exertions must be proportioned; but I am sure it will not avail us much to have numbers in the feild, if they are not under proper discipline, of which I almost despair, so very shamefull has been the conduct of our Officers for some months past. Unless the Generals take extraordinary pains & examine minutely into every particular relative to the troops, disease & despondency will make them an easy prey to the Enemy. Clean liness in lodging & diet, just payments, and martial exercises will make them invincible. Tis true your troops are at present raw; but you may remember that Epaminondas soon bro’t his disheartend Country men to beat the best troops, then in the world; by his excellent dis cipline, & frequent judicious skirmishes. I know I incur the ridicule of the Orator who discoursed of war before Hanibal but I cant help it, the subject lies too heavy upon my mind. The stake we play for is not a common one. Tis a pity so many of our stores were laid up in that nest of Tories at Danbury & its environs; the loss will not easily be repaired, & the dis grace is injurious. These things hurt us exceedingly with our own people, & have a bad influence abroad. God send you may soon give us something to put on the other side of the Account. The Lottery managers informed me, they had sent Tickets to camp, so that I suppose you are supplied. May the genius of Liberty attend your steps & render you victorious over all its Enemies. Farewell, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (PPRF). Benjamin Rumsey to Thomas Johnson Sir Philada. May 3d. 1777 I take the Liberty to inclose to your Excellency a Letter written by Major Forrest to Col. Ramsey on the Subject of the Officers Com missions. 1 Many of them have passed thro’ this Town in their Way to Camp and are exceedingly uneasy at not having them, they continually wait on the Delegates agreeable to the Expectations hinted at in the inclosed Letter and are greatly disappointed and much dejected at marching up without Commissions as they say they will be used but as common Men without them if they have the Misfortune to be taken by the Enemy. Another Source of Discontent arises from the giving those Commis sions Dated the 9th of April last to whom Commissions were before


[Page 61]
May 6, 1777 31 James Duane to the New York Convention Honourable Gentlemen, Philad. 6th May, 1777. Nothing of sufficient moment has happen’d since our last Letter to deserve your Attention. The Troops from the Southward are filing down towards General Washington, tho’ not in such Numbers as cou’d be wished. He will however be soon at the Head of a respectable Force able to meet General Howe if he does not receive a very considerable Accession from Europe or from the disaffected among ourselves. Much as it might gratify you, there is not a sufficient Certainty to justify a Conjecture of the General’s present Strength. When it can be done you shall be advised. The Accounts from our Commissioners (or if you please Ambassa dors) in France, Justify an Expectation that as well that Court as Spain will support the Americans in everything (at least) on this side of a Declaration of War. The Commissioners have procur’d very great Credit And for such Sums as leave it unquestionable that the Court of Versailles is at the Bottom their real Friend and privately supports their Applications. You may rely upon it that vast quantities of Artillery, Arms, Ammunition and Cloathing have been purchased on Credit for our use; no inconsiderable part of which is actually arrived. At the same time the French will in my Opinion be cautious of entering into an actual War till they find some decisive Advantage. When that approaches all Reserve will be laid aside. Great Brittain is at present in such humiliating Circumstances that she will bear every Insult rather than provoke a declaration of War. It was too great a condescention to hear the just Complaints of injur’d Americans! It was Treason against their Dignity to examine into their own Abuse of Power, to rectify their own Errors! What is the Conduct of this haughty nation at this Period of her disgrace? From her natural and inveterate Enemy she must bear every thing inflicted upon her, and dares hardly to complain. Mr. Livingston and Mr Duer Join me in our most respectful Compli ments to the Members of your honourable House. I remain with the utmost Regard, Honl Gent., your most Obedient, humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (NjMoHP). Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:943. Salutation, place, and dateline supplied from Tr. William Duer to the New York Convention Sir, Philadelphia, May 6th, 1777. I have received your two favours of the 23d and 25th April, 1 the


[Page 62]
32 May 6, 1777 first relative to the accounts of teamsters, &c. in Westchester county, and the other in answer to mine of the [17] April. I should have immediately sent off all the accounts in my possession by an express, but as Genl. Schuyler then thought of returning in two or three days, with the advice of my colleagues, I thought best to defer it, it being judged a much safer opportunity. Several letters have of late been opened on the road, and persons seized by the disaffected; should these accounts have met with such a fate, the public must have suffered extremely. I am extremely sorry that the unavoidable delay of Genl. Schuyler has occasioned the detention of these papers, but should he not be able to leave this place in three days from this time, which he now expects, I shall convey them in the safest manner possible. The present opportunity not being considered by Mr. Duane and Mr. Livingston, as altogether safe, I think it is not advisable to write on any matters of importance. I shall content myself with observing that we have surveyed our ground, and that we have no doubt but we shall make a successful attack on the points recommended to us. 2 The papers which I enclose you, will give you an insight into the news stirring here. The accounts of the arrival of the ship loaded with 52 field pieces and other ordnance, &c. may be depended upon. Her name is the Amphitrite, a 20 gun ship, chartered in France by Mr. Silas Deane. Mr. Livingston and Mr. Duane, both of whom are now busily engaged, desire me to present their respects to the Honourable Convention. I am, sir, with great respect, Your obedt. hble. servt. Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:936. Addressed: “To the Honble. Pierre Van Cortlandt, Esqr.” 1 These letters are not in Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong. 2 “The points recommended,” which were instructions adopted by the New York Convention on April 7, required the New York delegates to oppose the admission to Congress of any representatives from Vermont, to protest against Congress’ appointment of Seth Warner—a Vermont leader—as commander of a regiment in New York, to send the convention all congressional resolutions that “may impliedly or expressly infringe the rights or jurisdiction of this state,” and to withhold their consent from any plan of confederation until it had first been examined and approved by “this Convention or the future Legislature of this State.” Ibid., 1:868-69. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia May 6. 1777 Having written to you so lately by Express this chiefly serves to convey my wishes that another Delegate might be hastened here, for


[Page 64]
34 May 6, 1777 RC (NjMoHP). 1 Thomas Nelson’s attendance in Congress in late April and early May 1777 cannot be ascertained precisely. Burnett credits him with attendance from April 30 to May 8, while a biographer recently suggested that Nelson arrived in Philadelphia around April 25 and eight days later suffered the stroke that hastened his return to Virginia. Burnett, Letters, 2:lxxii; and Emory G. Evans, Thomas Nelson of Yorktown (Williamsburg: Colonial Williamsburg Foundation, 1975), p. 64. Although Congress did not grant Nelson leave “for the recovery of his health” until May 8, it seems unlikely that he attended after his stroke, which probably had occurred before Page wrote this letter. JCC, 7:335. Further more, Nelson’s entry under April 1777 in his account with Virginia included charges “to travelling to and from Phila” and “to attendance 8 days in Congress,” suggesting that his services had been rendered primarily in April. Emmet Collec tion, NN. At any rate Nelson was at his home in Hanover County, Va., on May 16 when he wrote to Speaker George Wythe requesting to be replaced in Congress. “A total inability to at[tend to business] having oblig’d me to quit the Congress, I beg leave, thro’ you, to acquaint the Assembly with it, that they may appoint another Delegate; and I will take the liberty to advise, that this be immediately done, because Congress are now engag’d in forming the Confederation, in which Virginia is deeply interested. “Nothing but necessity could have induced me to leave Congress at this critical time, & I hope I shall stand excus’d.” Executive Communications, Vi. On May 22 George Mason was selected to relieve Nelson, and when Mason declined to serve, Richard Henry Lee was elected on June 24 to fill the vacancy. 2 For details about making a seal for Virginia, see Thomas Jefferson to John Page, July 30, 1776. Philip Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress To the honorable the Continental Congress The Memorial of Major General Schuyler Humbly sheweth Phila. May 6th. 1777 1 That sundry Resolutions passed in your honorable House on the 15th Ultimo [i.e. March], conveying a severe Censure on your Me morialist for a supposed Contempt of the House deeply affect his Feel ings both as an officer and a Citizen. Your Memorialist with great Submission begs Leave to observe that these Resolutions appear to him to have been founded on a Misappre hension of his Letter to Congress of the 4th February, 2 and this he hopes to evince to the Satisfaction of the House. He trusts that a Candor, rendered necessary on the principle of Self Justification will not give offence, so long as he confines himself within the Bounds of that Decency and Respect which are due to the grand Council of the united States. For the Sake of perspicuity he begs Leave to recite the passages of his Letter on which the Resolutions of Congress were founded.


[Page 65]
May 6, 1777 35 Philip Schuyler


[Page 69]
May 6, 1777 39 Matter of Compliment, and not from Impatience or Curiosity, but with a View to obviate that Gentleman’s Complaints, he flatters him self that the Expressions on which the first and second Resolutions were founded will not appear in that unfavorable point of Light, in which they have hitherto been considered. Conscious he is (and he must again repeat) that he did not mean to wound the Dignity of Congress, or to dispute their authority. Your Memorialist begs Leave to tresspass on the patience of the House, whilst he proceeds to the third Resolution which is founded, as he hopes to evince, on Missapprehension. 7 The Commissary General in a Letter to a Member of Congress, which was accidentally made public, had accused your Memorialist with detaining the Commission of Deputy Adjutant General of the Northern Department which had been directed to be made out for Colo. John Trumbull, the Commissary’s Brother. An Imputation so injurious to the Honor of your Memorialist could not be passed over in Silence: to vindicate himself became a Duty, and the only Means by which it could be effected were in the power of Congress because their hon orable president must have known, and from his Candor & Regard for Justice, been ready to declare, that the Commission had not at the Time of writing that Letter been transmitted. Your Memorialist entertained not the most distant Wish that Con gress should interfere in the Dispute between him and Commissary Trumbull, though the third Resolution is founded on such a Sup position. He applied only for their Testimony of the Fact, whether the Commission had been transmitted to him or not: and very far was he from apprehending that this could have given Offence or Displeasure, even now he cannot but flatter himself, that upon a Revision it will not appear to have been a presumptuous or unreasonable Request. Without this Evidence how would it have been possible to convince the World that the Suspicion was ill founded, or to have brought Colonel Trumbull to a Court Martial for slandering his superior Officer? Had this Mode been deemed by your Memorialist consistent with the public Good. Candor however obliges your Memorialist to confess, that, ignorant as he was of the Sense of Congress in this point, he should not have thought it a Transgression of the Bounds of his Duty, if he had directly applied to them as a mediating power. May he be permitted to refer it to their Consideration whether the Exclusion of an appeal to Congress in Disputes between the great officers of the army, might not, in many Instances, be attended with unhappy Effects? What, he begs Leave to ask, must have been the Consequence, had your Memorialist immediately arrested Major General Gates when, on the Retreat of the Army from Canada, he disputed his Command? Might it not have been greatly detrimental to the Service, especially


[Page 71]
May 6, 1777 41 MS (DNA: PCC, item 41). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. Lansing was Schuyler’s military secretary. 1 General Schuyler prepared this memorial as part of his campaign to vindicate himself against what he regarded as unjust treatment by Congress. On March 15 Congress had reprimanded him for a sharply critical letter he had written to President Hancock on February 4, and on March 25 it had made Horatio Gates commander of the army at Ticonderoga, thereby removing the largest military force in the northern department from Schuyler’s control. Yet these actions were also the result of long-standing dissatisfaction with Schuyler among several delegates—particularly the New Englanders—who were discontented with his military leadership and inability to get along with New England troops, resented the hectoring tone of some of his letters to Congress, and believed rumors that he corruptly mishandled public funds. Thus several factors had conspired to lower Schuyler’s prestige and lead many delegates to want General Gates appointed commander of the northern department. In order to answer his critics and regain control over the northern department, Schuyler, who was technically still a New York delegate, returned to Congress early in April, resolved either to win vindication or resign from the army. The immediate result of this move was a striking series of short-term successes for the much harried general. Ably supported by his fellow New York delegates, Schuyler secured the appointment on April 18 of a committee to examine his “conduct . . . since he has held a command in the army of the United States.” Next, he submitted his accounts to the Board of Treasury, which on May 3 cleared him of the charge of financial irregularities. And after he presented the memorial printed here, Congress expressed satisfaction with his explanation of his offending letter to President Hancock. Finally, on May 22 Congress granted Schuyler’ main wish by confirming his command over the northern department, stipulating that it included “Albany, Ticonderoga, Fort Stanwix and their dependencies,” thus making Gates his subordinate. Yet these resolves did not signify that Schuyler had won Congress’ unreserved confidence. Those of the 2 2d passed by only a narrow margin—six states to three, with two divided and two absent, according to William Duer; five states to four, with two divided, according to James Lovell. It was not surprising, therefore, that after the fall of Ticonderoga in July, Schuyler’s congressional support evaporated and Gates was made commander of the northern department on August 4, 1777. For information on congressional dissatisfaction with Schuyler before April 1777, see Edward Rutledge to Robert R. Livingston, September 23, 1776; John Hancock to Schuyler, March 18, and to Gates, March 25, 1777; Benson J. Lossing, The Life and Times of Philip Schuyler, 2 vols. (1873; reprint ed., New York: Da Capo Press, 1973), 2:153—82; and Jonathan G. Rossie, The Politics of Command in the American Revolution (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1975), pp. 107—53. Schuyler’s mission to Philadelphia may be followed in JCC, 7:279, 326-27, 333-34, 336, 364, 371, 8:375; Schuyler to Richard Varick, April 16, 26, and to George Washington, May 18; James Lovell to Horatio Gates, May 1, 22, and to Oliver Wolcott, June 7; New York Delegates to the New York Convention, May 9; and William Duer to Robert R. Livingston, May 28, 1777. John Lansing, Jr., to Richard Varick, April 26, 1777, NNPM, indicates that Schuyler composed his memorial with the help of James Duane, William Duer, Philip Livingston, and Lansing himself. That Schuyler began work on this document in April is also indicated by the reference in the very first paragraph to a March 15 resolve as one of the “15th Ultimo.” For General Gates’ dramatic reaction to Congress’ May 22 resolves on the northern department, see Horatio Gates’ Notes for a Speech in Congress, June 18, 1777.


[Page 73]
May 7, 1777 43 Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 6th. 1777 Come. met. Present, Morris, Lee, Whipple, Livingston. Issued the folg. drafts on the Auditor general in favor Arch. Mercer & Philip Moore for 5333 24/90 dlls, being the valuation of their ship Polly charterd & insurd by the Come., said ship being carried in by the Seamen to Hallifax, as appears by the Captns protest, taken before G. Nutting, Notary public, on the 25th Feby. last. Do. in favor of Blair McCleneghan for 13,333 1/3 dlls being the valuatn. of his ship Ad venture taken in this bay & destroyd by the Enemy, 1 as appears by the Capts. protest, sd. ship being charterd & insurd by the Come. MS (MH-H). 1 The Adventure, William Jones, master, returning from Hispaniola with salt, was burned by H.M.S. Phoenix on January 27, 1777. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1047. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia May 7. 1777 We have no News here, except what We get from your Country. The Privateers act with great Spirit, and are blessed with remarkable Success. Some Merchant ships are arrived this Week from Maryland. They were first chased by Men of War, in attempting to get into Cheasapeak Bay—they run from them and attempted Delaware Bay— there they were chased again. Whereupon they again shifted their Course for Cheasapeak and got in safe in spight of all the Men of War could do. Thus you see We can and will have Trade, in spight of them. .. ? And this Trade will probably increase fast. It requires Time for The Stream of Commerce to alter its Channell. Time is necessary, for our Merchants and foreign Merchants to think, plan, and correspond with each other. Time is also necessary for our Masters of Vessells and Mariners to become familiar with the Coasts, Ports and Harbours of foreign Countries—and a longer Time still is needfull for French, Spanish, and Dutch Masters and Mariners to learn our Coasts, and Harbours. Yours, ever, ever yours. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:234-35. 1 Suspension points in MS.


[Page 75]
May 7, 1777 45 LB (NN). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:11-12. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 7th May 1777 Your favor of the 21st UI to was handed me by Mr. Campney who was sent Express by G.W. Langdon with the dispatches that came in the Amphitrite. 1 This ship has been so long from France that she can bring nothing new. Another ship with a Similar cargo is arriv’d at Martineco after making several unsuccessful attempts to get into some of our ports. Some others are still expected, I wish they may not fall into the Enemies hands. It gives me Pleasure that a discovery is made of the Vilaneous money making scheme, for Heavens sake dont let the Villains escape the halter. 2 Sure I am they richly deserve it. Lenity to them will cost the lives of Thousands. It therefore is an indispensable duty to the Public to make examples of them. I beg leave to suggest whether it wod not be prudent to call in the money that is counter- fited immediately. In Expectation that this plan will be adopted, I will endeavor to obtain an order on the loan office, to enable you to execute it. I have desir’d the Treasury to forward Proof sheets of every Emission which they promise me shall be done. Large quantities of Conterfit money has been sent out from N. York but I have not heard that any body has yet been deceiv’d by it. I am told its badly done. Genl. Lee did not mention any perticular business. The copy of his letter which I sent you conveys every thing that I know respecting that matter. 3 The latest advices from France confirm me in the impropriety of his request, as the conference last summer was improv’d greatly to our disadvantage, that was a considerable means of prevent ing our having the stores last faul, that are now coming. Colo. Thornton set out the 3d inst. 4 I endeavor’d to perswade him to tarry ’till Mr. Frost arriv’d, but without success. I hope I shall be excus’d if I leave this very soon after Mr. Frost arrives, for I assure you I am almost wore out. It has not been in my Power to mount my horse since I arriv’d from Baltimore, nor not more then twice while there. Without relaxation, & exercise, my constitution (’tho a very good one) will not stand this climate. I think it absolutely necessary that the state shod be as fully represented as possible, therefore hope a second Person will soon be sent after Mr Frost. I agree with you, that we have many Difficulties to Encounter but doubt not we shall be able to surmount them all. Our internal & Secret Enemies embarrass us much more then is in the Power of all the force that can be rais’d by Great Britain, & nothing but the most


[Page 76]
46 May 7, 1777 vigorous exertions of civil authority can free us from those difficulties. The Laws shod be severe & executed with Rigour. This measure properly persued will surely have a very salutary Effect. The whip, Pilory, & Gibet shod be exercis’d freely, & those that the Laws will not hang should be immediately Banish’d & their Estates Confiscated, for keeping them among us will still subject us to the inconveniences arrising from their wicked Machinations. It is no time now to trifle. We must know who is for & who is against us & seperate the goats from the sheep. I inclose you a paper that has the test establish’d by S. Carolina. I think it a good one & wish, that, or something like it was adopted by our state. The Southern States are all acting vigourously, even Maryland, are takeing very decisive measures to rid themselves of their internal Enemies. And for the Honor & safety of New Hamp shire I hope She will persue such measures as will frustrate the evil designs of the Enemies of America. Hoping soon to rejoice with you on the Successes of our arms, & a fair Prospect of establishing Happi ness on the most permanant Basis Concludes me Your very affectionate Friend & Most Humi Sert. Wm. Whipple RC (NNPM). 1 Josiah Bartlett’s April 21 letter to Whipple is in the Josiah Bartlett Papers, NhHi, microfilm. 2 The New Hampshire Assembly passed a law on June 25, 1777, that forfeited the property of fugitive counterfeiters to the state and prevented its transfer to other persons. N.H. State Papers, 8:603, 613. 3 For further information on Gen. Charles Lee’s proposal for a conference with members of Congress to discuss British reconciliation overtures, see Thomas Burke’s Notes of Debate, February 21, 1777. 4 Matthew Thornton had received permission from Congress to return home on May 1. ]CC, 7:321. William Ellery to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philadelphia May 8th 1777 Inclosed is an Extract from a Letter written to the Committee of Correspondence by Arthur Lee Esqr. One of the Commissioners em ployed by the Congress at the Courts of France & Spain. 1 By this Extract the Necessity of destroying the British &c Forces on Rhode- Island before they may be reinforced fully and strongly appears. Bos ton it seems is to be attacked. Which Way it is to be attacked, if at tacked, is unknown. The Distance from Providence to Boston is about forty six Miles—Two Days March only. It hath been and still is my Opinion that, if the Enemy intend to penetrate into New England, One of their Routes will be from the Head of our Bay or near it. If the Assembly should agree with Me in this Sentiment, no Arguments will


[Page 77]
May 8,1777 47 be wanting to them, to comply with the Recommendation of Con gress. 2 But should this not be the Case most certainly every possible Advantage ought to be taken of the divided State of the British Army to crush and destroy it. In a late N. York Paper was published an Act of Parliament lately passed for apprehending, and imprisoning within the Realm of Britain, until January 1778, all Pirates & Traitors. 3 If I should be able to pro cure the Paper or a Copy of the Act before I close my Letter I will transcribe & transmit it to you. We must retaliate, and confine all the Prisoners We take. I fancy before the Campaign is out We shall be able to ballance Accounts with the Enemy. Recruits have come forward from the Southward very cleverly of late. I hope recruiting goes on in the Eastern States brisker than it did. The Quota of our State must not be deficient. The common Cause and our Reputation depend upon our Activity. The Enemy have used and are still using every Artifice they can, to increase Toryism, promote Desertions, and depretiate continental Dollars. Persons are employed in every State to propagate the first, Twenty four Dollars is offered for every Soldier that will desert and carry with him his Arms, a Less Sum for a Deserter without his Arms, to promote the Second; and to depretiate our Money it seems they have counterfeited large Sums and [dispersed] their Emissaries to spread their counterfeit Dollars [through] the States. I have seen a thirty Dollar counterfeit Bill. It was badly executed. We ought to be, methinks, as industrious to defeat as they are to con trive. It is high Time to treat Tories with proper uniform Severity, & to watch Strangers and perhaps One another with a jealous Eye. The Enemies of our own House, are more dangerous than external Foes. But it is my Business to inform not to direct. I hope the Genl. Assembly will attend, if they should not have already done it, to the Letter which I wrote them desiring the earliest Information after the Appointment of Delegates. Our State is not repre sented in Congress now, and will not be until I shall have received au- thentick Advice of my being chosen, or another Delegate shall have arrived. Therefore let me intreat that it may be done, that the new Delegates may come forward immediately. The Circumstances of my Family require that I shall return as soon as possible to make some suitable Provisions for it, and my long constant attention in Congress demands Relaxation. 4 Our Loss at Danbury turns out to be less than we imagined, and We have killed more of the Enemy; but We have not certain account of either. Every Thing in the Jersey statu quo. I congratulate your Honour on the Arrival of the Field-Peices. We shall take the Field under greater Advantages this than the last Campaign. Heartily wish ing that the Success of it may be at least proportioned to our superior Advantages, that we may give our Enemies such convincing Proof of


[Page 78]
48 May 8, 1777 their Folly, Injustice and Cruelty as may induce them to drop the Contest, and thus this be our last Campaign, I am with great Respect, Yr Honor’s most Obedt. hble Servt. William Ellery RC (RHi). 1 Lee’s letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence is dated February 18 in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:272-T3, but the extract enclosed in Ellery’s letter is dated February 20. See William R. Staples, ed., Rhode Island in the Continental Congress, 1765—1790 (Providence: Providence Press Co., 1870), pp. 139-40. 2 See John Hancock to Certain States, April 16, 1777. 3 See Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 6, 1777, note 2. 4 Not until May 31 was Ellery able to present to Congress the credentials certifying his recent reelection to a one year term as a Rhode Island delegate. See ]CC, 8:408-9; and Ellery to Cooke, March 30, 1777, note 4. Ellery’s previous term had expired on May 4. John Adams to Nathanael Greene Dear Sir Philadelphia May 9. 1777 Yours of the 2d Instant came duely to hand. 1 The Indifference of the People about recruiting the Army, is a Circumstance which ought to make Us consider what are the Causes of it. It is not merely the Melan- cholly arising from the unfortunate Event of the last Campaign, but the Small Pox, and above all the unhappy State of our Finances, which occasion this Evil. There are other Circumstances which are little at tended to which contribute much more than is imagined to this un favourable Temper in the People. The Prevalance of Dissipation, Debauchery, Gaming, Prophaneness and Blasphemy terrifies the best People upon the Continent, from trusting their Sons and other Rela tions among so many dangerous snares and temptations. Multitudes of People, who would with chearfull Resignation Submit their Families to the Dangers of the sword, shudder at the Thought of exposing them to what appears to them the more destructive Effects of Vice and Impiety. These Ideas would be received by many with scorn. But there is not the less Solidity in them for that. It is Discipline alone that can Stem the Torrent. Chaplains are of great use, I believe, and I wish Mr Leonard might be in the Army, upon such Terms as would be agreeable to him, for there is no Man of whom I have a better opinion. But there is so much difficulty in accomplishing any Thing of the Kind, that I wish G. Washington would either appoint him, or recommend him to Congress. The Utility of Medals has ever been impressed Strongly upon my Mind. Pride, Ambition and indeed what a Philosopher would call Van ity, is the Strongest Passion in human Nature, and next to Religion, the


[Page 82]
52 May 9, 1777 Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:941. 1 See JCC, 7:326-27. 2 See JCC, 7:336; and Philip Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777. Secret Committee to the Commissioners at Paris Honorable Gentlemen, Philadelphia 9th May 1777 This letter is intended to be delivered you by John Paul Jones Esquire an active and brave Commander in our Navy, who has already per formed Signal Services in Vessels of little force and in reward for his Zeal, we have directed him to go on board the Amphitrite a French Ship of 20 Guns that brought in a valuable Cargo of Stores from Monsr. Hortalez & Co and with her repair to France. He takes with him his Commission, some Officers and Men, so that we hope he will under that Sanction make Some good Prizes with the Amphitrite, but our design in Sending him is (with the approbation of Congress) that you may purchase One of those fine Frigates that Mr Deane writes us you can get, and invest him with the Command thereof soon as possible. We hope you may not delay this business one Moment, but purchase in Such port or place in Europe as it can be done with most convenience & dispatch a fine fast sailing Frigate or larger Ship. Direct Captain Jones where he must repair to, and he will take with him his Officers and men towards manning her. You will assign him Some good House or Agent to supply him with every thing necessary to get the Ship speedily and well equipped and Manned, Somebody that will bestir themselves vigourously in the business and never quit until it is Accomplished. If you have any plan or Service to be performed in Europe by Such a Ship that you think will be more for the Interest or honor of these States than Sending her out directly, Captain Jones is instructed to Obey your Order, and to Save repetition let him lay before you the instructions we have given him and furnish you with a Copy thereof. You can then judge what will be necessary for you to direct him in; and whatever you do will be approved as it will undoubtedly tend to promote the publick Service of this Country. You See by this Step how much dependance Congress place in your advices and you must make it a point not to disapoint Capt Jones’s wishes and our expectations on this Occasion. We are Honorable Gentlemen, Your obedt hble Servants, Robt Morris Wm. Whipple Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston RC (MdBJ-G). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Livingston, Morris, and Whipple.


[Page 84]
54 May 9, 1777 Ship at the latter place, they will also render you any Service you may Stand in need of. You will naturally suppose we do not remove you from the Ship you were so lately appointed to for the Sole purpose of making this voyage in the Amphitrite, we have other veiws and is only adopted as part of our plan which we expect will afford you an Opportunity of doing some Mischief to our Enemies and some good for yourself and the Country you have engaged to serve. We hope you may make many Prizes and thereby lodge Funds in Europe that will assist in executing the other part of our veiws. We are advised by our Commis sioners at the Court of France that they can procure us some fine Frigates and as we have a desire to gratify you with the command of a fine Ship in firm dependance that you will make good use of her to serve and promote the Interest of America, we send you to France in the Amphitrite for these two purposes, first, to avail of her Guns & men to make a Cruizing voyage to France, and then to Obtain One of the Frigates mentioned. When Amphitrite arrives in France you will dispose of your Officers & Men so that they may remain in Safety at the Port whilst you proceed for Paris with the enclosed letter which you must deliver yourself. The Commissioners will procure you A fine Ship and the Officers and Men you take with you will assist towards manning her. The Commissioners will inform you what Port to repair to for this Ship, and whom you are to apply to for Supplies of every kind. We expect you will exert yourself to the Utmost to get the Ship they may appoint for you equipped, manned and fit for Service with the ut most expedition. We desire the Commissioners if they have any particu lar service for you to perform in Europe to give you the needful instruc tions, and if any Such you receive it is your business to execute their orders to the best of your power. Such Services as they may point out being performed, or if they order none, you will then enquire of them and of our Commercial Agents Wm Lee & Thomas Morris Esqrs. at Nantes or Bourdeaux if it be Necessary for you to receive on board any Stores or supplies for this Continent, and take in Such as may be ready. We hope you may obtain a fine Ship well equipped in every particular and that you’ll be able to get her Officered & Manned. These things done you will steer for America making it your constant Study to take or destroy as many of the enemies Ships as possible during the Voyage. If you receive any dispatches from the Commissioners at Paris or the Commercial Agents for this or any Committee of Congress you must be very carefull of them and always have them ready to be Sunk if too heavy A Ship should attack you. You will get into the first safe Port in these States that you can, with the dispatches if any you have. All prizes are to be addressed and give us notice immediately of your Arrival and Send an officer to the Continental Agents here, and to such persons in Europe as the


[Page 87]
May 10, 1777 57 In this business we beg you will assist all in your power. Herein you have twelve Blank Warrants for Petty Officers and you may fill them up with the names of Such Suitable persons as agree to go with Jones in the Several Stations wanted taking care that none but Suitable Men are engaged. Any Blanks that remain transmit them to the Honorable Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane & Arthur Lee Esqrs American Commissioners at the Court of Versailles, committing the Packet to Captain Jones Care, with A Charge to Sink it if accident renders that precaution necessary. It is possible Mr Fautrel may object to this Plan, for we dont See by the Agrement that he is bound to comply with it, and in that v case you’l Send us back the Warrants and tell Captain Jones he must return to the command of the Ship he left, but this we don’t expect will happen. On the Contrary we think Monsr. Fautrel will gladly fall in with our views & that Jones will go the Voyage. In this case you will supply him with Provisions for himself and Officers and Men during the Voyage, advance what money may be needful agreeable to resolves of Congress and transmit Accounts thereof to the Marine Com mittee with Captain Jones Receipts. You must charge that Committee with the advances made Captain Jones and his men on this Occassion. The advances made Monsr. Fautrel and the Captain of the Mercury must be Charged to the Secret Committee. We doubt not your exertions to concur with our views and if any dificulties arise to remove them, and remain, Sir, Your Obedt Servants, Robt Morris Wm. Whipple Richard Henry Lee Phil. Livingston P.S. Shou’d Capt Fautrell think the third of Prizes which we have offered him too small a share for the use of his Ship, You may agree to allow him half & let him & Capt Jones Sign in Writing to fix the bargain, but if he will accept a third you’l say nothing of the half. 2 RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Livingston, Morris, and Whipple. 1 See JCC, 7:335-36. 2 See JCC, 7:346-47. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia May 10. 1777 The Day before Yesterday, I took a Walk, with my Friend Whipple to Mrs. Wells’s, the Sister of the famous Mrs. Wright, to see her Wax work. 1 She has two Chambers filled with it. In one, the Parable of the Prodigal Son is represented. The Prodigal is prostrate on his Knees,


[Page 89]
May 10, 1777 59 4 Adams’ letterbook contains a fragment of a letter dated May 10 that he may have intended to add to this letter to Abigail. “We have at last accomplished a troublesome Piece of Business. We have chosen a Number of additional Ambassadors. Mr. Ralph Izzard of S. Carolina, a Gentleman of large Fortune, for the Court of the Grand Duke of Tuscany, and Mr. William Lee, formerly Aiderman of London, for the Courts of Vienna and Berlin.” See Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:237. John Adams to Nathanael Greene Philadelphia May 10. 1777 Yours of the 7th was brought me this Morning. 1 My Meaning was that if the Conduct of our Army had depended on me, I should have taken more Pains to have obtained exact Information of the Enemies Numbers, and our own, and should have considered every Inclination of the Enemies Intentions of coming to Philadelphia more particularly. Altho there is no doubt that Congress have authority to direct the military operations, yet I think they would be unwise to attempt it. This must be left to the General officers. We have not the Information that you have respecting our own Force. There is not a Man in Congress who knows what Force you now have in N. Jersey. We have had no Returns a long time and the opinions of Gentn who come from Camp are very various. My Con stituents have a Right to expect that I give my Council whenever it may be usefull; and my Constituents shall not be disappointed. If you knew how many dozens of my opinions are rejected where one is adopted, you would not think they had much Weight. But enough of this. My opinion last Summer was very consistent I believe, with that in my last Letter. A Man may be humble before the Enemy, and proud before a Friend. Some who think too little of their Powers and Forces against the Enemy, think too highly of their own Importance, among their Friends, and treat the latter with less Delicacy than they would the former. For my own Part I care not how haughty Men are, to the Enemies of their Country, provided they have Regard to Truth & Justice, nor how humble they are among its Friends. If by the finer Feelings of the Gentlemen of the Army, are meant their Moral Feelings, no Man detests more than myself, the Idea of hurting them. But if Vanity, and Pleasure is meant, I think, no Harm would be done by mortifying it. I am much mistaken and much misinformed, if the nice Feelings, the Pride, the Vanity, the Foppery, the Knavery and Gambling among too many of the officers, do not end in direct Endeavours to set up a Tyrant sooner or later, unless early Endeavours are used to controul them. I dont mean by this, any General Reflections upon the officers, most of whom I believe


[Page 96]
66 May 10, 1777 RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In a clerical hand and signed by Lee, Livingston, Morris, and Whipple. 1 See the resolves of March 31, JCC, 7:211-12; and Secret Committee to Langdon, April 2, 1777. Secret Committee to Jeremiah Powell Sir, In Secret Committee. Philadelphia May 10. 1777 Your favour of the 21st Ultimo came duely with the pleasing Ac count of your having received from Mr Bingham a parcell of Muskets part of the Ship Seins Cargo landed in Martinico. The Continent are now happily pretty well provided for the Campaign and Men Seems the only thing wanting, a circumstance never expected at the com mencement of the present War. The Board of war will give the Neces sary Orders respecting these Arms, and thanking you for your attention to the publick Interest, We remain Sir, Your Obedt hble servants, Robt Morris, Chair Man of the Secret Commee. RC (M-Ar). In a clerical hand and signed by Morris. Addressed: “The Honor able Jer. Powell Esq President Massachusets Bay.” William Whipple to John Langdon My Dear Sir, Philadelphia 10th May 1777. Your two favors of 21st and 22d were handed me the 3d inst by Mr. Champney. The arrival of the Amphitrite gives me double pleasure as she has been long expected and I had in my own mind given her over for lost. This ship has been so long from France that no intelli gence can be expected from her. A packet is daily expected with dis patches from that country. A ship with a similar cargo to the Amphitrite is arrived at Martinico after unsuccessfully attempting to get into some of our ports. However we are now well furnished with materials to carry on the war, men only are wanting to use those materials. It grieves me that New Hampshire’s quota should be so backward, though perhaps not more so than some other states, but it would be my pride to hear that her sons were first in the field. I think you did right in delivering arms and clothing to the troops. The cloth ing General tells me he has given orders for clothing all the troops. When I urged your sending your accounts quarterly I did not mean the accounts of those ships that were building; that I know is impossi ble. What I had in view was the prizes and those ships fitted out by order of the Secret Committee. I have applied to the Clerks of the Committees for accounts of the money sent you which I shall forward so soon as obtained.


[Page 103]
May 13, 1777 73 No 1 to 5 6 7 & 8 9 & 10 11 to 13 171 pounds Twine 42 pieces fine Duck 10 pieces higher price 22 pieces second sort 18 pieces fine Holland Ditto 27 pieces fine Russia 119 pieces Vars 14 to 16 83 do Twine, 400 22 pieces Ticklenburg sail Needles contg 1542 17 20 pieces do 1359 254 42 2901 besides which Messrs Gardoquis mention 6 Bales Contents Vars No 1 12 pieces Tent Cloth 573 3/5 2 10 pieces 632 4/5 3 12 do 730 4 12 do 763 5 10 1 675 1/2 6 f 1 J 3374 9/10 | 10 do Contents not mentioned 67 pieces 164 Yds Wrapper These I would have delivered to Capt Curtis or some other principal Sailmaker, & his receipt taken for the number of Yards which each peice contains together with the Weidth (& also for the Twine) to be made into Tents agreable to inclosed Directions without Delay. I shall take it as a Favour if You will employ some faithful person to deliver & measure it, as by the Cost, some peices contain more than others, where the Vars are not mentioned, & I am also unacquainted with this measure? You will please to pay the person measuring the Cloth, & contract with the Sailmaker on the best Terms not allowing more than the Quarter Master General does here One Do per Tent per the inclosed Memo. The Tops are to be made of the best Duck, & the Sides of the other, the Wrapping may do for some of the Bottoms. These will be ordered to Tyonderoga as soon as made, & therefore no Time should be lost. The Salt I have agreed to deliver in North Carolina for the Use of the Continent, & shall load the Vessel that Takes it with naval Stores or other produce for Bilbao. If You incline to engage I will freight your Vessel from Marblehead to Edenton in North Carolina, from thence to Bilbao & back to Marblehead, & will leave with our Friend Colo Ome what the Freight shall be. If not, pray engage or Freight a Vessel of 120 Tons, & insure on the Salt & premium for my Account from Marblehead to Edenton 6000 Dollars, agreeing with


[Page 105]
May 13, 1777 75 their Attachment to it, the Congress have requested you will consider their Case, and adopt and carry into Execution, at the Expence of the United States, such Measures for their Relief, as you may think pru dent & practicable. 2 I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolve, and have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (M-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 7:313, 330-31. 2 See JCC, 7:313, 348^9. Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia 13th May 1777 The inclosed infamous Act of Parliament is taken from the New York Gazette and its authenticity therefore not to be doubted. 1 The question upon this is, whether every State will not pass acts appointing places of security where the prisoners they take may be safely kept as pledges for the good usage of our people, or as objects of punishment in the way of retaliation? In proportion as our enemies loose the hopes of subduing us by open force, they endeavor more strenuously to sap us by corrupt influence and by the wicked machinations of their Tory friends. To put an effectual stop to the proceedings of the latter, will it not be necessary so to provide by law, as that every Tory may be precisely in the same situation if we succeed in this war, that we un doubtedly shall be if the enemy prevail. And what this latter will be, the inclosed Act of Parliament very plainly declares. The point is, how to distinguish previously the Whigs from the Tories. I believe, by a strict Test, and by appointing a General and a County board of Com missioners, with small but compitent funds to carry on quick corres pondence with each other, and to search into the conduct of suspicious Residents, and of all unknown Passengers or Travellers. As you may rely upon it, that Tory machinations are now more wicked than ever, and their correspondence with each other, and their injurious com munications not to be doubted. I wish some of the most sensible Whigs in our Assembly would take under consideration what I have here suggested the propriety of. The necessity of completing our Batallions is so obvious, that I suppose the Assembly will adopt the plan of drafting recommended by Congress, 2 and if they do, will it not be highly proper to have discreet recruiting Officers at every place where the Militia is assembled for the draft, who by clearly pointing out to the young Men the advantages of bounty, annual clothes, and land for those that voluntarily engage, may procure a sufficiency on the willing plan. Nor is it a bad argument with them to shew how safely and


[Page 106]
76 May 13, 1777 easily they are carried thro the Small pox at the public expence, by the present plan of inoculation. Above all things my dear Sir, let us secure the credit of our money by a vigorous Taxation. Maryland has done so, and so have the Eastern States, and all must do it to procure public confidence in our funds and the stability of our currency. Our Army is approaching the enemies lines and promises soon to be active. We have no late intelligence from France, tho we have reason every day to expect it. Capt Weks in the Continental Ship Reprisal of 16 guns & 100 & odd men has taken & sent into Port L Orient a Lisbon packet of equal force to himself, with three Ships that were under her Convoy, and the provisions we have taken at Sea, more than compensate for the Danbury loss, since the latter was only 1700 barrels of Meat with some flour & grain, and we have brought in 5000 barrels of Meat bound to N. York. Colo. Nelson is gone home ill, so that we three are here fixed to hard service. We deserve compassion and relief. I have no objection to a service however irksome, if it is so contrived that a reasonable relief may now and then be interposed, so as to ease the Individual, without injury to the public. We learn lately, that the account of General Carletons approach to Ticonderoga was premature, and in the mean time a considerable reenforcement has arrived from the Eastward, so that we are no longer in pain for that Post. I am, with much esteem, dear Sir, Yours sincerely, Richard Henry Lee RC (ViHi). 1 See Lee to Henry, May 6, 1777, note 2. 2 For the April 14 resolves on recruiting, see JCC, 7:261-63. Richard Henry Lee to Samuel Purviance, Jr. Dear Sir, Philadelphia 13th May 1777 It gives me great pleasure to hear of Capt. Nicholsons reconciliation with the Government, altho it is not yet announced to us in form. 1 The Tories I hope will not long have occasion to rejoice. They must either change their conduct, or abide the consequences shortly. I have not yet received the letter containing my brothers observations on Tobacco. I remember generally that observing on the different To baccos that suited different Markets he said that what grew on both sides of Potomac was the kind most used in France, and he thought it would not be prudent to send the finer kinds of Tobo. to France, but immediately to the markets that consumed it. As Holland, the Baltic &c.


[Page 108]
78 May 13, 1777 Said Inlets where you can with most convenience heave down the Sloop and send an Officer or an Express to inform us where you are, when you can be ready to Sail again, and what Stores and Provisions you will want for a three months Cruize when we shall send fresh orders and take measures for your being supplied. We are sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Medical Committee to Thomas Johnson sir 13th May 1777 The Director General of the Continental Hospitals is much in want of Spanish Flies and Suggests that the State over which you preside has a considerable Quantity of them in Store. He has requested the Medical Committee to apply for Such part as the State may Spare and Accordingly we take the Freedom to request your Excellency to give the Necessary orders for furnishing him with so much of that Medicine as the particular Demand of your own Medical Departments will admit. Whatever Quantity shall be delivered to the Director General or his Order shall be replaced from the Continental Stores as soon as possible, meantime it will be proper to charge it to the United States. We doubt not that Your Excellency will Comply with this request if not prevented by some very particular Circumstances, and we have the Honor to be, Your Excellency’s very Obedt Servts. Signed by Order of the Medical Committee, Jonathn. Elmer RC (MdAA). William Paca to Thomas Johnson Dr Sir. 13 May 1777. We reed, yours by the post & shall fill up the Commissions as you request. 1 There is Nothing new since my last. A heavy firing was heard yesterday near Bonam Town. There is no Doubt but a smart Skirmish has been had with the Enemy. By General Washingtons Return last Evening which I saw at the Presidents he had 6891 Men Eight hundred of them sick but general Mifflin says the most of them with the small Pox and so far recovered that about 500 of them would be able to turn out & fight on an Emergency. Over & above these on their way from Bristol we have above twelve hundred more. The above are regular


[Page 114]
84 May 15, 1777 don’t know but Mrs. Adams Native Genius will Excel us all in Husbandry,” see Warren-Adams Letters, 1:320. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. May 15. 1777. I do myself the Honour to enclose you sundry Resolves of Congress, 1 accompanied with a Commission for Monsr. Armand, which I am to request you will order to be delivered to him, as he is now at Head Quarters. 2 Ever since the Appointment of Brigadiers I have been waiting to be informed of the Dates of their respective Commissions in Order to settle their Rank in making out new ones. But as there is no Proba bility of my receiving this Information, & the Gentlemen themselves will be at Head Quarters, I must request you will give Commissions to them and ascertain their Rank by the Dates of their original Com missions. I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLG). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 These were resolves of May 10 and 12—14 on certain French officers, the appointment of brigadier generals, postal service, Nova Scotia, Maj. Richard Campbell, and the quartermaster’s department. JCC, 7:346-49, 351-52, 355-59. 2 In regard to Armand, see Robert Morris to Washington, May 10, 1777. Philip Schuyler to William Livingston Dear Sir Philadelphia 15th May 1777. Last Evening I was honored with Your Excellency’s Favor of the 13th instant. The Papers which it inclosed evince Lee to be a dangerous Character and as he was taken near the Enemies Lines and as he has been, as Mrs. Thompson declares, with them, he will fall within the Cognizance of the Military. Your Excellency & the Council of Safety will therefore please to send him to this Town, his Confession to Major Tayler makes it neces sary that the Major should attend with him, together with Thompson & his Wife. And you will please to order such Other persons to Attend as may be necessary. 1 I am Dr. Sir, with Every Friendly Wish, Your Excellency’s most Obedt. Humble Servt. Ph. Schuyler LB (NN). 1 Governor Livingston’s May 13 letter to Schuyler discussed the case of a


[Page 115]
May 16, 1777 85 certain John Lee, alias Brown, who had been caught near the British lines in New Jersey with a petition to General Howe. Lee claimed that he was appre hended as he was returning to the American lines to report what he had learned about the British forces, but Livingston scoffed at this story and asserted that Lee “is undoubtedly one of Hows Recruiters.” Schuyler Papers, NN. Livingston’s May 15 reply to this letter from Schuyler is in the same collection. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa, Phila. 14th [i.e. 16th] May 1777 1 Inclosed you have the Pena, evening posts of Tuesday & Thursday. We this day received intelligence of a vessel arrived at Egg harbour with Cloths & between 3 & 4 thousand stand of arms from France. This vessel has brought English prints as late as the latter end of February & letters from our Commissioners in France dated sometime in March & one from Doer. Lee dated 23d March from Burgos in Spain. 2 The news brought by these dispatches are favourable. The King of Portugal is dead, & troops were filing off from the frontiers of Spain towards Portugal. Capt Weeks had brought into Port 1’Orient 5 prises, among which was the Falmouth packet bound from that port to Lis bon. These vessels Weeks disposed of tho’ not without difficulty at Port 1’Orient. From the affected orders given him to depart, & the excuses made by him for delaying his departure at and last admitted with great seeming reluctance, it is plain, the French court wants to temporise & to gain time. The vessel which carried the dispatches from Congress to France of our Successes in the Jersies was just arrived at Nantes: no doubt the good news would encourage the French court to continue their assistance. To judge from Dor. Lee’s letter Spain also is well inclined. By a letter from London of the 14th March to that gentleman the Ministry have altered their intended plan of operations. Owing to the difficulty of raising foreign mercenaries, they have de termined to order the greatest part of their forces to fall down the St. Laurence & join Howe. If so, no attack will be made on Tionderoga this year. This piece of news corresponds with intelligence lately brought by some Indians from Canada, of which I advised you in my last. G. Arnold is in town. He says two officers who have lately come out of N. York & were well acquainted with some English officers were informed by them that their loss in their expedition to Danbury amounted in killed, wounded & prisoners & missing to 500, if so they have paid dear for the destruction of our magazine at that place. All is yet quiet in the Jersies. I believe the enemy will attempt nothing of importance till they receive reinforcements. Gen. Washing ton disapproves of the inlisting servants & convicts in his letter of the 13 instant. 3


[Page 120]
90 May 17, 1777 I should hope for the Exertion of your Influence on an Occasion so important to the public Weal, If I did not entertain the fullest Confi dence that a Request so reasonable in Its Nature and affording to the Friends an Oppertunity of evincing their Humanity and Patriotism would meet with a cheerful Compliance. From a Total Want of personal Acquaintance with any of the Friends, I am induced to look up to You as a public Character, having seen Your name submitted to a Testimony of Friends at a Meeting of Suffertorys held in this City on the 20th of November last. Please to Favor me with an Answer as soon as possible. I am &c. &c. Ph. Schuyler LB (NN). 1 John Pemberton (1727-95) was a Quaker preacher in Philadelphia whose opposition to the war with Great Britain led in September 1777 to his arrest and imprisonment in Virginia. DAB. Schuyler enclosed this letter in a brief one of the same date to John’s older brother Israel, one of Pennsylvania’s most prominent Quaker merchants and philanthropists. “Inclose You a Letter,” wrote the general to Israel, “which by its Direction You will see designed for Mr. John Pemberton. But being informed that he is out of Town & not likely to return soon, I beg You will read It, and communicate Its Contents to the Society of Friends in this City, of which I am advised You are a Member. You will please to signify to me Whether I may expect an Answer or not.” Schuyler Papers, NN. For the refusal of the Quakers to comply with Schuyler’s requests, see Schuyler to Israel Pemberton, May 22, 1777. For additional information on the plight of the Pembertons and Pennsylvania Quakers as they became engulfed in the revolu tion, see also Theodore Thayer, Israel Pemberton, King of the Quakers (Phila delphia: Historical Society of Pennsylvania, 1943), pp. 210-32. 2 Schuyler also wrote a brief letter on this day to Quartermaster General Thomas Mifflin asking him to send 1,000 tents to the army in the northern de partment. Schuyler Papers, NN. Philip Schuyler to George Washington Dear Sir Philadelphia 18th May 1777 I do myself the Honor to inclose your Excellency a Return of the Troops in the Town. We have not a Blanket to cover them with. The Quakers refused to furnish any to the Committee appointed to collect from the Inhabitants. I have written to John Pemberton on the Subject and am determined if they do not voluntarily afford us a thousand, to make Use of coercive Measures. This Jesuitical Set do us much Injury. The Board of War have reported to Congress that I ought again to be invested with the Command in the Northern Department, and that General Gates should continue to serve under me, or join your Excellency. This occasioned a warm Debate which will be re newed to Morrow. 1 I am Dr Sir, with the greatest Respect and Esteem, Your Excellency’s most obedient hble Servant, Ph. Schuyler


[Page 121]
May 19, 1777 91 RC (DLC). In the hand of John Lansing, Jr., and signed by Schuyler. 1 See ]CC, 7:366, 371, 8:375; and Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777, note. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 19th. 1777. Committee met. Present—Morris, Lee, Whipple. Order on the Audi tor genl, in favor of Ja. Wallace, for 3200 dlls being the value of his Brige. Polly, Capt. Lacy, taken by the Enemy’s frigate Orpheus, on the 4th July last, as appears by the Capt’s protest, sd. Brige. being charterd & insurd by the Come. 1 MS (MH-H). 1 For information relating to the chartering of the Polly, see Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings, March 27, 1776, and June 4, 1777; and Secret Com mittee to Philip Lacey, May 14, 1776, note. William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett My Dear Sir Piladelphia 19 May 1777 My last was by Mr. Champney since which I have not had the Pleasure of any of Yours. Mr. Frost arriv’d the 15th inst, by his Cre dentials I find I am superceeded, he tells me that was not the intention of the Court. 1 I also find by Your letters that it was there wish that I might tarry some time after Mr. Frosts arrival which I shall do, if I can with propriety, tho I wish to be on my way home before the weather is uncomfortably warm. A ship arriv’d a few days ago from Nants. She brings letters of the 20th March but no dispatches of very great importance, those are expected by a Packet which was to sail in two or three days. Perhaps she is already arriv’d, at some distant port. This ship is landing her Cargo at Cinnapucksen, several of the Enemies ships being still, in Delaware Bay; her cargo consists of Arms & Cloathing. The Reprisal has carried in to France five Prizes since the two she took on her passage from hence one of them a Packet from Falmouth for Lisbon. Capt Weeks writes he is cleaning his ship at ’Grant & has wrote to the Commissioners for leave to come home so he may be soon expected. By a letter from Dr. Lee dated at Burgos in Spain (he being on his way to Madrid) large Quantities of Cloathing are prepareing in that Kingdom for this Country. 2 Some are already sent to the Havanna. This is done without application, he also says the King of Portugal is dead & that a large body of Spanish Troops are marching to the


[Page 124]
94 May 20, 1777 sums than are necessary to forward their march to head-quarters.” JCC, 7:368. It should also be noted that in his letter Hudson acknowledged the receipt of Hancock’s “favour of the 7th Inst per Post . . . Covering a Warrant of Congress for Twenty Thousand Dollars.” This “favour” has not been found, but see also JCC, 7:328; and Hudson to Hancock, May 1, 1777, in PCC, item 78, 11:149. For further information on Hudson, particularly concerning his private versus public transactions, see Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson, this date. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. May 20th. 1777. This will be delivered to you by Mrs. Graydon of this City, a very worthy Lady, whose Anxiety to see her Son Captain Graydon, now a Prisoner with the Enemy, is so great, that Congress have been induced to consent to her having an Interview with him. I am therefore to request your Attention to the enclosed Resolve on the Subject, and that you will give Directions for having it carried into Execution in such Manner as you may think will be most proper. 1 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 7:367. Alexander Graydon, a captain in the Third Pennsylvania Battalion, was captured by the British at Fort Washington in November 1776, paroled in July 1777, and exchanged in April 1778. In his memoirs he vividly describes his mother’s trip to New York to intercede personally with General Howe to obtain his parole and President Hancock’s chagrin at her success be cause of his fear that it might cast a favorable light on the British. Alexander Graydon, Memoirs of a Life, Chiefly Passed in Pennsylvania within the Last Sixty Years (Harrisburg: John Wyeth, 1811), pp. 241-63. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Phila. May 20. 1777 We are this moment informed here, that some evil disposed people (no doubt hired for the purpose) have industriously propagated among the N. Carolina Troops, and among the recruits of Virginia in the upper parts, that the plague rages in our Army. In consequence of which, it is said, the recruiting business stops, and desertions are fre quent. 1 There never was a more infamous and groundless falsehood. The Army is extremely healthy, and the wise[st] methods are pursued to keep them so. I mention this dear Sir, that some adequate plan may be adopted to stop the progress of such wicked lies as are now, with industry circulated thro the Country. Force having failed our enemies,


[Page 127]
May 20, 1777 97 to you at Baltimore & if you are gone I depend that those who Act for you will send it after you to the care of Benjn. Harrison Junr Esqr. I sent your letters to General Washington & the pay Master General the day after they came to my hands. I am satisfyed with your Shipping the flour on our joint Account & will receive the Net proceeds of what you have ordered to be sold to be applyed in pay ment of such bills as you may draw on me for your own Account to the extent of One Thousand pounds. I shall honor your drafts on me to the Extent of Two thousand five hundred pounds on any Account, however I now mean to alter these arrangements provided what I shall now propose be agreed to by Carter Braxton Esqr. in Virginia. It seems he has also determined on sending to Carolina to purchase Goods and invites me to be Concerned. I will therefore send this letter enclosed to him and propose that he shou’d join us & let this Specu lation be in thirds. If he agrees to this you may extend the purchase to Twelve or fifteen thousand Pounds this Cury provided the Goods can be obtained on reasonable terms, and you must hurry them back soon as possible for I believe so many People will go on this plan as to raise prices in Carolina & fall them on their return this way. If this is agreed to Mr Braxton must supply you with some money to carry with you. I think five thousand pounds which I believe he can readily do & the letters herewith will enable you to procure the Remainder for drafts on me or on him but unless you can buy the Goods cheap & bring them safe I think you had best not go so deep. I shall desire Mr Braxton to meet you at Williamsburg & for that purpose I alter my first design & enclose this letter open to him instead of sending it to Baltimore. Draw your bills at as long sight as you can & advise me regularly of your proceedings. I am, Sir, Your hble servant, Robt Morris RC (PHarH). 1 Jonathan Hudson (d. 1786), who had been appointed by Congress on January 18, 1777, deputy paymaster at Baltimore, was a merchant frequently associated in commercial transactions with the firm Willing, Morris & Co. See JCC, 7:48; and Robert Morris, The Papers of Robert Morris, 1781-1784, ed. E. James Ferguson, et al., (Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press, 1973-), 1:414. Virginia Delegates to George Wythe Sir, Philadelphia May 20th 1777 We are favored with yours covering a resolve of Assembly to which we shall pay due attention. The first Volume of the last edition of the Journal of Congress, is now published, and shall be forwarded to Williamsburg by the first opportunity. 1 This Volume reaches no


[Page 133]
May 22, 1777 103 John Adams to Abigail Adams May 22 [1777]. 4 O Glock in the Morning After a Series of the souerest, and harshest Weather that ever I felt in this Climate, We are at last blessed with a bright Sun and a soft Air. The Weather here has been like our old Easterly Winds to me, and southerly Winds to you. The Charms of the Morning at this Hour, are irresistable. The Streakes of Glory dawning in the East: the freshness and Purity in the Air, the bright blue of the sky, the sweet Warblings of a great Variety of Birds intermingling with the martial Clarions of an hundred Cocks now within my Hearing, all conspire to chear the Spirits. This kind of puerile Description is a very pretty Employment for an old Fellow whose Brow is furrowed with the Cares of Politicks and War. I shall be on Horseback in a few Minutes, and then I shall enjoy the Morning, in more Perfection. I spent last Evening at the War-Office, with General Arnold. .. ? He has been basely slandered and libelled. 2 The Regulars say, “he fought like Julius Caesar.” I am wearied to Death with the Wrangles between military officers, high and low. They Quarrell like Cats and Dogs. They worry one another like Mastiffs. Scrambling for Rank and Pay like Apes for Nutts. I believe there is no one Principle, which predominates in human Nature so much in every stage of Life, from the Cradle to the Grave, in Males and females, old and young, black and white, rich and poor, high and low, as this Passion for Superiority.. .. Every human Being compares itself in its own Imagination, with every other round about it, and will find some Superiority over every other real or imaginary, or it will die of Grief and Vexation. I have seen it among Boys and Girls at school, among Lads at Colledge, among Practicers at the Bar, among the Clergy in their Associations, among Clubbs of Friends, among the People in Town Meetings, among the Members of an House of Representatives, among the Grave Councillors, on the more solemn Bench of Justice, and in that awfully August Body the Congress, and on many of its Committees—and among Ladies every Where But I never saw it operate with such Keenness, Ferocity and Fury, as among military Officers. They will go terrible Lengths, in their Emulations, their Envy and Revenge, in Consequence of it. So much for Philosophy. I hope my five or six Babes are all well. My Duty to my Mother and your Father and Love to sisters and Brothers, Aunts and Uncles. Pray how does your Asparagus perform? &c. I would give Three Guineas for a Barrell of your Cyder—not one drop is to be had here for Gold. And wine is not to be had under Six


[Page 141]
May 23, 1777 111 general had referred expressly to the militia of Delaware and Pennsylvania. See ]CC, 7:348, 369-70; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:46-47. Richard Henry Lee’s Notes on Commissary Regulations [May 23-June 10? 1777] 1 Great Expence to procure the Commissioners or they must be all ap pointed [here]. The evils of appointing [all?] here. How long will it be ’ere the appointments are made known [fo] the persons met here and they agree on their Agents &c. 2 Department expencive. Great abuses have happened but the present plan of Regulation calculated to prevent One Gentleman has purchased extensively why then appoint more. Speculatists have appeared as con tending Bidders. Fault in [owing?] Commission. Members of [Congress?] inform of the price of Commodities. MS (ViU). Written by Lee in pencil on the cover of a May 18 letter from Edmund Pendleton, Caroline County, Va. 1 Lee probably wrote these cryptic notes between May 23 and June 10 in connection with his work on a committee charged with drafting new regulations for the commissary’s department. The committee’s initial report, which had been read and tabled on May 14, was debated in Congress and recommitted on May 23. Thus the 23d seems the earliest time that Lee could have addressed himself to this subject after he had received the May 18 Pendleton letter on which he penciled these notes. During the following two and a half weeks, the report on commissary regulations was debated in Congress on eight occasions and recom mitted three times before a revised report, which divided the work of the de partment among nine salaried officials and their assistants, was approved on June 10. See JCC, 7:266-67, 280-81, 292, 354; 8:384, 386, 394, 405, 406, 409, 410, 414-15, 427, 433-48. 2 In the margin next to this paragraph Lee wrote: “Board may do many good things why not a single person.” New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety Honble Gentlemen Philadelphia May 23d. 1777 Since our arrival here we have not been honored, but with one public Letter, which we ascribe to the Multiplicity of Business in which our Convention has been involved. It was by accident that we procured a Copy of the ordinance for establishing a temporary Government in our State, which has enabled us to address ourselves to your honorable Body.


[Page 142]
112 May 23, 1777 The new Delegation transmitted by the Secretary has reached us. Rest assured that our most zealous Efforts shall be strenuously exerted to promote the general Good and Happiness of the united States, as well as the Honor, Interest and Security of our more immediate Con stituents. General Schuyler is fully reinstated in his Command, every point being adjusted entirely to his and our Satisfaction. This Business with which more than the Reputation of our State was so closely connected required Address and great attention for Reasons which the General, who de livers this, can explain. We shall now have Leisure to turn our Thoughts to the Subjects of our Instructions, 1 which we shall diligently pursue and flatter ourselves with the wished for Success. The Revolt in our State cannot but be considered as a dangerous and alarming Example. Every Country is plagued with profligate and ambitious Men who in Times like the present may find it their Interest, or be led by their Passions to bring on Revolutions. Good Policy must therefore dictate to all the Necessity of discouraging this factious and turbulent Spirit, and of securing to every State its proper Rights and Jurisdiction, as well against internal as foreign Enemies. We fear the Consideration of the Boundaries of New York has, thro’ the Multiplicity of Business, been deferred. If so, we submit to your honorable Body, whether it ought not now to be dispatched, especially as the Convention, by one of their Letters, 2 stood pledged, to give Congress full Information on that Subject, and we can assure you it is expected. General Schuyler, one of our Brethren, will take an opportunity of conferring with your Honorable Body, on some other points which materially concern our State; the Discussion of them here must be therefore unnecessary. Permit us only most earnestly to press you to pursue the plan of manufacturing salt in the Interior parts of our State, with unremitting Vigor. As long as the war continues we must, from the exposed Situation of our Sea ports, be distressed for this necessary article of Life, if we trust to a foreign Supply. A temporary Relief we shall endeavor to procure, tho’ it must be at a most enormous Expence. We are confident that Congress will chearfully interpose every good office to assist us. We are with the utmost Regard, Honorable Gentlemen, Your most obedient, humble Servants, Phil. Livingston Jas. Duane P.S. Mr Duer is Stept out & the General mounting which prevents his Signing this Letter. RC (NHi). Written by William Duer and signed by Duane and Livingston, with a postscript by Duane.


[Page 148]
118 May 24, 1777 should send on Board for the Purpose of making the Enquiry. These Resolutions would have passed unanimously but Mr. Lewis coming up and assuring us of his having Conversations with our Council who declared they would be satisfied with the Concessions which were con tained in Nicholsons first Letter and which were satisfactory to the Governor and Mr Lewis further assuring us that Capt. Nicholson had wrote a second Letter in Consequence thereof and discharged every man who did not chuse to remain, we have been induced from these assurances to postpone doing any thing in the matter till we hear further from you on the Subject. Mr. Lewis further says that Capt. Nicholson is about joining the Virginia arm’d Vessels with an Intent to attack the Man of War in the Bay. I can with pleasure inform you the Congress shewed a determined Spirit to give full Satisfaction on both points and I am confident they would have dismiss’d Capt. Nicholson without Hesitation if we had not proposed to restore him on his explicit disapprobation of his Letter which was the Satisfaction you in your’s to him demanded: you may be further assured Capt. Nicholson had not even an Intimation from Congress or Committees to impress. I am surprised that Mr. Rumsey who was on the Marine Committee approved of the Explanation they gave the Resolve to dis charge the impress’d men. Mr. Middleton who was also a member of that Committee told Congress he opposed it in the Marine Committee as an illegal assumption of Power. As the Question was agitated there how could our friend Rumsey suffer such a thing to be done? You’ll be pleased to let us have a Line from you as soon as possible. Generals Schuyler, Arnold & Miflin are in Town and propose to accompany us down to the expected Engagement. Our Army begins to make a very formidable Figure. They were well [. . .] and handsomely uniformed in their D[. . . .] They are dress’d Soldier like from [. . .] to Shoe. I am Gent, Yr. most obed hb. st., Wm. Paca [P.5.] A fellow in this State was detected in inlisting men for the Enemy. He had actually carried five to Brunswick. He has been tried by a Court Martial and condemn’d to die. I am confident there are such villains in every State. We must next assembly make some Laws on this Subject. RC (MdAA). 1 For two other letters Paca dated May 24 but undoubtedly wrote at later times, see Paca’s letters to the Maryland governor and council printed below under the dates May 27 and May 29, 1777. 2 For the council’s May 12 letter to the Maryland delegates inquring about the allowances made to printers of Continental money to which Paca is responding, see Md. Archives, 16:248. 3 For the Nicholson affair, see Marine Committee to James Nicholson, April 29, note, and the Marine Committee, Maryland Delegates, and Robert Morris letters to Thomas Johnson, May 1, 1777.


[Page 149]
May 25, 1777 119 John Adams to Abigail Adams May 25. 1777 At half past four this Morning, I mounted my Horse, and took a ride, in a Road that was new to me. I went to Kensington, and then to Point No Point, by Land, the Place where I went, once before, with a large Company in the Rowe Gallies, by Water. That Frolic was almost two Years ago. I gave you a Relation of it, in the Time, I suppose. The Road to Point No Point lies along the River Delaware, in fair Sight of it, and its opposite shore. For near four Miles the Road is as strait as the Streets of Philadelphia. On each Side, are beautifull Rowes of Trees, Buttonwoods, Oaks, Walnutts, Cherries and Willows, espe cially down towards the Banks of the River. The Meadows, Pastures, and Grass Plotts, are as Green as Leeks. There are many Fruit Trees and fine orchards, set with the nicest Regularity. But the Fields of Grain, the Rye, and Wheat, exceed all Description. These Fields are all sown in Ridges; and the Furrough between each Couple of Ridges, is as plainly to be seen, as if a swarth had been mown along. Yet it is no wider than a Plough share, and it is as strait as an Arrow. It looks as if the Sower had gone along the Furrough with his Spectacles to pick up every grain that should accidentally fall into it. The Corn is just coming out of the Ground. The Furroughs struck out for the Hills to be planted in, are each Way, as straight as mathe matical right Lines; and the Squares between every four Hills, as exact as they could be done by Plumb and Line, or Scale and Compass. I am ashamed of our Farmers. They are a lazy, ignorant sett, in Husbandry, I mean—-For they know infinitely more of every Thing else, than these. But after all the Native Face of our Country, diversi fied as it is, with Hill and Dale, Sea and Land, is to me more agreable than this enchanting artificial scaene. May 27. The Post brought me yours of May 6th and 9th. You express Apprehensions that We may be driven from this City. We have No such Apprehensions here. Howe is unable to do any Thing but by Stealth. Washington is strong enough to keep Howe, where he is. How could it happen that you should have £5 of counterfeit New Hampshire Money? Cant you recollect who you had it of? Let me intreat you not to take a shilling of any but continental Money, or Massachusetts—and be very carefull of that. There is a Counterfeit Continental Bill abroad sent out of New York but it will deceive none but Fools, for it is Copper Plate—easily detected, miserably done. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:247-48.


[Page 154]
124 May 26, 1777 have preferred the interest of New England to that of Virginia. Indeed I am at a Loss to know wherein their interests clash. The guilt of New England is that of a fixed determination against British Tyranny, & such I believe is the crime of Virginia in the eye of their common enemies. Most of the rest have entitled themselves to some hopes of pardon from the Tyrant, by weak, dividing, irresolute and pernicious conduct. One thing is certain, that among the Middle and Southern states Virginia had many enemies, arising from jealousy and envy of her wisdom, vigor, and extent of Territory. But I have ever discovered, upon every question, respect and love for Virginia among the Eastern Delegates. Folly and ingratitude would have marked the Representa tives of Virginia had they shown disesteem for the latter, and attach ment to the former. I have served my Country, Sir, to the best of my knowledge, and with fidelity and industry, to the injury of my health, fortune, and a sequestration from domestic happiness. I shall rejoice to find that others are employed, who will do the business better than I have done. It will always make me happy to reflect, that those Malig- nants who would represent me as an enemy to my Country, cannot make me so. I am ready to give my enemies credit for more address than I thought they possessed—I mean the use they make of a good principle under cover of which to wound me. For this purpose the Delegates time of service is to be so limited as to reward a three years painful employ by dismission. The plan is precisely fitted for my ease, and thus the most malicious, groundless, and infamous slander is likely to succeed against an absent Man, who has labored to deserve a better fate. You will make what use you please of this letter. The business of war re mains as when I wrote you last, except that the American Army is daily increasing, whilst that of the enemy is only added to by a few Tories as yet, tho they will I expect in a month or so be reinforced with 8 or 10,000 men from Europe, which will not make them so strong as when they began the Campaign last year, whilst our Army will be far more formidable. Gen. Washington has now about 10,000 regular Troops with him, and his numbers daily increasing. As far as we are able to learn the enemy have not now in Jersey so many as 5000. By accounts just from New York we hear of the death of Governor Tryon of the wounds he received in the expedition to Danbury, and also of the death of Colo. Woolcot from the same cause. 4 This was the Colonel that made such indecent observations of Gen. Washington’s proposal in exchange of prisoners. Tis said that the Officers in N. York look very grave and say all hope of conquest over America is now gone, unless they can succeed in dividing us. The inclosed resolve of Congress is intended to prevent injury' to the recruiting business and other public service in the absence of a General Officer from Virginia. 5


[Page 156]
126 May 26, 1777 some of their attention to the business of philosophy. 1 Your reasoning is just, and I hope will have its due weight. I am sure that some among us have abundant necessity both for the study and the practise of the Moral part of that noble science. If this had been better learned, such an industrious attempt to injure my reputation in the opinion of my Countrymen would not have taken place. It has been a wicked indus try, the most false, and the most malicious that the deceitful heart of man ever produced. I am not on my own account affected with this malice of my enemies, because I have long panted for retirement from the most distressing pressure of business that I ever had conception of. But my principal concern arises from the dreadful example my case presents, to cool the arder of patriotism, and prevent the sacrifice of private ease to public service. I ought at least to have been heared in my defence. But Sir I will not trouble you with my feelings. The enemies expected reenforcements from Europe have not yet ar rived, in consequence of which, our army in Jersey outnumbers theirs considerably, but since they do expect 8 or 10,000 men from beyond the Atlantic, and may bring the greatest part of their force round from Canada in order to make one last dying effort, it behooves us to be prepared to meet the desperate designs of desperate men. If no disap pointment takes place, when their whole force is collected, I do not think they will be so strong as when the field was taken last year, and the American Army promises to be much more formidable. Skirmishing still continues, and still we keep the superiority, insomuch that by the late maneuvres of the enemy, it seems not improbable that they intend to quit Jersey soon. They paid severely for their provision destroying excursion to Danbury, where besides their disgraceful flight, they did not loose less than 450 or 500 men killed & wounded. Governor Tryon, late a Major General, and Colo. Wolcot, are both dead of the wounds they received in that chace. The last accounts from York tell us, that the British Officers look grave, and say, all hope of conquering America but by disuniting it is now lost. Great efforts will be made this year for that purpose, and no act or expence omitted to obtain by fraud what force has failed to procure, the Court favorite “Subduction of America. We hear that in the West Indies French Privateers abound under Continental Commissions, which I think cannot fail to procure war if Great Britain is not dead to every feeling except resentment for the Virtue of their once affectionate brethren and fellow subjects. The in closed pamphlet is well written, and will I hope amuse you. Be pleased to give my brother Thom the reading of it when you have finished it. Adieu my dear Sir, I am your affectionate Kinsman, Richard Henry Lee [RS.] I hope to see you e’er long in Williamsburg. 2


[Page 158]
128 May 26, 1777 of Seven thousand Dollars, or an order on the Loan office of your State for that sum. As you have in the latter part of your Letter given us reason to hope that you would shortly forward to us compleat Ac counts of the two frigates built under your Inspection, accompanied with proper vouchers we think it will be more regular to wait the ar rival of these Accounts before we advance any further sums. We as sure you that when the said Accounts have passed this board the bal ance shall be punctually and speedily remitted to you. We are Gentlemen, Your very hble servts LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Mann Page to John Page Dear Brother Philadelphia, May 26th 1777. In your Letter to me you refered me to Colo. Nelson for News, he has left us for some time, 1 and as I was anxious to hear particularly from Virginia, I took the Liberty of opening your Letter to him, which I now enclose, that you may know its’ fate. We have no News here, except a Report which is well founded, that Genl. Tryon and Lieutt. Colo. Wallcot are both dead of the Wounds which they reed, in their expedition against Danbury. I shall be much obliged to you to send me weekly the Journals of our Assembly, tho’ I do not expect to stay long to read them; for I understand there is to be an entire change in the Delegation from Virga. I wrote you my sentiments upon that Head by the last Post. 2 One thing I would wish you to urge to your friends in the Assembly, which is that every person who is appointed a Delegate to Congress should decline all foreign Commerce in which he may be then engaged, & be bound during the time of his Delegation not to enter into any foreign commercial Business, either directly on his own Acct., or indirectly by joining in Partnership with any person what ever. The necessity we are under of making Returns in our Produce to Europe for the Supplies which we have imported from thence for the Use of our Army renders this Caution proper. This is generally pur chased- by Agents who are usually nominated by the Delegates of the respective States. If the merchant Delegate should want a little honesty, & should have Interest to get one of his Partners, who may be as little scrupleous as himself, appointed an Agent, they may apply the Money advanced for the public Service to their own Uses, & the Agent by purchasing certain Commodities which his Partner the Delegate may inform him will shortly be wanted by the Public, & afterwards by sell ing to the public at an advanced Price, they may replace the Money which ought to have been laid out for the public, & by that means make great Profit to themselves upon the ruin of the Continent. Again,


[Page 159]
May 26, 1777 129 if the Person who exports the produce to foreign Ports or the Delegate should be concerned in Trade, they may manage their Affairs so that every Cargo which is taken by the Enemy will belong to the public, & everyone which arrives safe will be private Property. Neither is it possible to detect the Villainy, for the confidence placed in the Dele gate, & the Opinion entertained of the Agent who has the Recom mendation & Support of the Delegate will prevent all Suspicions; but if they should arise, & an Enquiry into the Matter be insisted on, they may by many artful ways evade a Settlement ’til they hear the Fate of the Cargoes which they have shiped. I do not know whether any thing of the Sort has happened, but it is best to guard against the worst. As to the Seal I fear it cannot be made here; the Man who was employed about it is in Prison for [Tompson?]; Colo. Nelson promised to carry the Print to Virga which was left in the Care of Mr. Purviance at Baltimore when we came from thence. Please to give my Love to my Sister. I am dear Brother, Your’s affectionately, Mann Page Junr. RC (ViW). 1 See Mann Page to John Page, May 6, 1777, note 1. 2 Page’s letter to his brother on this subject has not been found, but he had not been included in the Virginia delegation appointed by the assembly on May 22 and announced in Purdie’s Virginia Gazette on May 23, 1777. Daniel Roberdeau to George Washington My dear General Philada May 26th. 1777 1 I have known nothing but Affliction ever since I had the honor of seeing you last and was a Subject of your great humanity and polite ness, for which you have my most sincere thanks, when I was reduced to the lowest Ebb of Life in New Jersey, but the affliction I suffered in my own person and all the Sorrows of my whole life accumulated, are not to be compared with that awful stroke of Providence which de prived me of my Dr. Mrs. Roberdeau. I know your generous Breast feels for my distress with which I do not intend to take up more of your precious time than to offer it as an apology that I have not presented my acknowledgement sooner. Congress has this day made a new arrangement of the Chaplains department by reducing that part of the Staff to one for each Brigade to be recommended by the Brigadier and appointed by Congress, with the pay, rations and Forrage allowed to Colonels. 2 This new and honorable Establishment is designed to suppress the horrid Sins of Cursing, swearing and other Vices with which I am sorry to say our Army Vies with the most abandoned of the English Troops; to strengthen the Officers hands by publick and private exorta-


[Page 160]
130 May 26, 1777 tions to obedience of General and Regimental Order; to discourage Disertions by recommending the Service, to encourage Enlistments, to recommend cleanlyness as a virtue conducive to health, and to repre hend the neglect of it. These and other valuable Ends with the Gountinance and concurrence of General Officers by the blessing of heaven I doubt not may be answered by a careful choice and recom mendation of pious Clergymen zealously attached to our glorious Cause who will not begrudge the exertion of every nerve of the Service but if Drones induced by the loaves and Fishes should creep into the Army, the designs of Congress will be entirely defeated, to prevent which I frankly confess has induced me to step out of my line on this Occasion, and I beg you will not look upon it as an impudent intrusion on you, when I assure you the honor of God, my Countries welfare, your Comfort and that of every sober Officer and man in the Army are my only motives. With submission I think an early recommendation to Congress will be best in every view, particularly to prevent the ap plication of such as would mar instead of promoting the Service, and as I know you may have what influence you please with the Genl. Officers in this measure, for these Reasons permit me to mention at the foot of this some Gentlemen who would be of great Service in our Army, as probably you are not as well acquainted with that order of Gentlemen, zealously attached to our Cause, as I am. The Names that have oc curred to me are chiefly of the Church I belong to, but believe me no partiallity has influenced to this but my greater knowledge of such is the occasion. The four last mentioned Gentlemen I am not personally acquainted with but all the others I speak of from my own knowledge as persons well qualified to serve the valuable purposes already men tioned. I plead no right to this freedom much less Do I presume on my publick Character but solely from the motives I have professed above and free from every solicitation. Congress has this day refered to you the nomination of any of the General Officers already appointed to the command of the horse. I fear your censure of my freedom but relying on your candour I re main with unfeigned regard and profound Respect, Dear General, Yr. much obliged & obt, huml Servt. Daniel Roberdeau Dr. John Livingston of the Dutch reformed Church of New York Dr. John Rodgers Presbyterian of N.Y. Mr. Elihu Spencer do. of Delaware Mr. Alexr. McWhorter do. of New Jersey Mr. James Caldwell do. do. Mr. Geo. Duffield do. of Philada. Mr. Stillman Baptist of Boston Mr. Wm. Gordon Presbyterian Jama. Plains Mr. McRoberts political character unknown, but popular of Virginia


[Page 164]
134 May 26, 1777 memory of General Wooster. Major General Arnold is here. Congress has ordered an elegant horse properly caparisoned to be presented to him. I am with great Esteem & Regard, Your Honrs. Obedient humble Servant, Roger Sherman P.S. I Saw an account in the New Haven paper that one Griswold was executed as a traitor and Spy by the Sentence of a Court Martial. 4 If he was an Inhabitant of the State & not of the Army, I think he ought to have been tryed before the Superior Court. The resolution of Congress for the punishment of Spies respects only persons who are not inhabitants of any of the United States, or under the protection of their laws. We cant be too careful of Military incroachments. It is easy to accuse any person with being a Spy & So put his Life in the power of a Court Martial if that is allowed. The Case of Molesworth who was tryed and executed in this City was approved by Congress, but it was from necessity, because there was no Civil Courts established in this State. 5 R-S. RC (Ct). 1 See Sherman to Trumbull, May 14, 1777, note 2. 2 See Sherman to Trumbull, May 16, 1777. 3 Joseph Trumbull had been in Philadelphia since April 22 conferring with a congressional committee on the reorganization of the commissary department. For a discussion of developments leading to the adoption of new commissary regulations, see Elbridge Gerry to Joseph Trumbull, April 19, 1777, note 1. 4 See Sherman to Oliver Wolcott, May 21, 1777, note 1. 5 See John Hancock to Horatio Gates, March 31, 1777. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dr. Papa 27th May 1777. Pha. There is nothing new Since my last. I have yours of the 20th instant from Annapolis. Altho’ the law making the currencies a legal tender is certainly unjust, yet when the debtors tender no more than the interest, I would not write to them about the injustice of tendering the interest money at par. When they tender more than the interest, it would be proper to expostulate with them on the injustice of the preferred payt. You say Lewellen’s Son did not tender the money. I wish you may not bring yourself into trouble about that law, altho it is unjust, it hath passed, & we must submit to it, or take the consequences of a refusal. The Congress is under a necessity of emitting 5 million more of Dollars. We are in hopes we shall not be obliged to put this whole Sum in circulation, as the Loan offices & lottery will supply us with nearly money sufficient to answer the remaining expences of this campaign.


[Page 165]
May 27, 1777 135 I am in hopes we shall be able to negotiate a loan in Europe among those nations which are diposed to favour our cause. If this could be done to any considerable extent, it would supersede the necessity of any farther emissions; and if the several States would tax highly, those taxes together with the monies that might be borrowed on interest, would probably nearly answer the expences of next campaign, which I think will not be so expensive as the present, as our army & its different de partments will be put on a more economical footing. This State is in a very languid condition. The Govt, is feeble beyond conception, & yet a better, I fear, will not soon be established; nothing but an actual invasion can make Pena, exert itself with becoming vigour. It has great resources, but in the present State of things they lie dormant; a collection of blankets is now making from the Quakers. They refused to give voluntarily even on payt. so that a Seeming force has become necessary to procure that much wanted supply. I shall write again by next Saturday’s post, if there should be anything worth writing. All is quiet in the Jersies. Wishing you a long continuance of your health I remain, yr. affectionate Son, C. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). Elbridge Gerry to Unknown My dear sir Philadelphia 27th May 1777 Being now in Congress I am unable to reply to your last Favours, & have only Time to inclose You a Warrant on the Loan office for the Money due to You in Consequence of an Error attending the last Adjustt. of your Account. I suffer much from Want of Exercise & Relaxation, shall however not leave Congress while I am able to attend the Business, as I wish much to see several Matters compleated, par ticularly the Confederation, before my Return. I am much in Haste sir your assured Friend & huml. sert. E Gerry RC (MB). John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. May 27th. 1777. I have the Honour of transmitting at this Time sundry Resolves, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 1 From them you will learn, that Congress have ascertained the Limits


[Page 169]
May 28, 1777 139 Course which the regular State Physicians are either not adequate to, or unwilling to attempt. A Spirit of this kind under the Name of Joyce Junr. has made his Appearance in Boston. 2 I should not be surpris’d if he was to travel Westward. It would be attended with these good Effects: it would either supply the Want of Vigor in the present Government or it would induce those whose duty it is to act with Spirit and Vigor. What think you of an Episcopalian Clergyman in this City praying last Sunday for the Lords Spiritual and Temporal—or rather what think you of the Congregation which heard him with Patience? If in the midst of your Political Business you can now and then drop me a Line I will esteem it as a favor, and (if not regularly) I will by Starts when there is any thing worth communicating write to you. A Word in the Ear of a Friend. When I was sent here I had some Idea that I was entering into The Temple of Public Virtue. I am disappointed and Chagrined. Genl. Schuyler will communicate my Sentiments and his own at large. The Chaste Colo. Lee will I am credibly informed be left out of the new Delegation for Virginia which is now in Agitation. The mere Con templation of this Event gives me Pleasure. My mind is full, and I wish to unburthen it; but Prudence forbids me. 3 I condole with you on the Loss of your Aged Mother or rather should I not congratulate you that she is arrived in a secure and pleasant Haven from a Storm, which she was little calculated to bear? This Reflection I beleive has alleviated your Distress. May we be as Virtuous as your Parents should we live to be as old! From the rapid Increase of Villainy both Moral and Political, it is to be feard that we shall not increase in Virtue, as we may in Years. Remember me to all my Freinds, particularly to my Fellow-Labourors in the Council of Conspiracy. 4 Adieu, and beleive me Yours with much Esteem and Affection. W Duer [P.5.] I have deliverd Genl. Schuyler a Letter from your Friend Mr Dean in France. 5 I have had it some Time by me, but waited a safe Mode of Conveyance. RC (NNC). Addressed: “To The Honble. John Jay Esqr, Chief Justice of the State of New York.” 1 The New York Convention had adopted a state constitution on April 20. 2 Joyce, Jr., was the pseudonym used by a Boston mob leader whose real identity has never been established. Taking his name from an English officer who had arrested Charles I in 1647 and allegedly taken part in his execution two years later, Joyce, Jr., first appeared in Boston in 1774 as chairman of a committee of tarring and feathering. After disappearing during the British occupa tion of Boston, he returned to public view in April 1777 as the leader of a mob which drove five loyalists out of Boston and threatened to kill them if they set foot in the city again. R. S. Longley, “Mob Activities in Revolutionary Massa chusetts,” New England Quarterly 6 (March 1933) : 126-28. 3 Richard Henry Lee had opposed General Schuyler’s reinstatement as com-


[Page 172]
142 May 28, 1777 entreat you to remember me in the most affectionate Manner to all under your Roof, and to beleive me, very Sincerely, Yours, W Duer [P.5.] As I write in hurry, you must excuse my Incorrectness, and the Heiroglyphics I make use of. I send you several News Papers. RC (NHi). Addressed: “To The Honble. R. R. Livingston Junr. Esqr. at Kingston.” 1 For a full discussion of Schuyler’s case, see Philip Schuyler’s Memorial to Congress, May 6, 1777. 2 Duer was disparaging Jonathan Dickinson Sergeant’s support of New Eng land’s interests in Congress—Byram River is near the New York-Connecticut boundary. 3 On May 15 Congress ordered the Board of Treasury to prepare “an estimate of the public expences for the present year” and appointed a committee con sisting of Duer, Robert Morris, and John Witherspoon “to devise ways and means for defraying the expences of the present year.” The board and the committee submitted a joint report to Congress on June 11, suggesting that Congress meet its financial obligations by drawing bills of exchange on the American commissioners in Paris. Congress intermittently considered this report in the committee of the whole in June, August, and September, and despite the claims of some delegates that this would make America unduly beholden to France and fail to halt the depreciation of Continental currency, it brushed aside these objections and approved the use of this expedient on September 10, 1777. See JCC, 7:362, 8:453-57, 480, 648, 652-53, 689, 696-98, 702-3, 706-7, 709, 724-26, 730-31, 743; James Lovell to William Whipple, August 18, and to Oliver Wolcott, August 21; John Adams to James Warren, August 18; and Henry Laurens to John Gervais, September 5, 8, 9, and to John Rutledge, September 10, 1777. 4 Duer asked General Schuyler to relay his request for leave of absence to the council of safety, and when no reply from the council was forthcoming he wrote to it directly on June 19. In response the council decided on July 3 to request Duer to delay his return to New York until “the sense of Congress respecting our revolted subjects” in Vermont could be ascertained. Gouverneur Morris, who had been elected a delegate on May 13, did not attend Congress in 1777. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:981, 985; and Duer to the New York Council of Safety, June 19, 1777. Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings May 28th. 1777 Come. met. Present Morris, Lee, Whipple, Lewis, Levingston. Rt. Bridges, Elias Boys, & Fergus Mcllvaine owners of the ship Liberty, pro duced their Acct, for hire & valuation of sd. ship (She being taken by the enemy as appears by protest)—ballance due them per sd. Acct. £7003.10.0. The Come, on considerg the same agreed to pay 12000 dlls, in part, until they can be furnished with particular Accts, of the Monies advanced by their Agents, to the Capn. abroad. Accordingy.


[Page 173]
May 28, 1777 143 an order was drawn for that sum, on the Auditr. genl, in favr. sd. Owners. In consequence of a letter from Messrs. Hewes & Smith of Edinton, datd. 20th March last to Robt. Morris Esqr. The Come, have agreed to ensure the value of the Brige. Patty wch. they mention in sd. letter to have purchased & loaded on public Acct, for Nantes, at the Sum She cost, viz: 8,500 dlls for the voyage & to take sd vessel at the above sum & allow a Comn. for purchasg. & pay any charges that may have accrued. Bill of Exchange drawn by Messrs. Clarkson & Dorsius of Charles-town, S. Carolina dated 29th March last favr Jas. Nelson or order on Mr. Morris as Chairman of this Come, for £5712.12.0 Peny. Curry was presented & an order drawn by the Presidt. of Congress on the L. Officer of this State in favor of Jabez Perkins for 15,233 54/90 dlls to be pd. in Certificates being amt. of sd. Bill. MS (MH-H). William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir, Philadelphia 28th May 1777 Your favor of the 9th inst came to hand Yesterday. 1 I am extreamly sorry you shod be under the necessaty of filling up the Regiments with eight & twelve months men as it appears to me there will always be a difficulty in replacing them. I can conceive of no reason for an abate ment in the spirits of the People unless it is that those miscreants who are aiming at the distraction of their Country, are not treated with that just severity which their Crimes deserve. What purpose will it answer to fill the Goals? These Villains have all friend, & while they remain with you ’tho they are in Goal they will be raising their parties, whereas if they are under Ground or out of the Country they will soon be for got. The necessaty of the Case will surely justify the most severe & decisive measures, I am always for persueing lenitive measures, when such will answer the purpose, but experience has tought us others must be adopted. I am fully sensible of the necessaty you are under of a supply of Military stores & shall do everything in My power to obtain them. I wish to know what Concurrent circomstances leed you to appre hend a speedy attackt. The Enemy certainly have no troops to spare from N. York; nor can they have a considerable reinforcement from Europe very soon, however there is no doubt its best to be prepared at all points for which purpose the most Vigorous exertions shod be use’d. It will by no means do to dispond because a few scatering Clouds pass between us & the sun, proper Exertion will soon dispel them. We shod never suffer Gloomy reflections to incomber the path, but look forward


[Page 175]
May 29, 1777 145 confessedly, was not laid for the Value of the revenue, but to form a precedent for exercising the Power when and to what Extent they pleased. The Representatives of the People in their general Assemblies Com plained of those Doings as violating the Rights of their Constituents. They knew it was their distinguished Privilege to give and grant their own Money, and to Consent to all Laws which they were bound to obey. Soon as the Governors perceived the Assemblies were in Deliberation on this Subject they dissolved them. Other Representatives were chozen and those Extravagant Usurpations Still presented themselves as the greatest Grievance. When they entered on the Consideration of them they were again dissolved. This mode was pursued until the People every where became Sensible that no Opportunity would be given them ever to Complain. Necessity pointed out to them that they must have recourse to other Methods of representing their wrongs and requiring redress. Nature pointed out to them the mode they Adopted, and they were so reluctant to do any thing which might even appear a Deviation from Established Form, that they long forbore assembling in Towns and Counties and did not at length yield to the Necessity until they found every hope of redress any other way was lost. When obliged to take this first Step the People proceeded with the utmost Caution. No tumult or disorder appeared, every man was im pressed with an awful Sense of the Necessity he was under of Exer cising that Right which Nature gave to every Man, and which the British Constitution expressly Assented, that of Consulting and re solving Concerning his Safety and Happiness, and each was determined to Exercise it no farther than the Necessity pressingly required. In the most humble manner they declared their attachment to the Established Government, and even affection to the person of the Prince, they Complained of Wrongs which they modestly supposed to have arisen from no ill Intention or design in the Prince or Parliament, and they determined to Communicate their Sentiments to their Neighbors in Conventions of representatives Chozen and Instructed for this pur pose. The same Necessity pressing at the Same time in every Colony, the same Sense of Wrong being every where felt, and Simple Nature every where Suggesting the same Expedient the meetings were every where held nearly at the same time, and they produced Conventions nearly at the Same time in every one of the present United States. In structions from the People were nearly the Same in every Town and County, and they all Breathed {nearly) the same Spirit of humility, Moderation and Loyalty. All pointed out the Propriety of a Common Communication between the Different Colonies, and of Joint Supplica tions to the Throne for redress of Wrongs and Protection from Usurpa tions.


[Page 176]
146 May 29, 1777 This produced the first Congress, and that Congress Confined itself entirely to Stating the Grievances of the People of America, Peti- [ti]oning the King for a redress of them, professing the most Loyal humility and recommending Frugality and A Suspension of Commerce, unless within a Certain time the Wrongs should be redressed. It is fresh in every Ones Memory that their Petition was treated with the most Insulting Contempt. That another Congress Still fondly holding by the Hope that Britain would forego her unjust Claims and Harmony be Restored, most humbly entreated the King to point out Some Method by which the Complaints of America might find their way to him without offending him, but to this Petition, the lowest Condescention to which a free People ever Stooped, was refused even an Answer. This humiliating Measure which Nothing but the Extream reluctance of the People of America to seperate from Britain can Ac count for or Justify was as fruitless as every other, and Acts of Parlia ment were made to subject the persons and Properties of Americans every where to Military plunder and Execution. Regular Bands of Soldiers were marched into the Country under their officers to deal Hostile Murders and Ravages around them. A formidable Naval Force was employed to hinder the Commerce of populous Cities and thereby to reduce the poor Inhabitants to Wretchedness, and even to prevent their availing themselves of the Food which the Sea Washing their own Coasts afforded to their Industry—and it was expressly declared that no Mitigation of those violences could be obtained but by Submit ting without Condition to the absolute Will of the Parliament of Great Britain, a Body composed of men unknown to and unchozen by the Inhabitants of America, and who showed but too little regard to the Rights of their own Constituents, and of human Nature. The Conduct of the British Court towards the Americans in the repeated dissolutions of their Assemblies whenever they attempted to Complain, in disregarding their Complaints when offered in the most humble and supplicating Manner by their Representatives in Congress, in refusing even to point out a Mode whereby they might find an In offensive passage to the Royal Ear, in disregarding all Rules of Justice and humanity by Subjecting their persons and Properties to Military Violence and Endeavouring even to Starve them, and by denying any Mitigation of those Enormities, Unless absolute Submission Should be made, this Conduct of the B[ritish] C[ourt] left no room to doubt that they considered the Americans as objects merely of Dominion not of Government, of Plunder not of Protection, of Military Tyranny not of Legal administration of Justice. No choice was left but to Oppose Arms to Arms, or submit to the absolute dominion of Men whose pride and Cruelty is incurrable, and whose rapacity is without Bounds. No al ternative was left to the Citizen but to rouse into a Soldier or Sink into a Slave and entail Servitude Irrevocably on his posterity.


[Page 178]
148 May 29, 1777 Dominion, and regardless of Right, Justice and humanity, has em ployed means the most destructive and Calamitous. On the other Hand America has Supplicated with the most humble Voice and manner of Complaint, have prayed with most Submissive humility for Peace, Liberty and Safety, but in vain, and at length when forced to take Arms for self-preservation She raised them with reluctance against Britain even in Defence of her own Bosom, and at length unwillingly seperated altho she plainly saw that any further Connection must involve her in Circumstances worse than utter Perdi tion. To maintain this Seperation is to maintain the Religion, Liberty and Property of ourselves and our Posterity, to renounce it is to Sink into the lowest meanness and Slavery. May God remove every such thought from every American Breast! Welcome first the Life of the most uncivilized Savages! Welcome Death itself and everlasting Oblivion to our race! Your own Experience, Fellow Citizens, will best bear Testimony to the Truth of the Facts here set forth. Your own Experience can best prove the Falshood of the Suggestion that you are deluded by Indi viduals who aim at Nothing but Power. You know how little Influence Individuals have over you. You know that every Man trusted or Em ployed by you is a creature of your free Choice, and by every choice you make and every act you do you manifest that you feel you are Sovereign and supreme, and Influenced by Nothing but a Conviction that you ought to be free, a Determined Resolution to remain so and to transmit freedom unimpaired to your Children. You well know that you Command Your Servants to Execute Certain Duties which tho arduous and dangerous they think they ought not to refuse be cause every Citizen is devoted to his Country, and ought Serve on such Duty as his Country shall think proper to require. It is not Strange that our Enemies should have fallen at first into this Error, accustomed to a Country where only the Shadow of Liberty remains to the People, where Multitudes know no more of freedom than the Liberty of following their choice of leaders, where the most groce [gross] and wicked artifices are every day practized in order to acquire Power and trust to Individuals who afterwards abuse them, to the purposes of avarice and Luxury, where the People in short are Considered as fit for Nothing but to toil that men of high birth and Fortune may {riot on what) live in Ease and Splender.. Accustomed to this it is not surprising they should expect to find the Same in America. They know not the Plenty which the fruitful Soil of America yields to the Hand which gives it Cultivation, that penury and oppressive Land lords are here equally unknown, that Americans undebauched by Luxury have few wants and these few are always supply’d by a chear- ful and Laborious Industry, that wanting nothing they have nothing to


[Page 179]
May 29, 1777 149 Hope from Individuals, and no Individuals having Power or Inclina tion to hurt they have nothing from Individuals to fear. That each man has Leisure to Search out and understand what are his rights and that none Can Comprehend any reason why they should be given up to the absolute will of another. In Such a state as this no One is in a Situa tion to delude or be deluded, and the People of America well know that it is their State, altho of such the present race of Men in Britain have no Experience. But it is not to be believed that they Still Continue in this Error. They have Seen the People change their Servants frequently since they were compelled to take arms for their Defence, and yet the resistance has rather increased upon every change. They have seen the People in every State Erect Governments by their Sovereign authority, and in these Governments take special care that no Individuals should ever acquire any Influence over them. They have met with one Com mon Spirit of resistance every where in America, and that Spirit actu ated the People without Distinction. This must undoubtedly have Con vinced them long before this that the Americans are all apprehensive of Danger from the same Object and are Influenced by nothing but that Common Apprehension, and a firm resolution to meet it with Effectual Opposition. But altho they cannot believe it they make use of it as an Engine wherewith to deceive the timorous and unwary amongst us. They put it as an argument into the mouths of their Emissaries, and Such In habitants of America, as are insensible of the Blessings of Freedom, Such as are unfeeling and mean spirited enough to prefer their present ease and oppulence to the Happiness of Milions now living and of Myriads yet unborn, Such as have wickedly determined for the Hopes of private advantages to assist in enslaving the Country which gave them birth, or Support, or altered them by the pleasing prospect of Liberty and plenty, Such endeavour to avail themselves of it, to excuse their Indolence, their selfishness or their Criminal Endeavours. 3 We flatter ourselves their are few of our fellow Citizens who answer this descrip tion, but we are sorry to find there are Some, and we warn you against all who use these arguments to you. Every Man who uses them is him self convinced of their falshood, and every" Man to whom they are used need but apply one moment to his own Experience to refute them. We advise you therefore to Consider all such as men who wish you to Sub mit to the absolute Will of a People whose rapine as appears by their Treatment of Ireland and the East Indies can never be Satisfied, as long as the most Cruel Violence can Extort any thing from you. 4 The War in which we are engaged for the defence of the Liberty Religion, and property of ourselves and our Posterity was begun under every disadvantage which a brave and virtuous People could struggle with. A powerfull and warlike oppressor whose Numbers of Inhabi tants and boundless Commerce render her resources infinite and inex-


[Page 180]
150 May 29, 1777 haustable, with armies disciplined and officers Experienced, with a Fleet in every respect the Dread and Envy of the World—on our part Inexperience, {want of Numbers,} want of Commerce, of warlike stores and even of {arms}, and of every resource but an Inextinguishable Love of Liberty and a Confidence in the Justice of Divine Providence. In this Situation were we opposed to that Power which a few years ago Shook the most formidable Monarchies in Europe and carried Terror all over the World, {and who ungenerously as well as unjustly relying on her Superior Force insisted on binding us in all Cases whatever without our Consent, and on binding us to an absolute Submission to the Will and pleasure of her Corrupt and venal Ministers}. Not detered by such Disadvantages, nor despairing of Divine aid and Protection the Virtu ous Inhabitants of America determined {without Hesitation} to resist all attempts to enforce such unjust and extravagant Claims, and to maintain that Freedom which Heaven had originally bestowed on Man kind, and which their Ancestors had wrested from the Hands of usurp ing Tyrants, and rendering it more valuable by their Blood shed in its defence transmitted Improved to their Posterity, chusing rather to trust to the Issue of any War however callamitous, than to the boundless and Insatiable rapine of Ministers who had a whole People once great and Free to corrupt, and Consequently Innumerable Minions to employ, whose avarice or Luxury must be Satiated with the plunder extorted from the Industrious Poor in America. The Events of the War hitherto have justified our Trust in Divine Providence, and prove to us that an all wise and beneficent God will never forsake men who have virtue enough to Struggle for those Blessings which he has bestowed upon them, and who will rely on his Protection against all superiority of worldly Power, for, our unfeeling Enemy, tho possessed of the ad vantages of superior Force, Discipline and Experience, and employing every Engine of Fraud and violence in a three years War have ac quired only one City and a small Teritory round it which by reason of their superiority in shipping could not be defended and they have been baffled in every {Considerable Enterprize} attempt to Penetrate into the Country whether from Canada or the Sea. They have been forced to fly from Boston, and have been repelled and defeated with disgrace at Charlestown, and their Efforts against Virginia, North and South Carolina, either by Invasion from the Sea, by Inroads which they procured the Savage Indians to make on Western Frontiers or the Insurrections Excited by them among the Slaves, the Ignorant High landers, and disaffected Tories have been all repelled and suppressed, with little Damage to us; but with Irreparable Ruin to their Instru ments. Their attempts against Pennsylvania were rendered abortive, their Troops defeated, and Captivated, and their Generals forced to retreat in order to save the remains of their army from utter destruc tion, altho this Enterprize was undertaken under the Conduct of their


[Page 183]
May 29, 1777 153 Committee of Congress to Joseph Trumbull 29th May 1777 In Consequence of the preceding Resolution we request the favor of you to furnish us with the Papers therein mentiond. 1 We are Sir, with due Respect, Your Obedt. Hble. Servt. Wm. Duer A. Middleton RC (Ct.) Written by Duer and signed by Duer and Middleton. 1 This note was written at the foot of a page below a resolution of this date appointing Duer, Middleton, and Thomas Burke as a committee to estimate the number of teams needed to carry supplies to Washington’s army and calling upon Commissary Trumbull to provide them with “a particular state of all the magazines of provisions already laid up.” JCC, 8:395. William Paca to the Maryland Governor and Council Gentn. Philad. 24.[29?] May 1777 1 We were much disappointed in our Excursion on Saturday last. The Enemy would not come up, they lie still low down the river. We have no Intelligence from Camp other than that Genl. Wash ington has moved to Boundbrooke and there encamped. There was a firing heard yesterday Morning, we suppose a Skirmish at the outposts. I shall write you by every Post for I take it for granted you are anxious to be informed of every Event. Tryon it is said and the Im pertinent Lieut. Col. Walcot are both dead of the wounds they got in the Danbury Affair. I am Gent., yr. most obd. hble Set. W Paca RC (MdAA). 1 Although Paca clearly dated this letter “24 May 1777,” it was obviously written at a later time. The reference to “our Excursion on Saturday last” is to an event that occurred on the 24th; and General Washington’s move to Bound brook, mentioned in Paca’s second paragraph, was explained in Washington’s letters of May 28 to President Hancock and to Robert Morris, the first of which was read in Congress on the 29th. See William Paca to the Maryland Governor and Council, May 24, 1777; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:131—34, 134n.l6; and JCC, 8:395. For another letter Paca misdated May 24, see his letter to the Maryland governor and council printed under the date May 27.


[Page 184]
154 May 30, 1777 Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office May 30th. 1777 By Order of the Board I do myself the Honour of troubling your Excellency for Information on the Subject of our Prisoners who are with the Enemy. I am directed to enquire whether a Commissary has been sent in to supply them or in what Situation that Business now is & what Steps have been taken which have fallen within your Observa tion for the Relief of their Wants. The Board are desirous of collecting every necessary Information that they may be enabled to form a proper Judgment of that Part of General Howe’s Letter which as they appre hend groundlessly throws upon Congress an Imputation of Neglect of proper Attention to their Officers & Soldiers in Captivity. 1 The enclosed Letter from Genl Forman I am directed to transmitt to your Excellency as the best Judge of the Expediency of the Measure therein recommended. 2 Should you approve of it the Board will en deavour to comply with the Request. The Board have been frequently applied to by Complainants against a certain Captain John Doyle of an independent Company raised in this State who is indebted but every where for almost all the Neces saries with which his Company were supplied. Enclosed is a Letter from a Gentleman to whom he owes a large Sum to pay which he has re ceived Money from the Treasury. If this be not an Object unworthy of your Attention amidst your present more important Concerns it would be well to weed out of the Army a Person who has conducted himself so unbecoming the Character of a Gentleman & a Soldier. I have the Honour to be with the greatest Respect, Your very obedt & most humble Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 Apparently Peters is referring to Gen. William Howe’s May 22 letter to Washington in which he complained about the mistreatment Col. Archibald Campbell was suffering during his imprisonment in Massachusetts. Although Congress had more than two months before ordered better treatment for Camp bell, who was being held as a hostage to guarantee good British treatment of Gen. Charles Lee, Howe was still dissatisfied with the conduct of the Massa chusetts authorities. In response, Congress ordered Washington on June 10 to inform Howe that it “most sincerely laments the necessity to which they are driven by the cruel policy of their enemies, of entering into any resolutions which have any appearance of severity towards those prisoners of war who have fallen or may fall into our hands; but, there are not other means in our power of inducing our enemies to respect the rights of humanity.” See JCC, 8:449-50; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:131-33; Howe to Washington, May 22, Washington Papers, DLC; and John Hancock to the Massachusetts Council, March 26, 1777. 2 Brig. Gen. David Forman’s May 27 letter to the Board of War, a copy of which is in Washington Papers, DLC, asked for some artillery pieces so that he could prevent British incursions into Sandy Hook. Washington declared in a


[Page 186]
156 May 30, 1777 already sent you a commission for and now send you a duplicate of the same) for tho’ we conceive the Credit of America to be as well founded at least as any in the world, having neither Debt nor Taxes on her Back when she began the War, yet she represents a Man who with a Vast Capital all in Property is unable to make new Purchases till he can either convert some of it into Specie, or borrow from hand to mouth in the mean Time. Britain is now fighting us, and the Greatest part of Europe negatively, by endeavouring to stop that Trade from us, to France, Spain &c which She has most effectually lost to herself, & we wish those Courts saw their Interest in the same Clear point of View, which it appears to us. We have little or no doubt of being able to reduce the Enemy by Land and we likewise believe that the united Powers of France, Spain and America would be able totally to expel the British fleet from the western Seas, by which the Communication for Trade would be openned, the Number of Interests reduced which have hitherto distracted the West Indies, and Consequently the Peace of all this Side the Globe put on a better foundation than it has yet ever been a Mutual Advantage as we Conceive to France, Spain and these States. That Britain was formidable in the West Indies last War is true, but when it is Considered that her power there arose from her Possessions here or that she was formidable chiefly thro’ us it is impossible to sup pose that she can again arrive to the same pitch. Here she was assisted by Numberless Privateers—Here she supplied and partly manned her Navy, recruited and almost raised her Army for that service, in short, America last War represented Britain removed to this side the Atlantic. The scene is changed, and America now, is that to France and Spain, in point of Advantage, which she last War was to Britain. Therefore putting the Convenience which we might receive out of the Question, by their making an Attack on the West Indies, We are somewhat sur prised that such Political Courts as France and Spain should Hesitate on a Measure so alluring and Practicable. We do not mention these Remarks because we suppose they do not occur to you, but to let you know our thoughts on the matter, and to give you every advantage by conveying our minds to you as well as our Instructions or Informations. This Packet brings you compleat Setts of the Philadelphia News Papers filed in order for 17 Weeks, to which we refer you for account of little skirmishes &c. We are Gentlemen, yr Obt. Hble Servts, Benja Harrison Jno Witherspoon Robt Morris Thos. Heyward Junr. James Lovell RC (PPAmP). In the hand of Witherspoon and signed by Witherspoon, Harrison, Heyward, Lovell, and Morris. The FC in PCC, item 79, 1:61-64, is signed by Richard Henry Lee, Harrison, Heyward, and Lovell, but not by Morris or Witherspoon.


[Page 189]
May 31, 1777 159 Europe. In a variety of skirmishes lately we have beaten them, and in some of these, their best Troops have been foiled. By this opportunity Congress sends you a particular Commission as their Representative at the Court of Spain. 1 In my judgement, and it is an opinion founded on the most accurate information, the Independence, and security of N. America, cannot be said to be certain until an Alliance with Spain & France is procured, and in consequence, the British Arms, and Arts not solely employed for our ruin. You may be assured that this is of infinite consequence to your Country and therefore you will conduct yourself accordingly. And for the assistance of our finance, an extensive loan is indispensable. If any untoward accident should have befallen our brother the aiderman, in which case I have desired my letters to him to be sent you for your perusal, the management of my boys must rest entirely with you and in that case, at all events, you will see the neces sity of sending them both immediately to me. Farewell my dear Brother. Richard Henry Lee P.S. It will be of great consequence that I hear from you frequently & fully. If your letters come anywhere to the Northward of Virginia, or if they go by the West Indies, let them be directed to the care of our brother Doctor Shippen in Philadelphia. R.H.L. I believe Tryon is not dead and we have not heard more of Colo Wolcot. 1. Letr to Committee March 8th 2. March 16th 3. March 29th 4. April 8 5. April 19 RC (ViU). A continuation of Richard Henry Lee to Arthur Lee, April 20, 1777. 1 Although a draft of Arthur Lee’s commission was read in Congress this day, it was not approved until June 5. ]CC, 8:409, 420. New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety Sir, Philada. 31st May, 1777. We transmit you the resolution of Congress, of 23rd May, 1777, rela tive to the manning and fitting out two galleys for the defence of the North river. 1 We wish that Mr. Morris who was desired by Convention to write on this subject, had transmitted his letter to the board of war through us, as we then should have been able (in all probability) to have obtained a resolution for fitting those gallies at the Continental ex-


[Page 190]
160 May 31, 1777 pense. 2 For want of previous information, the resolution enclosed was passed without that attention which might otherwise have been paid to it. We by no means are of opinion that there is any similarity betwixt the State of New-York and other States who have fitted out vessels of this nature. The use of these vessels in Hudson’s river is chiefly to protect the chain near the forts in the Highlands, and by that means keep up the communication betwixt the southern and eastern States. In other States they have been built for the purpose of protecting their own harbours and towns. The purpose, therefore, for which the vessels on Hudson’s river are intended, being Continental, the expense ought, in our opinion, to be the same. If the Council of Safety should be of the same opinion with us, and write to Congress on this subject, we shall procure a reconsideration of this resolution, and exert ourselves to make the fitting and manning these vessels a Continental charge. In the mean time, we think it will be for the interest and safety of the State to exert themselves in equipping and manning these vessels with the utmost despatch. 3 We are directed by Mr. Lewis to inform you that the accounts of the sloop Montgomery will be forwarded in two or three days, to gether with the share of prize money due to the captors. 4 We are, sir, with great respect, Your obedt. hble. servts. Phil Livingston, Wm. Duer. P.S. Capt. Cook having no money to carry him out of town, we have furnished him with a loan of seventy dollars, for which we enclose you his receipt. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:958. Addressed: “To the Honble. Pierre Van Cortlandt, President of the Council of Safety of the State of New-York.” 1 See JCC, 8:383. 2 Gouverneur Morris’ May 13 letter to the Board of War requesting “your Assistance in procuring Men for two Gallies in Hudson’s River” is in PCG, item 78, 15:197. 3 In accordance with this advice, the council of safety wrote letters on June 17 to President Hancock and to the New York delegates, protesting Congress’ failure to assume the cost of manning and outfitting the two galleys. However, the delegates decided to withhold these letters from Congress and not raise the issue of Continental financing because of their belief that Congress felt it had recently devoted too much of its time to New York affairs. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:966; and New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, July 8, 1777. 4 See Francis Lewis to the New York Convention, January 16, 31, and March 12, 1777.


[Page 196]
166 June 2, 1777 month. I shall do all in my power to procure a supply of arms &c, but dare not be very sanguine in my hopes of success, as there is not a sufficient quantity arrived to furnish the army proposed to be raised. I am in hopes of leaving this in about a week as I am now waiting only to get some matters done in the Marine Department, which I wish to have done before my departure. There is not the least probability of your obtaining liberty to appoint a Deputy, if you should have an opportunity and be disposed to go in the army, as no man will be allowed to hold a place in a civil depart ment and a commission in the military at the same time. I have at last paid Messrs Wharton 585 dollars which they suppose to be about the balance of your account but they would not make a final settlement as their books were out of town and the mahogany you shipped them still unsold. I have their receipt for the sum paid them which I shall take with me; there now remain in my hands $960 which I hope to have the pleasure of delivering you in person. I had wrote thus far when your’s of the 16th ulto was handed me. I thank you for your good opinion of me and must defer saying any thing more on the subject of your letter till I have the pleasure of taking you by the hand which will be about the last of this month; in the mean time be assured I am with all due respect, Your friend and humble sevt Wm Whipple Tr (DLC). John Adams to John Sullivan Dear Sir Philadelphia June 3. 1777 I regret with you the Loss of Coll Stark, of whose Experience and Bravery, I have often heard the best accounts. 1 I knew not the Man but some Gentlemen represented him as unequal in Abilities to the high Command of a General officer. I am extremely sorry to learn that you have been so great a Sufferer in the Loss of your Baggage &c upon several occasions. But in answer to your first Question I can only say, that Congress have hitherto re fused to grant any Compensation to Sufferers of any Kind. Falmouth and Charlestown have both petitioned and been civilly refused. 2 Several officers Widows, in deplorable Circumstances, have petitioned and been refused. Several other officers have applied and been refused particularly Lord Sterling. So that I can give you, but cold comfort, respecting your Losses. As to your Second Question, I can give no possitive Answer, how Congress consider your Post. The Resolve of Congress in Words extends only to a Major General commanding in a Seperate Depart-


[Page 197]
June 4, 1777 167 ment. 3 But I believe General Gates was allowed for his Table under it, and I see no Reason why you should not. What shall I say, about raising the Pay of General officers! Our Revenue! sir, our Revenue! What will become of it, and of us! With the Greatest objects in View that any Society ever beheld, the greatest evil to be avoided, and the greatest good to be obtained: with the fairest Prospects of Success that a fond, Sanguine Imagination could wish, We are in the utmost danger of Ruin, by a Failure in our Finances. 4 RC (DLC). 1 John Stark, colonel of the First New Hampshire Regiment, had resigned on March 22, 1777. N.H. State Papers, 8:518-19. 2 See John Adams to Abigail Adams, May 17, 1777, note 1. 3 On June 16, 1775, Congress had resolved that when any major general should “act in a separate department, he be allowed, for his pay and expence, three hundred and thirty-two dollars per month” beyond his regular pay of $166 per month. JCC, 2:93. 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Adams to Sullivan, June 8, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams June 4. 1777 I wish I could know, whether your season is cold or warm, wet or dry, fruitfull or barren. Whether you had late Frosts. Whether those Frosts have hurt the Fruit, the Flax, the Corn or Vines, &c. We have a fine season here and a bright Prospect of Abundance. You will see by the inclosed Papers, in a Letter from my Friend Parsons, a very handsome Narration of one of the prettiest Exploits of this War—a fine Retaliation for the Danbury Mischief. Meigs who was before esteemed a good Officer has acquired by this Expedition a splendid Reputation. 1 You will see by the same Papers too, that the Writers here in Oppo sition to the Constitution of Pensilvania, are making a factious Use of my Name and Lucubrations. Much against my Will, I assure you, for altho I am no Admirer of the Form of this Government, yet I think it is agreable to the Body of the People, and if they please themselves they will please me. And I would not choose to be impressed into the service of one Party, or the other-—and I am determined I will not inlist. 2 Besides it is not very genteel in these Writers, to put my Name to a Letter, from which I cautiously withheld it myself. However, let them take their own Way. I shant trouble myself about it. I am growing better, by Exercise and Air. I must write a Letter, in Behalf of Mr. Thaxter, to the Bar and Bench in Boston, in order to get him sworn, at July Court. 3


[Page 198]
168 June 4, 1777 Will my Brother, when the Time comes, officiate for his Brother at a Christening? If it is a young Gentleman call him William after your Father—if a young Lady, call her Elizabeth after your Mother, and sister. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:255-56. 1 Gen. Samuel H. Parsons’ May 25, 1777, letter to General Washington de scribing the destruction of a British foraging party at Sag Harbor, Long Island, was published in the Pennsylvania Journal, June 4, 1777. 2 Benjamin Rush, using the pseudonym Ludlow, had cited John Adams’ Thoughts on Government in a newspaper article criticizing the new Pennsylvania constitution’s unicameral legislature. Pennsylvania Journal, May 28, 1777. Sup porters of the constitution then counter-attacked Adams’ pamphlet, spurring a reprint of it in the Pennsylvania Gazette, June 11, 1777. Rush’s was apparently the first public revelation of Adams’ authorship. See John Adams to John Penn, [March 19-27?, 1776], note 2; and Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2 * 256n2 3 Adams’ letters to the Suffolk County Bar Association and the Suffolk County Court of Common Pleas have not been found, but see Abigail Adams to John Adams, August 27, 1777, ibid., p. 331. Board of War to Horatio Gates Dear General War Office June 4th. 1777 Congress have received your Letters of the 29th April, May 2d & 24th. The several Matters have been attended to & what was thought immediately necessary was done. 1 The Paragraph relating to Light Horse mentioned in yours of the 29th April & your Reasons enclosed for your Opinion that the Enemy’s Plan will be to go up the North River & endeavour to effect the old Scheme of a Junction with Carlton, were sent to General Washington for his Consideration & Directions were given that he should send the Horse if he could spare them. Enclosed you have Copies of the Regulations as to Chaplains & a Resolve respecting the Appointment of an Ajutant General for the Northern Army. 2 General Mifflin has forwarded one thousand Tents which it is hoped have before this reached you. The Part of your Letter relative to Money is referred to the Treasury Board who will no Doubt report a Supply. 3 Your Request as to Capt. Whitcombe’s Corps being indulged with a Bounty equal to that given by the Eastern States cannot be complied with on Account of the Precedent. 4 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Regard, your very obedt S erv t Richard Peters, Secy


[Page 201]
June 6, 1777 171 I wish, if you are not hurried out of your senses, that you would endeavour to convey to me some hint whereby an Accommodation should take place as to Mons Du Coudray and Genl. Knox. The Officers of our Army must have a hard struggle in reconciling themselves to that monarchical devotion which is necessary in the adop tion of Du Coudray’s Command, as it appears to have been regulated in Mr Deane’s Compact. I have but a poor Idea of that Gentleman’s ability to guard against French finess and flattery. I believe the Arrival of Doctr. Franklin will'be an Advantage to Mr. D. Yr Frd and Servt, J L Reprinted from Burnett, Letters, 2:379. 1 Not found. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, Pha. 7th June 1777. By a letter from General Poor, who commands at Tionderoga, dated the 27th past we are informed that the vanguard of the enemy’s army was then within 50 miles of his garrison, which was weak & not well supplied with provisions. If the enemy push on with alacrity Poor must evacuate the lines at Tionderoga & retreat into mount Independance, where he may possibly hold out till our an army can be collected & march to his relief. Perhaps it will be impossible for him to save his military stores, cannon &c which are in the lines. However I have some faint hopes the enemy will proceed with their usual caution & delay. I wish our stores & troops at Tionderoga & mount Independance (oppo site to Tionderoga) were removed to Fort Nicholson, called Chessire’s in my journal. It is the common opinion, and of General Washington also, that the enemy will soon march to this city thro’ the Jersies. Some of their preparations indicate such an attack, but I can not help thinking they will only make a feint of marching this way to draw G. Washington from his strong camp at middle Brook, & then endeavour to force him to a battle before he regains his present advantageous post. If they fail in this scheme, Howe will probably turn his arms agt. the Province of N.Y. & in conjunction with Carleton endeavour to subdue it. The Enemy it is said have received about 1900 new recruits from Europe. Much depends on this campaign. I wish Gen. Washington’s army was stronger & better provided than it is. Most, if not all the States, are very deficient in their quotas. I think the People grow tired of the war. I wish you would look over the list of bonds, & get such renewed as are very near expiring. I wrote to you in my last for a supply of cash. I fancy there are frequent opportunities from Baltimore Town, I mean


[Page 202]
172 June 7, 1777 such as you might trust to. Simpson has sent me a pair of shoes for Molly. I shall get those for which she sent up the silk made immediately for 30/ a pair. Simpson asks 45/ & no dependance on him. Every thing is most exorbitantly dear in this city, in short the continental currency seems daily to depreciate. However I hope we shall surmount this the greatest, & all our other difficulties. What cannot wisdom, perseverance, & virtue affect? Yet we abound not in either. I have more confidence of success, from the blunders of our enemy than our own good conduct. My love to Molly & Mrs. Damall. I wish you health & a long con tinuance of it. I am, yr affec Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 For a copy of Gen. Enoch Poor’s May 27 letter to Horatio Gates, which Gates had enclosed in a letter to Washington of May 30 and Washington had forwarded in a June 2 letter to President Hancock, see PCC, item 154, 1:228-30. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:168, and JCC, 8:417. 2 A reference to the journal he kept while on his mission as a commissioner to Canada in 1776, for which see Richard Smith’s Diary, February 14, 1776, note. Francis Lewis to the New York Council of Safety Gentlm Phila. 7th June 1777 I have at length obtained a decree from the Commissrs. of Appeals relative to the Brign Minerva & Cargo, who have confirmed the sen- tance of the Admiralty Court at Baltimore, by which the Vessell & Cargo is restored to the Claimants. I shall set out for Baltimore on Monday next, collect the Registers Bill of cost &c there, when shall furnish you with all the accounts relative to the Montgomery’s prizes. 1 Should you think my attendance necessary at Kingston or elsewhere, please to advise me. The Cross cut Saws & Cinnamon are here, I shall leave them under the direction of Mr. P Livingston, who advises me to dispose of the Cordage at Baltimore where it still remains, rather than send it to you as the transportation is at present hazardous. The 500 bushells of salt lately arived here, has been refused your Delegates by the Committee of Congress, 2 it being much wanted here, and at Ten dollars per bushell, your Delegates purpose to move the Congress for an applycation to the state of Virginia for what salt they can spare you, which, if can be obtained, may be forwarded by water (except twelve miles of land carriage) to Trentown if no interuption from the enemy, in the mean time it shall be my endeavor to procure salt, wherever it can be purchased untill I receive your orders to the contrary. 3 I have the honor to be, Gentlm, Your Obedt Huml Servt, Fra Lewis


[Page 205]
June 8, 1777 175 2 Lovell is apparently referring to the receipt of Oliver Pollock’s letters of May 4 and 5 to Robert Morris and Andrew Allen. See Secret Committee to Oliver Pollock, June 12, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams June 8. 1777 Upon an Invitation from the Board of War of Pensilvania, a Com mittee was appointed a few days ago to go down Delaware River and take a View of the Works there, erected with a View to prevent the Enemy from coming up to Philadelphia by Water. Mr. Duer, your humble servant and Mr. Middleton made the Committee. 1 Yesterday we went, in three Boats, with Eight Oars each. Mr. Ritten house, Coll. Bull and Coll. Deane, went from the Pensilvania Board of War. General Arnold, General De Coudrai, an experienced French officer of Artillery, Monsr. Le Brune, an Engineer, and Mr. Rogers an Aid de Camp of Gen. De Coudray were in Company. We had a Band of Musick in Company which is very agreable upon the Water. We went first to Billingsport, about 10 Miles down the River on the Jersey side, where the River is obstructed with Vesseaux de Frizes, and where a large Fort is laid out with a great deal of Work done upon it. We then came back to Fort Island, or Province Island, where the River is obstructed again, and the only Passage for shipps is commanded by a Fort of 18. 18. Pounders. Here lay the Fire ships, Fire Rafts, float ing Batteries, Gallies and the Andrew Doria, and the fine new Frigate Delaware. We then crossed the River and went to Red Point on the Jersey side, where Coll. Bull has thrown up the strongest Works that I have ever seen. Here We dined, and after Dinner Coll. Bull ordered out his Regi ment upon the Parade, where they went through their Exercises and Maneuvres, very well. We had a long Passage home and made it 9 o Clock before We reached the Wharf. We suffered much with the Heat, yet upon the whole it was an agreable day. Upon our Return to Town We expected to hear some News but not a Word had been received. All is quiet still. How long will this Calm continue? I begin to suspect We shall have an unactive Campaign—that How will shut himself up, in some impregnable Post, and lie still. We shall see, however, and I think We shall trouble him whether he moves or lies still. ♦ RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:259-60. 1 The report of this committee, which had been appointed on June 3, advo-


[Page 215]
June 12, 1777 185 erecting at Billingsport for the defence of the river Delaware, it being of the utmost consequence that the fortifications at that place should be completed without delay. 1 By order of Congress, John Hancock, Prest. Reprinted from Selections from the Correspondence of the Executive of New Jersey, from 1776 to 1786 (Newark, N.J.: Published by order of the legislature, 1848), p. 63. 1 See JCC, 8:451-52. Hancock’s letter to Governor Livingston is taken almost verbatim from this June 11 resolve. Secret Committee to Oliver Pollock Sir, J une 12 th 1777 Your Letters of 4th & 5th May addressed to Andrew Allen & Robert Morris Esquires were laid before the Congress by the latter whereby we are informed that your new Governor Don Bernard de Galvez is much disposed to favour the Commercial Interest of the United States of America, and as we are appointed by the Honorable Congress to superintend the Management of such Trade as is necessary to be car ried on for public Account we do ourselves the Honor of addressing a Letter to his Excellency on this Subject, it is here inclosed and you will please to deliver and if needful translate the same for him. 1 The good Disposition you discover to our Cause and the Character you bear has determined us to employ you as our commercial Agent in New Orleans 2 in full Confidence that your Conduct in our Affairs will be such as will intitle you to our Approbation and future Favours, and should it at any Time be your Misfortune to fall into the hands of our Enemies as you have suggested, you have Liberty to claim the Protection of the United States of America as their commercial Agent resident at New Orleans and may depend that Congress will redeem you by Exchange or retaliate any Injuries or Indignities that may be offered you, and they have always a sufficiency of Prisoners in their Power to do this with Effect if our Enemies dare to treat ill those Persons that are entitled to our Protection. Thus much we have said that you may produce if ever it becomes necessary, and now for Business of another kind. We learn from Capt Le Mere and his Passenger that there is Plenty of Blankets, Strouds and other dry Goods in New Orleans suitable for the Use of our Army. The Difficulties we meet in our attempts to import a sufficiency of those Things induces us to look for them in every Quarter and we have engaged Capt Le Mere to return directly back to New Orleans with this Letter and to return from thence for this Coast with a Cargo of such Goods as you may ship by him for our Account. You will find


[Page 216]
186 June 12, 1777 herein inclosed a List of the kinds of Goods that will best suit us and we hereby authorize you to purchase and ship the Value of forty or fifty thousand Dollars in those Articles but we would have these Goods come by three or four different Conveyances each Cargo of the Value of ten or twelve thousand Dollars. We depend on you to purchase these Goods on the best Terms you can obtain them and we authorize you to charter or buy three or four fast sailing suitable Vessels to bring the Goods to a safe Port on this Coast, observing however that we prefer chartering to buying, and would rather have them brought in French or Spanish Bottoms than any other, particularly we wish to have Capt Le Mere employed in this Business because he knows the Coast, and is acquainted with a proper Inlet where the Cargo may be safely landed. In order that you may be able to procure suitable Vessels on the best Terms on charter We agree that you may have each Vessel you charter valued by honest impartial Men judges of such things and you may on behalf of the United States of America insure on each Vessel the Sum she is valued at against all Risques of Seizure or Capture by the British &c. You will agree the Freight on the most moderate Terms you can either by the Month or by the Voyage, securing us Liberty to load the Vessels back to you loaden with Flour if it can conveniently be done and we hereby agree to pay the Freights you agree for and the Losses (if any) that may arise on the Insurances you agree to make for Account of the Owners of said Vessels, but if after all these Powers you should find it still out of your Power to charter suitable Vessels you may in that Case purchase on the best Terms in your power, one, two, three, or four small fast sailing Vessels suitable to bring the Goods observing that if you cannot get the Goods or cannot get Masters & Men to navigate the Vessels, in either of these Cases none must be bought, but we can hardly sup pose such Impediments to arise, therefore if you do purchase, let the Vessels be well fitted & sound, get good Masters & dispatch them soon as you can enclosing by each Invoice & Bill Lading of the Goods shipped in each Vessel, and duplicates thereof by other good Convey ances. You will take Care to have the goods properly imbaled or packed in Bales, Casks &c so as to secure them as much as possible from Damage and proper Precautions must be taken to prevent any Danger of Seizure by British armed Vessels in the River Mississippi. We doubt not but your Governor & Officers in New Orleans will concur in doing what may be necessary for this purpose and we judge it might be best that the Goods should be shipped on board of Spanish Bottoms and cleared out as bound for the Havanna or Teneriffe, and if shipped on French Bottoms that they should be cleared out for Martinico or St Pierres & Miquilon altho the latter plan is become much suspected, and therefore most dangerous to be used. The Governor & Officers we suppose will readily grant the necessary Certificates & Passports and


[Page 220]
190 June 13, 1777 in the militia; Cadwallader is sent for, & will no doubt follow Mere dith’s example; in five days, General Mifflin this day to be one, there would be 5 thousand militia collected at or near this city. 1100 met on the Common this day. Gen. Mifflin made them a spirited harangue, which was received with great applause. No Forces will be suffered to act as a neutral part, all must bear arms except Quakers, Monr. de Coudray, who was present at the review this day, spoke to me in high strains of compliment about the militia; he says they are the best Militia he ever saw. He is not a man of compliments, tho’ polite, and therefore I lay the greater stress on his praises, as I believe them justly due. He farther remarked that Mifflin’s harangue, great part of which he under stood, called to his mind the times of Ancient Greece & Rome. I really am pleased with this gentleman, his address, tho’ a Frenchman, is not elegant & easy, yet you may plainly see he has frequented & even been intimate with the Polite & Great. He seems to have studied more the arts & sciences than the Graces; yet his plain & unaffected manner, his good sense, & sweetness of temper gains upon us daily. Saturday morning o’clock 14th June About 1 o’clock last night I was awakened by an express to General Arnold, who lodges in this house. The express came from Bristol, & brings an account that the alarm guns from Rocky Hill & Princetown to Trenton were fired about 10 o’clock last night, a signal of the approach & movement of the enemy, and to alarm the militia of the Jersies, who have agreed to turn out & harass the enemy on their march. I can not help thinking it a false alarm, for I cannot persuade myself the enemy will hazard a march thro’ the Jersies & an attack on this city, till they receive reinforcements either from Canada or Europe, and not above 1500 have yet arrived, and they are said to be sickly. Monday’s post will bring us interesting intelligence, which you may depend on being communicated to you by the post which will set off from this city next Tuesday. Please to present my complts to the Messrs. Howards & Capt. Ireland. I am, yr. most affectionate Son, Ch Carroll of Carrollton P.S. Do not forget to go over the list of bonds & examine which are near expiring. RC (MdHi). Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Gentlemen Philadelphia June 13th. 1777 Though the Dispatches prepared some Time since are not gone, 1 we


[Page 222]
192 June 13, 1777 is a just & true but very small Sample of their Proceedings. We are your most obedient, humble Servants, Benja Harrison Jno Witherspoon Robt Morris Ths. Heyward Junr James Lovell RC (PPAmP). Written by Lovell and signed by Lovell, Harrison, Heyward, Morris, and Witherspoon. . . 1 The last letter of the Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris was that of May 30, 1777. John Hancock to George Washington gj r; Philada. June 13th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolves, the fixed Determina tion of Congress to retaliate (as nearly as lies in their Power) on our Enemies, should they think proper to send any of their Prisoners to Great Britain, or to any other Part of the British King’s Dominions beyond Sea. This Resolution you will please to convey to Genl. Howe as soon as possible, as it is of the utmost Importance. 1 If the sixteen additional Battalions are not all provided with Com manding Officers, the Congress, in Consequence of a Letter from Govr. Caswell (an Extract of which I enclose you) have recommended Colonel Abraham Shephard to the Command of one of the said Bat talions, and doubt not you will honor him with the Appointment. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the whole of the Resolves here with transmitted. Enclosed you have the Observations of Monsr. De Coudray on Billingsport and the other Fortifications in this River, which I forward for your Perusal. 3 Every possible Measure is taking to render the Forti fications compleat. 4 I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Esteem & Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 See JCC, 8:449-50; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:131-34, 182-83. „ 2 See JCC, 8:450. The extract from North Carolina governor Richard Cas well’s April 20 letter to Thomas Burke is in Washington Papers, DLC, and the full text is in N.C. State Records, 11:456-57. Washington agreed to give Colonel Sheppard command of a battalion to be raised in North Carolina, but Sheppard failed to raise it in the alloted time and thus did not receive the appointment. See JCC, 8:475; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:475. 2 Hancock also enclosed resolves of June 7 through 11 on regimental pay-


[Page 223]
June 13, 1777 193 masters, Apollos Morris, Benedict Arnold, the commissariat, ranking of officers, and the defense of the Delaware. ]CC, 8:426-28, 432-48, 450-52. 4 After this sentence in the LB Hancock’s secretary Jacob Rush first wrote and then deleted: “Your sevl. Favours to the inst have been duely reed, and immediately laid before Congress.” Secret Committee Minutes of Proceedings June 13,1777 Come. met. Present Morris, Livingston, Whipple. Letters were re ceive! from Messrs. Fautreuil Commander of the French ship Amphi trite at Portsmouth, from J. Langdon Esqr. Conti. Agt. & from Capt. Jn. Paul Jones. Monsr. Fautreul hath declind the proposition made to him by the Come, of taking Capt. Jones on board his ship as Com mander but is willing to proceed to Charles town on certain assurances be given him as per his sd. letter. Resolved That the sd. Letters be laid before Congress & that it is the opinion of this Come, that Capt. Fautrel shoud have the assurances given wch. he requires & be orderd round to Chs. town for a loading of Rice. 1 On considerg. the terms of agreemt. made with the Owners of the ship Mary & Elizabeth lying in the Inlet of Sinepuxent, the Come, finds that by Charter party, She is to be deliverd at this port, & is at the public risque until that time, & as it is now impracticable so to do (the enemys ships being so numerous in this bay) think best to charter her for a new voyage & have agreed with the Owners as follows. Sd. Ship is to be ballasted by the Owners & proceed when the Come, may direct to Virga, where She is to take on board 200 hhds of tobo. on public Acct, for any port in France, where She is to deliver the same, & bring back from thence any goods, wares & Merchandize, Arms & Ammunition that may be shippd on board by the Agents of the Come, to any safe port in these States when the voyage shall expire. The Come, are to insure that vessel, for sd. voyage, at £2700 Curry. & to allow 4 g[uinea]s per hhd. freight for tobo. & 2/6 sterlg. per foot, for the goods &c brought back. 2 An order was drawn on Mr. Morris in favor of Ann Stewart wife of Jas. Stewart for £25 as a reward for his havg. taken up an Anchor & Cable belongg. to the ship Olive branch in this bay on the 7th Augt. last, wch. She was obligd to leave on the approach of the Enemy’s ships of war, sd. ship being then charterd & insurd by the Committee. 3 MS (MH-H). 1 There is no mention of this matter in the journals, but for details on the committee’s proposal, see Secret Committee to John Paul Jones, May 9, 1777. 2 On September 3, 1777, committee members Robert Morris and Richard Henry Lee agreed to grant Capt. Peter Young of the Mary & Elizabeth a re ward for having “faithfully & successfully performed a voyage to France & back


[Page 230]
200 June 16, 1777 suing, for the Article of Salt, unless timely Provision be made, have passed the Resolves inclosed. 1 We doubt not, the most fixed and speedy Attention will be paid to Them; The last Resolve You will be pleased to communicate to the Continental Agent, and request him to com municate it to any Masters of Vessells fitting out of Our State on the Continental Account (if there are any such). The first Vollume of the Journals of Congress are printed, and twenty Copies ate ordered for each State, but as yet we have no Opportunity of sending them. 2 A General Movement of Lord How’s Army to attempt, as was by most People conceived, this City hath caused a general Alarm thro this State and the State of New Jersey. We have the Pleasure to inform You that the Militia in both States turn out with Spirit, And from every Informa tion Congress hath received we entertain a hopefull Prospect of the Event. The Enemy we doubt not, are without the least Hopes of a Re inforcement of any Consequence this year. That the present Appear ances may induce the States of New-England, with united Efforts and Spirit to extirpate the Vermin which have too long infested Our State, is the most ardent Wish of all; Beyond Expression must such an Event be to those who feel most for the Honor of New-England and the Peace, Welfare and Happiness of that State we have the Honor to represent. May that Event soon coincide with the Desires of, Gentlemen, your most Obedt, humble Servts. William Ellery Hy. Marchant P.S. I expect to set out for Providence in a few Days. W Ellery RC (R-Ar). Written by Marchant and signed by Marchant and Ellery, with a postscript by Ellery. Addressed: “The Govr. & Compy. of the State of Rhode Island.” 1 See JCC, 8:461-62. 2 On June 2 Congress had resolved that “twenty copies of the volume of journals be delivered to the delegates of each State, for the use of their respective States.” JCC, 8:432. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philade June 17, 1777 I am disappointed in not receiving a Letter from you by yesterdays Post. The Fears you expressd in your last of the Arrival of Burgoin gave me Uneasiness. We receivd Advice from our Friends in France which gave us some Reason to apprehend the Intention of the Enemy was to attack Boston, and we thought it necessary to give timely Notice of it. I hope the People there will always be so much on their Guard as to prepare for the worst, but I think you will not be in Danger this Summer. This City has been given out as their Object.


[Page 233]
June 17, 1777 203 have not yet heard from the Boston fleet. Genl. Gates arrived here yesterday. Every thing is in a very good way in the north. He is ex- treamly offended with our proceedings towards him, & will certainly leave the service. Your packet for France is not yet gone, & God knows when she will. I wish you wou’d have some measures fallen upon, to prevent the rascally tory Jew engrossers of this City & Baltimore from buying up the Salt & other necessaries imported into Virginia. None of the importations shou’d be allow’d to be exported, but by public agents of some State in distress & they shou’d purchase only under regulations made by the Governmt. Roman de Lyle talks of offering his services to Virginia, & depends upon you for an introduction When he arrives there. What troops shall hereafter come from Virginia, shou’d bring arms with them, for we are exhausted by the militia. My best complimts to the Govr & other friends. Yr. afft. bror. & friend, Francis Lightfoot Lee RC (PHi). 1 Washington’s June 13-15 letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:253-58, and Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:239-44. Marine Committee to Samuel Chew Sir, In Marine Committee Philadelphia June 17. 1777. The good recommendations we have had of you as being well quali fied for a command in our Navy, has induced us to appoint you a Captain therein, in full faith that it will be your chief duty to contribute all in your power to the Interest of the United States and the Honor of their Flag. 1 We now think proper to direct that you repair directly to New Lon don where you are to Take the Command of the Brigt Resistance lately purchased by Nath. Shaw jr Esqr our agent at that place. That Gentle man will assist you in fitting and manning that vessel, and we expect your best endeavors will be united with his, to have this done with all possible expedition. We have directed our said Agent to make the necessary advances of the money that will be required in this business, and to put on Board sufficient provisions for a four month’s cruize, therefore as soon as ready for the Sea, you are to proceed immediately on a cruize against the enemy choosing such stations as you think will be most likely to in tercept their Merchant or Transport Ships, and you are to take, sink, Burn or destroy as many of their vessels of every Kind as may be in your power. The prizes you may' take you will send into the most convenient and safe Ports in these States addressed to the Continental Agents, and you


[Page 235]
June 17, 1777 205 chased by Nathaniel Shaw jr. Esquire our Agent at New London and have appointed Captain Samuel Chew to command her. We now in close you some Blank Commissions which we must trouble you to fill up with the Names of such persons as you think proper for Lieutenants and Other Officers on board this Brigantine. In doing this we wish the preference to be given to the Officers that are in our Service at Rhode Island who may be unemployed or are deserving of promotion, this we leave to your discernment and requesting that you will transmit a List of the names of those you appoint, we remain Sir, Your very hble servants P.S. We give you this trouble in consequence of your being Appointed a Member of the Navy Board of the Eastern Department. 1 LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 John Deshon, a New London, Conn., merchant and sea captain who had extensive business dealings with Nathaniel Shaw, Jr., the Continental prize agent in Connecticut, had been appointed a member of the navy board in the eastern department on May 6. See JCC, 7:331; and Frances M. Caulkins, History of New London, Connecticut. From the First Survey of the Coast in 1612, to 1852 (New London: Published by the author, 1860), pp. 505-6. For Deshon’s deal ings with Shaw, consult the indexes in Morgan, Naval Documents, vols. 4-7. Marine Committee to Nathaniel Shaw, Jr. Sir, In Marine Committee, Philadelphia, June 17, 1777 We received by Captain Chew your letter of the 29th 1 ultimo ad vising your having purchased a Brig suitable for an armed Cruizer in our Navy. On recuring to our letter to you of the 22d August last we find our orders were expressly that you should purchase & fit out the schooner taken by Commodore Hopkins in his return from the New Providence expedition and sent by his fleet into your Port. Our principal induce ment in giving those orders was, that a vessel of that kind was then wanted for an expedition we had planned, & Commodore Hopkins recommended that schooner as suitable for our purpose. If on examina tion you found that vessel to be defective, you certainly did your duty to decline the purchase of her, but we cannot consider that you were authorized by the orders we gave you, to buy a Brig eight months after, without first having consulted us on that head. Commodore Hopkins has never been invested with any authority from us to order the purchase of vessels for our Navy, and we beg leave to recommend in future an observance of our orders only; advising us when you think any altera tion of them will be of service to the puhlick. From what we have thought proper to say on this subject, you will


[Page 237]
June 18, 1777 207 ments in the Jersies last Week indicated a design on this place. The Militia were called out & business laid on side. I shall soon be able to tell you whether to send any thing here & what articles will answer best. I cannot write to Virginia about the Salt, but if they do stop it, I will interfere on a proper representation thereof from you. I hope the Pilot Boat you bought may answer expectation but I think with Mr Braxton that she has too many Owners. I hope you’l be able to furnish me with Goods or Money in time to pay the whole or greatest part of the bills drawn & to be drawn upon me for this concern & I am Sir Your obedt hble Servt. Robt Morris RC (NHi). 1 Morris had written a brief letter to Hudson two weeks earlier explaining that in order not to miss “good bargains for want of Money or Credit I agree to pay Your drafts on me to the extent of five or Six thousand Pounds this Curry, or even for one or Two Thousand pounds more provided you allow a reasonable time between the times of drawing so that I may not be put to inconvenience & as fast as you make purchases send up the Goods that I may be reimbursed soon as possible.” Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson, June 3, 1777, Fogg Collection, MeHi. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia June 18. 1777 We shall have all the Sages and Heroes of France here before long. Mr. Du Coudray is here, who is esteemed the most learned Officer in France. He is an Artillery Officer. Mr. De la Balme is here too, a great Writer upon Horsemanship and Cavalry. He has presented me with two Volumes written by himself upon these subjects, elegantly printed, bound and gilt. 1 Mr. De Vallenais is with him, who speaks very good English. 2 The inclosed Papers will give you all the News. You get Intelligence sooner and better than We. We are under no more Apprehensions here than if the British Army was in the Crimea. Our Fabius will be slow, but sure. Arnold, You see will have at them, if he can. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:267-68. 1 Augustin Mottin de La Balme (1736-80) had written Essais sur [’equitation (Amsterdam and Paris: 1773), and Elemens de tactique pour la cavalerie (Paris: 1776). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:268n.l. On July 8 he was commissioned a colonel and inspector of cavalry. JCC, 8:539. 2 On July 8 Joseph de Valnais was appointed an aide to Colonel de La Balme. JCC, 8:539.


[Page 238]
208 June 18, 1777 Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade June 18 1777 This Letter will be deliverd to you by my worthy Friend Colo Whip ple a Delegate of the State of New Hampshire. He is a Gentleman of Candor, and I wish he may have an opportunity of conversing freely with some one of Influence in the Massachusetts Bay upon Matters which concern that State particularly. I know of no one to whom I can recommend him on the Occasion with more Propriety than to yourself. He will be able to give you such Information of Persons & Things as one would not chuse to throw on Paper in this precarious Time, when an Accident might turn the Intelligence into a wrong Channel. I observe by the Boston Papers last brought to us, that you are again plac’d in the Chair of the House of Representatives, with which I am well pleasd. Mr Pain Speaker pro Temp, Mr Hancock first Member of the Boston Seat and Mr T Cushing a Councellor at large. I have the Honor of knowing but few of your Members. I hope my Countrymen have been wise in their Elections, and I pray God to bless their En deavors for the Establishment of publick Liberty, Virtue and Happiness. You will hear before this will reach you of the Movements of the Enemy. It has been the general Opinion for some Months past that Philadelphia is their Object. Should they gain this Point, what will it avail them, unless they beat our Army? This I think they will not do. My Wish is that our Army may beat them, because it would, in my opinion, put a glorious End to the Campaign, & very probably the War. I confess I have always been so very wrong headed as not to be over well pleasd, with what is called the Fabian War in America. I conceive a great Difference between the Scituations of the Carthaginian and the British Generals. But I have no Judgment in Military Matters, and therefore will leave the Subject to be discussd, as it certainly will be, by those who are Masters of it. I cannot conclude this Letter without thanking you for your Care in carrying a Matter in which I was interested through the General As sembly, of which I have been informd by our Friend Mr J A. I wish to hear from you. Adieu my Friend, S A RC (MHi). Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir Philadelphia June 18th 1777 Having just heard of an opportunity, I inclose you the Resolution of


[Page 239]
June 18, 1777 209 Congress relative to Colonel Sheppard’s Battalion. 1 I have written a letter which I left at my lodgings, 2 and have not now an opportunity of getting it, but I think it right to take advantage of the present con veyance for communicating to you the Resolution. You may expect the other by post. Mean time, having not one instant more time, I am with respect, Your obed. Sert, Thos Burke Tr (Nc-Ar). 1 See JCC, 8:475; and John Hancock to Washington, June 13, 1777, note 2. 2 Not found. Abraham Clark to James Caldwell Dr. sir, 1 Phila June 18h. 1777. It was with pleasure I heard of the Enemys moving this way and am sorry they came no further. As matters are now Circumstanced I fear we shall have an Idle Summer—fighting is at this Time Necessary to keep up the spirit of the Forces—without it our Militia will be dispirited and not easily called out at another Time. Caution may forbid such a measure, Upon a supposition we can Support an army for years to come, but this I fear will not be easily Accomplished. The dear ness of all the Necessaries of life makes the Support of An Army exceed ing expensive, and their pay must be proportiona[lly. . . .] I take no pleasure in sheding blood, but at this time I think a little of it is requisite. Inactivity, if practised, will ruin our Army if not our Cause. We have many Spirited officers who I dare say wish for an Opportunity to Signalize themselves and I wish their Ardour may not be suffered to cool. We have no late News from Europe other than in the Papers. All seems to go on well for us there, and our Cause in the main may be said to appear prosperous. I take this opportunity by Mr. Arndt just to remind you, that if you have forgot, you are not forgotten by Dr Sir, your Humble Servt, Abra. Clark RC (PHC). 1 The endorsement on the verso of this letter—“From Abm. Clark Esqr, June 18”—appears to be in the hand of Rev. James Caldwell, one of Clark’s regular correspondents. See also Clark to Caldwell, August 1, 1776, note 1. Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris Philadelphia June 18th 1777 In this we send you an Account of the most Material Matters which have happened in the Military department.


[Page 240]
210 June 18, 1777 Thomas Heyward, Jr.


[Page 241]
June 18, 1777 211 The Enemy about ten weeks ago sent a large Party and destroyed some Continental Stores lodged at Peeks Kill the value not Great, and retreated immediately after. They afterwards made an Attempt to sur prise M. Gen. Lincoln at Bound Brook which He vigilantly escaped with the loss of about 60 Men. Mr. Tryon who is made a Major Genl, was sent with about 2200 Men to destroy the Stores at Danbury in Connecticut. Notice was received time enough to remove the Most Valuable while Genls. Arnold and Woorster raised the Militia and at tacked the Enemy in their Retreat with Good Success. The New-York Paper which may be Considered as Genl Howes Gazette makes their loss in Killed and Wounded 104, we may give them Credit for twice the Number. The loss we Sustained in Stores was chiefly in Salt Provisions and Rum and We had the Satisfaction of learning that the Cargoes of the Prizes brought in the same week amounted in the first Article to double the Quantity lost. Genl. Woorster who behaved Gallantly was mortally wounded and is since dead. Scarce a Week have passed with out Skirmishing in which we have been very fortunate. General Washington has removed from Morris Town to some ad vantageous Ground near Bound and Middle Brooks within eight Miles of Brunswick and the following is a Regular State of Intelligence re ceived here since the 11th Inst. June 11th At a Meeting this day in the State House Yard Genl Mifflin dis patched for that Purpose from Genl. Washington informed the In habitants that from the late preparations of the Enemy, he had reason to believe their design was by a forced March to endeavour to possess themselves of Philadelphia, it was then Proposed and unanimously as sented to, to turn out agreeable to the Militia Law. 12 th A Letter from Genl. Sullivan at Princeton received about 9 this Eveng informed that the Enemy at Brunswick had began to move the Proceeding Night but was prevented by the Rain. 13 th The Alarm Gun in this City fired at three this Morning answering the Alarm Guns up the River. Several letters by Express from Bristol men tion the hearing Alarm Guns Towards Trenton and Princeton, but that no Express had arrived there from Genl Sullivan at Princeton. 14th Express from Genl Arnold at Trenton informs, that the Enemy had moved in the Night from Brunswick; that Genl Sullivan had likewise moved from Princeton to some Part on Rocky Hill, with an Intention to harrass the March of the Enemy and thereby favor the approach of


[Page 253]
June 19, 1777 223 referrd you for all the Intelligence of which Congress was possessed; and I hope you had the pleasure of an Interview with him. We have since had the Prospect of an Invasion at this [place] from General Howe, but I own I never believd he coud have reachd so far had the Attempt been made. He was I believe of this Opinion for he never attempted it; detered, as I presume, from seeing the whole Country flying to arms to oppose him. In Jersey the militia it is said turnd out to a man; & the Pensylvanians laying aside their animosities, to defend their adord City, were preparing to follow the Example. And by these preparations, certain of meeting with powerful opposition in the front, and of being p[ressed] in the rear by a respectable Body of continental Troops, not inferior to the British Army in numbers, Ap pointment, or Courage, General Howe instead of advancing forward has intrenched himself on very strong ground at Millstone near Somerset Court house; and the two armies are contemplating each other with great Composure. In the mean time General Washington is drawing to gether a large Body of Eastern Troops to reinforce his Army, and several Battalions are daily expected from the Southward for the same purpose. Mr Howe is very civil giving the fullest Time & opportunity for the Slow movements of the new Levies who have all undergone the small Pox. Perhaps he scorns to take the Advantage, or wishes to make an End of America by one great and decisive Blow when all her strength shall be assembled, or perhaps he is not without Apprehensions of a Check which may prove fatal to him, and therefore waits the Arrival of Succours from Europe or Canada. Be this as it may People here seem universally easy holding the Enemy and their maneuvres cheaper than I wish they did; for to despise your Foes leads to Indolence & neglect, and often to Ruin. You may Judge of General Washington’s Ideas from his mentioning in a Letter rec’d this day that he intended to discharge all the militia except 2000. 2 This will enable you to form a better Judgement of the two armies than any uncertain Conjecture of Mine. Since our Arrival here things with respect to our State have taken a most favourable turn. General Schuyler is thro’ our Exertions reinstated fully & honourably in his Command. The Commissary General’s De partment is reformd and establishd on a wise and salutary plan. Mr Jacob Cuyler is appointed Deputy Commissary General of purchases in the northern Department, notwithstanding all the opposition of our Eastern neighbours who being in possession strenuously endeavourd to maintain their ground. A Recommendation has passed from Congress to the united States to facilitate and encourage the supplying New York with Salt and other European and West India Commodities and which not only holds her up in a very honourable Point of Light, but reprobates in effect the commercial Regulations kindly passed by our Eastern Brethren to compleat our Calamities by effectually excluding


[Page 255]
June 19, 1777 225 period which made me quite easy as it assurd me that your perservance woud surmount every difficulty; and I knew Perseverance to be, if not your Fort, at least one of your strong Bulwarks. General Gates arrivd here I think last and immediately de manded an Audience of Congress. He was unfortunately for himself admitted. Discomposd, chagreend and Angry he recited all the great things he had effected at Albany; even the Suppression of Toryism he took to himself. He then pointedly called upon me and proceeded to a personal familiarity which was altogether unparliamentary. He was not very unguc ded in his Expressions (for what he deliverd was from a written paper) 1 but he shewd very plainly that he singled me out as the Author of his disgrace—for so he termd it. For this personal Ad dress I called him to order; many members interposd, even to a Clamour and insisted that he shoud withdraw and he with marks of Reluctance was obligd to submit. After he retird he was censurd by several members very freely for his Personality and it was directed that he shoud be informd that it was the pleasure of Congress that if he had any thing to offer they expected to hear it by way of memorial only. I have no doubt but the General has heard very minutely what part I took with respect to him. I do not repent it. The Interest of the Con tinent, the Honour of Congress, & the dictates of Justice requird it; and I must put up with the General’s displeasure, Which I find myself disposd to do with great Resignation and Philosophy. I have since been in his Company. We were civil, but rather reserved. He has heard from several candid Members that only one or two Justified his Claim to the Command and that the rest declard that there was no room for his supposing it ever had been invested in him. He ought to feel more pain and Resentment from this Circumstance than from any thing which fell from me. I am apt to think he does, for he has made no Representa tion to Congress, and instead of resigning talks of going to Genl Wash ington’s Camp. If I might guess he expects that you will be elected Governour of New York, and resign your military Honours, and that then he will be reinstated in the possession of what he has much at Heart, the Command of the Northern Department. 2 I do not feel at all pleasd with the latter part of this Reflection: but I hate to anticipate disagreeable Events. There are several Ifs in the way—as If it shoud be attempted—If it can’t be prevented &c. If I cant be reconcild to it &c &c, which renders it unnecessary to be at present much Concernd. I feel with you for the weakness of my Country in falling into a party at this time. Scott I hear is much to blame. Unhappy Gentleman how often has he provd the Occasion of civil discord! I am informd he charges the Loss of his promotion in the Judicial Line upon Mr Liv ingston, Duer & myself in Concert with the Chancellor, Chief Justice & Mr Morris—whom he describes as a faction & tools to a Family Interest. 3 You know Sir how totally contrary this is to Truth; how


[Page 256]
226 June 19, 1777 entirely I disapprove! of these Appointments knowing the Envy & dis content they must encite; & how ardently I wished the instituting the Governmt might be deferred untill the End of the Campaign. When I left Kingston all this I fully expected and strenuously advised. This Calumny falls doubly hard on Mr Livingston who if he was elected Govemour & accepted it, woud do it with a reluctant and aching Heart, and only for fear of injuring the common Cause by withdrawing from a conspicuous office in the Hour of Danger. These declarations are now too late I fear to appease the Spirit of faction & party; or I woud press you to communicate them with my Renunciation of all offices of Hon our, Trust or Profit as far as I may be an Object of public Regard or Conversation. All I ask of my Country is its Esteem, which I will ac cept in full discharge of all my little Services and great Losses, since I had been honourd with Publick Confidence. Let the ambitious divide the rest among them so as they do not by contending for the Loaves & Fishes injure the Common Cause and loosen the Bans of Friendship & Union among those Virtuous Whiggs who when Terror overwhelmd many a noisy patriot stood firmly in the Defence of their Country with out shrinking & wavering. But enough of this disagreeable Subject. The Plan for regulating the Commissary’s department is compleated. If out of the press I shall enclose it with these dispatches. You know in what Situation you left this affair. Trumbull is appointed Commissary General of Purchases, four Deputy Commissary Generals of purchases are elected. We had a delicate Card to play & which requird much Address to get this office into the hands of a fellow Citizen for the Northern Department. Our Eastern neighbours were in possession & worked hard to maintain their Ground: But it was of moment to our state who was to govern their markets & by the disposal of immense sums to influence their Policy; and it greatly concemd the Continent that prices shoud be Judiciously regulated & the Army well supplied. I therefore labourd assiduously & we were crownd with Success: our Friend Jacob Cuyler Esqr. obtaind the office, & I am persuaded will execute it with Integrity and Ability and do Honour to my Recom mendation and that of my Colleagues. 4 I enclose you another set of Resolutions with respect to our state which will give you pleasure as it proves the favourable Light we stand in here. You on recollecting the Commercial Regulations lately passed by our Eastern neighbours, so ungenerous & distressing to New York cannot but be pleasd with the Reprobation of their Conduct evidently implied in the first of those Resolutions: and you may wonder at our good fortune in getting it passed [without Cavil] or opposition. The stroke was too delicate & refined to be readily perceived on a Cursory reading; but I think it will be felt where I wish it to be fully understood. 5 Present my respectful Compliments to Mr Secretary Lansing & let him know that I have not been unmindful of my promise to you & him,


[Page 257]
June 19, 1777 227 Congress having at my request raisd his salary to 60 dollars a month. 6 Tell Him I am a little distressd in my mind on this Occasion as my Regard for him warped me to solicit a Salary which he himself will condemn as extravagant and I am not without Apprehensions that some honest members will yet get it reduced to 50 and expose my Partiality. I thank you for your*Attention to my Bam & Crop & hope in your next you will gratify my Curiosity by informing me of the state the former is in as I have not a Line from Jemmy Ellice. I forgot to mention that I find some difficulty in getting leave for you to appoint a third Aid de Camp. The Example seems to be dreaded. You know my Rule is never to push a point till I am sure of Success; nor to loose sight of one which is worthy of pursuite; so that you must not conclude that it is unattainable, because it is not already accom plished. I beg you’l make my respectful Compliments acceptable to Mrs. Schuyler & the young Ladies & to all the Albany Gentlemen who pos sess my Esteem & give me a place in theirs, and that yo’l beleive me to be, Dear Sir, with great Consideration & Regard, Your most obedient & very humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (NN). 1 See Horatio Gates’ Notes for a Speech in Congress, June 18, 1777. 2 Schuyler was defeated by George Clinton in an election for governor of New York held at the end of June. 3 On May 3 the New York Convention had elected John Jay as chief justice and Robert R. Livingston as chancellor by margins of four and six votes respec tively over New York radical leader John Morin Scott. Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:910. 4 See JCC, 8:434-48, 477. 5 See Congress’ June 14 resolution on the supplying of salt to New York in JCC, 8:465-66. See JCC, 8:475. William Duer to the New York Council of Safety Sir, Philada. June 19th, 1777. When General Schuyler left this place, I requested the favour of him to apply in my name to the Honourable the Council of Safety for per mission of absence for six weeks, and that they would be pleased to order Mr. Morris to attend in my place. As I have not yet received leave of absence, I am to impute it to Genl. Schuyler’s neglect in making the application to the Council of Safety, which I requested him. I have therefore, sir, to request the favour of you to solicit the Council of Safety to grant me leave of absence for six weeks; as my presence is absolutely necessary not only to arrange my private affairs, which are


[Page 264]
234 June 19, 1777 P.S. Be pleased to forward a copy of the resolution for making a present to Mr. Tilghman. 4 Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:980-81. 1 See JCC, 8:465-66. 2 See JCC, 8:433-48. 3 See JCC, 8:477. 4 On March 26 the New York Convention had resolved to compensate Col. Tench Tilghman for a sum “not exceeding the value of eighty pounds, for his services in corresponding with a committee of this House, at their request, re specting the military operations last fall and winter.” Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:851. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa, P.M. 20th June 1777 The inclosed copy of G. Washington’s letter 1 & sketch of the situation of both armies together with the newspapers will give you the best in formation respecting the late movements of the enemy. About 10 o’clock this morning an express arrived from Fourland Hills with an account that the enemy were retiring again into Brunswick; it was conjectured they had set Fire to Somerset & Middle Bush Villages by the smoak & fires that were seen at a great distance. I imagine the enemy will next move up North River & attack our forts in the highlands. I wrote to you last Tuesday to send up my horses by some trusty person. I hope you have found out such a person, if so I desire you will send me £60 or £80 continental money. I want my horses much to ride out & take exercise, & I shall want them to return home, when I do next return; I have not yet fixed the time of my de parture & while the weather continues so pleasant I think I shall remain in Congress. 21 June A.M. 8 o’clock I have just reed a letter from Col. Fitzgerald dated yesterday evening containing very good news of which the following are extracts. “You are pleased to ask my opinion of Gen. Conway. I assure you I think him a strict disciplinarian and an able & experienced officer & possessed of many requisites to render his Services very essential to us. Desertion has not of late been so prevalent amongst our troops. Our army grows in numbers and discipline, and will in a short time be able to bid defiance to Mr Howe on any ground; deserters come to us daily & by what we can understand, despondency & disaffection reign through out the British army. I think this campaign must give a final cast to the complexion of public matters. By a letter from his Excellency to Congress you will see an account of the precipitate departure of their army yesterday to their old Post (Brunswick) where I think they are


[Page 267]
June 20, 1777 237 with them. The other Goods will also sell well & the proffits on these adventures when they do arrive equal ones most sanguine wishes, but the danger of Capture is now greater than ever. I shall place to your credit half the Cost of Goods per the Independance the Arnot, of what you supplied Capt Young & also Arnot of what you shipped for Mr Hogeland But you dont mention what this last Sum is. It is well you did not get room for any Goods onbd. Mr McClenaghans Brigt as she is taken & carried into New York. I am very well satisfyed with my Brothers letter to you & with many he has wrote myself but still a little embarrassed about him. He has been very wild in Europe, but since he has had business to do it appears that he has been very attentive to it, the Captains lately arrived from Nantes assure me that he minds his business very steadily and every body agrees that he is exceedingly Capable. Others who I have some reason to believe rather envy his employment say he has such a taste for pleasure that he cannot apply closely to business. I am rather fearfull this may be the case & am Em barrassed between a desire to serve him & my doubts if he will serve himself and do honor to my recommendations of him. A little more time will convince me one way or other. We will quit all thoughts of further Connection with the very Cautious Mr Delap & apply to those that may be willing to risque a little for the chance of gaining a little. We must however remit Mr Cathalan & I shall point out the means of doing it, indeed I have bills by me that I wou’d remit but they Cost 300 per cent that is £300 Cury for £100 Stg. which is too high a rate to pay for these Goods in & for that reason I shall prefer Your remitting from Martinico. I hope before long to receive the medicines & Muskets sent out by Mr Cathalan if you do but meet some good Conveyance for Sending them to the Inlets on the Coast but if You send ’em direct for this Port they have little chance. That same Mr Nichs Davis is a Rascall of the first Stamp and I wonder you wou’d run the Risque of trusting him or any other person with so much Money. It is not approved off. I will take care to have this passed in your Accounts but advise you to be extreamly cautious how you post with Public Money in future, or you may suffer loss of the money & be charged with want of discretion. I expect Monsr Schwieghauser will have money of ours in hand to pay for our half of the Goods he ships to you, if some Tobo Consd. him arrives safe, but you had best remit him your half or perhaps the whole from Martinico when you can, as the Exchange we must charge if we pay for them is too high & disadvantageous. The same may be said of Mr. Limozin & all others in Europe from whom you import Goods. It is a great pity the Hornet did not arrive safe as her Cargo wou d have helped to relieve your Necessitys, we are horridly plagued to make remittances & the S. Commee. are now deeply indebted to you, to Mr. Curson at St. Eustatia & to Mr Ceronio at the Cape, have ves-


[Page 272]
242 June 23, 1777 not be given up—however I think it better to confederate even on these terms than not to confederate at all. Our affairs at Tionderoga do not go on as well as in the Jersies. The garrison is weak, the militia going off, provisions scarce, & the works not compleated. The enemy are preparing to cross the lake with 10000, but I rather think 7000 under Burgoyne. If they should be delayed untill the middle of next month I hope that our northern army will be in a condition to oppose them & that provisions will be procured thro’ the activity & influence of Schuyler, & the works at Tionderoga, if not entirely compleated, at least rendered very respectable. Gen. Washing ton has ordered 4 regiments to join Schuyler. The militia of N. York & the eastern States will turn out to save their own dwellings from fire & plunder, & their wives & daughters from dishonor; surely the noble ardor of the Jersies will communicate itself to those States. If we can support the expence, I have little doubt of success in the end, altho’ we may meet with very severe rubs before we compel the enemy to give over their wicked project. I must again request you to be cautious with respect to the tender law—neither write nor speak agt it, but when business requires You to remonstrate with your fraudulent debtors, for such I esteem all those who will take advantage of an unjust & dishon orable law. 24 June 1777. 1/2 past 10 o’clock. The inclosed copy of G. Washington’s letter will give you the best intelligence. My love to Molly & Mrs. Darnall & complts to Mr. & Mrs. Ridout if with you. I am just going to Congress & have only time to assure you that I am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton P.S. Please to forward the inclosed. It comes from Col. Fitzgerald, there fore give it a quick passage. RC (MdHi). Board of War to Elias Boudinot Dr Sir, War Office June 24th. 1777 I was duly favored with yours of the 20th instant on the Subject of Prisoners, & communicated the Contents to the Board, whose Feelings are in no small Degree roused by the Picture you give of the Sufferings of our unfortunate Friends in Captivity, who are not only smarting under the common Circumstances attendant on Persons in the Power of their Enemies & separated from their Friends, but oppressed with every Species of Insult & Cruelty their Captors, who are but too ingenious in Barbarity, can invent. Measures for their Relief would have been more


[Page 273]
June 24, 1777 243 early & more industriously attended to, but a Remembrance of what Britons once were lull’d us into an Inattention to what they now are. We saw their Prisoners with us, treated with every Degree of Humanity & Indulgence, & supposed ours with them equally well used. By Order of the Board I inclose you several Resolves of Congress em powering you to open a Negotiation for the Relief of our Prisoners, 1 which you will no Doubt manage with the Address requisite to be used with an artful disengenuous Enemy. If they insist upon supplying their People in our Possession with Clothes, under an Idea of their being able (as they certainly are) to do it at a lower Rate than we can, you need not make a Point of it, but agree to their doing it. If you can bring about the Measures mentioned in the first resolve, it would be much the most eligible, but, rather than suffer our Fellow Citizens to remain longer in such deplorable Wretchedness, you will consent to the Plan contained in the last. This is giving in to the Arts & uncandid Demands of the Enemy; but the Necessity of the Case must plead in Excuse. Let it however be the last Resort. Their Conduct would justify the severest Retaliation, but our People would in the mean Time have their Sufferings prolonged & that, if pos sible, with more poignant & diversified Cruelty. If we in this Instance yield to the unreasonable Demands of our Enemies it is because we have finer Feelings than those whose Inhumanity imposes the ungenerous Alternative of a Compliance with unwarrantable Requisitions or certain Destruction to many & the severest Distress & Want to all of our cap tivated Brethren. One Consolation of the first Water will however cheer us in this Business as well as in all our Transactions of a military Nature. Their Power to injure us is rapidly passing away & the Day is fast ap proaching when British Arrogance & Despotism will be levelled to the Ground & American Happiness & Independence rise & be firmly estab lished upon their Ruins. As a Prelude to this enviable Period let me most heartily congratulate you upon their Lexingtonian Flight from Bruns wick & to assure you that, I am with the greatest Regard, your very obed Servt, Richard Peters Secy RC (DLC). 1 For these resolves, which Congress passed this day to guide Commissary of Prisoners Boudinot in his dealings with British officers, see JCC, 8:494-95. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston My dear Friend Philadelphia 24t June 1777 Tuesday I reed your obliging Letter with very great pleasure as it is a proof that I have one Friend left who thinks my Correspondence worth cul tivating; for as to Mr Jay, Mr Morris and Mr Yates to whom in Con-


[Page 275]
June 24, 1777 245 this Subject which is already transmitted to the Council of Safety. It’s operation, tho’ obvious, was not perceived by those whom it most con- cemd and the House warmd by a pathetic description of our Distresses, our Perseverance, and our merit, were disposed to give us every pos sible Indulgence; of which the partial Grant of 2000 bushels of Salt when that Commodity is so very scarce and dear, is no contemptible Proof. 3 Indeed I flatter myself we shall be able to give an agreable ac count of every Business in which our State is immediately interested. The disposition of Congress is in my opinion strongly inclind to Honour, Justice and the publick good—I speak of the Body—and I am confident we shall never wish or ask any thing inconsistent with either. Before this reaches you the Intelligence of General Howe s retreat must have undergone your Scrutiny. His motives, if any he had but the apprehension of Ruin, none can tell. But all seem fully persuaded that if he had perseverd in his Resolution to attack Philadelphia, his whole Army must inevitably have been destroyed. The Militia of New Jersey were ready for action; & the Pensylvanians suspending their civil Dis cord were preparing to Join them. Indeed if their Association had re- taind it’s former Vigour they might long since have supplied General Washington with 6000 militia, a Reinforcement which must have given him such a decisive Superiority that the British Troops coud not have escapd. General Washington thinks this a very brilliant and important Event for America; in common it is spoken of as a flight from Superior Skill, Courage, & Strength. But may not the Project of his joining the Canada Army be resum’d? May he not have rec’d Intelligence of Burgoine’s preparations to pass the Lakes; & this have been the motive of his precipitate and disgraceful Retreat? If so the troubles of our state which I hope woud have been respited for this Campaign, will be re newed with double weight. 4 RC (NHi). . 1 Joseph Hewes of North Carolina, whose failure to retain his seat in Congress is discussed in Hewes to Richard Caswell, March 30, 1777, note 2. 2 See ]CC, 8:477. 3 See JCC, 8:465-66. 4 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, June 26, 1777. John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philada. June 24th 1777. You will perceive from the Inclosures that Congress have compleated the Business of the Commissary’s Department on a new and more ac curate Establishment—and that you are appointed Commissary General of Purchases. I enclose you also a List of the Commissaries both of Pur chases & Issues; and have only Time to refer your Attention to the


[Page 283]
June 26, 1777 253 RC (PPAmP). In a clerical hand and signed by Harrison, Heyward, Lovell, Morris, and Witherspoon. 1 General Washington’s letters conveying news of the British retreat from New Jersey are in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:269-72, 281-83. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston My dear Sir June 26th [1777] Thursday What preceeds has lain by me for want of a good Conveyance. This day came on before a Committee of the whole Congress the Case of our Revolters on which we were heard with great Attention. 1 Some of our Eastern Friends unluckily for them drew on the merits of our Title, tho’ the Congress had only to do with the Exercise of Jurisdiction. Thus challengd I £eizd the opportunity of explaining the Subject at large which I happen’d to understand much better than any of my Opponents tho’ one of them boasted that he had expended two Quires of paper upon it. 2 I had the pleasure of observing that I made a suit able Impression, & out of the House rec’d the Compliments of several of the members for the light they were pleasd to say I had, with per spicuity and Candour thrown upon a dispute which to that time had remained in utter obscurity. This Explanation closd the debate: & the members of our state are desir’d to prepare for consideration such Resolutions as we think will be satisfactory to New York and become the Justice, Dignity and Impartiality of Congress. Unless an opportunity offers of sending forward these dispatches you will probably know the Event before they are clos’d. 3 RC (NHi). A continuation of Duane to Livingston, June 24, 1777. 1 According to the journals, Congress began to consider the controversy between New York and Vermont on June 25. JCC, 8:497. Congress’ handling of this dispute is discussed in William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, April 7, 1777, note 2. 2 Duane’s expert knowledge of this “subject” stemmed from the fact that he had received substantial land grants from the government of New York in the territory claimed by Vermont. See Edward P. Alexander, A Revolutionary Con servative: James Duane of New York (New York: Columbia University Press, 1938), chap. 5, and especially the map facing p. 70. a For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, June 28, 1777. Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board Gentln. Philadelphia June 26th 1777 We have the pleasure to transmit you herein a Resolution of Congress appointing you A Navy Board in the Eastern Department to Conduct and manage the business of such part of the Continental Navy as may be Built, bought or fitted from Time to Time in the Four New England


[Page 284]
254 June 26, 1777 States. 1 You are considered by this appointment as a Board of As sistants to the Marine Committee and subject to their Orders & direc tions in all such things as are not particularly provided for by Orders or Resolutions of Congress, and we have now under our consideration a Set of Instructions adapted to the Nature of your business, and the extent of the Powers you are to be Invested with. 2 In the mean time we desire you will meet together soon as Possible, fix on the most con venient place for opening your office, which we suppose will be at Boston, appoint your Clerk, and get all things so arranged as that you may be ready to enter on the Execution of your Duty without delay and should any business Occur to you as necessary to be done previous to the receipt of the intended instructions, we hereby Authorize you to do all such things in the Naval department as in your opinion will promote the Service and conduce to the true Interest of the United States of America; taking care however that you do nothing that is Contrary to, or inconsistent with the Rules, Regulations, Orders, or Resolves of Congress, which you are in all Instances and on all occasions invariably to pursue and Obey. We are Gentln., Your Obedient Servts. Geo. Frost Phil Livingston Benj Harrison George Walton John Hancock Robt Morris Henry Marchant Roger Sherman Tr (RNHi) Addressed: “To Wm Vernon, James Warren, Jno Deshon Esq., Navy Board, Eastern Department.” 1 Congress had created the Eastern Navy Board on April 19 and appointed John Deshon, James Warren, and William Venon as its commissioners on May 6. JCC, 7:281, 331. The origins, functions, and history of the board are described in Charles O. Paullin, The Navy of the American Revolution: Its Administration, Its Policy and Its Achievements (Chicago: Republican Printing Co., 1906), pp. 96-115. There is also much correspondence relating to the work of the three commissioners in “Papers of William Vernon and the Navy Board, 1776— 1794,” Publications of the Rhode Island Historical Society, 8 (January 1901): 197-277. 2 Bor these instructions, see the Marine Committee s letter to the eastern board of July 10, 1777. Marine Committee to Thomas Grenell and John Hodges Sir, 1 In Marine Committee, Philadelphia, June 26, 1777. As it is the opinion of the general officers, directed by his Excellency General Washington, to take the most effectual measures for securing


[Page 285]
June 26, 1777 255 the command of the North river, that the Continental frigates will be of essential service in defending the chain and obstructions in said river; and as by your letter of the 9th inst. we find you entertain a similar sense, we now think proper to direct that you have the frigate under your command put in as good a state of defence as can be admitted of, and follow such orders as may be given you by his Excellency the Gen eral or the commanding officer appointed to direct the operations in that quarter, using your best judgment in the execution of such orders as you may receive. We now send forward, to the Council of Safety for the State of New- York, a sufficient number of blank commissions and warrants for your officers, who are to be appointed temporarily only, until such time as their characters and qualifications are sufficiently evinced and made known to us. Therefore, we wish you to join with the Council in having those commissions filled up with the names of men of merit, whom you can recommend freely for a permanent establishment. 2 We recommend your taking great care of the frigate, her materials and stores, and keep us constantly advised of your proceedings. Being, sir, Your most h. servts. (Signed) John Hancock, Geo. Groet [Frost], Robert Morris, Phil. Livingston, Hy. Marchant, Nichs. Van Dyke, Roger Sherman, Benjamin Harrison, Geo. Wielton [Walton]. P.S. Congress have allowed pursers for their ships, whose pay dollars per month, and we send you herewith a pay list and the rules and regulations of the navy, for your government. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 2:512. 1 Grenell and Hodges were captains respectively of the Continental frigates Congress and Montgomery. JCC, 6:861. 2 Shortly after receiving this letter, Grenell and Hodges wrote to the New York Council of Safety, insisting that they alone had the right to appoint officers for their ships. They supported their contention by citing letters to Grenell of July 2 and August 22, 1776, from Francis Lewis, who was at that time a member of the Marine Committee. The council of safety referred this claim to the Marine Committee on July 25, but there is no evidence that the committee ever ruled on the matter. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1015, 2:504; and the Marine Committee’s letters to John Barry, July 2, note 3, and to Esek Hopkins, August 22, 1776, note 2.


[Page 286]
256 June 26, 1777 Marine Committee to the New York Council of Safety Gentlemen In Marine Committee. Philadelphia June 26. 1777. We are informed by a letter from the captains of the continental frigates in Hudson’s river that the General officers sent by his Excellency General Washington to view the fortifications and obstructions in said river, were of opinion that the frigates would be serviceable in defend ing and covering the same, And we find by an extract from your minutes enclosed in said letter that you were of the same opinion. In consequence whereof we have now given orders to the said captains to have the frigates put in as good a state of defence as can be ad mitted, and to follow and obey such orders as they may receive from General Washington or the commanding officer who may direct the operations in that quarter. We must beg your assistance in getting the ships fitted, and we now take the liberty to enclose a sufficient number of blank commissions and warrants for the lieutenants and other officers, who are to be appointed temporarily until such time as we are sufficiently informed that they are well qualified for the stations in which they may be put. Therefore you will please to fill up the commissions with this proviso: and we have required the captains to join with you in your researches for men of good character whom you can freely recommend for a permanent estab lishment in our navy, we must further beg leave to trouble you to send us a list of their names, stations and qualifications and have the honor to be, Gentlemen, your very obedient servants. John Hancock George Frost Robt. Morris Phil. Livingston H. Z. Marchant Nichs. Van Dyke Roger Sherman Benj. Harrison George Walton Tr (DLC). Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell D r Sir, Philadelphia June 27th 1777 I have at present time to do little more than inclose you the paper which Contains a Letter from General Washington shewing the posi tion of each army, and giving some particulars relative to the Enemy s retreat from Brunswick. I wrote to you last post and by a Man who


[Page 288]
258 June 27, 1777 to my friends, by indisposition arising from the climate, & peihaps an attention to business, & am now to acknowledge the receipt of your several favors of March 26th, April 27th & May 5th which contain many articles of useful intelligence. Your suggestions, relative to the Friendship of France, are undoubtedly well grounded, & the policy of that Court induces her to avoid a declaration of War, as long as pos sible. Well knowing that whilst G. Britain is daily exhausting her re sources, & growing feeble, France is encreasing in strength, & will be more able to give a severe blow. But her measures of late, have been so unreserved, that the British Court cannot avoid a declaration of War, If they possess but the shadow of that spirit, to which they have made such pretensions. Would this take place, Spain & Portugal will be in evitably engaged in the War, & the subduction of the latter, will be an object of great attention, with the house of Bourbon. The Porte & Russia, are already involved in a dispute, & probably will join in alli ance with other powers, which will make the War general. This at present is but speculation, but the practice, has, for some time past, appeared to me, to be unavoidable. The spirit shown by the Jersey Militia, upon the movement of Gen eral Howe, is a favorable circumstance to our affairs, & greatly tends to intimidate our enemies. He marched with but part of his army, to Somerset Court House, about ten miles from Brunswick, in hope of tempting our General to immediate action. But this being avoided, until a body of troops that were posted at Peeps Hill [Peekskill] could rein force our Army & the Militia be collected, Wm. Howe, then thought it not for his interest, to risque a battle, but retired to Amboy. Had General Washington left his post, to have attacked General Howe, the latter might have slowly retreated, towards Brunswick, until joined by the residue of his troops, & then the combat would have been nearly with equal numbers on each side, & might have been hazardous. But when reinforced, as before mentioned, I think General Washington had a promising prospect of defeating the enemy. An attack may be expected on Ticonderoga. I hope the New Hampshire battalions have their complement of men, or that their deficiency is applied with Militia, as the carrying that post may give spirit to the enemy, & bring the War nearer to our doors, although I really think, it would not be much injurious to our cause. A Navy board is established for the Eastern District, by which we may expect to see the difficulties relative to the Navy in some measure removed. My compliments to friends & believe me to be, Sir, with esteem your friend & hum Servant. (Signed) E. Gerry. MS not found; reprinted from The Collector 24 (June 1911) : 87-88.


[Page 290]
260 June 28, 1777 posted at Amboy. They had sent off & were sending their baggage on board their transports which lie at the wartering place & Princes land ing. If the express that carried orders to Gen. Maxwell to march to head the enemy had not been intercepted it is probable their rear would have been cut off. What the enemy intend doing next is uncertain: most people conjecture they intend going up north river to coopperate with Burgoyne, who may be expected at Tionderoga by the middle of July. The Enemy are too strongly posted at Amboy to be attacked; they possibly may be there waiting for reinforcements, which when they re ceive, they may endeavour to penetrate again into the Jersies, & force Washington, if possible to a battle; this is certainly their interest; it is a desperate game, but their situation obliges them to run the risk. The same reasons which urge them to risk a battle dissuade us from ven turing on one. Gen Washington will not hazard our cause by a battle, unless the odds are in our favor 100 to one. I have seen extracts from the English prints as low as the 8th April. I do not find that any very considerable reinforcements are coming out. The critical situation of affairs in Europe, & the difficulties started by the German princes, have prevented the British Ministry from obtaining recruits, at least as many as they expected. I do not believe they will be able to send over this year more than 7000 at the outside: if I should be right in my conjecture, their army will not [be] near so formidable this year as the last, & ours on a much more respectable footing. Perhaps they hope to worry us out by the expence of the war. I hope your leg is better, & that you continue to enjoy your health. My love to Molly & Mrs. Darnall. I am, yr. affectionate Son, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton RC (MdHi). 1 Washington’s June 25 letter to President Hancock is in Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:297—300. James Duane to Robert R. Livingston June 28th [1777] Saturday Yesterday, tho’ assigned for concluding the Business of our Revolters was taken up in other Cares, for we thought it impolitic to be too urgent for a preference tho it was a Right we might have maintaind. Experience has convincd me of the Propriety of such Condescensions at seasonable junctures. This morning the House In a Committee of the whole chearfully resumd the debate; and the Resolutions passed almost unanimously, for you’l observe they go upon general Principles highly interesting & important to every State which yet directly apply to our case. The only contest was on Young’s address, 1 & that was ostensibly grounded on his death in the midst of the Debate; Compassion to his


[Page 292]
262 June 28, 1777 again. On the other hand Col. Richd H. Lee is displaced. 2 Mr Hooper has resignd, Mr Hughes was not reelected. From that State Doctor Burck & Mr. Penn attend; Mr. Harnett is expected. From South Caro lina Mr Middleton (an intimate Friend) and Mr Hayward. From Georgia Col Walton with whom we stand on the best footing. From Virginia Mr Francis Lee, Mr Page & our Friend Harrison. Maryland our old Friend Paca & Mr Cariyl, the latter I believe you know to be an amiable Gentleman & with whom we are very Sociable. From Dela ware Mr Van Duyck with whom we have made an agreeable Ac- quaintence. Pensylvania our Friends Morris & Wilson and Clymer: & Mr Jona. B. Smith & Genl Roberdeau. We have not the pleasure of any Intercourse with the Gent, from Jersey except Dr. Elmore who merits particular Esteem. The other members are the revd Doctr. Witherspoon, Mr Jona. Serjeant & Mr Clarke. The Gentlemen Eastward from New York are your Neighbours & you know them: Except Mr Marchant from Rhode Island who appears to be a Gentleman of good Sense and Candour, and has hitherto sustain’d an independant Character, often joining in Sentiments with your Delegates, and that even in the Busi ness of the Revolt. Please to have Patience & turn over once more. 3 RC (NHi). A continuation of Duane to Livingston, June 26, 1777. 1 Dr. Thomas Young’s “address” is described in Duane to Certain Members of the New York Convention, April 19, 1777, note 4. 3 In reality Richard Henry Lee had also just been vindicated and reelected to serve another term in Congress by the Virginia Assembly on June 24. See Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 26, 1777, note 1. 3 For the continuation of this letter, see Duane to Livingston, July 1, 1777. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend Philadelphia June 29 1777 The enclosed Newspapers will communicate to you, all the News I know. The Weather here begins to be very hot. Poor Mortals pant and sweat, under the burning Skies. Faint and feeble as children, We seem as if We were dissolving away. Yet We live along. The two Armies are now playing off their Arts. Each acts with great Caution. Howe is as much afraid of putting any Thing to Hazard as Washington. What would Britain do, surrounded with formidable Powers in Europe just ready to strike her if .Howes Army should meet a Disaster? Where would she find another Army? How are you? I hope very well. Let Mr. Thaxter write, let the Children write, when you cannot. I am very anxious, but Anxiety at 400 Miles distance can do you no more good, than me. I long to hear


[Page 294]
264 June 29, 1777 Stories that are told. I think I may assure you that our army is in high Spirits and is daily growing more respectable in point of numbers. We are going on within Doors with Tardiness enough—a Thousand little matters too often thrust out greater ones. A kind of Fatality still prevents our proceeding a Step in the important affair of Confederation. Yesterday and the day before was wholly spent in passing Resolutions to gratify N Y or as they say to prevent a civil war between that State and the Green Mountain Men, A matter which it is not worth your while to have explained to you. 1 Monsr D Coudrays affair is still unsettled. The four French Engineers are arrivd. They are said to be very clever but disdain to be commanded by Coudray. 2 Mr Comr. D n continues to send us French, German & Prussian officers with authenticated Con ventions and strong recommendations. The military Science, for your Comfort, will make rapid Progress in America. Our Sons and Nephews will be provided for in the Army and a long and moderate war will be their happy Portion. But who my Friend, would not wish for peace. May I live to see the publick Liberty restored and the safety of our dear Country secured. I should then think I had enjoyd enough and bid this world Adieu. Yours, S A RC (PPAmP). A continuation of Adams to Lee, June 26, 1777. 1 Congress debated the request of Vermont for recognition of its independence in committee of the whole on June 25, 28, and 30, before rejecting the Vermont petition. JCC, 8:497, 507, 509-13. See also William Whipple to Josiah Bartlett, April 7, note 2; James Duane to Robert R. Livingston, June 26; and New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, July 2, 1777. 2 Only three French engineers, accompanied by a French lieutenant and a sergeant, had arrived in Philadelphia. Lewis Le Begue Du Portail, Obry Gouvion, and Bailleul La Radiere, bearing a February 13, 1777, contract signed by Ben jamin Franklin and Silas Deane, were commissioned in the Continental Army on July 8, 1777. The fourth engineer, M. de Laumoy, who had been delayed by sickness in the West Indies, was appointed a lieutenant colonel in the Con tinental Army on October 2, 1777. See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:269-70; N.C. State Records, 11:486, 492-95; and JCC, 8:525-26, 538-39, 760. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. 29th June [1777] I wrote to you yesterday per post & informed you of my reason for detaining Johny. Sam is this day much better. We have reports from the army that the enemy had nearly on the 27th, by a secret march in the night, surrounded Col. Morgan’s regt, of riflemen. They were posted at the edge of a swamp, which the enemy had Surrounded on two sides, so that no retreat was left to our people but thro’ the swamp, which they effected with the loss only of 16 men missing. It is said that we lost also 2 field pieces. The Enemy were discovered marching in a


[Page 299]
June 29, 1777 269 where the Captain was selling the Cargo at a considerable advance. Mr Bromfield left that Ship at Cape Francois & came to Virginia in a small Sloop from whence he set out by Land for Carolina. You seem to rely much on this Gentlemans prudence but I have Conceived a very indifferent opinion of it, for he has not only done what I have already mentioned respecting my Brother, but he has told to every body the Concern you & I had in the Union Cargo with many circumstances that I know little about. Colo Harrison who happened to be in Virginia when he arrived says all the People in that Country are acquainted with the whole Concern & from hence it is not improbable but they may conjecture by & by that private gain is more our pursuit than public good, for such unworthy suspicions are frequently taken upon less grounds. However I shall continue to discharge my duty faithfully to the Public & pursue my private Fortune by all such honorable & fair means as the times will admit of and I dare say you will do the Same, but we are not much indebted to Mr Bromfields discretion. Neither can I think myself under any great obligation for a Credit so limited & guarded as this Cargo by the Union seems to be. Capt. La Roche writes for my opinion & advice but takes care to let me know, he is to remit the entire Net proceeds to his owner Monsr La Ray du Chaumont. Now altho I have no real objection to his doing so, yet it carries an air of distrust that I dislike. Enclosed you will find copies of what I wrote to Mr Bromfield in answer to his letter from Virginia before I knew how very communica tive he was, also Copy of which I wrote Capt La Roche by which you 1 see I offer to pay him for your & my part the Cost of the Cargo in Good Bills of Exchange and receive our share of the Net Proceeds, rather than consent to his shipping back Indico on our account. 5 That article is very dear & I know must entail a heavy loss on us, whereas if the remittances are confined to Rice, Tobacco, Furrs, Skins, Flour &c a handsome proflfit will result from what does arrive safe and if he will wait to make returns in these articles I have no objection to the whole going back as I have no inclination on occasion to finger any of the money arising from the sales of this Cargo, therefore it was quite unnecessary to be so guarded against its coming into my hands. In short I shall rest satisfyed with this Concern because I have run my share of the Risque but there is a certain degree of Indignity in the terms that I will not submit to again, to hold an Interest in a Cargo addressed to a Captain & Super Cargo with orders for them to have the sole Management, receive the commission & remit the entire Net Proceeds back, so that had they come here I must have had the trouble, been their adviser & looked on whilst she carried back any share to France altho’ I was ready to pay down the Cost. This will never do, and I desire not any further Concern on such terms, therefore I will not give you any more trouble about interesting me in Commercial matters, in what is done on our joint account previ ous to the receipt of this letter I hold myself bound and will make good


[Page 301]
June 30, 1777 271 refer you to public letters for this & other Subjects being Dr sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RG (CtHi) 1 Deane’s December 4 letter to Morris is in NYHS Collections 19 (1886): 399-402. 2 See Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:248. 3 Not found. < „ 4 For the steps Morris had taken to put his brother Thomas in Deane’s “power, see Morris’ letters to Silas Deane, to Thomas Morris, and to John Ross, January 31, 1777. See also Morris to William Smith, December 17, 1777. 5 See Morris to Captain LaRoche, June 18, 1777. For his most recently dated extant letter to Bromfield, see Morris to Thomas Bromfield, May 20, 1777. 6 Not found, but for Deane’s December 3 letter to the Committee of Secret Correspondence, which also discusses problems encountered in making remittances from France, see NYHS Collections 19 (1886) : 392—95. Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Philade June 30 1777. I have the pleasure of receiving your friendly Letter of the 16th Instant, 1 and have little more than time enough barely to acknowledge it. There is an unaccountable Uncertainty in the conducting the Post office. About a month ago I remonstrated to the Post Master General that the Time allowd the Eastern Delegates to answer the Letters they receivd (being on the Monday between the Hours of 9 & 2) was alto gether spent in Congress, and requested that we might have one Evening for the purpose. He granted it and the Post has been since detaind till Tuesday Morning. But I am now informed that the former Regulation is revivd, for what Reason I know not, and our Letters must be ready at two o’Clock. I do assure you I should hardly forgive my self, if I could reflect upon my having once neglected to write to so valuable a Friend as you. You wish to hear “how our Confederation goes on.” I do not wonder at your Anxiety to have it completed, for it appears to me to be a Matter of very great Importance. We every now and then take it into Consideration, but such a Variety of Affairs have demanded the At tention of Congress, that it has been impracticable hitherto to get it through. There are but two or three things which in my opinion will be the Subjects of further Debate, and upon these I believe most if not all the Members have already made up their Minds. One is, what Share of Votes each of the States which differ so much in Wealth and Numbers shall have in determining all Questions. Much has been said upon this weighty Subject, upon the Decision of which depends the Union of the States and the Security of the Liberty of the whole. Perhaps it would be more easy for a disinterested Foreigner to see, than for the


[Page 302]
272 June 30, 1777 united States to fix upon the Principles on which this Question ought in Equity to be decided. The Sentiments in Congress are not various, but, as you will easily conceive, opposite. The Question was very largely debated a few days ago, and I am apt to think it will be tomorrow determind that each State shall have one Vote, but that certain great and very interesting Questions shall have the concurrent Votes of nine States for a Decision. Whether this Composition will go near towards the Preservation of a due Ballance, I wish you to consider, for if your Life and Health is spared to your Country you will have a great Share in the Determination of it hereafter. You have Advices from abroad later than ours. Our last Intelligence I gave you pretty minutely in a Letter which I sent & suppose was deliverd to you by Cap Collins. 2 I find by the Newspapers that the General Assembly under the De nomination of a Convention are formins; a new Constitution. This is a momentous Business; I pray God to direct you! Shall I be favord with your own and others Sentiments upon it. I am greatly afflicted to find that angry Disputes have arisen among my dear Countrymen, at a time especially when perfect good Harmony should subsist and every Heart and Tongue and Hand shd unite in promoting the Establishment of publick Liberty and securing the future Safety and Happiness of our Country. I am sure you will cultivate Harmony among those who love the Country in Sincerity. With Regard to others, I will say in the Aposto- lick Language “I would they were all cut off” (banishd at least) “who trouble you.” Will it too much infringe upon your precious Time, to acquaint Mrs A that I am in good Health and Spirits; and have not opportunity to write to her by this Post. I am with the most friendly Regards to your Lady & Family, very affectionately, yr Freind, S A RC (MHi). 1 Warren’s June 16 letter to Adams is in Warren-Adams Letters, 2:449. 2 See Samuel Adams to James Warren, June 23, 1777. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. Dear Papa 30th June 1777. I just write to inclose you a copy of Gen. Washington’s last letter to Congress & acknowledge the receipt of yr. letter of the 25th past, which I shall answer more fully by Johny, whom if Sam continues to mend, I shall send off in 3 or 4 days from this day. Sam is out of all danger, but not well enough to wait upon me yet. I hope Molly will excuse my de taining him here, tho it may possibly prevent her going to Miss Carroll’s wedding. I refer you to the inclosed newspaper for eastern news. It


[Page 309]
July 1, 1777 279 James Duane to Robert R. Livingston July 1 [1777] Tuesday Yesterday the Committee of the whole House finished their Proceed ings concerning our Revolters and reported them to the House. An unexpected Field of Debate was open’d and some of our neighbors (R.S. 1 in particular) discoverd an Earnestness and Sollicitude that did not belong to a Judge between a State and it’s discontented members. But it was of little avail to object to what had been agreed to by the Committee of the whole House on the most solemn Argument and Debate of which I have been witness. The enclosd Resolutions were finally agreed to by Congress. The two first unanimously, all the rest by a considerable Majority. What was most keenly opposd is the last Resolution respecting Young’s address; because it brought all the pre- ceeding home more pointedly to the Case of New York. 2 This appears to us to be a happy Decision for our State which if not neglected must produce very salutary Consequences. I shoud think it ought to be instantly circulated by handbills throughout every part of the State; and that Commissioners shoud be sent into the three Counties to announce the Resolutions and induce the People to conform to the new Government and avail themselves of its Blessings. We did not think it necessary to press for a Recommendation of Congress to these people to submit to our Jurisdiction; nor for the dismission of Warner’s Regiment. We thought we had obtained what was sufficient for the pres ent. It will depend on the Impression these important Decisions may make on that Regiment & the disaffected at large, whether the former shall be dischargd; & the latter enjoind more directly to a peaceble Conduct. If either shoud be turbulent and be guilty of Acts of Violence or Hostility I presume on proper Application Congress will interpose. A motion came from the southward that the power of the Continent shoud be employd to suppress these Insergents. Another from the same Quarter that Warner’s Regiment shoud be dismissed: but it woud not have been wise to hazard either of them; & a spirit of candour & moderation, which on this occasion distinguishd your Delegates, was of no little Service in the other Points which after the first Debate we saw the finest prospect of obtaining. As I said before these Requisitions are kept in Reserve for a proper Season if they shoud become essential. I beleive the fine Politicians who have workt up this System of Inde pendance have quite enough to digest. It was offensive to Congress in the highest Degree. If I have time I will send you a Copy of these Resolutions by this Conveyance: they go to the Council of Safety. This is a very incorrect Letter. I wish it was transcribed; but have no Leisure to attempt it. If you think any part of it worth communi cating shew it to Jay, Yates, Morris or any other of our Friends; and particularly to my Father in Law whom I hope you sometimes visit.


[Page 313]
July 2, 1777 283 doubt our strength, and fear our return to the former connection. The unre mitting care of the Court of London hath been to cherish and support this way of thinking. It is our business to counteract their plan, by the most frequent & most authentic transmissions of our State & of events here. The first of August I hope to see you in Philadelphia.” Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:310—11. 2 On July 1 Congress approved commissions and instructions for William Lee as commissioner to the king of Prussia and the emperor of Germany and for Ralph Izard as commissioner to the grand duke of Tuscany. JCC, 8:518—22. Jonathan Elmer to George Washington Sir Philadelphia, 2d July 1777 I am extremely sorry that the circumstance of affairs & Gen Howe’s unreasonable demands have hitherto prevented the final settlement of the Cartel for a general exchange of prisoners. I flattered myself when I had the honour of waiting upon your Excellency in March last at Morris Town, on account of my Brother-in-Law John Gibbon, who has long been a prisoner of war in New York, that this matter would, before now, have been fairly compromised, & our prisoners released from their barbarous confinement. At present I see no prospect of so desirable an event taking place. I am therefore, at the earnest request of Mr. Gibbon’s wife, under the necessity of mentioning his name once more to you, & of earnestly solliciting your Excellency, if possible, to procure his exchange or releasement upon parole. If no favourable opportunity is like to offer for accomplishing either of these ends, would it be inconvenient for you to admit his wife & some one of his friends to go to New York to see him, & carry him cloaths & other necessaries? He must undoubtedly stand in great need of them as he has been a prisoner upwards of six months. If Mr. Gibbon cannot be released upon any other terms, his wife begs me to acquaint you that she has engaged a man to go & remain a prisoner in his room, until an exchange can be effected. This to me is a new expedient, of which I can form no Judgment at present. If your Excellency conceives it probable that such a thing could take place, or any other more eligible mode of relief adopted, Should esteem it a singular favour to be speedily informed of it. I have the honour to be, Your Excellency’s most obedient & very Hble Servant, Jonathn. Elmer RC (DLC). Washington evidently forwarded this letter to Elias Boudinot, the commissary of prisoners, because it is now part of the Boudinot Papers at DLC.


[Page 316]
286 July 2, 1777 procured copies, and having obtained leave of absence, is already set out on his journey to the eastward. What may be his views with respect to our dispute, we know not, but to his enmity and officiousness you ought not to be strangers. We have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, honourable gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, Phil. Livingston, Jas. Duane, Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:998. 1 The council of safety had requested an account of these prisoners in a June 19 letter to the New York delegates. See Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:968, 970; and New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, July 8, 1777. 2 The June 30 resolves on the dispute between New York and Vermont. JCC, 8:509-11. New York Delegates to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philadelphia, July 2d, 1777. The Congress have been pleased in consideration of the peculiar situation and distress of our State, to favour us with the grant at the current price of about 2000 bushels of the public salt, which is stored at Plymouth, in the Massachusetts government, and is under the care of Thomas Mumford, Esqr. of Groton, Connecticut. The more effectu ally to relieve our suffering fellow citizens, they have been pleased to direct you, if it can be done without injuring the public service, to ex change for that salt an equal quantity nearer to the borders of our State. This we flatter ourselves will be in your power; and in that case, we beg that you will be so obliging as to forward without delay, an order to the Council of Safety of our State, to authorize them to receive the salt; and in return they will give you an order on Mr. Mumford, to vest in you the property of the salt in his possession. 1 The President has wrote to you on this subject. We beg to be in formed of your resolution. And are, sir, your most obedt. servants. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1000—1001. Addressed: “To Joseph Trumbull Junr. Esqr., Commissary-General.” 1 On this point, see John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull, July 5, 1777, note 2.


[Page 317]
July 3, 1777 287 James Wilson to Arthur St. Clair My dear General Philada. 3d July 1777 Doctor McKenzie sets out for Ticonderoga. I embrace, with Pleasure, the Opportunity of writing to you by him. Some Time ago, the Enemy advanced from Brunswick as far as Somerset Court House. It is probable that their Design was to push for Philadelphia. This, at least, was believed; and the Belief produced the best Effects. The Militia of New Jersey turned out with the greatest Rapidity; and to a Man The Citizens of Philadelphia agreed to suspend their Disputes about the Constitution and to join unanimously in every Measure proper for repelling the Enemy and defending the State. General Washington kept his strong Encampment at Middle Brook. The Body under General Sullivan, consisting of Militia and Reinforce ments of Continental Troops from the Southward, was increasing very fast at Correll’s Ferry. General Howe thought it proper to retire from Somerset to Brunswick, from Brunswick to Amboy; and lately from Amboy to Staten Island. These different Movements have produced frequent Skirmishes, with the Advantage generally on our Side; once on that of the Enemy, so far as gaining three Field Pieces from us and losing, according to the best Accounts, a much greater Number of Men than we lost, can be called an Advantage. Concerning the future Views of the Enemy, the Sentiments expressed here are very different. Some think they mean to push up the North River; others, that they will make an Irruption into New-England; others, that they will come round by Sea to Delaware; others, that they know not what to do. In deed I think it probable that their Plan for the Campaign, if they had a Plan, is very considerably deranged. We hear of no Reinforcements worth mentioning being arrived from Europe. As to the Politics of Pennsylvania—they are not in the Situation I would wish. If a regular System were formed between General Howe and the Friends of our Constitution, his Motions could not have been better timed for them than they have been in two different Instances. When an Opposition has been twice set on Foot; and has twice pro ceeded so far as to become formidable; He has twice by his Marches towards Delaware procured a Cessation. The Assembly have twice taken Advantage of it to promote their own Purposes. Though those in the Opposition generously, and like true Patriots, suspended it while the Approaches of the Enemy were dreaded; the Assembly, just before their Adjournment, and just after this laudable Instance of Conduct was ex hibited, have branded them, in a public Address to the People, with carrying on their Opposition in a Manner improper under any Govern ment. They have agreed, however, at last, to take the Sentiments of the People with Regard to a Convention. What will be the Event, I am uncertain. They have one useful Quality. It would be a Virtue if exerted


[Page 319]
July 4, 1777 289 thence has I think afforded sufficient Proof that he has not been able by Arts or Arms to conquer even one of our smaller States. What his next step will be is uncertain, perhaps he may embark his troops for Philadelphia, or more probably he may attempt a Junction with Bur goyne. If the first, has he to expect more Laurels or better Success than he gaind in Jersey? or, if the latter should be his Choice judge what must be his Prospect. Burgoyne who it is said can not muster more than 7 or 8 thousand will be opposd by our Northern Army & I hope over- whelmd before they approach Albany. How will be followd close by the Army under the immediate Command of G W, at present more than equal in number, in high Spirits, full of the Idea of Victory and daily increasing. Under these unpromising circumstances should he ever com plete a Junction, he will then have to begin an attempt of the most arduous Business of conquering the whole Army of the united States to gether with the numerous, hardy & stubborn Militia of New England. These are my Views of the present State of our military affairs and I am perswaded, when I reflect on the Spirit & Valor discoverd in my Countrymen of Georgia, So & No Carolina, Virginia & Jersey to say nothing of Lexington & Bunker Hill in my own dear native State, Great Britain will ever show herself feeble in her Efforts to conquer America. I beg you to write to me full as often as you can find Leisure, and for my own part I feel a disposition almost to persecute you with my letters but I must conclude with congratulating you on the first Anniversary of American Independence and assuring you that I am unfeignedly and very affectionately, your Friend, S A FC (NN). 1 See Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams, April 1, 1777. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Charles Carroll, Sr. 4th July A.M. 7 o’clock. We had yesterday advices from Gen. St. Clair, who commands at Tionderoga, as low down as the 26th ultimo. 1 The Enemy were ap proaching: their fleet was on the lake, part of it at Crown Point, but uncertain whether they had landed any forces there. They had landed Borne on Chimney point opposite to Crown Point. They had an en campment at Gilliland’s Creek 45 miles below Crown Point: several of our People have been killed or taken by small parties of Indians within a very small distance of our lines at Tionderoga. Our garrison is weak, not exceeding 2500 effectives: however if they defend themselves well, time may be given to collect a force sufficient to prevent the place from falling into the enemy’s hands, but the garrison is badly armed & cloathed. If the Enemy [waste?] away their time & delay their attack


[Page 323]
July 5, 1777 293 The Merit of Br. Genl, Knox is great, and he is beloved by his Corps. How then could it be conceived that Mr. Du Coudrays treaty should not create the greatest confusion among our Officers of Artillery? But these are not the only ones disgusted. Numbers of our Major Generals are injured by an antidate. The 4 Engineers who have arrived this Week disavow in the most preremptory manner being under the Com mand of Mr. Du Coudray who is not of the royal Corps of Engineers. Nor is it usual or convenient that those two Parties should be under the same Guidance. . Mr. De la Balme may be Inspector Genl of Cavalry without umbrage given to any of that Corps. B. Genl Conway resigns upon finding De Borre ranking above him. The first might be ten thousand times more useful to us than the last. Mr. Holzendorf is a fresh Embarrassment in all respects. I much fear that an Instruction, formerly passed in Congress respect ing Foreigners who do not understand our language will be construed as a patent for those who do. It was not intended for that end I assure you. Nothing is more dreaded than such a Construction. 1 I will not multiply words, but conclude by assuring you of my most sincere Esteem as, Sr., Your Friend & very humble Servant, James Lovell RC (PPAmP) 1 Lovell was referring to Congress’ March 13, 1777, resolution directing the Committee of Secret Correspondence “to write to all their ministers and agents abroad, to discourage all gentlemen from coming to America with expectation of employment in the service, unless they are masters of our language and have the best recommendations.” JCC, 7:174. Franklins October 7, , rep y Lovell is in Franklin, Writings (Smyth), 8:65-67. John Adams to Abigail Adams 2d My dear Daughter Philadelphia, July 5th, 1777 Yesterday, being the anniversary of American Independence, was celebrated here with a festivity and ceremony becoming the occasion. I am too old to delight in pretty descriptions, if I had a talent for them, otherwise a picture might be drawn, which would please the fancy of a Whig, at least. . The thought of taking any notice of this day, was not conceived, until the second of this month, and it was not mentioned until the third. It was too late to have a sermon, as every one wished, so this must e deferred another year. Congress determined to adjourn over that day, and to dine together. The general officers and others in town were invited, after the President and Council, and Board of War of this State.


[Page 324]
294 July 5, 1777 In the morning the Delaware frigate, several large gallies, and other continental armed vessels, the Pennsylvania ship and row gallies and guard boats, were all hawled off in the river, and several of them beauti fully dressed in the colours of all nations, displayed about upon the masts, yards, and rigging. At one o’clock the ships were all manned, that is, the men were all ordered aloft, and arranged upon the tops, yards, and shrowds, making a striking appearance—of companies of men drawn up in order, in the air. Then I went on board the Delaware, with the President and several gentlemen of the Marine Committee, soon after which we were saluted with a discharge of thirteen guns, which was followed by thirteen others, from each other armed vessel in the river; then the gallies fol lowed the fire, and after them the guard boats. Then the President and company returned in the barge to the shore,' and were saluted with three cheers, from every ship, galley, and boat in the river. The wharves and shores, were lined with a vast concourse of people, all shouting and huzzaing, in a manner which gave great joy to every friend to this country, and the utmost terror and dismay to every lurking tory. At three we went to dinner, and were very agreeably entertained with excellent company, good cheer, fine music from the band of Hes sians taken at Trenton, and continual vollies between every toast, from a company of soldiers drawn up in Second-street before the city tavern, where we dined. The toasts were in honour of our country, and the heroes who have fallen in their pious efforts to defend her. After this, two troops of light-horse, raised in Maryland, accidentally here in their way to camp, were paraded through Second-street, after them a train of artillery, and then about a thousand infantry, now in this city on their march to camp, from North Carolina. All these marched into the common, where they went through their firings and manoeuvres; but I did not follow them. In the evening, I was walking about the streets for a little fresh air and exercise, and was surprised to find the whole city lighting up their candles at the windows. I walked most of the evening, and I think it was the most splendid illumination I ever saw; a few surly houses were dark; but the lights were very universal. Considering the lateness of the design and the suddenness of the execution, I was amazed at the universal joy and alacrity that was discovered, and at the brilliancy and splendour of every part of this joyful exhibition. I had forgot the ringing of bells all day and evening, and the bonfires in the streets, and the fireworks played off. Had General Howe been here in disguise, or his master, this show would have given them the heart-ache. I am your affectionate father, John Adams MS not found; reprinted from Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:274-75.


[Page 325]
July 5, 1777 295 Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell D r Sir Philadelphia July 5th 1777 Your several favours of 10th & 11th ulto have come to hand, 1 and you may rely on my best attention to all your commands. Mr Penn is arrived, and has brought the papers necessary for obtain ing the money, but the Treasury being very nearly exhausted of all former emissions I fear we must wait some time before we can procure a sum from one lately voted adequate to the demand. We have however obtained an order of Treasury for three hundred thousand dollars to be delivered at Baltimore where the press and Signers are, and the Board of War are properly instructed to forward it without delay. 2 I observe the Resolve of the Assembly directs the Delegates to send forward 250,000 dollars and the residue of the 500,000 not drawn for under this Resolve, or previous thereto. Two difficulties occur. Are the 250,000 to be considered as part of the 500,000, or are they to be an additional demand? Are the Delegates to send this money at the risque of the State, and not in the usual way under the direction of the Board of War? The latter I can not think to have been intended by the Assembly, and therefore I have ventured to advise its being sent at the risque of the Continent in the usual way. In this Mr Penn concurs with me. The former question I can not decide upon, but until it is more clearly expressed must suppose it is intended as part of the 500,000 dollars. We know not what sums have been drawn for by the Treasurers. Mr Johnston did indeed always advise me of his draughts, but Mr Ash did not, and want of information on this head obliges me to retain two hundred thousand dollars to be applied in payment of all the bills drawn heretofore by the treasurers. I perceive Mr Penn had a bill from Mr Ash in his own favor for sixty odd thousand dollars, on what account this is, I know not, or under what authority Mr Ash has drawn it. But I shall take no notice of it as a public transaction until I see some Resolution of the Assembly which gave rise to it. Your bill in favor of Mr Ellis has been paid, the others are not yet arrived. Nothing material has happened since I wrote you last, except the celebration of the fourth of July (the Anniversary of the declaration of Independence). You will see it at large in the enclosed paper, but one thing is remarkable, this day, and the 28th of June, memorable for the defence of Sullivan’s Island, were both celebrated here, and at both a Hessian band of music which were taken at Princetown performed very delightfully, the pleasure being not a little heightened by the reflection that they were hired by the British Court for purposes very different from those to which they were applied. 3


[Page 330]
300 July 5, 1777 Marine Committee to John Young Sir July 5th. 1777 It is expected that the Continental Sloop Independence under your command is now ready to proceed to France agreeable to the directions sent you a few days since. 1 You will receive herewith sundry dispatches from the Committee of Foreign Affairs and Secret Committee 2 respect ing which you will obey such orders as they may give. You are to. proceed in Said Sloop from Senepuxent for the Port of Nantes in France where you must apply to William Lee and Thomas Morris Esquires Commercial Agents of the United States and they will supply you with Money to defray the expences of your Journay from thence to Paris and back. Whilst you are on that journay your Lieutenant must employ the Crew in heaving down, Cleaning and refitting the Sloop, and in getting all such things done to her as may be necessary. The Agents will supply the Money and other articles proper on this Occasion for amount whereof you must grant them receipts. You must give directions also to your Lieutenant and other Officers to engage as many Seamen as possible that you may return full manned—the more the better only taking care to lay in a Stock of Provisions proportioned to the number of men you get. You are to receive from the Honorable Docter Franklin and the other Commissioners at Paris all Letters and dispatches they have to Send, and to wait any time they may think proper to detain you. You are to receive from the Commercial Agents any goods they have to send out by the Sloop and bring from [them] also all Letters and Packets they have to send. Should the Honorable Commissioners think it necessary to detain you any time for their dispatches, it may probably be an eligible plan for you to make a Cruize on our enemies Trade from which you may return at an appointed Time for their dispatches & then also take in such goods as may be ready. This you may propose to the Commissioners and to the Agents. If you are fortunate enough to take any Prizes you will send them to Address of said Agents, who will receive the Continental Share and divide the other as it ought. When you are dispatched from France you must make the best of your way for this Coast and get into the first safe port you can, im mediately bringing to us all the dispatches and Letters, which both going & Coming have always ready Slung to a weight sufficient to Sink them, and if you perceive an inevitable misfortune put them into the Sea for they must not on any Account fall into the enemies hands. You must duely observe the Instructions of the Navy Board, preserve strict discipline but use your Officers & men well that they may be fond of the service—treat Prisoners with humanity and in All things


[Page 333]
July 5, 1777 303 I dont know but I transgress the Rules We all sign in divulging any Matters sub Judice & unfinished in Congress, but I cant refrain from mentioning important matters to one who has so good a right to know & to whom I & even the Continent are subject to great Obligations but Sr. you will not make them to be publick nor known as from me especially. The Prices of every thing here are most alarmingly extravagant, much owing to the malicious Cunning of our worst Enemys, the Torys, & coinciding with the boundless avarice of the Merchants, whose Gain is the summum Bonum, & all the God they seem to know, in these parts. Nothing to be done by Congress, because, forsooth, it will be interfering with the internal Police of this grand State, in this respect the mother of Harlots &c. The principle properly applied is however very im portant. Congress seems to be chaind to this place, & the longer they stay, the stronger a multitude of offices & officers are established & em ployed in this City, & some of the worst men in some of them. Yesterday was in my opinion poorly spent in celebrating the anni versary of the Declaration of Independance, but to avoid singularity & Reflection upon my dear Colony, I thot it my Duty to attend the public Entertainment. A great Expenditure of Liquor, Powder &c took up the Day, & of Candles thro the City, good part of the night, I suppose. I conclude much Tory unilluminated Glass will want replacing &c. Dr. Young died lately of a Fever caught in attending the Congress Hospitals in the City, & was buried the day we came into Town. Poor man He now knows the reality of Things, he lately disputed & dis believed. Can find out very little of his last Ideas but believe he died just as he lived, expecting if there was a future State that a man of his Benevolence must be happy. Am extreamly sorry I can not write my hond & worthy Friend, Genl Huntington, & Mr. Hosmer whose Letters I have reed. & shall acknowledge soon as possible. My apology will be I dare say in their opinion sufficient. The Rhumatic Pain that had for long afflicted my right Arm, has a few days since suddenly fallen into my wrist, which is much swolen, has been in great Pain day & night, feels as hot & looks like the Skin of a roasted Pig. It is with much pain I write this, & were it not better than yesterday, it wod have been impossible. They will accept my best Compliments. I had also a Letter from my most dear Mrs. Williams, it is peculiarly serious I cant write her, please to remember me to her with most tender Affection, & my other dear Friends. May God in infinite Mercy save this People from their Sins & remove his Judgments. I am with all pos sible esteem, affection & Respect, your most dutiful obedient, Son & Servant, W. Williams [P.S.] Our Lodgings are at present inconvenient, but excessive dear &c.


[Page 337]
July 7, 1777 307 Liberty. But there was not one Member of Congress who dared to justify the Letters, very few who could say a Word in Mitigation or Excuse. It was universally considered as betraying the Liberties of the People to pass them by unanswered. Some were more for dismissing all three of you instantly from the service, others for ordering you to Philadelphia, under arrest to answer for this offence. The Resolution expresses an Expectation that some Acknowledgment or Apology will be made. I sincerely hope it will, for I think that in a cool Reconsideration of those Letters, the Impropriety and Danger of them must be manifest. I would be far from dictating to you, or giving Advice unasked, but I really think, that a Declaration that you had no Intention to influence Congress, to contemn its authority or infringe the Liberties of the People or the Priviledges of Congress, a Declaration that you have the fullest Confidence in the Justice of Congress and their Deliberations for the public Good, is the best that you can do, provided you can do this with Truth and sincerity, if not I think you ought to leave the service. LB (MHi). 1 Letters to Congress from Greene and Henry Knox, who threatened to resign if Du Coudray’s contract was honored, were read in Congress on July 5. Con gress had already received a similar letter from Gen. John Sullivan on July 3 and immediately resolved to accept his resignation if it were formally tendered, condemning his letter as an unwarranted attempt to “control” Congress, but as this entry has been deleted from the journals it seems apparent that Congress decided against treating Sullivan’s case separately and reopened it when the letters from Greene and Knox arrived. JCC, 8:527-28, 531; PCC, item 155, 1:35 and item 78, 13:439; and Sullivan, Letters (Hammond), 1:403. On July 7 Congress forcefully denounced the three generals’ threats to resign as “an attempt to influence their decisions, and an invasion of the liberties of the people, and indicating a want of confidence in the justice of Congress.” JCC, 8:537. See also Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, and James Lovell to William Whipple, this date; and James Lovell to General Washington, July 25, 1777. Du Coudray was ultimately authorized to serve as a volunteer with the Con tinental Army, but before he could assume his duties he drowned in the Schuylkill River on September 15, 1777. JCC, 8:740, 751, 845. According to James Lovell, Du Coudray had only been appointed a brevet captain. Lovell to William Whipple, September 17, 1777. For a subsequent summary view of the problem of foreign officers, see Com mittee for Foreign Affairs to the American Commissioners at Paris, December 1, 1777. John Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia July 7. 1777 Yours of June 22d reed only to day. We have no Thoughts of leaving


[Page 342]
312 July 7, 1777 feasibility of the petitioners’ request. For the printers’ responses, one of which is dated July 10, 1777, see PCC, item 46, 1:155-73. The committee eventually reported against the petitioners’ recommendation because of the expense and difficulties involved in procuring the proper types and paper for such an edition of the Bible, and Congress instead adopted the committee’s recommendation to “order the Committee of Commerce to import 20,000 Bibles from Holland, Scotland, or elsewhere.” JCC, 8:733—35. As this decision was not reached until September 11, the day of the battle of Brandy wine and only one week before Congress was forced to flee from Philadelphia, no action was taken to implement this order. Another document related to the committee’s work in the summer of 1777, bearing the heading “Regulations proposed for the Printing of a Bible for com mon Use under the Direction & by the Authority of Congress,” is also located in PCC. See item 46, 1:163-64. It consists of 15 articles pertaining to the pro duction of an American edition of the Bible to be carried out under the “In spection” of Congress and essentially endorses the proposals embodied in the petitioners’ memorial. Indeed it may have been drafted as the committee’s original report, although the report finally read in Congress on September 11 rejected the practicality of executing such an American edition and recom mended instead importing 20,000 Bibles. It has been printed in William H. Gaines, Jr., “The Continental Congress Considers the Publication of a Bible, 1777,” Studies in Bibliography 3 (1950-51): 275-76, where it has been mis identified as the petition of the Presbyterian ministers. It was not until 1782 that the first English language American edition of the Old and New Testaments finally appeared. For information on the circumstances that led to the publication of Robert Aitken’s edition of the Bible, which ap peared with an official congressional endorsement of September 12, 1782, see Margaret T. Hills, “The First American Bible, as Published by Robert Aitken,” Bible Society Record 113 (January 1968): 2-5; and JCC, 19:91, 23:572-74. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia July the 7th 1777 I wrote you a few days agoe by Coll. Stewart which hope you have Recievd. We have in the Course of a few days recieved some Very Unpolite letters from two or three Gentn of high rank & Esteem in the Army Viz Genlls Green, Sullivan & Knox. If they had prudently wrote the same Matter to any particular friend Member of Congress & he had divulged it to his brethren no offence would have been taken & it might have Answered every valuable purpose, but to write to Congress as a Body while they had a matter under consideration (I mean the affair of the Command of Monsr. de Coudre) to dictate to or Influence their Conduct is looked upon by many as the highest Insult and Indignity & which they cannot pass by without the severest Censure, or Otherwise must give up their own dignity & superiority to a few Gentn of the Army, & who will Assume for the future to dictate & Influence all their measures, or if Congress do not at once Yield they will resign their Com missions, break up the Army & leave their Country to the total desolation & Subjection of the Enemy. This is the Construction many


[Page 347]
July 8, 1777 317 not settled the matter or General Washington would have rec’d the Resolves. If they chose to take it for a thing done why did they not ask leave to retire without any ifs. There is as much pulling and hauling, about rank and pay, as if we had been accustomed to a military estab lishment here 150 years. That same Mr Nicholas Davis who got the money of our Commis sioners and then drew a Bill of Exchange upon them in France, and afterwards imposed upon Bingham, is now here. He turned an evidence against the Seine to condemn her; and yet has had the impudence to come hither. He is a meagre, smooth tongued, sly chap and I believe will go unpunished for he has nothing but dress; and to make him rot in jail will not regain the money. I have much to scrawl in the morning both public and private, and it is now past one o’clock as a noisy chap tells me from the street. But I will not take his hint till I have presented my affectionate compliments to your Lady, your brothers and sisters, and any others who love you and do not hate me; further you need not go, for you know I never pretended to the sublime pitch of loving my enemies. Tell thy African I miss him and his many willing services. I reckon his full joy at getting away from Philadelphia may have intoxicated his former philosophic resolutions, so far as to make him risk becoming the author of a Slave in the early hours of his return to Portsmouth. Messrs Dyer, Williams and Law have been here 10 days, so that father Sherman is by this time, like your Honor, vigorously serving his country in connection with his nearest dearest friend. Good night, say morning, Tr(DLC). 1 Benjamin Harrison was not named to the Committee of Commerce when it was reconstituted as the successor of the Secret Committee on July 5, 1777. JCC, 8:533-34. 2 For a discussion of the complaints against Richard Henry Lee, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, May 26, 1777. 3 Lovell is simply alluding to his correspondent William Whipple. 4 The Committee for Foreign Affairs dispatched the sloop Independence. See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Arthur Lee, August 8, 1777. 5 See Committee for Foreign Affairs to Commissioners at Paris, July 2, 1777. 6 The references are to Elbridge Gerry and Samuel Adams, James Duane and Jonathan Elmer. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 8. 1777 Tuesday Yours of June 23d have received. I believe there is no Danger of an Invasion your Way, but the Designs of the Enemy are uncertain and


[Page 348]
318 July 8, 1777 their Motions a little misterious. Before this Letter is sealed, which will not be till Sunday next, I hope I shall be able to inform you better. I rejoice at your fine Season, and at my Brother Cranches Attention to Husbandry. Am very glad he bought the Farm, and that he likes it so well. I pant for domestic Life, and rural Felicity like his. I am better than I have been. But I dread the Heats, which are coming on. This Day compleats Six Months since I left you. I am wasted and exhausted in Mind and Body, with incessant Application to Business, but if I can possibly endure it, will hold out the Year. It is nonsense to dance backwards and forwards. After this Year I shall take my Leave. Our Affairs are in a fine prosperous Train, and if they continue so, I can leave this Station with Honour. Next Month compleats Three Years, that I have been devoted to the Servitude of Liberty. A slavery it has been to me, whatever the World may think of it. To a Man, whose Attachments to his Family, are as strong as mine, Absence alone from such a Wife and such Children, would be a great sacrifice. But in Addition to this Seperation, what have I not done? What have I not suffered? What have I not hazarded? These are Questions that I may ask you, but I will ask such Questions of none else. Let the Cymballs of Popularity tinckle still. Let the Butterflies of Fame glitter with their Wings. I shall envy neither their Musick nor their Colours. The Loss of Property affects me little. All other hard Things I despize, but the Loss of your Company and that of my dear Babes for so long a Time, I consider as a Loss of so much solid Happiness. The tender social Feelings of my Heart, which have distressed me beyond all Utterance, in my most busy, active scaenes, as well as in the numerous Hours of melancholly solitude, are known only to God and my own soul. How often have I seen my dearest Friend a Widow and her Charm ing Prattlers Orphans, exposed to all the Insolence of unfeeling im pious Tyrants! Yet, I can appeal to my final Judge, the horrid Vision has never for one Moment shaken the Resolution of my Heart. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:276—77. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office July 8th 1777 The Generals & Officers in the Northern Department complain


[Page 354]
324 July 8, 1777 John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philada. July 8th. 1777. 1 I inclose to you sundry Commissions for Officers in your Depart ment, which I must request you will please to deliver to them. The Congress being informed, that the Price of Cattle in this State is very exorbitant, think it adviseable that as few should be purchased therein as may be; and have come to the enclosed Resolve, directing you to give your Agents Instructions to govern themselves accordingly. 2 Your Favour of the 7th I duely received and laid before Congress. 3 I am, with Respect, Sir, your most obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt. RC (Ct). 1 Trumbull also received yet another letter written by a delegate this date. The following brief note from James Lovell is in the Joseph Trumbull Papers, CtHi. “I have yours of the 5th. The order is certainly forwarded. Mr. Bates disap pointed both the president and Coll. Dyer by his sudden departure. You will see by the Dates of my scrawls, that I do write. Tho’ as I depend on others to forward, I suppose you find some of them mouldy. I will be longer by the post.” 2 This resolve had been passed on June 27. JCC, 8:504—5. 3 See Hancock to Joseph Trumbull, July 5, 1777, note 2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. July 8th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit at this Time Copies of three Letters from Generals Sullivan, Green, and Knox, to Congress, the Receipt of which, as the Contents were highly derogatory to the Honour and Justice of Congress, could not fail to be extremely displeasing. They have therefore come to the enclosed Resolve on the Subject, 1 to which, as it clearly expresses their Sense of the Impropriety of the Conduct of those Officers, I beg Leave to refer your Attention, and to request you will make them acquainted therewith. Your Favour of the 7th Instant I this Morning received, and in a few Minutes shall lay it before Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt P.S. 5 O’Clock P.M. Since writing the foregoing, the enclosed Resolu tions of this Day have been passed, 3 which I transmit for your Informa tion. RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 For a discussion of this resolution, which reprobated the threats of Generals Greene, Knox, and Sullivan to resign in protest against Philippe Du Coudray’s


[Page 355]
July 8, 1777 325 contract and ordered their offending letters to be sent to Washington, see John Adams to Nathanael Greene, July 7, 1777. 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:327-28, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 8:366-67. 3 These resolves pertained to Delaware River defenses, the appointment of certain French officers, and Gen. Horatio Gates. JCC, 8:538—40. For the resolve pertaining to the use of Virginia and North Carolina troops on the defensive works at Billingsport, which was initiated at the request of the Pennsylvania delegates on instruction from the Pennsylvania Council, see also Pa. Council Minutes, 11:236, 242. New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety Honourable Gentlemen, Philadelphia, 8th July, 1777. Since our last letter of the 4th instant, 1 the President, at our request, has written to Commissary Trumbull, on the subject of the exchange of the salt appropriated to our State, and we hope this formality will give weight to our own solicitations. We transmit you the secret committee’s order in our favour, on Mr. Mumford, their agent for the salt at Plymouth, and our transfer to you. A copy of our letter to Commissary Trumbull, 2 we also enclose, from which last you will be pleased to observe, that for the sake of despatch, we have requested him to correspond on the subject immediately with yourselves. Salt continues to be very scarce here and to the southward, the coast being closely watched by the enemy’s ships. Mr. Lewis writes from Baltimore the 23rd of June, that two small vessels had arrived there with that article from Virginia, purchased by a private trader, who asked for it no less than £5 a bushel. As we cannot at present expect to get it delivered at this place for a less price, we must request your di rections, whether we shall proceed to purchase, and what quantity? With these despatches we forward a calendar, returned to us by the jailer, of the prisoners sent from our State to Philadelphia, and the time and manner of their discharge. 3 Sutton, whose name you will not ob serve, never was committed to prison, but left at large, and finally re leased on his parol at General Morris’s intercession, who, it seems, enter tained an opinion of him much too favourable. Finding that our constitution was published on very mean paper, without any marginal notes of the contents, we thought it would not be disagreeable to our State to have an impression struck off here, and we took the same opportunity to have printed the resolutions of Congress respecting the independent government attempted to be established within our jurisdiction; we now forward them to be disposed of as you shall direct. 4


[Page 356]
326 July 8, 1777 If our State is likely to be pressed both from the north and the south, which, however rash and desperate, is an enterprise which the enemy once seriously contemplated, and now seems at least as practicable as the conquest of Pennsylvania, you will have but little time to apply to domestic concerns, however urgent; and this may possibly induce you to wish that the publication of the decision of Congress respecting our revolted subjects, may for some time be deferred. From these considera tions, we shall refrain from communicating a single copy; but it must be remembered that Mr. Roger Sherman, who is gone to the eastward, was furnished with one, and there is too much room to apprehend that he may forward it to his friends in New-Connecticut. We have taken the liberty to retain your letter to Congress, of the 17th of June, and the several enclosures. Already have we employed so much of their time on the affairs of our State, that good policy strongly urges us to give them some respite; and as the subject matter of those despatches though of some moment to our State, requires no immediate decision, we flatter ourselves that you will not be displeased with our reserve. The reasons you assign to show that the defence of Hudson’s river ought to be a Continental charge, appears to us to be very cogent; and they must always have great weight; and we therefore make no scruple in recommending that all the expenses be charged to the account of the Continent, comprehending even such as may accrue subsequent to the late resolutions of Congress pointing out a discrimination; for, had the transaction been fully explained, we cannot think those resolu tions would have passed. 5 We have the honour to be, with great respect, Honl. gentlemen, Your most obedient humble servants, Phil. Livingston, Jas. Duane, Wm. Duer. Reprinted from Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:999-1000. 1 Not found. 2 See New York Delegates to Joseph Trumbull, July 2, 1777. 3 This item is printed in Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1000, under the heading “A List of the York Tories lately confined in the State Prison, Phila- dephia.” 4 Full bibliographical information about these two publications is given in Evans, Am. Bibliography, nos. 15474, 15673. 5 The council of safety’s June 17 request for congressional funding for the defense of the Hudson is discussed more fully in New York Delegates to the New York Council of Safety, May 31, 1777, note 3. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Philadelphia July 8th 1777 We have obtained an order of Congress to the Treasurer, who has


[Page 361]
July 10, 1777 331 We have the Honour to be, with great Respect, your most Obedient huml Servants, Jas. Duane P.S. Mr. Livingston and Mr. Duer are attending Congress, and Mr. Child going off, which prevents their subscribing this letter. RC (MeHi). Journals of N.Y. Prov. Cong., 1:1000. RC damaged; dateline and postscript supplied from Tr. 1 This “new and extraordinary Declaration,” approved on June 4 by the “General Convention” of the “State of Vermont,” is in E. P. Walton, ed., Records of the Governor and Council of Vermont, 7 vols. (Montpelier, Vt.: J. & J.M. Poland, 1873-80), 1:54-57. 2 Congress’ June 30 resolves on Vermont appeared in the Pennsylvania Even ing Post on August 7 and in other Philadelphia newspapers during the following week. The Vermont Convention’s June 4 declaration was not printed in any Philadelphia newspaper, nor have any “Observations” on it by Duane or the New York delegates been found. See JCC, 8:508-11. John Hancock to the Massachusetts Assembly Gentlemen, Philada. July 10th. 1777. I do myself the Honour to enclose to you Copies of sundry Papers, transmitted to Congress by the State of North Carolina, accompanied with the Resolution of Congress founded thereon. From this you will learn, that a Brig belonging to two Gentlemen of that State, Mr. Smith and Mr. Hewes, was some Time ago captured by a certain Brazilla Smith Commander of the Privateer Eagle, said to be owned by Mr. Elijah Freeman Payne of the Town of Boston. The Congress therefore have recommended it to the State of Massachusetts Bay, to enquire into the Matter, and unless the Master and Owner can shew sufficient Cause to the contrary, to order full Restitution to be made, and the Offenders to be punished. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to the Resolve and also to the Papers. 1 Mr. Hewes, who is the Bearer hereof, and one of the Owners of the Brig, was a Member of Congress for a considerable Length of Time in the Representation from the State of North Carolina. From the en closed Memorial you will perceive, the Sense his Constituents entertain of his Merit—to which I shall only add, that his Conduct as an in flexible Patriot, and his Liberality as a Gentleman, justly entitle him not only to their Protection, but to the Notice and Protection of every good Citizen, and Friend of America. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (M-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 For a fuller discussion of the case of the Joseph, see William Hooper to Joseph Hewes, January 1, 1777.


[Page 362]
332 July 10, 1777 Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board In Marine Committee Philadelphia 10 July, 1777 Whereas by a Resolve of Congress the Nineteenth day of April 1777 You were appointed a Board of Assistants to the Marine Committee to Reside at or in the Neighborhood of Boston, in the State of Massachu setts Bay, with Power to adjourn to any Part of New England, and to have the Superintendance of all Naval and Marine Affairs of the United States of America within the four Eastern States under the direction of the Marine Committee. 1 You are immediately to repair to Boston and having there met ap point a Clerk properly Qualified and of undoubted attachment to the Interest and Independence of the United States of America. You are to superintend and direct whatever relates to the building, Manning and fitting for Sea all Armed Vessels of the United States built or ordered by the Congress to build in the Eastern Department, and to provide all materials and Stores necessary for that purpose, sub ject to such Orders as you may from Time to Time receive from Congress or the Marine Committee. You are to collect in due season all fit and necessary materials of every kind, for the above purposes and such materials as you may not be able to provide and Shall Judge necessary to be imported. You are timely to report to the Marine Committee the Kinds and Quality of each and how and upon what terms they may be imported by you or any Persons you may be authorized to appoint within your District. You are to receive and settle all accounts relative to the above business and also all such Accounts as Shall be refered to you by the Marine Committee. You are to keep an exact Register of all the Officers, Sailors and Marines in the Continental Navy fitted and Manned within your Dis trict and the same transmit to the Marine Committee. You are to require all Captains or Commanders of Continental Arm’d Vessels coming into any port within your District to make return to you of the Officers, Sailors and Marines on Board their Vessels and of the State and Condition of their Vessels and Stores, and you are to transmit Duplicates thereof to the Marine Committee. You are to apply to the Marine Committee from Time to Time for such sums of Money as may be necessary in your Department. You will cause your Clerk duely to Register every Continental Vessel that hath been, or shall be Built within your district, which Register Shall contain the Name, Dimentions, Burthen, Number of Guns, Tackle, Apparel and Furniture of the said Vessels and transmit a Copy thereof to the Marine Committee. You will direct the Oconomy of all Continental Vessels and ascertain the Modes in which their Accounts shall be kept on board and how re-


[Page 363]
July 10, 1777 333 turns shall be made, not contrary to any that may be, or have been directed by Congress or the Marine Committee you are hereby required to keep fair books of all expenditures of Publick Moneys for the Navy within your department which Books shall at all Times be subject to the Inspection & examination of Congress and the Marine Committee or of such Persons as they may Authorize and appoint for that Purpose and you are to render Accounts of your disbursements Annually or Oftener if required. You are hereby empower’d to order Courts Martial in all Cases where the Commanding officers shall refuse, or neglect the same and it shall appear to you requisite; and (in the absence of the Commander in Chief) in all cases where the Commander in chief only is Authorized thereto by the Resolutions of Congress. When any Continental Ships of War comes into any port within your District, you are immediately to give Notice to the Marine Committee of her Arrival and the time it will require to fit and equip her for Sea again in Order that Instructions may be sent by said Committee for such Ships future destination. By order of the Marine Board, John Hancock Presidt. Tr (RNHi). Addressed: “To William Vernon, James Warren, & John Deshon Esqrs.” 1 See Marine Committee to the Eastern Navy Board, June 26, 1777, note 1. Robert Morris to John Langdon Sir Philada. July 10th. 1777 I have your favour of the 16th Ulto. and find Ships have got up beyond their Value with you as well as in other places therefore must wait for a better time to execute my plan, 1 but whenever you see an opportunity of buying a good Vessell fit to carry a Cargo of Rice from Georgia to Europe, and can get her on reasonable, terms I request you will do it and send her to Mr Wereat as mentioned in my letter of the 20th May, 2 and I also confirm what is said in mine of the 18th Ulto. respecting the Sugars. With respect to the plan of Importing Goods from France in French bottoms as you propose there is but one objec tion, & that is, You must load the Vessell & thereby make the Concern too Valuable (unless you take in a good many partners) and by ex perience I know that it is difficult to Charter Vessells in France on reasonable terms, for I have made the attempt without Success. Now if you can find in any of the Ports of France Ships really bound to Miquelon that will take in freight, we might order more or less Goods out as shou’d best suit us, and that wou’d depend a good deal on the Remittances we might get safe to Europe for I wou’d not wish any Goods out but what we paid ready Money for. If you & Colo. Whipple


[Page 364]
334 July 10, 1777 will mention what Sum you will embark in this business I will engage an equal Sum for Mr Nesbitt & my self and set about the execution of it immediately. My Compts. to Colo. Whipple. I shall be glad to hear from him & am, D sir, Your Obedt hbl servt. Robt Morris RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). 1 See Morris to John Langdon, June 18, 1777. 2 Not found. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia July 11. 1777 This Letter will go by the Hand of the Honourable Samuel Hewes Esqr., 1 one of the Delegates in Congress from North Carolina, from the Month of September 1774, untill 1777. I had the Honour to serve with him upon the naval Committee, who laid the first Foundations, the Comer Stone of an American navy, by fitting to Sea the Alfred, Columbus, Cabott, Andrew Doria, Providence, and several others. An Honour, that I make it a Rule to boast of, upon all Occasions, and I hope my Posterity will have Reason to boast. . . , 2 Hewes has a sharp Eye and keen, penetrating Sense, but what is of much more Value is a Man of Honour and Integrity. If he should call upon you, and you should be about, I hope you will treat him with all the Complaisance that is due to his Character. I almost envy him his Journey, altho he travells for his Health, which at present is infirm. I am yours, yours, yours, John Adams My dearest Friend We have had no News from Camp for 3 or 4 days. Mr. How, by the last Advices, was maneuvring his Fleet and Army in such a Manner, as [to] give Us Expectations of an Expedition, some where. But whether to Rhode Island, Hallifax, up the North River or the Delaware, is left to Conjecture. I am much in doubt whether he knows his own Inten tions. A Faculty of penetrating into the Designs of an Enemy is said to be the first Quality of a General. But it is impossible to discover the De signs of an Enemy who has no Design at all. An Intention that has no Existence, a Plan that is not laid, cannot be divined. Be his Intentions what they may, you have nothing to fear from him—He has not force to penetrate the Country any where. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:280. 1 That is, Joseph Hewes. 2 Suspension points in MS.


[Page 369]
July 13, 1777 339 John Penn to Richard Caswell Dear Sir, Philada. July 12th 1777 Having been informed that the Troops belonging to our State could not part with the money they brought with them, but at a very great loss, Doctor Burke and myself thought it reasonable to exchange with the Men, by giving them an equal number of Continental dollars, which Mr. Blunt at our request did, amounting in the whole to 2485 1/2 dollars agreeable to the inclosed list—we hope the money will be of use with you, indeed it was lost to the Soldiers here. We have Imployed Lieut. John Allen to Conduct the money from Baltimore and have requested Mr. Helligrass to dispatch him as soon as possibly he can. You will receive the above quantity of dollars be sides the 300,000 sent by the Congress, the whole is to be Conducted at the expence of the Continent. It is still uncertain what General Howe means to do as he remains between Staten Island & New York. Genl. Burgoyne is in the Neighbor hood of Ticonderoga, his force is not known. I am afraid we shall not be able to keep that Fort. Your son is very well, our Troops are near this City waiting for Genl. Howe’s movement. With great respect, I am, Dear Sir, Your ob. Serv. John Penn [P.5.] Doct. Burke was out of the way so could not sign this letter. MS not found; reprinted from N.C. State Records, 11:736. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend Philadelphia July 13. 1777 We have a confused Account, from the Northward, of Something Unlucky, at Ticonderoga, but cannot certainly tell what it is. 1 I am much afraid, We shall loose that Post, as We did Forts Wash ington and Lee, and indeed, I believe We shall if the Enemy surround it. But it will prove no Benefit to them. I begin to Wish there was not a Fort upon the Continent. Discipline and Disposition, are our Resources. It is our Policy to draw the Enemy into the Country, where We can avail ourselves of Hills, Woods, Walls, Rivers, Defiles &c. untill our Soldiers are more inured to War. How and Burgoine will not be able to meet, this Year, and if they were met, it would only be better for Us, for We should draw all our Forces to a Point too. If they were met, they could not cutt off the Communication, be tween the Northern and Southern States. But if the Communication


[Page 370]
340 July 13, 1777 was cutt off for a Time, it would be no Misfortune, for New England would defend itself, and the Southern States would defend themselves. Coll. Miles is come out of N. York on his Parol. His account is, as I am informed, that Mr. Howes Projects are all deranged. His Army has gone round the Circle and is now encamped on the very Spot where he was a Year ago. The Spirits of the Tories are sunk to a great Degree, and those of the Army too. The Tories have been elated with Prospects of coming to this City, and tryumphing, but are miserably disappointed. The Hessians are disgusted, and their General De Heister gone home, in a Miff. 2 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:281. 1 On July 5—6 Gen. Arthur St. Clair evacuated Fort Ticonderoga after Gen. John Burgoyne’s maneuvers had rendered its defense untenable. Don Higgin botham, The War of American Independence (New York: Macmillan Co., 1971), pp. 189-90. See also John Hancock to Philip Schuyler, July 14, 1777. 2 The recall of Lt. Gen. Leopold Philipp, Freiherr von Heister, commander of the Hessian troops in Sir William Howe’s army, was apparently arranged by Howe after the 1776 New York campaign, although von Heister did not leave the army until June 22, 1777. Edward J. Lowell, The Hessians and the Other German Auxiliaries of Great Britain in the Revolutionary War (Williams town, Mass.: Corner House Publishers, 1970, reprint ed.), pp. 113-15. Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, Philadelphia July 13th. 1777 I wrote the Governor and Company by the last Post and enclosed Them an Order of Congress upon the Loan Office State of Rhode Island &c for 190,000 Dollars which I hope will come to Hand. I now enclose Your Honor the Resolves of the Marine Comee. passed March the 25th 1777, 1 respecting the Contracts made by some of the Officers &c of Commodore Hopkins’s Fleet when in Deleware River. As the Complaints in Consequence of that Contract have still continued notwithstanding those Resolves were forwarded long ago to the Con tinental Agents; by order of the Marine Comee I sent a Copy of them to the Agent Mr. Tillinghast by the last Post, supposing it possible They might have miscarried before. 2 And as I never heard of Them before I left the State, for that Reason I have enclosed them to your Honor. Our Accounts from the Northward are very unfavourable, but at the same Time so confused that no certainty can be collected. Yet we are very apprehensive that Ti is in the Hands of the Enemy, with all the Cannon & Stores, if not the Garrison. To what Causes this Misfortune must have arisen Time only can unfold. If the Case is so, We are not to dispond but rise with new Vigour and manly Fortitude. Let New Eng land now shew Her Prowess, Her Vigilance and Her every Virtue. Let


[Page 371]
July 14, 1777 341 us rise at Once, as tho’ collected into One Soul. Let us meet the Enemy where their Ships cannot avail Them—upon equal Ground, and by the Blessing of Heaven Success, Victory and Honor must attend us. Let not the Jersey Militia have the only Honor of riding Their Country of the Enemies of Mankind by a United, brave Effort. I only wish New- England may maintain that Character She hath hitherto entitled Her self to. I have the Honor to subscribe myself your Honors most Obedient, humble Servant, Hy Marchant RC (R-Ar). 1 For these resolves, see Marine Committee Examination of John Grannis, March 25, 1777, note 8. 2 No letter from Marchant to Daniel Tillinghast has been found. John Hancock to Certain States Gentlemen, Philada. July 14th. 1777. The enclosed Resolve of Congress recommending it to your State to send such Reinforcements of Militia to the Armies under Generals Washington or Schuyler, as may be requested, comes with such peculiar Force at this Juncture, that I am persuaded any Arguments to induce you to comply with it will be unnecessary. 1 From the Continental Bat talions not being compleated agreeably to the original Plan, there is indeed an absolute Necessity for adopting the Measure in our present Situation. Give me Leave therefore most earnestly to request your Com pliance with this Requisition of Congress as the only effectual Mode of checking the Progress of our enraged & cruel Enemies. I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. & very hble Servt. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed to the convention of New York and the assemblies of Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and Rhode Island. 1 See JCC, 8:549. The passage of this resolve was precipitated by the arrival of a July 10 letter from Washington enclosing a July 7 letter from General Schuyler containing the first news of the evacuation of Ticonderoga. PCC, item 152, 4:337-39, item 153, 3:222; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:376— 78. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philada. July 14th. 1777. I have the Honor to transmit you sundry Resolves, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. The Congress have strongly recommended it to the State of New


[Page 372]
342 July 14, 1777 York and the Eastern States to send such Reinforcements of Militia to your Assistance and also to the Assistance of General Washington, as may from Time to Time be requested and I have accordingly addressed them on the Subject. Your several Favors of the 8th & 9th, 14 and 25th of June and 5th Instant have been duly received in the order of their Dates. Last Night I was honored with Copies of your two Letters of 7th & 9th Inst, to Genl. Washington. 1 Their interesting Contents shall be immediately laid before Congress. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect Sir, Your most obedt & very humble Servant, John Hancock Presdt. [P.5.] As soon as Congress have come to a Determination on your last Letters you shall be acquainted with the Result. I have paid the Bearer for his Detention here. Tr (NN). 1 With the exception of the last, these letters are in PCC, item 153, 3:144-224. The one of July 9 to Washington is in Washington Papers, DLC, and PCC, item 152, 4:345—46. Only the letters to Washington deal with the American evacuation of Ticonderoga. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. July 14th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolve that there are at present about fourteen Hundred Men at Philada. and Billingsport who are ready to march, and wait only for your Orders. 1 The Congress have recommended it to the State of New York and to the Eastern States to send such Reinforcements of their Militia to your Assistance, and also to the Assistance of Genl. Schuyler as may, from Time to Time be requested; and I have accordingly addressed them on the Subject. P.S. 6 O’Clock P.M. Since writing the foregoing, your Favour of the 12th Inst came to Hand, and Congress have issued Orders to Genl. Nash to march immediately to Head Quarters with all the Carolina and Virginia Troops under his Command. Similar Orders have likewise been issued to Colo. Proctor to March with his Regiment of Artillery, which was raised for the State of Pennsylvania, but has been since taken into Continental Service. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt [P.5 1.] A Comme. of Congress are Sent to Head Quarters to Consult respectg the Commissary’s Departmt. 3


[Page 373]
July 15, 1777 343 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush, with signature and second postscript by Hancock. ’See JCC, 8:549. 2 See PCC, item 152, 4:341—44; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:551. 3 See Committee of Congress to Washington, July 16, 1777. Samuel Adams to Samuel Cooper My dear sir Philade July 15 1777 Before this reaches you, it is probable you will have heard of the un toward Turn our Affairs have taken at the Northward. I confess it is not more than I expected when Genl Schu[yle]r was again intrusted with the Command there. But it was thought by some Gentlemen that as he had a great Interest & large Connections in that Part of the Country, he could more readily avail himself of Supplys for an Army there as well as Reinforcements if wanted upon an Emergency, than any other Man. You have the Account in the inclosed Paper, which leaves us to guess what is become of the Garrison. 1 There is something droll enough in a Generals not knowing where to find the main Body of his Army. Gates is the Man I should have chosen. He is honest and true, & has the Art of gaining the Love of his Soldiers, principally because he is always present and shares with them in Fatigue & Danger. We are hourly expecting to be relievd from a disagreeable State of Uncertainty by a particular Relation of Facts. This Account, as you are told, is related upon Memory, & therefore some Circumstances may be omitted, others misapprehended. But the Post is just going, & I have time only to acknowledge the Receipt of your favor of the 12 of June & beg you would write to me often. 2 I am affectionately, your freind, S A FC (NN). 1 Probably the July 15 issue of the P ennsylvania Packet containing extracts from Gen. Philip Schuyler’s July 7 letter to Washington announcing the retreat of the American army from Fort Ticonderoga. 2 Cooper’s June 12 letter to Adams is in the Adams Papers, NN. Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee My dear Freind Philade July 15 1777 I wrote to you a Fortnight ago in so great Haste that I had not time to transcribe or correct it, and relied on your Candor to overlook the slovenly dress in which it was sent to you. You have since heard that


[Page 375]
July 15, 1777 345 I rejoyce in the Honors your Country has done you. Pray hasten your Journy hither. 1 Your very affectionate, S Adams RC (NN). 1 For Lee’s July 27 response to this letter, see Lee, Letters (Ballagh), 1:313—14. Board of War to George Washington Sir War Office July 15th. 1777 I have the Honour of your Letter of the 12th instant which I have communicated to the Board. 1 General Sullivan has written concerning an Hudson Burr condemned at Sourland by a Court Martial as a Spy but says your Excellcy would not ratify the Proceedings desiring that the Man might be sent to Philada. where he is now under Confinement, that the Board might discharge him if they knew Nothing against him; but as they are not certified properly of the Proceedings of the Court Martial they cannot with Propriety take Notice of the Matter. Mean Time the Man is suffering in Prison & therefore I am to request that your Excellency will be pleased to write them on the Subject 2 that Burr may be discharged on Security being given for his good Behavior & the public be eased of the Care of him, as his Friends here who are numerous are constantly applying to see him in Prison & solliciting for his Release. His Con nexions are among the Quakers & so far wrong, but he is not capable if ever he intended it to do much Harm. I have the Honour to be, Your Excellency’s very obed Servt, Richard Peters Secy [P.S.] I have the Honor of transmitting the enclosed Return of Tents furnished by the Quarter Master General for your Excellency’s Inspec tion with a Request from the Board that if you can spare any Tents you will order a Number to General Schuyler. 3 RC (DLC). 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:387-89. 2 For Washington’s response to this request, see ibid., pp. 494-95. 3 On the following day Peters wrote a brief note to Washington introducing Mr. Dupre, an armorer with a North Carolina brigade, and requesting on be half of the board that Washington “give Orders for Mr. Dupre’s being employed as Superintendent of the Armoury attending the Camp, or in any other manner you may think proper, as his Abilities will render him exceedingly useful.” Wash ington Papers, DLC.


[Page 376]
346 July 15, 1777 Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia July 15th 1777 Recievd your favr. of the 9th Instant, yours to Congress was recievd at the same time and the Matter Immediately taken up in Congress. There is so many fond of their New plan that it is difficult to make them attend to the Objections against and cannot bare so soon to throw up What they have entertained so great a fondness of but however they soon agreed to send a Comtee of Congress to goe to the Army and see and hear and report. 1 The Congress is very thin and most Gentn. had a Very great Aversion to goe on this business. Except Mr Gerry I think there could scarce been one more unsuitable. Mr Livingston was chose one principally because he was gone that way before and would be in the way. I much fear the Consequence arising from this New Regulation but hope for the best. Every thing must be Endured before the Army must fail. It is said in Congress by some that you must goe on your Old way till the New one gets into a proper regulation and employe pur chasers as formerly. I know not what or how to advise you only in General to do the Utmost in your power to advance and promote the general good and service. 2 Am sure I should at once advise you to quit if I did not apprehend the worst Consequences would follow and if you do not it may possibly be as bad unless Congress should place the pur chasing Commissy. business in the same line as formerly. If the Comtee should report favorably that way it may possibly be done. If you had the appointment of your Depty Commiss of purchasers and to allow Wages according to their Merrit I see no difficulty in carrying on your part but fear it will be hard to bring them back to that mode unless the Genii, and Comtee should recommend it. The News we have recievd from Ticonderoga is truly Alarming. Fear it will throw the New England States into the greatest Consternation. Expect the Enemies ships are all along the sea coast giving the alarm there to divert them from giving aid to other parts where they may be wanted. Expect every hour to hear Genii. How has pushd up the North river. God grant he may meet with a repulse there. I fear the late suc cess of the Enemy will again oblidge us to call of Our Militia as last summer and now in this most Critical season. There ar about 15 hundrd. or two thousand Southern Troops now forwarding from this place to join Genii. Washington. I want much to hear from our Country if you have Any Accounts from there, especially of our family you will be so kind as to let me hear. I Am with sincere regards, Yrs Elipht Dyer. RC (CtHi). Burnett, Letters, 2:414-15. 1 For the work of this committee, see Committee of Congress to George Wash ington, July 16, 1777, note 2. Trumbull’s July 9 letter to Hancock and his July 22 letter to the committee are in PCC, item 78, 22:255, 273.


[Page 381]
July 18, 1777 351 Cannon, Ammunition, Stores, Baggage, Cloathing &c. &c. &c. &c., for Armies, who give them all away to the Enemy, without firing a Gun. Notwithstanding the Mortification arising from such Considerations, yet I can truly say that this Event is a Relief to my Mind, for I have a long Time expected this Catastrophe, and that it would be aggravated by the Loss of the Garrison, which it seems has been happily saved. My only Hope of holding that Post, has been a long Time founded in a Doubt whether the Enemy had Force enough in Canada, to attempt it. The Design of the Enemy, is now no doubt to attack poor New England on all sides, from Rhode Island, New York and Ticonderoga. But I believe their Progress will be stopped, for our Army is pretty numerous, and Discipline, upon which alone We must finally depend, under Providence, for Success, is advancing. Howes Army is in a miserable Condition, by the best Accounts We can obtain. My Mind runs upon my Family, as much as upon our public Con cerns. I long to hear of the Safety and the Health of my dearest Friend. May Heaven grant her every Blessing she desires. Tell my Brother Farmer, I long to study Agriculture with him, and to see the Progress of his Corn and Grass. Sister too, does she make as a good dairy Woman as your Ladyship? RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:284-85. James Duane to Elias Boudinot Dear Sir Philad Treasury Office 18 July 1777 You’l observe by the enclosed Memorandum 1 from a Member of Con gress that a difficulty arises at the Treasury board in ascertaining the pay due to Prisoners both Officers & Soldiers, living and dead. It woud be an Act of equal Justice and Humanity if the several Commanding officers who are Prisoners coud by proper payrolls ascertain the money due to their Captive Corps; and the Board of Treasury recommend this Business to your Consideration and that it may receive all possible Dispatch. I am, Sir, your most huml servt, Jas. Duane RC (DLC). 1 Not found.


[Page 382]
352 July 18, 1777 John Hancock to the Delaware and Virginia Assemblies Gentlemen, Philada. July 18th 1777. I have it in Charge most earnestly to entreat you will immediately send a sufficient Number of Members to represent your State in Con gress. 1 The Advantages resulting from a full and constant Representa tion of every State, by giving Weight to the Councils of America and promoting Union and good Correspondence thro’ the United States, are extremely obvious—but a full Representation is more especially requisite at this Juncture, as the Congress for Want of it, are under a Necessity of putting off the Consideration of several important Matters, and particularly the Confederation of the States, one of the grandest Objects that ever came before a Human Assembly for Discussion. The United Wisdom of America should be collected on this Point, in order that the most firm and permanent Foundations may be laid for the future Glory and Happiness of our Country. I flatter myself therefore you will immediately comply with this Requisition of Congress. 2 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed. Serv. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). i See ]CC, 8:559. 2 After several false starts, Congress finally resumed sustained consideration of the Articles of Confederation on October 7, 1777. JCC, 8:760, 9:778. John Hancock to Philip Schuyler Sir Philada. July 18t. 1777. I have Nothing in Charge from Congress at this Time, but to trans mit the inclosed Resolves for your Information and Direction, to which I beg Leave to refer your Attention. 1 The Loss of Ticonderoga still remains a very mysterious Affair for Want of proper Information nor have we as yet received any Account of the Fate of the Garrison under the Command of General St. Glair, only from Report, which is of such a Nature as to increase our appre hensions without removing our Suspence. I am therefore to request you will favor us as soon as possible with the best Intelligence you can procure, as Congress are extremely anxious to hear the Event, together with the particulars. P.S. July 22d. Since writing the foregoing, Congress have received a Letter from General St. Clair of the 14t Instant inclosing a Copy of the proceedings of a Council of War, with the Reasons for evacuating


[Page 383]
July 18, 1777 353 Tyconderoga & Mount Independence. They have also received a Copy of your’s to General Washington dated at Fort Edward the 14t Instant. 2 I enclose to you an order on the Commissioners of the Loan Office of the State of New York in Favor of Mr. Jonathan Trumbull, which I must request you will please to deliver to him. 3 Your very humble Servant, John Hancock Presidt. Tr (NN). 1 Probably the resolves pertaining to Schuyler’s command passed by Congress on July 17. See JCC, 8:561-62. 2 See James Lovell to William Whipple, July 21, 1777, note 1. 3 Congress had issued this order on June 27. JCC, 8:505. John Hancock to Joseph Spencer Sir, Philada. July 18th. 1777. I am particularly instructed to inform you in Answer to your Favour of the 20th May last, that Congress Confirm the Appointment of Wil liam Peck Esqr as Deputy Adjutant General to the Militia, and State- Troops of Rhode Island that are in Continental Pay, and that you are to apply for Money to pay the said Troops to Ebenezer Hancock Esqr at Boston Deputy Paymaster General to the Troops in the Eastern Department. 1 The Quarter Master General having the Appointment of all his Deputies, the Application must be to him for the Appointment of a Deputy Quarter Master general to the Troops under his Command. I have the Honour to be, with Respect, Sir, Your most obed Serv. J.H. Presid LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Honble Major Genl. Spencer at Rhode Island.” 1 See JCC, 8:497, 561. General Spencer’s May 20 letter to Hancock, which was read in Congress on June 25, is in PCC, item 78, 20:107-9. John Hancock to Joseph Trumbull Sir, Philada. July 18th. 1777. The great Scarcity of Salt, and the Necessity of procuring a Supply for the Use of the Army, have induced the Congress to direct the Committee of Commerce to take Measures for importing large Quanti ties of that Article: and I have it in Charge to transmit the enclosed Order to inform you thereof. 1 I am, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. J.H. Presidt.


[Page 385]
July 20, 1777 355 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:285—86. 1 For the exploits of Cols. William Barton of Rhode Island and Return Jonathan Meigs of Connecticut, see John Hancock’s letters to Barton and Meigs, July 26, 1777. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia July 20. 1777 I was Inoculated at Port Tobacco & had the Disorder very favour ably. My Arm Continues very Sore & inflamed indeed so bad that I can not wear a Coat, & has prevented my Attending Congress tho’ I arrived here the 18th. Inclosed is a Letter for Mrs. Harnett 2 which I must beg the favour of you to have well smoked with Brimstone as she is very fearful of the small Pox. I put all my Letters in the Sun for an hour before I seal them and am very Certain the infection can not be conveyed in a letter so far but it is best to be Cautious. All kinds of goods are selling here at the most extravagant prices. I shall send you the Prices Current in my next. I am afraid you are fooling away your rum, Whiskey was selling at Tarborough as I passed through at 20/ per Gall by the barrell. I hope you will make the most of the rum on hand, I cant buy a Linnen Jacket & breeches under £10 this Currency, Bro Cloth 9 & £10 per yd, a Common Dinner & Club if you drink any wine 20/. I hope you have managed to exchange the [Co’s.?] money in hand for Continental Currency as Mr. Clayton offered to have it done for us. Remember me to all friends. I shall write Cap Forster & Mr. Quince very soon. The Lottery will be drawn soon. For News I refer you to the Paper inclosed. I sent the Numbers of the Tickets 3 purchased by me for sundry persons. On the Other side You have them again lest my Letters should not have come to hand. You will please make them known to the Concerned. I shall write you more fully in my next. I am, Dr Sir, Your sincr friend & hu Sert, Cornl Harnett Tickets purchased for Mr. Day No. 18m918 (10 in all) 18m919 18m920 18m921 18m922 18m923 18m924 18m925 18m926 18m927 For Quince & Co. 5 Tickets, Viz Richd. Quince No. 19m786 Coms. Harnett 19m787 Willm. Wilkinson 19m788 Forster & Brice 19m789 Thos. Craike 19m790


[Page 387]
July 21, 1777 357 Quarrell which was now begun by the Stamp Act would never be rec onciled, but would terminate in a Separation between the two Coun tries. Ingersol was surprized at the Prediction and asked why and how? I cant tell you how says he, but if you want to know why, when you return to London, enquire at the Booksellers for Bentivoglios History of the Wars in Flanders, read it through, and you will be convinced that such Quarrells cannot be made up. He bought the Book accordingly and has now lent it to me. It is very similar to the American Quarrell in the Rise and Progress, and will be so in the Conclusion. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:286-87. 1 For citations to this work and to editions of works mentioned below which were a part of Adams’ personal library, see ibid., p. 287, nn.l—4. 2 Joshua Steele (1700-91), a member of the Irish gentry and friend and correspondent of Benjamin Franklin. DNB. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir, Philadelphia July 21st 1777 I shall only acknowledge the receipt of your pleasing favor of the 8th and enclose you a newspaper. I am not at leisure, and scarcely in a temper, to make reflexions upon the vile situation of our affairs at the Northward, which before this reaches you will be the main topic of conversation. Believe me this is the first day that we have had any thing from St Clair. We had a line from Schuyler of the 9th, a scrawl without head or tail, and an artful one of the 14th rec’d this day. 1 Busy as we are this matter must be searched to the bottom. A most uncommon composure has appeared in Jemmy Du and his colleague D. 2 Uncle Phil 3 is at Camp with Geary and Clyman [Clymer] to try to patch the Commissary’s department, as the issuers will have their own price & customs. An attempt will be made to throw the whole fault in the Northern Department upon the New England States, whose Delegates ought to be furnished with the exact quota of our troops sent forward prior to the disaster. Genl Folsom arriving yesterday may possibly give a true history of your part. 4 I find by a line from Dr Gardner that he had not the pleasure of seeing you in Town. I wish Mr[s] L 5 had been made happy by a second visit, though I might consequently have been a sufferer by your rogueries. You will see I did not wait to hear of your being at Portsmouth before I took occasion to give you assurances of my esteem. I will not be backward to add proofs, whenever I think I can do it agreeably by furnishing you with any interesting intelligence.


[Page 395]
July 22, 1777 365 affected with the Rheumatism has been tenfold worse than ever, the pain at first fell suddenly into my wrist, sweld & became exceedingly painful, & after some Time returnd back to my Elbow & was worse than before & my whole arm was inexpressibly sore & painful from my Shoulder to my hand so that I cod not dress, undress nor sleep for some time, but by the mercy of God, & his blessing, it is much better but not perfectly well, & I fear it may return. Am able to write, tho have nothing very material to say. We are at present in the same Lodgings which Col Dyer used when He was formerly here, tho not occupied by the same Family. The House swarms with French men, part of the seventy odd Mr Dean has sent over &c tho we have very little to do with them save at Breakfast Time, we keep our Chambers pretty much & are Company for Selves, tho Mr Law is obligd to sleep in a lower bedroom, & at suppers. I have nothing to do & we dine by our Selves, abt 4 or 5 oClock. The swearing & Wickedness that abounds in this City is truly shocking to chaste Ears & alarming in a moral View, the Judgments of God don’t seem to have any Effect, unless the most awful one, of rendering us worse. I tremble to think so, but I really fear it is true, will he that made us, shew mercy to such a People? His Mercy is boundless, & infinite. I will yet hope in it nor Limit the Holy one of Israel. O, that Wickedness was confined to this City. Alass I fear tis as great in N. England & thro the Country. When I was here last Summer & heard of the Defeats at N York, the Northward &c I thot it was impossible but it shod alarm our Countrymen & awaken them to turn to him that smote Them but I found it far otherwise. Alass, the Chastisements of his Providence will have good Effect without the inward teaching of his Spirit, but God is pleased to withhold those Influences, the most sore & distressing of all Calamities. O, that every Soul who has an Interest in Heaven wod cry day & night with ceaseless & unfailing ardor, that God wod pour out his blessed Spirit to awaken & bring the Country to Repentance. Too few I fear think of the infinite importance of that Blessing even without any regard to our present Calamities. But what can I say or Do. God will work as pleaseth Him. Among the other Sins that prevail here extortion & oppression is not the least, & it is by the wicked Arts of our internal Enemys here brot to such a pass, tis hardly possible to tell the price of their Shop Goods. There are many Goods here & yet They keep the Prices at the most extravagent sums. I believe Linnens I used to sell at abt 2/ are 20/ & more, Tea £8, the pound, dirty base brown Sugar 5/ & more, Loaf 10/, rum 45 / the lowest the Gallon, Molasses, my drink with Water 6/ a quart, butter in market 5/ & 6/ the pound, beaf 2/6 & every thing in proportion, & daily rising, & will rise, unless our affairs in infinite mercy shod take another turn. I believe tis not best to mention these things lest it shod still add to our own distresses of the same kind, but be very careful of what little stores We have. It will be too late or I shod ask


[Page 397]
July 24, 1777 367 turns, but if there be more Propriety in their coming thro’ your Hands, you will be pleased to give the necessary Orders concerning the Matter. 1 General Knox informs me your Excellency has not received the Resolves of Congress relative to the Invalid Corps. I thought I had sent them. But least I should not have done it, I enclose them. Your Ex cellency will excuse their being sent in a News Paper as we are much hurried. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, your very obed Servt. Richard Peters Secretary [P.5.] Colonel Lewis Nicola is appointed to the Command of the In valid Regiment. 3 RC (DLC). 1 Israel Putnam’s July 16 letter to the board which was enclosed with this letter along with the July 19 resolve requesting his returns, is in Washington Papers, DLC. For Washington’s response, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:495. 2 For the resolves respecting a corps of invalids of June 20 and July 16, the latter of which had been published in Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet on July 22, see JCC, 8:485, 554-56. 3 Three days later Peters sent Washington a brief letter pertaining to $200,000 “for the Use of the Northern Department.” “But as the State of the Country is not certainly known,” Peters explained, “it is thought safest to direct Robert Dinwiddie, who accompanies it, to call on your Excellency for Advice & if neces sary Assistance. The Money is guarded by a Party under the Command of Lieut. who it is supposed cannot proceed to Albany & therefore that your Excellency will furnish another Guard if you shall think proper.” Washington Papers, DLC; and see JCC, 8:572. James Lovell to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 24th July [1777] So long ago as Deer. 2d 1775 direction was given by Congress to the committee of secret correspondence to procure from Europe four good Engineers. This was not however accomplished till the 13th of last Febry., when the bearer the Chevalier du Portail, with Mr. La Radiere, Mr. Gouvion and one other Officer who is left sick in the West indies, was engaged by Doctor Franklin & Mr. Deane to come over to America. 1 I beg your Excellency to observe well that these are the only Officers, of any species, who have been procured from abroad by express direction of Congress. And this I do because I am about to furnish you with several circumstances peculiarly within my knowledge relative to a point of equity well worthy of your Excellency’s attention. The corps of Engi neers is very honorable in France; and officers from it are sought by different European Powers. These Gentlemen who are come over into our service made an agreement with our Commissioners to rise one


[Page 398]
368 July 24, 1777 degree from the rank they held at home, upon a supposition that the practice of Europe had been regarded here. But, when they arrived, they found instances very different with respect to officers in all other corps. It was their mishap also to see a Major of artillery affecting to be exalted four ranks, as a Chief in his proper line and theirs also. They made a representation of these circumstances & appealed to the Equity of Congress. But, they had arrived at a time when the Infatuation of some here and the wild conduct of one abroad had rendered a spirit of reformation absolutely necessary as to the point of rank. The In genuous, however, must own that there is singular hardship in the case of these gentlemen. The only officers ever sent for by us—procured by the real political agents of Congress—coming out with the good wishes of the French Ministry—being of undoubted rank & ability in their profession, find themselves in the Dilemma of becoming the first examples of our new reforming Spirit, or else of going home during a Campaign, which their high sense of honor will not allow. But, tho’ the Chevalier du Portail was not made a Brigadier, yet it appeared too gross to expose him to be directed in his peculiar line by such as will readily acknowledge his pretensions by regular education & discipline to be greatly superior to their own. His commission prevents this, and enables him so to distribute, in work, the others who came with him, as to prevent them, who have been within a few months as long in service as himself, from being interfered with by such as never belonged to the royal corps of Engineers in France or perhaps but a very short time to any other. Your Excellency cannot but wonder at the strange manner of wording the commission. I shall explain it with the greatest freedom. Mr. Du Coudray being employed as a good artillery officer to examine the arsenals in France to see what cannon &c could be spared from them acted with great Industry in that employment and much seeming regard to America. In the course of his .transactions between the Ct. de St. Germain & Mr. Deane, he was not blind to perceive that he might take occasion to serve himself. Besides being paid for his trouble & Expenses in France he procured an agreement from Mr. Deane wch has already been shown to yr. Excellency, and has affected you, doubtless, with the same surprize & indignation which it has excited in others, almost without a single exception. I shall omit any remarks upon that treaty, or a long too-ingenious memorial presented to Congress with it, except such as are strictly connected with the occasion of this letter. Mr. Du C. having erected himself to the Command of Artillery and Engineers per suaded Mr. Dean that it will be impossible to get any from the military corps of Engineers now called royal because their Demands would be so exorbitant; and that it would be also unnecessary, because we ought not to build fortified Places in America to serve as secure Holds to our Enemy when once taken from us; and that therefore, a few Bridge & Causeway-makers would answer all the ends of military Engineers.


[Page 401]
July 24, 1777 371 Marlbrough, and yet I am led by you to think they might have given provocation for it. 2 With truest vows for your prosperity, I am, Your Excellency’s Obliged Friend & humble Servant, James Lovell RC (DLC). 1 See JCC, 3:400-401; Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:269-70; and Samuel Adams to Richard Henry Lee, June 29, 1777, note 2. 2 Lovell’s meaning in juxtaposing the vigilance of Scipio or Marlborough with the occasional “nod” or lapse to which even Homer sometimes succumbed is obscure. The reference to Homer is derived from Horace Ars Poetica 359. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Report of the board of War 10 July 1 July 24. 1777 Mr. Harrison for it. 1. Because it will injure the enemy in their trade, in their connexions with the indians. in their fame. 2. It will benefit the states by supplies gained from it &c. 3. It will be agreeable to the Spaniards. Mr. Duane agst. it. 1. Because we want men. 2. Money. 3. Cannot retain it, if we succeed. Mr. Burk on the same side. Addit. reason. Too late to undertake it this ensuing fall & winter. Mr. Duer for it. Answered the Objections. Mr. Burk spoke again, said nothing new. Mr. Wilson for it. Points out more at large the advantages of under taking it. Much to be gained; tho’ no attempts made agst. Mobille and Pensacola. The importance of the settlements on Mississippi & of taking post at Messhack. 2 What sort of men shd. be employed? 2 reg[iment]s & 400 militia. Great proba[bi]lity of succeeding; no great ill conse quences, because of safe retreat Mr. Clarke declares for it but wants farther time to consider. Men tions the many objections agst. it. The danger of delaying, on account of the rapid encrease of inhabitants. Mr. Morris for it. States the force of the enemy at present not more than 300. Requires little advances of money to procure provisions or military stores. Explains the nature of the country. Now is the time. Danger of delay. Mr. Duer spoke again. Another argumt. This country may be made to contribute greatly to the expence of the war. Mr. Harrison spoke again. Enlarged on the reasons he first offered, obviated the objections. Mr. Middleton moved to put of[f] the determination. Mr. Duane seconded the motion to postpone & strengthened his first


[Page 402]
372 July 24, 1777 Objection with this consideration that it cannot be undertaken without gold & silver. Question put. Carried to postpone till to Morrow. 3 MS (DLC). In the hand of Charles Thomson. 1 This report consisted of two parts, the second of which was the subject of a resolve Congress had adopted on July 19. The first section of the report, which was the subject of debate on July 24 and 25, reads as follows: “That an Expedition be undertaken against Pensacola & Mobille in West Florida, to facilitate which, that Colonel George Morgan be sent to New Orleans with Power to negotiate with the Governor of that Place, and endeavour to gain his Interest & assistance in the Business; and, that One thousand Men will be necessary for this Service, & the Command of the Expedition be given to General Hand.” For the board’s report and supporting papers from George Morgan and Benedict Arnold, see PCC, item 147, 1:251—71. The proposed West Florida expedition attracted considerable support at the outset, but the arguments of its critics, especially Henry Laurens, quickly eroded support for the plan. The journals indicate only that after debate of the report on July 25, its “farther consideration” was postponed and immediately thereafter Congress resolved “That a committee of five be appointed to take into considera tion the state of Georgia.” See ]CC, 8:566-67, 578-79; and Henry Laurens’ letters to Lachlan McIntosh and to John Rutledge, August 11 and 12, 1777. Although Congress temporarily dropped consideration of an expedition against West Florida at this time, the idea was subsequently revived and implemented in the “raid” conducted by James Willing in the Natchez district on the Mississippi in 1778. See John Caughey, “Willing’s Expedition down the Mississippi, 1778,” Louisiana Historical Quarterly 15 (January 1932) : 5—36; and Robert V. Haynes, “James Willing and the Planters of Natchez: The American Revolution comes to the Southwest,” Journal of Mississippi History 37 (February 1975) : 1—40. 2 Apparently Fort Massac, located near the mouth of the Tennessee River. 3 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debate, July 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir 1 Philadelphia 25 July 1777. The inclosed News papers contain all the Public Intelligence known in this Place except that Genl. Washington was three days ago at a Place call’d Clove where he had march’d to watch the motions of the Enemy. The Sailing of the Fleet will put him also in motion, but in what Di rection? is the important Question. Conjectures are as upon all such occasions various. Some look towards the Capes of Delaware and others say New England is to be attacked on all sides. Chesapeak Bay is talk’d of, and there are [those] who think Carolina or Georgia as likely to be an Object notwithstanding the Season of the Year, as any Place. Be that as it may, when so important an Armament is on the March I think every State shd be alarm’d and therefore I proposed yesterday morning to my Colleagues to send an express Messenger for that purpose to Charles Town but they were not of my opinion.


[Page 403]
July 25, 1777 373 I catch this opportunity by mere accident, pray present my Compli ments to the President, to Mr & Mrs Manigault, to Mrs Gervais and to every body you think proper. I arrived here the 20th. J. Laurens will begin his Journey to the Army this morning. J. Ball, his Man and my George were innoculated for Small Pox the 21st. Pray communicate this with my Respects to his Father and Brother. I shall in two or three days have another opportunity of assuring you &c. I should have excepted of Public Intelligence that our Fleet of Zebeques and Galleys lie ready in the River for a concerted Expedition below, upon which they wd have sail’d before this time but for an improper Demand of Increase of Wages made by the Lieutenants 12 in number. The Congress orderd them immediately to be dismiss’d the Service under a Resolution rendring them incapable of serving in any of the States in any Capacity, civil or Military. This Resolution pro duced humble Petitions from the whole. They are now reinstated and I suppose Business will go forward again. 2 A Combination of Sargeons in the fleet treated in the same manner. 3 LB (ScHi). 1 John Lewis Gervais (1741—95), a Huguenot who emigrated to South Carolina in 1764 and became a successful planter and merchant, had once been Laurens’ business agent in the South Carolina backcountry and was now looking after some of the delegate’s affairs during his term in Congress. Raymond Starr, ed., “Letters from John Lewis Gervais to Henry Laurens,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 15—17. 2 On May 15 Congress had referred to the Marine Committee a petition from twelve Continental naval lieutenants asking for the same pay and allowance as Continental military captains. After waiting in vain for Congress to act.on this petition, the officers informed Capt. John Barry on July 21 that they would not perform their naval duties until their grievances had been redressed. Upon learning of this news, Congress dismissed them from office on July 23 and sought to prevent them from engaging in any further state or Continental service. In the face of these harsh measures, however, the naval officers relented and therefore Congress restored them to duty on July 28, which was probably when Laurens added the foregoing paragraph to this letter. See JCC, 8:573—74, 578, 584; and PCC, item 42, 4:114-16, 146. 3 Congress’ only recorded action on naval surgeons in 1777 was a July 16 resolve raising their pay and subsistence to the same levels as those “of the lieu tenants of the vessels to which they shall respectively serve.” JCC, 8:554. This was hardly comparable to the treatment accorded the twelve naval lieutenants, and as it took place before Laurens arrived in Congress, perhaps he simply mis understood its import. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates Resumed the consideration of report. July 25. 1777 Sergeant. Desires to know whether the country thro wch. the troops are to pass is healthy. Till he knows this cannot give his voice.


[Page 404]
374 July 25, 1777 Chase. Desires to know to whom the country will belong, if it succeeds. Unless it is first determined that it is to belong to the united States generally, he will be agst. it. Middleton. Against it. It will draw the attention of the enemy to the southern states, & endanger them, particularly S. Carolina. Williams. Desires it may be postponed for a day or two till the enemy’s intention is better known. Sergeant. Against it. Because he thinks there is great w[eigh]t in the observation that it will turn the attention of the enemy agst. the S. States he thinks we shod, oppose the enemy here. Duer. It will save the Southern States, & divert the enemy from im mediately attacking them. It will save N Y & the middle states from the incursions of Indians Laurens. 1000 or 1200 too few. Situation of the country much changed since 1771. The banks of the Mis. lined with inhabitants, many of them enemies to these states. Many have gone & are going from the U. S. who are enemies & discontented. We cannot keep it a secret, they will be ready to oppose our troops & there are sundry advantagious posts can be taken, where they & the regulars can oppose our passage. Besides two enemys to oppose not mentioned. 1. The Ague & fever 2. Choctaws. If we have troops to spare, They shd. be applied to defend Georgia, which is in a defenseless state and in wch. they have made inroads and carried off [. . .] 1 tken 50. & The plan not well concerted. That part respecting frigates particularly. First we have no 2 frig. If we hd they 3 cd. be betr. employg. 1. Force inadequate. 2. The enemy have 4 more strength than we can oppose wth. 3. If we had force to spare they cd. be better employed. Has no objection to send person to N.O. 5 Thinks it wd. be proper & prudent. Burke. Agst. it. We shd. bend our whole force agst. the enemy’s army. Exp. & preparation will be great. We must set off wth full supplies of Arms, Amm. & provs. for 6 Mo. We cannot depend on the inhab. on the banks for provs. They have none to spare. They do not raise prov. (here Mr Morris beg leave to set him right in that matter. He has im ported from thence cargoes of rice & exported from thence to the W.I. cargoes of indian Corn.) B. continues. This informa, does not satisfy him that they have now provisions to spare. But if they had we have not money to purchase it. Impracticable to keep poss. of the river. Ought to be given up, because disagreeable to southern states, who will not suffer that country to be possd. By Spain as it is necessary for their own safety. Harrison. Answers the objection abt. it being divulged. The fever & Ague. All accts, agree the country on the Miss, healthy tho’ Mobille unhealthy. Ind. cant become enemies by our going down. Want of money answered. Obj. abt. frig & Georgia answd. Wilson. Draws an argumt. for undertaking it now from the Obj. that a number have gone & are going to settle there who are enemies or dis-


[Page 407]
July 26, 1777 377 the first favourable oppurtunity to try them again & do every thing in our Power to accomplish so desirable an end. I am not without hopes of obtaining a grant for Mr. Phillbrook as at Present I have heard no objection to it. 2 The Loss of Ticonderoga considerably alarmed Congress as they were informed but a Little Time before by General St. Clair that it wase in a good State of defence. An Enquiry into that affair is thought necessary. By Intelligence from ouer Guards near New York, we learn that Lord & General Howe Sailed from that place with the most of the army on Wensday the 23d Inst., it is generaly thought fore Some part of New England. I am Sir, with the greatest Respect, yr. most obedt. huml. Servnt. Nathel. Folsom RC (MeHi). 1 Folsom took his seat in Congress on Monday, July 21. JCC, 8:568. 2 The petition of Joseph Philbrick was read in Congress on July 24 and referred to the Board of Treasury. JCC, 8:577; and PCC, item 42, 6:166. Phil brick’s house had burned, consuming 538 Continental and 130 state dollars. The petition asked for the replacement of the money on the grounds that its destruc tion was equivalent to saving the treasury an equal sum. The New Hampshire government had already agreed to compensate Philbrick for the New Hampshire money. N.H. State Papers, 8:600. John Hancock to William Barton Sir, Philada. July 26th. 1777. It is with the greatest Pleasure I transmit the enclosed Resolve of Congress, expressing the Sense of that Body, on your successful and hazardous Enterprize agt. Genl. Prescot; and I must request you will be pleased to communicate to the Officers & Men under your Command this distinguished Mark of the Approbation of their Country. 1 As an Acknowledgmt. of your Services on this Occasion, the Com missary General of Military Stores is ordered to present you with an elegant Sword in the Name and on Behalf of the United States of America. 2 I am, Sir, your most obed Ser. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Lieut Colo. Barton, Rhode Island Govt.” 1 On July 10 Lt. Col. William Barton of the Rhode Island militia led a small raiding party that seized Brig. Gen. Richard Prescott just outside Newport. Washington learned of this daring coup on the 16th and immediately conveyed the news to Congress. At the same time he decided to arrange an exchange of Prescott for Gen. Charles Lee, who, Americans feared, was about to be sent back to England and tried for treason. Congress subsequently approved Wash ington’s decision, but not until April 1778 was he able to complete this ex change and secure Lee’s release. See JCC, 8:565, 579-80, 9:1050—51; PCC, item


[Page 408]
378 July 26, 1777 78, 20:129-30, item 152, 4:355-60; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:416, 419; Frederick Mackenzie, Diary of Frederick Mackenzie, 2 vols. (Cambridge: Harvard University Press, 1930), 1:150-51; and John R. Alden, General Charles Lee: Traitor or Patriot? (Baton Rouge: Louisiana State University Press, 1951), chap. 12. Alden cites no evidence for his assertion that Barton under took this raid in order to exchange Prescott for Lee, and in fact this seems to be nothing more than the historian’s conjecture. Washington’s correspondence indicates that he originated the idea for this exchange. 2 Here the LB contains the following deleted paragraph: “Altho the intrinsic Value of a Sword is not an object of Consideration, yet the Manner of acquiring it, may make it highly esteemable; for Nothing can be so proper for a free People to give, or more honorable for a brave Man to receive, than this unsolicited Testimony of his Bravery and good Conduct.” John Hancock to Return Jonathan Meigs Sir, Philada. July 26th. 1777 I have the Pleasure to enclose you a Copy of a Resolution of Con gress in which you will perceive they express their Sense of your Bravery & good Conduct on your late Expedition to Long-Island, and likewise of the Officers & Men under your Command; to whom I must request you will be pleased to communicate this distinguishing Mark of the Approbation of their Country. As an Acknowledgment of your Services on that Occasion, the Com missary General of Military Stores is ordered to present you with an elegant Sword on Behalf of the United States of America. 1 I am, Sir, your most obed & very hble Serv. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Lt. Col. Return Jonathan Meigs had led an expeditionary force from Con necticut to Sag Harbor, L.I., which on May 24 killed six British soldiers, captured ninety, and destroyed numerous boats and supplies. Washington informed Congress of this welcome news in a May 31 letter that the delegates referred to the Board of War on June 2. In response to a report from the board, Congress resolved on July 25 to thank Meigs and his men for their “prudence, activity, enterprize and valour” and to give Meigs “an elegant sword.” See JCC, 8:409-10, 565, 579; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:139—40, 143, 150—51, 158. John Hancock to Thomas Mifflin Sir, Philada. July 26th. 1777 I have it in Charge to transmit the enclosed Memorial from a Com mittee of the Trustees of the College of New Jersey, with the Resolve of Congress founded thereon; & to direct that you immediately give such Orders in the Matters therein mentioned as for the future may


[Page 411]
July 26, 1777 381 tm{hr Ut kthh* ~ t" f!u " Hauf*. !n\Ct. hint Ito/lnu^ti in lit"'. $-,— ?—• tu „ /f*<* A f " I * *Jiu if '** *”*. /tffi-lii t* . * R'*h' M" <ti‘hnU> • t' iV,, a^'fiihr^.h fot***" M y*^ ntihn ft*oi r fi t ^ flfll ^,lu *^ fitter* Atm. Iftai C/> */ <?• fa^ 1~~ b &* lull U4 f {t/f^l. fih ttf — ***** h e J 3 /■ 0$, &r €t tih/pi/m th/aoC^ HttUihi £*- 0/01^L^if ktu t*#f Mr~ <* A^tv't rt ya^r & i/*«. 4^u< c 0^/^ ’/ftfir^.^. hXt^Li.^l«■< fwf iv(HitMtf./h>f0*1^r0^Uiy (othUhtni^Mtiirh^fA »1^ ^t^/l^Jlh. **^y r /fir 'rfbn^Mrr Ptfftv ftr^ny 'Jo artA. myurp. ^1 i^iAft frt*7 & u^t.^ iftA^r Of rtf faJf. C/w#. ' f (^. tf. ^^4 /rnh'/tif (hJl6OC-h*1 /•*#>&> herf. Charles Thomson’s Notes of Congressional Debates


[Page 414]
384 J ULY 26, 1777 2 “CM” appears here above the line, perhaps signifying that Gates was especially popular in Connecticut and Massachusetts. 3 A reference to Schuyler’s defeat by George Clinton in New York s recent June 1777 gubernatorial election. 4 Continued July 28, 1777. John Adams to John Quincy Adams My dear Son Philadelphia July 27. 1777 If it should be the Design of Providence that you should live to grow up, you will naturally feel a Curiosity to learn the History of the Causes which have produced the late Revolution of our Government. No Study in which you can engage will be more worthy of you. It will become you to make yourself Master of all the considerable Characters, which have figured upon the Stage of civil, political or military Life. This you ought to do with the Utmost Candour, Benevolence and Impartiality, and if you should now and then meet with an Incident, which shall throw some Light upon your Fathers Character, I charge you to consider it with an Attention only to Truth. It will also be an entertaining and instructive Amusement, to com pare our American Revolution with others that Resemble it. The whole Period of English History, from the Accession of James the first, to the Accession of William the third, will deserve your most critical Attention. The History of the Revolutions in Portugal, Sweeden and Rome by the Abbot de Vertot, is well worth your Reading. 1 The Seperation of the Helvetic Confederacy from the Dominion of the House of Austria, is also an illustrious Event, that particularly re sembles our American Struggle with Great Britain. But above all others, I would recommend to your study, the History of the Flemish Confederacy, by which the seven united Provinces of the Netherlands, emancipated themselves from the Domination of Spain. There are several good Histories of this great Revolution. Sir Wil liam Temples is short but elegant, and entertaining. Another Account of this Period was written by Puffendorf, and another by Grotius. But the most full and compleat History, that I have seen, is one that I am now engaged in Reading. It is intituled “The History of the Wars of Flanders, written in Italian by that learned and famous Cardi nal Bentivoglio, englished by the Right Honourable Henry Earl of Monmouth, the whole Work illustrated, with a Map of the seventeen Provinces and above twenty Figures of the chief Personages mentioned in the History.” Bentivoglio, like Clarendon, was a Courtier, and on the side of Monarchy and the Hierarchy. But Allowances must be made for that.


[Page 415]
July 27, 1777 385 The first Cut is of Guido, S.R.E. Cardinalis Bentivolus. 2. The Emperor Charles the 5th. Prince of the low Countries. 3. Phillip the 2d. King of Spain, Prince of the low Countries. 4. William of Nassau, Prince of Orange. 5. Margarett Dutchesse of Parma and Piacenza, Daughter to Charles the 5th. Govemesse of the low Countries. 6. Elizabeth Queen of England, France and Ireland. 7. Anthony Perenott Cardinal Granvel, Councillor of state to Margarett of Parma. 8. Peter Ernest Count Mansfeldt Governor of Luxemburg. 9. William Lodowic Count Nassau, Governor of Frisland. 10. John Lignius, Count Aremberg, Governor of Frisland, General at the Battle of Hilligal. 11. Ferdinand of Toledo Duke of Alva, Governor of the Low Coun tries. 12. Sancho Avila Governor of the Fort, at Antwerp, General at the Battle of Mooch. 13. Chiapino Vitelli Marquiss of Cetona, Camp Master General. 14. Robert Lord Dudley Earl of Leicester, Governor of the united Provinces. 15. Maximillian Hennin Count Bossu, Governor of Holland and Utrecht. 16. Lodovico Requesenes, Great Commandador of Castile, Governor of the Low Countries. 17. Phillip Croy Duke of Areschot, Knight of the golden Fleece, Governor of Flanders. 18. Don John of Austria, son to Charles 5th. Governor of the Low Countries. 19. Mathias, Archduke of Austria, Duke of Burgundy and Gov ernor of the united Provinces. 20. Alexander Farnese, Prince of Parma, Governor of the low Countries. 21. Francis Hercules De Valois, Duke of Anjou, Alencon, Brabant and Protector of the Netherlands. 22. Phillip Count Holach, Baron of Langenberg, first General of the united Provinces. 23. Maurice of Nassau, Prince of Orange, Count Nassau, Governor of the united Provinces. 24. Adolphus Solm Count de Meurs, Governor of Gelderland and Utrecht. There are three most memorable Seiges described in this History, those of Haerlem, Leyden, and Antwerp. You will wonder, my dear son, at my writing to you at your tender Age, such dry Things as these: but if you keep this Letter you will in


[Page 416]
386 July 27, 1777 some future Period, thank your Father for writing it. I am my dear son, with the Utmost Affection to your Sister and Brothers as well as to you, your Father, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:289—91. 1 For citations to the editions of these works in the personal library of John Adams, see ibid., p. 292n.l. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dearest Friend Philadelphia July 28. 1777 Never in my whole Life, was my Heart affected with such Emotions and Sensations, as were this Day occasioned by your Letters of the 9, 10, 11, and 16 of July. 1 Devoutly do I return Thanks to God, whose kind Providence has preserved to me a Life that is dearer to me than all other Blessings in this World. Most fervently do I pray, for a Con tinuance of his Goodness in the compleat Restoration of my best Friend to perfect Health. Is it not unaccountable, that one should feel so strong an Affection for an Infant, that one has never seen, nor shall see? Yet I must con fess to you, the Loss of this sweet little Girl, has most tenderly and sensibly affected me. I feel a Grief and Mortification, that is height ened tho it is not wholly occasioned, by my Sympathy with the Mother. My dear little Nabbys Tears are sweetly becoming her generous Ten derness and sensibility of Nature. They are Arguments too of her good sense and Discretion. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:292. 1 On July 11, Abigail had given birth to a stillborn daughter. See ibid., p. 282. Samuel Adams to Paul Revere My dear sir Philade July 28 \.TH I receiv’d your favor of the 26th of June and also one from Col Crafts of the same Date. 1 I wrote to him by the Return of the Post & desired him to communicate the Contents to you. 2 I conversd with Mr. J A upon the Subject of your Letter, and we venturd, both of us, to step out of the Line of strict order in a debate in Congress, the other day, to bring your Regiment of Artillery into View. It occasiond a Conversation in the House in which we had an opportunity of acquainting the Members of the long Standing of that Regiment & the Seniority of its Officers. But still it was considerd as a Regiment raisd by a State & not by the Con tinent. And though we caused the Merit of it to be well understood &


[Page 425]
July 30, 1777 395 Howes Fleet has been at Sea, these 8 days. We know not where he is gone. We are puzzling ourselves in vain, to conjecture his Intention. Some guess he is gone to Cheasapeak, to land near Susquehanna and cross over Land to Albany to meet Burgoine. But they might as well imagine them gone round Cape horn into the South Seas to land at California, and march across the Continent to attack our back settle ments. Others think them gone to Rhode Island, others think they mean only a Deception and to return to the North River. A few days will reveal their Scheme. . . ? We have now before Us, the Months of August, September, October and November, for the Operations of the Campaign. Time enough for Mischief. G Washington is so near this City, that if the Enemy come into Delaware Bay, he will meet them before they can come near this City. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:296—97. 1 Suspension points in MS. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir Philadelphia July 30th 1777 Altho. I expected by this time a very active Eventful scene yet I have scarcely anything to communicate to you worth your attention; for near a week past the enemy have been expected here, and preparations are made for effectively opposing them, but there is yet no appearance of them. What gives rise to the apprehension is that a fleet of Men of War and Transports amounting to upwards of two hundred sail departed from Sandy Hook on Tuesday Last, and steered southeast, having on board Troops, horses, artillery &c in great quantity. This appearance has convinced all who deemed this City their peculiar object, that their destination was for the River Delaware, and even such as have always thought otherwise feel their opinions now wavering: they can see no other probable object, and are therefore constrained to admit that it must be Philadelphia. For my own part, I am still of opinion that they will co-operate with their Forces from Canada in endeavouring to effect a junction and establishing a line of communi cation between the sea and the Lakes, so as to divide the Continent, and bar all succours from one part to the other, while their operations are carried on against either. But why should I trouble you with my conjectures? Time alone can discover what they intend; and as neither we nor they can govern events, there is no foreseeing what they will do. No new accounts have arrived from the Northern Department since my last. Our affairs there give us great uneasiness. The loss was cer-


[Page 427]
July 31,1777 397 Notice; Excuse my troubling you with them. Cunning Politicians often make use of the Names of Persons, & sometimes of the Persons them selves, who have not the least Suspicion of it, to serve their own designs. When I mentioned five out of Eleven I should have explaind my self. There were five States for the Measure, four against and two divided. 3 Had not the State of Rhode Island been at that Juncture accidentally unrepresented, there would have been an equal Division, and the Measure would have been prevented. The most important Events may sometimes depend upon small Circumstances. Some Gentlemen of the State of N Y are exceedingly attachd to G Schuyler. They represent him as Instar Omnium in the Northern Department. After all that has been said, I concieve of him, as I have for a long time, excellently well quali fied for a Commissary or Quartermaster. The N E Delegates were (per haps one excepted) to a Man against his having the Command of that Army. But of this I will write particularly in another Letter. I am not willing to prejudge, but I must say, it is difficult to recon cile the sudden Evacuation of Ty. with the previous flattering Letters of General St Clare. In one of his Letters written but a few days before he says “My People are in the best Disposition possible and I have no Doubt about giving a good Account of the Enemy if they shall think proper to attack us.” He has been esteemd here a good officer and in his Letter he bespeaks the Candor of the Publick till he can be heard. Pains will be taken to lay the Blame upon the N E States, for not furnishing their Quota of Men. I wish therefore you would procure for me an authentick Account of the Number of Men, both regular and Militia sent to the Northward from our State, and how they were cloathd and armd. You may remember that Congress recommended to the Eastern States, some time I think in December last, to send a Rein forcement of Militia to Tionderoga to remain there till they could be replacd by Continental Troops then raising. I have never been informd of the Effect of that Recommendation, or if I have I do not recollect it. 4 Pray put it in our Power to state Facts precisely as far as they re gard our State. It is agreed on all sides that a Fault lies some where. I hope the Truth will be thoroughly investigated, & to use the homely Proverb, the Saddle laid on the right Horse. We are looking every moment for the Arrival of the Enemy in this River. Two hundred & 55 Sail were seen on Wednesday last steering from the Hook South East. Seventy Sail were seen from the Shore near Egg Harbour about 20 Leagues from these Capes on Saturday last steer ing the same Course. The Wind against them. They could not come here at a better time. Genl W. is drawing his Troops into this Neighbor hood. Some of them are arrivd. But as the Enemy has the Advantage of us by Sea, it is too easy for them to oblige us to harrass our Troops by long and fruitless Marches, and I should not wonder to hear that they have tackd about and gone Eastward. I hope my Countrymen are pre-


[Page 430]
400 July 31, 1777 John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philada. July 31t. 1777. 5 O’Clock A.M. An Express this Moment arrivd with a Letter from Genl. Rodney a Copy of which I enclose agreeably to your Request in your Favour of yesterday which came to Hand last Night. 1 The Enemy by this In telligence are in the offing of the Capes, and the Wind was fair yester day for their coming up this Bay. I shall send likewise to Lord Sterling a Copy of the enclosed immediately. I am, Sir, with the greatest Respect, your most obd Set. J.H. Presid. [P.5 1.] The enclosed I just reed, from Genl. Mifflin. t LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 This enclosure was a July 30 letter from Caesar Rodney to Hancock, which was written at Dover, Del., and stated that “two hundred and twenty Eight of the Enemies Ships have appeared in the offing.” PCC, item 78, 19:101; and Rodney, Letters (Ryden), pp. 201-2. This letter was endorsed by Rodney “Per Thomas North Express who must be furnished with a Horse wherever he stands in need” and by Gen. Thomas Mifflin “Received at 10 Minutes after 3 O Clock at Chester and forwarded at 30 Minutes after Three.” John Adams to Abigail Adams My best Friend Philadelphia August 1. 1777 The Fleet is in Delaware Bay, 228 of them were seen, in the Offing, from Cape Henlopen, the day before yesterday. They come in but slowly. G Washington, and the light Horse came into Town last Night. His Army will be in, this day—that is the two or three first Divisions of it —Greens, Sterlings and Stevensons [Stephen’s]. The rest is following on, as fast as possible. General Nash with about 1500 North Carolina Forces, has taken Post on the Heights of Chester, about 15 miles below this City on the River. The Fire Ships &c. are ready. I really think that Providence has ordered this Country to be the Theatre of this Summers Campaign, in Favour to Us, for many Rea sons. 1. It will make an entire and final Seperation of the Wheat from the Chaff, the Ore from the Dross, the Whiggs from the Tories. 2. It will give a little Breath to you in N. England. 3. If they should fail in their Attempt upon Philadelphia, it will give Lustre to our Arms and Disgrace to theirs, but if they succeed, it will cutt off this corrupted City, from the Body of the Country, and it will take all their Force to maintain it. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:297-98.


[Page 431]
August 1, 1777 401 Samuel Adams to James Warren Dear sir Philad Augt 1. 77 I wrote to you on the 30 Ulto. by Mr Bruce, who did not leave the City on that day as I expected. His Stay gives me the oppty of ac quainting you that an Express who left the Capes yesterday informs us that the Enemies Ships all went out to Sea in the morning steering ENE supposd to be going to Hudsons River, Rh Island or Boston. Mr Bruce will give you as particular an Acct as I can, I therefore refer you to him. This is what I expected. I trust you are upon your Guard. Congress have orderd that an Enquiry be made into the Reasons of the Evacuation of Tyonderoga and Mount Independence & into the Conduct of the General officers who were in the Northn Departmt at the time of the Evacuation. That Schuyler, St Clair, Poor, Patterson & Roche de Fermoy repair to Head Quarters & that Genl Washington order such Genl officer as he shall think proper immediately to repair to the Northern Department to releive Schuyler in his Command there. A Come is appointed to digest and report the Mode of conducting the Enquiry. 1 It appears to me difficult to account for the Evacuation of those Posts even upon the Principle of Cowardice. The whole Conduct seems to carry the evident Marks of Deliberation & Design. My utmost En deavors shall not be wanting to have the Matter searchd to the Bottom. If we are vigilant, active, spirited & decisive, I yet flatter my self, notwithstanding the present vexatious Situation of our Affairs at the Northwd, we shall humble our Enemies this Campaign. I am truly mortified at their leaving this place, because I think we were fully prepared for them, and I believe the cowardly Rascals knew it. May Heaven prosper our righteous Cause. Adieu. S.A. RC (MHi). 1 Congress voted on July 29 to conduct an inquiry into the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence, and the next day recalled Gen. Arthur St. Clair. On August 1, Congress appointed a committee to report a method of conducting the inquiry, recalled the three other brigadier generals involved, and ordered Washington to appoint a replacement for Gen. Philip Schuyler. See JCC, 8:585, 590, 596; and Hancock to St. Clair and Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. The following day, several New England delegates also wrote to Washington urging him to appoint Gen. Horatio Gates to replace Schuyler, but Washington asked to be excused from making the appointment, whereupon Congress pro ceeded to appoint Gates to command the northern army. See New England Delegates to Washington, August 2, 1777; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:8; and JCC, 8:600-601, 603-4.


[Page 437]
August 2, 1777 407 that He repair to Congress, to give an Acco of the State of Affairs in his department, instead of repairing to Head Quarters. It may be very possible, if Howe has left us in good Earnest, That He may go to N England, instead of the N River, but tis impossible to say. They are in the Hands of God almighty & all gracious, & in Him alone may we trust. Your most dutiful & obedt Son & Servt, W. Williams RC (CtHi). Endorsed by Williams: “Per Mr Hunt. 2d Letter.” No earlier August 2 letter from Williams has been found. 1 Williams enclosed copies of the resolves of July 29 and 30 and August 1, ordering an investigation of the conduct of the general officers in the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Mount Independence and directing Schuyler and St. Clair to report to headquarters. See JCC, 8:585, 590, 596. William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond Sir Ph. 2d Aug. p.m. 1777, (3d Letter) Congress have this Day reed, a number & very large Letters from Dr Franklin, Mr Lee & Dean, with a great variety of Papers, the Letters from 12 Mar. to abt. the 26 May. 1 Tis vain for me to attempt any particular Acco. of their Contents. They have purchased 6 ships, 80,000 stand of Arms, & Pistols, Swords & accoutremts very many & Cloathing, Blankets &c &c &c. They meet with evefy Encouragemt They can wish in a secret Way, but Fr. & Sp. are not ready yet for an open rupture & save appearances as much as possible, & the King forbids in pompous Terms many of the Things he immediately promises in private & any Money in France & Spain may be had that is needed. 2,000,000 Livres have been lent them from the K’s Treasure, with an Injunction, They keep it secret, & call it private Loans &c which They have inviolably done, save telling it to Congress &c. The only thing They fail of is the Ships they were to obtain. They alledge if They go into a War, they shall want Their Ships. If They Do not they want them to awe Engld. & shall keep just as many more English Ships at home, which is equally advantagious to Us &c & our Embassadors are building 2 or 3 Ships more equal to 60 Gun Ships on a new Construc tion tho not of equal Cost by much. All Europe wish us well & will support as far as They cleverly can & Call our Cause the Cause of Mankind. In Short there is no room to entertain a doubt, if the Enemy dont get a signal & almost decisive Advantage against us this Cam paign, it will be out of their power to open another. For the Sake of all that’s near & dear then, & let our Country men be roused this once & I hope all will be saved, & repent & God will certainly be on our Side. Let Them not fear nor be dismayened.


[Page 445]
August 5, 1777 415 we were obliged to apply to General Nash for an Officer to take Charge of the money when delivered by the Treasurer. The officer received from us his Instructions on the 11th July and we have Since heared nothing more of him but presume he has before this arrived in your State with three hundred thousand Dollars and some proclamation which Mr Penn charged him with. 3 From Mr Penn’s having with him the resolve, and from some other Circumstances, I concluded he was chiefly Expected to transact this Business. This however did not prevent me from giving the most dilligent attention to it, and I can assure you that no unnecessary delay happened after his arrival here, for altho he undertook to do that part of the Business which respected the Treasury, and I what respected the Board of War, yet I gave the strictest atten tion to Both, nor did I perceive him in the least remiss. In short Sir if you knew how heavily money Business proceeds here you would not wonder at the delay. As the Post is Just going out I have not time to add any thing more to this letter, except that we have been for some days under Expecta tion of an Invasion of this State. The Enemys Fleet Sailed from New York, as you will see by my last and they soon appeared off the Capes of Delaware. After hovering there several days they steered away but it is not agreed what Course. General Washington is here and great part the army Encamped in the Neighborhood. The Movements of the Enemy have disappointed both whigs and Tories. The latter wished for them in order to their Subduing us, and the whigs wish for them in full Confidence that we should give them a very warm reception, and an Effectual Check. It is now pretty generally thought that they have no design on this City, and that their principle object is to Establish a Communication by way of Hudsons River, between the Sea and the Northern Leaks. A Gloom still hangs over our affairs in the Northern Department, and we are using our best Endeavours to remove it. Nothing Interesting has transpired thence since my last. You shall have the earliest Intelligence of every thing that is worth your attention. I have the honor to be, your Excellency’s very obedt Servt. Thos Burke RC (Nc-Ar). 1 Governor Caswell’s July 15 letter to Burke is in N.C. State Records, 11:737-39. 2 See JCC, 8:450, 475, 544, 567; John Hancock to Washington, June 13, note 2; and Burke to Caswell, July 7, 1777, note 1. 3 See Burke to Caswell, July 5, note 2; and North Carolina Delegates to John Allen, July 11, 1777.


[Page 446]
416 August 5, 1777 Nathaniel Folsom to Josiah Bartlett Philadelphia Agust 5th. 1777 I arrived here in good Health the 20th of July. On my joining the Congress. I found them worried with Petitions from a Great Number of French gentlemen for Commissions to Serve in our Army and Con tinue to Plague us to this day. Saterday Mr. Bass Came to Congress from Portsmouth and brought Letters from ouer agents in France up to the 26th of May, by which We aire informed that ouer Effaires bair a feavourable aspect all over Europe, that a fund is Establishing in France and Spaine Suffishant to Support the Cradit & Pay the intrest of ouer Continental money—and that if We Can hold ouer owne this year a War will most Sertainly take Place before the Comemencement of annother; and we aire further informd by them that it is the opinion of the ministers of the Last menshoned Corts that thay Can be at Present of more Servise to us then thay Could be if thay ware to Declare war against Briton. The Loss of Ticonderoga hes given grate unEasyness. Generali Schyler and Sant Caire aire orderd to head Qurters in order for an inquirey, into thaire Conduckt. The other Generals that Sat in Councel aire to Stay at thaire Departments till General Washington thinks thay Can be Recald with out hurting the Servise. General Gates is orderd to take the Comemand in the northen Department. Congress have Past a Resolve that New Hampshier, Massachussetts, Connecticut, New Jersey and New York & Pennsylvania Raise & march as many of the militia to Serve in the northen Department till the fifteenth of November as General Gates Shall think Suffishent for the Defence of that Part of the Cuntrey. You will See by the Paper Inclosed that the Enemys fleet have been hovering abought the Capes of the Delleware amounteing to 228 Saill Till Fryday Last & have Since Disapeaird. It is Prity Generaly thought thay aire bound up the North River or to Rhode Island. General Washington is incampt at Garmantown with abought foure Thausend troops but I beleive will in a day or two march to wards the North River. I am with Respect your Humbl. Servent, Nathll. Folsom RC (NhD). John Hancock to Philip Schuyler and Arthur St. Clair Sir, Philada. Augt. 5th. 1777. The Congress haveing come to a Determination to enquire into the Reasons of the Evacuation of Ticonderoga & Mount Independence, as


[Page 447]
August 5, 1777 417 well as into the Conduct of the general officers who were in the North ern Department at the Time of the Evacuation, I have it in Charge to transmit you the enclosed Resolve, and to direct that you repair to Head Quarters for this Purpose. 1 I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 On August 1 Congress appointed a committee of five to report on the mode of investigating the evacuation of Ticonderoga and Fort Independence. After considering the committee’s report at some length, Congress decided on August 27 to appoint another committee to collect the facts about this episode and transmit them to Washington so that he could “appoint a court martial for the trial of the general officers who were in the northern department, when Ti conderoga and Mount Independence were evacuated, agreeable to the rules and articles of war.” Then on the following day John Adams, Richard Henry Lee, and Henry Laurens were chosen to make up this committee. These three delegates proved to be unfortunate choices for this task. Adams returned to Massachusetts early in November and later that month was selected to replace Silas Deane as a commissioner in Paris. Laurens succeeded John Han cock as president of Congress on November 1, thereby making it difficult for him to attend to committee business, and Lee returned to Virginia early in December, further disrupting the committee’s work. In order to expedite the investigation, Congress added five new members to the committee between December 26, 1777, and January 27, 1778—Francis Dana, William Ellery, James Lovell, James Smith, and John Witherspoon—and ordered them on January 20 to submit a report on the 26th. The committee failed to meet this deadline, but on February 5 it submitted “a variety of evidence,” which Congress promptly forwarded to Washington with instructions “to appoint a court martial for the trial of the general officers who were in the northern department when Ticonderoga and Mount Independence were evacuated.” Congress soon learned that the committee’s work had been seriously deficient in one crucial respect, however, for Washington wrote to Congress on February 27 that he was unable to convene a court-martial because of the committee’s failure to make “any particular charges against the Officers who are to be the objects of trial.” Consequently Congress appointed a new committee on April 29 to reexamine the evidence and specify charges against the officers responsible for the loss of Ticonderoga and Fort Independence. This committee, consisting of Francis Dana, William Henry Drayton, and Roger Sherman, submitted a lengthy report to Congress on June 12, summarizing the evidence about the evacuation of these two posts and recommending that General St. Clair be tried on five counts involving charges of “neglect of duty . . . cowardice . . . treachery . . . incapacity as a general . . . inattention to the progress of the enemy . . . shame fully abandoning the posts of Tyconderoga and Mount Independance” and that General Schuyler be tried on one count for “neglect of duty in not being present at Ticonderoga to discharge the functions of his command.” Congress approved this report and ordered a copy of it to be sent to Washington on June 20 so that he could hold trials for St. Clair and Schuyler. As a result, St. Clair and Schuyler were court-martialed separately in Septem ber and October and acquitted “with the highest honour” of all charges against them. Congress confirmed their acquittals on December 3 and 16, 1778. See JCC, 8:596, 653, 668-70, 674-75, 681-86, 688, 9:786-87, 901, 1053, 10:66, 92-93, 125, 238-39, 403, 11:593-603, 628, 12:1186, 1225; Washington,


[Page 450]
420 August 5, 1777 Strokes I have no Objection to. With the lower Class of Soldiers and Seamen I would contrast American Humanity against British Ferocity, but if a Douglas or a Jordan could be handled some Atonement should be made for the Blood of Burke and others who have sufferd under their Barbarian Hands. It does not appear that Genl Howe has received any considerable Reinforcement the present Year, perhaps a few hundred, at most 2000 chiefly Anspachers. These we are well inform’d refused to march and by a Letter from a Friend at Rotterdam 6 we are assured that most of them were sent down the Maes tied Neck and Heels. The foreign Troops on the Spot are much disgusted and among Bourgoynes a Mutiny lately happend in which eighty Lives were lost. We are assured from good Authority that this City is the grand Object of the Campaign. It might have been so while Reinforcements were expected, but the late Movements of the Brothers mark the Imbecillity of the Generals Army which we think cannot exceed 8000 & General Washington seems to be certain that Bourgoyne has not above 6000. To them some recruits may have been added from among the mal Contents on his late rapid inroad. You will see in the News papers we have taken the Liberty to hang two of General Howes re cruiting Officers on North River. If those Generals can form a junction, no doubt an attempt will be made to penetrate the Country & we may hear of them in front & Rear before October. On the other hand Spirited measures under General Gates who will go out this day (the 6th) to Command the Northern Department will keep them asunder & may prove the ruin of their Campaign. General Putnam commands at Peeks Kill. He will have his hands full & if not Speedily & well supported we shall lose our frigates on North River, the Country will be laid open & Thousands of Tories & property Men join the Enemy. Exposed to Similar dangers I find we are at Providence, where we have also two Frigates & much other Valuable Shipping. These the Enemy are at this time attempting to destroy to complete the Conquest of Rhode Island Government & open an easy passage to Boston. Not one of these projects could be executed if the people were anxious to defeat them, but there seems to be an universal langour, except in the article of Money. Zeal & animation to make as much of that as possible & by all possible ways & means are very visible among all Classes. While this Spirit Governs nothing more can be expected than base defensive action, but tis clear if we were united & would act with vigour only three Months no British Troops would remain on this side the Lakes but such as were protected by Men of War or confined by prison Walls. The New Yorkers & some others blame New England, the Yankees retort & upon a fair hearing it appears that the latter have given more Men in proportion than any


[Page 451]
August 5, 1777 421 other State. But Say the Southern States they are able to do more, they are attentive only to privateering & making Money. New England replies we furnish our quota ascertained by your Selves, we have a large frontier to defend both by Land & Sea, our Country is barren & affords bare Subsistence in return for hard Labour. Ye enjoy fertile fields, live in Luxury Without the Labour of your own hands, Ye are Rich in Money & Products & can better afford to pay. I believe New England is at this time, unless the British Army is actually gone there, in happier circumstances than any Southern State, but we should remember three things. They bore the first & Severest attack—what they now enjoy they have gained by their address & their industry— their gains have greatly distressed the common Enemy & in so far we participated I may add, they are still the grand object of British revenge. We have the best assurance that the port of Havanna is open to American Vessels, that the Caribs in the Island of St Vincents have reasserted their rights, obtained Supplies of Arms & ammunition from Martinico, made Several Successful inroads upon the planters, taken many of their Negroes, destroyed vast fields of Cane & Grain, that the Governor at the head of the Militia had marched against them. If I remember right seven British Regiments were fully employed to bring those half armed Savages to a treaty & a drawn game in 1773. Lord North has now cut out work enough to employ Seventy Regiments. 7 The late flood of French Men rushed in upon us under argeements with Mr. Deane has reduced Congress to a painful dilemma. If we employ with all his unwarranted Contracts, many of our best Generals will be grosly affronted; if we do not, the United States will be exposed to the reproach & probably resentment of Men who have been de ceived & ill used. Some of them have been very clamorous & we shall be obliged to make pecuniary Satisfaction for their disappointment of Rank, Some of them by the by prove to be rank Cheats, nevertheless they have Credentials from our agent Deane & must be provided for in Some way. Holzendorf being a long time upon hand, I interposed on his behalf, obtained his Commission of Lt. Colonel according to agree ment, but he is not employed. 8 This so far looks well as it Shows these people we are not altogether dependent upon Frenchmen. The Cheva lier Faliat [Failly] who in his passage from Charles Town to Virginia had been taken by the Daptine M.W. [H.M.S. Daphne] arrived here a few days ago. The recommendation of Doctor Franklin Seconded by that of Monsieur de Coudrie has ensured him a Majority, a Commission only but no employment at present. 9 A Commission of Major General is granted to the Marqui de la Fayette the young nobleman who lately came from Charles Town. He required no pension, no Special Command; the honour of fighting


[Page 452]
422 August 5, 1777 near General Washington & having rank in the Army was all he coveted except opportunities to shew his Zeal for the glorious cause of American Freedom either in the Field, or at Court when it shall be judged he can be more Servicable at Versailles. This illustrious Stranger whose address & manner bespeak his birth will Serve a short Campaign & then probably return to France & Secure to us the powerful Interest of his high & extensive connexions. 10 General Howe has published by proclamation an extraordinary regulation of Trade in New York, calculated as they pretend to Starve the Rebels. 11 Except the necessary article of Salt we abound in good things although we pay abundantly for them. Salt is excessively dear, 16 Dollars per bushel. Nevertheless the Enemy’s men who are pur chased & fed at much dearer rate will be all defunct or banished be fore our whole Stock of Salt is exhausted. From the Same quarter we learn that the Inhabitants of that City & its environs are very unhappy infinitely more so than their old friends whom they infamously forsook. I have seen & read English News papers up to the 13 May & Letters from France late as June. England is truely distressed on all hands. She has Suffered by Captures made by the Americans & Frenchmen Americanized far beyond my former apprehensions. The number of Privateers Maned by Frenchmen under English Captains & Congress Commissions is astonishing. These have destroyed the English West India & African Trade & are daily making prizes in the Channel from Scilly to the German Sea. To such insults do the British Ministry Tamely Submit—-while on the other hand they meanly threaten Hol land only for having connived at illicit Trade with us. You have seen Sir Joseph Yorkes memorial presented at the Hague, I will Send you the Dutch Envoy’s humble answer & we learn from undoubted au thority that a Mr. Vanbibber our Commissioner or Agent was lately imprisoned at St. Eustatia for having caused an English Vessel to be taken in Sight of the Island. 12 Tis however Said this is the effect of policy. I will not take upon me to comment but you may depend upon it we have now a Vessel for War building in Amsterdam which will be equal or is intended to be, to an English 64 Gun Ship & that the States of Holland are as anxiously concerned to establish our Independence as the French are, & that in order to be ready for defense they are augmenting their Navy. Our Agents in France have contracted with proper persons to dis patch an advice Boat together with 30 Tons of Merchandize if re quired once a Month to Congress. The first arrived at Portsmouth a few days ago & brought us the accounts which the News papers & This have retailed to you together with Some of a more private nature. The Second Sailed as I suppose the latter end of June or beginning of July & on this Instant learn she was taken within Six hours of her


[Page 456]
426 August 5, 1777 Scyler & St Clair are ordered down to head Quarters in order that an Enquiery be made into the Conduct of the northern Department. General Gates is ordered to take the Command there & to call on the neighbouring States for Militia. Have not time to add but that I am, Your humble Servt, Rich Law RC (CtNIHi). Addressed: “Mr. Nathel Shaw junr, Mercht, New London, Connecticut.” Law began this letter to Shaw at the foot of a copy he had made of Samuel Mifflin’s petition to Congress. 1 Mifflin’s May 8 petition requested the assistance of Congress in prosecuting an appeal against the capture and condemnation of his brig Sally at New Bem, N.C. A second petition which he submitted to Congress on December 24, 1777, a draft resolve recommending that Mifflin appeal to the North Carolina assembly for a new trial, and Mifflin’s May 8 petition are in PCC, item 42, 5:59-62, 65, 67-68. James Lovell to William Whipple? My Dear Sir [August 5, 1777] Matters remain here much as when I wrote you last, except some alarms caused by a report that a very large fleet appeared off Cape Ann on the 31st UI to. The time agreed very well with the accots we previously had of the fleets sailing from N.Y. As we supposed The Town was the Enemies object, all hands were preparing to go thither when on a sudden the Fleet vanished in a fogg & we have heard noth ing of it since, but its still a matter of great speculation where this invincible Armada is Bound. It is reported as Gen’l Washingtons opinion that Virginia is the object but those who have not the most favorable opinion of that Climate think they know better than to go there, that this is only a finesse and that they will return immediately & push up Hudsons River. Others will have it that they are certainly coming this way. The last opinion I endeavor to support, not because I realize it, but because I wo’d have everybody in readiness, if that sho’d be the case. The enemies ships are so thick on the coast that it is almost impossible to escape them, one of them chased a ship on shore a few days ago within 6 or 7 miles of this. She proved to be a West India man which had been taken by a Connecticut Privateer but unfortunately for the captors the tide was rising & the enemy soon took her off with them. It was reported yesterday that we had gained great advantages in a Battle on Wood Creek & that the Enemy had left Skeenborough & Castletown but we have no acco’ts from that way that can be depended on. I wish I co’d Know from the fountain of intelligence how matters stand with the Northern Army and to what the late extraordinary disaster is owing. Here the general Cry is treach ery and some go so far as to name the sum given, however these re-


[Page 459]
August 5, 1777 429 was probably North Carolina. See North Carolina Delegates to John Allen, July 11, 1777. 2 The Rhode Island Assembly adopted Marchant’s proposal during its August 1777 session. John R. Bartlett, ed., Records of the State of Rhode Island and Providence Plantations in New England, vols. 8-10 (Providence: Cooke, Jackson & Co., 1863-65), 8:290-91. 3 These were July 31 resolves on Continental Army recruits and deserters. See ibid., pp. 298-300; and ]CC, 8:593—95. President Hancock also sent a copy of them to Governor Cooke in a brief letter written on August 6: “I am just now so much Engaged that I have only time to Cover you a resolution of Congress for promoting the Recruiting Service to which I beg leave to Refer your Attention.” American Manuscripts, RPJCB. Robert Morris to John Langdon Philada. August 5th. 1777 Dear Sir I have yours of the 21st July and am sorry to find every part of this poor Continent so exceedingly fettered in their Trade and convulsed about their Constitutions & Governments. We must have patience & let things take their Course. I will not at this time give any orders about the Sugars but if the Enemies Fleet which lately paraded to our Capes & back shou’d go your way I depend that you will do the need- full to secure my property & remain Dr sir Your Obedt hble Servt. Robt Morris P.S. The bearer has been detained longer than was agreable to him, but the Committees have not time to dispatch business as fast as they coud wish. I pray you to put the letters enclosed herewith into the mail & give the Captain of the Packet strict orders to throw the Mail over if needfull, as no Public dispatches shou’d fall into the Enemies hands if it can be avoided. I am always yours &C, 1 RM RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1974). 1 This day Morris also wrote the following brief letter to St. George Tucker at Williamsburg, Va., on behalf of Willing, Morris & Co. “Your favour of the 25 th Ulto. came by the Post yesterday & we are sorry to tell You that soon after the Commencement of the present War with Great Britain the Underwriters in this City declined the business & that it never has been taken up again so that all the Commerce carried out from this port is at the sole & entire risque of the adventurers. We shou’d have been very happy to serve You on this occasion as we shall also if future opportunities puts it in our power.” Tucker- Coleman Papers, ViW. New York Delegates to George Clinton Philad 5 Aug 1777 Sir We wrote to your Excellency Yesterday 1 and have now only to


[Page 465]
August 7, 1777 435 Samuel Adams to John Langdon My dear Sir, Philade August 7. 1777 Major Bass will be kind enough to deliver to you this Letter. He brought me a very friendly Message from you for which I return you my hearty Thanks. If I had Inclination or Leisure to write a Letter of Complement, I am sure you would not be pleasd with it. The Times are very serious; our Affairs are in a critical Situation. The Enemy, after long promising a Visit to this City, made an Appearance last Week near the Capes of Delaware. But they have not been seen these six days past. The Hounds are in fault and have lost Scent of them. We shall hear where they are gone, I dare say, before long. It belongs to the military Gentlemen to penetrate their Design. I think they could not have come here in a better time, because we were well prepared for them. General Washington had drawn his Forces into the Neighbor hood of this Place and I verily believe the people here, divided and distracted as they are about their internal Government, would have joynd in sufficient Numbers to have given a good Account of them. The shameful Defeat of our Forces at Ticonderoga is not more distressing to us than it is vexatious. A thorough Scrutiny into the Causes of it must and will be made. For this Purpose Schuyler and St Clair are ordered to Head Quarters. I confess I cannot at present account for it even upon the Principle of Cowardice. There seems to me to be the evident Marks of Design. Bad as our Affairs are in that Quarter they are not desperate. Gates is gone to take the Command. He is an honest and able officer; always belovd by his Soldiers because he always shares with them in Fatigue and Danger. This has not been said of his immediate Predecessor. I hope the N. England States will once more make a generous Exertion, and if they do I am deceivd if Burgoyns Prosperity does not soon prove his Ruin. Our Intelligence from Europe is very flattering to us. The virtuous and sensible there universally wish well to our Cause. They say we are fighting for the Liberty and Happiness of Mankind. We are at least, contending for the Liberty & Happiness of our own Country and Posterity. It is a glorious Contest. We shall succeed if we are virtuous. I am infinitely more apprehensive of the Contagion of Vice than the Power of all other Enemies. It is the Disgrace of human Nature that in most Countries the People are so debauchd, as to be utterly unable to defend or enjoy their Liberty. Pay my respects to Colo Whipple. He promisd to write to me. I hope he will soon have Leisure to fulfill his promise. A letter from you would oblige me much. Adieu. FC (NN). Addressed: “To J Langdon Esqr Portsmo N H.”


[Page 466]
436 August 7, 1777 Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris No. 7 In Committee for Foreign Affairs Gentlemen Philadelphia Augt 7. 1777 Inclosed are duplicates of Commissions and Instructions for Willm. Lee and Ralf Izard Esqrs. and Triplicates of Letters No 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6. Since our last No. 6 1 a variety of Circumstances in the Military de partment have happened, many of which are so intricate and unfinished as not to enable us to draw any just Conclusion therefrom. Immediately after the unsuccessful attempt made by Genl Howe to cut off a division of our Army under Lord Sterling as mentioned in No. 6 The whole Body of the Enemy retreated to Staten Island, em barked on board their fleet and on the 23 of July put to Sea. On the 27th they were off the Capes of Deleware. Genl Washington with the Army arrived at German Town the 29th. The 31st the Enemy s fleet stood out again to Sea. They made a Second appearance at the Capes, but did not attempt to come in, since which we have heard no Account of them. As this Packet goes from the Eastward you will probably be furnished with something from that Quarter before she sails. Our Worst News is, we have lost Ticonderoga; whether by Neglect or necessity, Cowardice or good Conduct will appear afterwards. Con gress have ordered Genl Gates to that Department and have directed that Genls Schuyler and St Clair appear at Head Qrs. that enquiry be made into their Conduct of this Mysterious Affair. In the Phila delphia News Papers of July 16th & 23 and Augst 5th & 6th you will see Genls. Schuyler’s & St. Clair’s Letters, and the resolves of Congress. We have been fortunate enough to take and unfortunate enough to lose again the Fox Frigate, she was made a Prize of by Capts Manly and McNeal but a 40 and 64 being in Sight when she struck she was afterwards retaken by them. Major Genl Prescot who Commanded the Enemy’s forces at Rhode Island was seized and made Prisoner of by a Small Party under Lt . Col Barton, see Genl Washington’s Letter to Congress in a Philadelphia News Paper July 23d. Congress have presented the Col with a Sword, and Likewise Lt Col Meigs with another who performed a Gallant exploit on L Island bringing off near an hundred Prisoners and de stroying a Large Quantity of forage. Were it not for the Ticonderoga Affair we should have nothing but good News to write, and even that may in the End be as lucky a Circumstance to the general Cause as their attempting to march thro’ the Jersies last Winter. We have a fine healthy Army anxious for noth- ing so much as to meet the Enemy. Surely! it must appear a ridiculous


[Page 467]
August 7, 1777 437 thing in Europe that Genl Howe should be thus shunning the Army he came to conquer, and wasting his time on running up and down the Coast with his whole fleet at this hot season of the year, when the ministry in England and perhaps Ld Stormont at Paris have given out that he has penetrated an hundred Miles or more up the Country. We are with the greatest Respect, Gentlemen, yr. most Obt humble Servants, Benja Harrison Robt Morris James Lovell P.S. Please to forward the Letters directed to Arthur Lee Esqr and M. Dumas, paragraphs of which relate to you. 2 RC (PPAmP). “Duplicate” copy in a clerical hand. 1 That is, Committee for Foreign Affairs to the Commissioners at Paris, July 2, 1777. 2 Probably the committee’s August 8 letters to Arthur Lee and Charles W. F. Dumas. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir August 7th 1777 By the delay of Mr Bass here without any good purpose being answered, you will find things go much after the old sort. Indeed, I do not think if he had been earlier dismissed, any thing could be sent by the packet boat which brought the dispatches from France for she must have sailed before he got here. I still think General W’s march to this City will give Howe and Burgoyne full swing in New England and New York. There seems to be no more moving here than if there was no other spot in America where it could be expected the British army could be tempted to land. I ought to own to you that General Gates is quite of opinion that the enemy will make themselves Masters of Chesapeake and Delaware Bays for it—then will come up this river to attack the Cheveaux making Wilmington head quarters. I do not know whether I tell his story right for I did not believe what he said enough to fix it in my memory. My greatest anxiety is, to have him gone to stop Burgoyne’s army which we hear is at Saratoga. Mr Du Coudray has put in a memorial and petition wherein he requests that I may be dismissed from any Committee relative to his affairs and that no attention may be paid to any thing I may have said relative to his treaty with Mr Deane. Even his most enamored advocates did not think proper to support his petition. It was dis missed. 1


[Page 469]
August 8,1777 439 town, and John at Trenton. I go this morning to Princeton, and shall return next week. My kind love to Mr. and Mrs. Smith and all friends. I am, dear David, Your affectionate father, Jno. Witherspoon. MS not found; reprinted from Christian Advocate 2 (October 1824) : 445. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 8. 1777 I have concluded to run the Risque of sending Turner Home. It will save me the Expence of his Board and Horse. The Moment he arrives, I hope you will send his Horse to Boston to be sold at Vendue. If he rides the Horse let him be sold immediately. If he rides the Mare, you may keep her if you chuse to do so and sell the old Horse, provided the Mare will go in a Carriage which must be tried, because I dont know that she ever was in one. We have heard nothing from the Enemys Fleet, since they left the Capes of Delaware. They may intend for Philadelphia yet, which makes me a little irresolute about sending away my Man and Horse without which I should be puzzled to get away from this Place, if it should be invaded. I believe I shall delay his Journey for a few days. Perhaps We shall hear more within that Time. This day compleats Seven Months, since I left all that I delight in. When shall I return? Not untill the Year is out, provided I can keep myself tolerably well. Our Accounts from the Northward are still gloomy. Gates is gone, and I hope will restore some degree of Spirits and Confidence there. Burgoigne is laying himself open to destruction, in that Quarter, every day. It is strange that no Check is given him. These vile Panicks, that seize People and Soldiers too, are very difficult to get over. But at last they turn to Vigour, Fury and Des peration, as they did in the Jerseys. I suppose a few Tories in New York, in the Grants and in Berkshire and Hampshire will join Bur goigne, but they will soon repent their rash Folly, and be sick of their Masters. For indeed they will find that neither Burgoigne nor Howe, nor their Master are kind Masters. The longer We live, the more clearly We see, that nothing will serve our Purpose, but discipline and Experience. Discipline—Discipline, is wanting and must be introduced. The Affair of Ti. will introduce it. The Public calls for Justice, and will have it. This Demand does Hon our to the People and is a sure Omen of future Success and Prosperity. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:303-4.


[Page 472]
442 August 8,1777 You could not at the time of writing, have been certified of the arrival of some interesting despatches from Congress to your Colleagues in France on the 10th of that Month, which might have occassioned a very considerable alteration in the Politics of the Court of Versailles, which would consequently influence those of the Court of Madrid. The intellegence contained in your last is a most pleasing confirma tion of the hopes which you had given us, of pecuniary aid from Spain. Whatever tends to establish the value of our paper currency is most highly important to us. Congress will immediately go into a Con sideration of the several hints for this purpose given by you and Messrs Franklin & Deane. The unpleasing events in the Nothem Department has so far engaged the attention of all public bodies, that it has been impossible for Congress to write upon the Subjects mentioned to them by you early enough for us to forward their determinations by the present opportunity. 2 By our several Letters dispatched in the armed Sloop Independence, from hence, or by Duplicates and Gazettes sent by Mr McCreary from Baltimore, you will know by way of Paris, the history of our Military affairs in a regular detail. We are at this time altogether uncertain as to Mr Howes destination, his Fleet not having been seen since the first of this month. Indeed we shall leave you for the most part to get information of our opperations from the gentlemen at Paris, to whom we shall have the most direct opportunities of conveyance. We wish you Success on the Embassy you are now engaged in, and we are pleased that you are so agreably connected with Mr Sayer, whose attachment to the cause of Liberty and this Country has been Mani- fisted. We are with much regard Sir your Friends & hum. Servts, Signed— Benj Harrison Rob Morris James Lovell FC (DNA: PCC, item 79). 1 Arthur Lee’s March 18 and May 13 letters to the committee are in Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:292—96, 319—20. 2 For the actions taken by Congress in response to the commissioners’ advice that money was available in Europe, see Elbridge Gerry to Unknown, September 10, 1777, note; and Henry Laurens to John Rutledge, September 10, 1777, note 5. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia August 8th. 1777 Your favour of yesterday’s Date, with its Inclosures from General Schuyler I duly Rec’d, & laid before Congress; 1 We have no kind of News, nor have I any thing in Charge from


[Page 476]
446 August 9, 1777 of Charles Town in Assembly & the State of So. Carolina in General Congress at the Same time according to your present practice except in the event which I have premised. Possibly to morrow may produce important intelligence from the Eastward. In that case you will [be] troubled with a postscript to a Letter already enormously long, & may prove much ado about nothing as you will probably have heard all its contents before it reaches you. Be that as it may, you will acknowledge I have laboured to say some thing. I will conclude with what I always repeat with pleasure, my best wishes to you, to Mrs. Gervais & the Children. LB (ScHi). A continuation of Laurens to Gervais, August 5, 1777. 1 General Schuyler’s August 4 letter to President Hancock, which was read in Congress on the 11th, is in PCC, item 153, 2:230-32. 2 Maj. Gen. Valentine Jones, the British commandant of New York City, issued a proclamation on July 23 forbidding, on pain of death, any travel from the city to New Jersey between sunset and sunrise. New-York Gazette: and the Weekly Mercury, July 28, 1777. Henry Laurens to Robert Howe Dear General Philadelphia 9th August 1777. About the 22d July I had the honour of delivering Severally your Letters to Congress & to the New England Delegates. The former was instantly committed to the Board of War & their Report followed by a confirmation of your appointment to Colo. Eveleigh & Mr. Purcel, but for your fine polite Commercial story which must have cost you Some labor to learn & given you much pleasure to relate no more notice was taken than of the particular kind of jpaper upon which the tale was told. I am sure I thought it a very clever thing when I read it at Mepkin & Sealed it up so nicely. 1 What sort of writing in this World goes for nothing. In that class your other Letter touching Rank may possibly be found, & it will if one may judge from our determination two days ago upon an application from an old & valuable Servant M[ajo]r Genl Arnold whose prayer to be restored to his rank was rejected notwith standing the acquiescence of Officers whose dates are, as they admit, improperly prior to his. 2 But good General draw no hasty conclusions. Another unexpected vote may turn up & be in your favour. 3 When I am a little older in Congress I’ll try hard at a reformation in that article of Rank, persevering in the present mode which is arbitrary & often Subject to caprice will not promote the welfare of our Army. The evacuation of Ticonderoga & concommitant circumstances have excited public clamour & resentment. Burgoynes advance & Schuyler’s retreat to the very threshold of Albany fills the minds of some with the most direful apprehensions, others say he will be checked & his retreat cut off. Everybody wonders what is become of your name sake Sir


[Page 477]
August 9, 1777 447 William who abandoned his Jersey garrison early in July, embarked his Troops, Horse & foot about the middle, paraded with 228 Sail off the Capes of Delaware the latter end & vanished the 1st August. The Second maneuver drew great Washington [. . .] to this City by a fatiguing Countermarch of upwards 120 Miles, his Letters regularly intimated his opinion that the whole was a calculated feint. We shall probably soon hear of Ld. Howe’s appearance at Rhode Island or farther eastward, he cannot be so mad as to leave Burgoyne to Struggle with the united force of New York & New England. We have received most shocking ac counts of scalping & mangling by Burgoyne’s Indians. He carries fire, Sword & terror with him. The Six Nations are heartily disposed to be our friends, or it appears so by a Talk which they lately Sent in & those who know best say they certainly will be, if our people will fight & give them prospect of conquest. Generals Schyler & St Clair are ordered to head quarters. General Gates gone to take the command of the Northern department. ’Tis agreed the New England Men will chearfully follow him, although they had abandoned Schuyler in whom, rumour reported, they had no confidence. General Fermoy one of the subscribing Council of War at Ticonderoga has written a Letter to Congress disclaiming any part of merit arising from the Surrender of the Fortress without an at tempt to repel the Enemy or to Save the Stores. I have seen added in a Letter from a Man of Character that one hundred head of fat Cattle were driven & left within the lines the very morning the fort was evacu ated. A deep & impartial enquiry will bring out the truth. Till that event I will neither join those who censure nor those who condemn Mr. St. Claire. The principal charge against Schuyler in the public mouth is his residence at & attention to his own Estate, which ought to have but which never had been at the head of his Troops in Garrison. A few days before the Surrender General St. Clair expressed as you will read in one of the News papers strong hopes of making such a defence as would, if not destroy the Enemy, at least cripple him & Spoil his Campaign. The question anxiously asked by those who have a right to demand, is, what happened between that date & the Surrender & Shameful flight? Shame ful no doubt, when Mr. Schyler himself writes that our people were panic struck. 300 of them had fled from a party of fifty Indians. If we learn any thing farther of the British Fleet or from Albany you will be troubled with a postscript. General Washington lay last night at Correls Ferry or Trent Town, he means as I am informed to encamp on the old ground in Morris Town & await events. Possibly in the enemy’s absence he may attempt another Christmas Coup. Intelligence from our Agents in France is much in our favour—but we have got a Thousand difficulties to Struggle against, if we persevere we shall break smooth ground for our Successors. Adieu, I am &c


[Page 479]
August 11, 1777 449 Horse & foot Sailed out of Sandy Hook & made a parade with 228 Sail of vessels off the Capes of Delaware. From thence he disappeared about the 1st Inst. & may now be in the Moon for aught we know, but he is probably gone to New England & will Strive to join General Burgoine who found Ticonderoga evacuated & the Road clear for him down to Albany. Perhaps he may receive a check there; otherwise we shall be in a troublesome situation. Articles of every kind are exceedingly dear here. A Breast of Veal 55/ to 65/ our Currency. Butter 22/6 to a Dollar— meaning our Currency. Fire Wood when laid in the Cellar upwards of £22 a Chord. Horse feeding & Standing at Stable upwards a Dollar per day & every thing in proportion. It will cost me more to maintain 3 people here than it did to keep House & entertain Company at Anson- burgh. I hope we shall make something at home to ease this enormous weight. I fear all that my plantations will make will not support it. I thank Mrs. Loveday for her remembrance & desire my Compliments & good wishes to her & am &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 John Loveday (d. 1804) was a Charleston merchant who was helping John Lewis Gervais care for Laurens’ business affairs during his service as delegate to Congress. Raymond Starr, ed., “Letters from John Lewis Gervais to Henry Laurens, 1777-1778,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 17n.2. John Hancock to George Washington Sir Philadelphia August 10th [1777], 5 oGlock P.M. I was this moment called out of Church by the arrival of an Express, with a letter informing of a large fleets being seen off Sinapuxen. 1 Copy of the letter I enclose you per Express, should I hear any thing further I shall immediately advise you of it. I have the honour to be, with sincere respect & esteem, Your most obedt. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. 1 A contemporary copy of Zadoc Purcell’s August 7 letter stating that this afternoon there appear’d off the bar of Sinapuxon a large fleet of shiping to the amount of two-hundred & some odd sail, all bearing to the southward with the wind about South East which it is imagined that their intention is for the Cape of Virginia,” is in the Washington Papers, DLC. John Adams to Abigail Adams Aug. 11. 1777 Your kind Favour of July 30 and 31 was handed me, just now from the Post office.


[Page 482]
452 August 11, 1777 learned and exact Translation of Thucidides, which will be usefull to you. But there is another Translation of him, much more elegant, intituled “The History of the Peloponnesian War, translated from the Greek of Thucidides in two Volumes Quarto, by William Smith A.M. Rector of the Parish of the holy Trinity in Chester, and Chaplain to the Right Honourable the Earl of Derby.” If you preserve this Letter, it may hereafter remind you, to procure the Book. You will find it full of Instruction to the Orator, the Statesman, the General, as well as to the Historian and the Philosopher. 1 You may find Something of the Peloponnesian War, in Rollin. I am with much Affection your Father, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:307. 1 For a list of some of the various editions of Thucydides’ works still surviving in the Adams libraries, see ibid., p. 3O7n. Samuel Adams to Roger Sherman Dear Sir Philada. Augt 11. 1777 I duly receivd your obliging Letter of the 11 July by the Post. 1 I thank you for the favor and beg you to continue to write to me as often as your Leisure may permit. The Rumor you mentioned has since appeared to be a serious Fact. We have lost Ticonderoga and as far as I can yet judge shamefully. I was going to add vilainously, for indeed I am not able to account for it but upon the worst of Principles. The whole ap pears to me to carry the evident Mark of Design. But I hope & believe it will undergo the strictest Scrutiny. The People at large will not, they ought not to be satisfyed until a thorough Enquiry is made into the Causes of an Event in which their Honor & Safety is so deeply interested. The only Letter receivd by Congress from St Clair you have seen pub- lishd under their Sanction. Schuyler has written a series of weak & contemptible Things, in such a Stile of Despondence which alone is, I think, sufficient for his removal from that Command. For if his Pen expresses His true feelings of his Heart it cannot be expected that the bravest Veterans would fight under such a General, admitting they had no Jealousy of Treachery. In a Letter reed this Day, 2 dated the 4th Inst at Stillwater he writes in a Tone of perfect Despair. He seems to have no Confidence in his Troops nor the States from whence Reinforcements are to be drawn. A third part of his Continental Troops he tells us, con sists “of Boys, Negroes & aged Men not fit for the field or any other Service.” “A very great Part of the Army naked—without Blankets—ill armed & very deficient in accoutremts without a prospect of relief.”


[Page 486]
456 August 11, 1777 now and will I expect be for sorrie time impractical if at any time it shod mend, on acct of the high bounty given by the Militia exempts, a mode of raising Men very hurtfull I conceive to the recruiting Business. I wish Gapt Monroe could have made up his Company on his own accot. as well as that of the Public but I am satisfied any further Prose cution of the attempt will be equelly unsuccessful with his past en deavours. It is probable I may have the gratification of seeing you in this City as I cannot think the Enemy mean to carry on their operations to the Southward—a few days will I expect open their design. Very respectfully I am, Dr Sr yr aff. Sev. Jos. Jones RC (DLC). 1 Undoubtedly Jones’ nephew James Monroe. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh Dear Sir, Philadelphia 11th August 1777. Some where on my journey hither your favour of the 30th May over took me, at my arrival I put it into the hands of Colonel Walton. The very Morning after I reached this City I took my Seat in Congress where I had intended to have remained a silent auditor at least until I should have perused the Journals for some Months back, gained a clue to business & an acquaintance with Members & their manners, but I was soon provoked to break through the prescribed bounds & to oppose a random scheme for a Western enterprize which had been proposed to the House as equally practicable & advantageous & which to my amaze ment the whole House appeared to have adopted, nothing remained to do on their part but to vote Men & Money. 1 I saw in that business destruction of a number of honest fellows whom we want exceedingly for better employment, disgrace to our Arms & a vast increase to our general debt already swelled to an alarming heigth & felt that I should rise a criminal if I forbore to say every thing in my power which might tend to avert such evils. I delivered my sentiments & was successful, the question had scarcely an affirmative. I took occasion to report the value & at the same time the precarious & dangerous state to which Georgia was reduced, wished if so many Men as had been talked of could be spared from this quarter, they might be immediately ordered to that Colony, as well for its protection as for laying the foundation of an enterprize nearer home which at a proper time might be carried into execution with success & which would work half the Conquest of the other place without marching a foot towards it. Before I sat down I moved for a Committee to consider the State of Georgia or wished to second the Delegate from thence in a motion to that effect. In conse quence of these suggestions a Committee was appointed whose report


[Page 490]
460 August 11, 1777 look after & see her finished. I fancy the prices of Goods here must be full as high as they ought and if yours come up you will be satisfyed with what you get for them. Our people shall give any assistance wanted from me or them on the occasion and whatever comes shall be taken care of. I am glad you have got your Iron again & that things will go on as they ought and it is well that Mr. Vashons Goods are to be disposed of by others, if they are put into good hands, it is not much matter who the persons are, they will get high prices. I will send your advertizement to the press & am ready to do you any service therein that I can. I have told Mr Braxton that I was content he should execute the plan proposed by Mr. Dorsius as long as he found it wou’d answer but I think we shou’d attend carefully to avoid confusion in Accounts by mixing them & extending our Conf. . .] too far or letting them run too long without settling accounts and I cou’d wish for this reason that the Accounts of your Voyage shou’d be settled soon as possible. I am sir, Your Obedt hble servt. Robt Morris RC (PHarH). John Adams to James Warren Dear Sir Phila. Aug. 12. 1777 I see by the Papers, our assembly is called, and conclude it is now Sitting. The Letters we receive from G. Schuyler, are enough to frighten any Body who does not know him. G.W. Says that all the Regiments from N.H. & M.B. are at the Northward and yet, Schuyler tells Us he has not above 4000 Men. I hope this Matter will be investigated. I believe Gates will find greater Numbers. If not I hope they will be sent him. 1 Burgoyne is treading dangerous Ground, and proper Exertions will ruin him. Those I hope will not be wanting. I rejoice to see such a Spirit arise upon the Loss of Ti. and such determined Calls for Inquiry. The Facts must be stated from the Returns and other Evidence, and the innocent will be I hope acquitted—the guilty meet their Deserts. I see no Medium, I confess, between an honourable Acquittal and capital Punishment. What is become of Howe? The Jersies are very happy, relieved from an heavy Burthen. What Fears were propagated in Boston last January, that the Jersies were lost. Not a Single Village has revolted. We have still Accounts of part of Howes Fleet, coasting between the Capes of Delaware and those of Cheasapeak. What this Mans design is, can not be conjectured. It is very deep or very shallow. Washington has been here with a noble Army, very obedient, and orderly.


[Page 491]
August 12, 1777 461 Our News from France, is agreable. Trade, Friendship, Assistance underhand, and Loans of Money for the present—other Things by and by. I am &c RC (MHi). In Adams’ hand, though not signed. 1 The second session of the Massachusetts General Court began on August 5, one month earlier than scheduled. The session lasted only until August 16, but the general court acted strongly to reinforce the northern army with men and equipment. The Acts and Resolves, Public and Private, of the Province of the Massachusetts Bay . . . 1177-1778 (Boston: Wright & Potter Printing Co., 1918), pp. 85-109. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philadelphia Augt 12 1777 The inclosd is an attested Copy of General Schuylers Letter to the President of the Congress. 1 It needs no Comment. How far the Massa chusetts State deserves the Strictures therein made, you can tell. I send it to you for the Perusal of the Members of your Honbl House. If they have sent into the Army, Boys, Negroes & Men too aged to be fit for any Service, they will lay their Hands on their Mouths. If not, I hope some decent but keen Pen will vindicate them from that & other Aspersions. This, like all his other Letters, is written in such a desponding Stile, that it is no wonder that Soldiers decline fighting under him, though they may be under no Apprehension of Treachery. But he has by this time receivd his Quietus, at least till he can give a good Account of his Con duct. Gates has gone to take the Command and our Affairs in that Quarter, I dare say, will soon wear another Face. The Enemies Fleet have been again seen, 200 Sail, off Sinipuxin about 15 Leagues South of the Capes of Delaware. I think I have now a just Demand upon you for a Letter. I shall be disappointed if I do not receive one by the next Post. Adieu my Friend. S A RC (MHi). 1 The enclosed August 4 Schuyler letter to Hancock is in W arren-Adams Letters, 1:352—53. Charles Carroll of Carrollton to Benjamin Franklin Douhoragen, 1 Anne Arundel County, 12th August 1777. Encloses letter to William Carmichael, left open for Franklin’s perusal “as it relates principally to public concerns. When you have read it, please to seal it. No doubt the Secret Committee will give you a full & true ac count of the present situation of our affairs, & of our wants; they may


[Page 493]
August 12, 1777 463 might be speedily raised by the sale of such bills, particularly if ad vantage were taken by the Public of the Exchange.. . . “We have not yet confederated, but almost every member of Congress is anxious for a Confederacy, being sensible, that a Confederacy formed in a rational Plan will certainly add much weight & consequence to the united States, collectively give great Security to each individually, and a a credit also to our paper money: but I despair of such a confederacy, as ought, & would take place, if little & partial interests could be laid aside: very few, & immaterial, alterations will be made in the report of the Committee of the whole house; this is only my opinion, for we have made but very little progress in the house in that important affair; im mediate & more pressing exigencies having from time to time postponed the consideration of it to this day, when, I am informed, it is to be again resumed. If this war should be of any considerable duration, we shall want men to recruit our armies: could we engage 5 or 6 thousand men, Germans, Swiss or the Irish Brigade? I have mentioned this matter to several members of Congress, but they did not seem to relish the intro duction of foreign mercenaries; I own it ought to be avoided, if possible. Handycraftsmen would be very Serviceable to us, such as black Smiths, nailors, Shoemakers, weavers & persons skilled in the management of Hemp & flax. One of the greatest distresses we have yet felt is the want of salt, but, I hope, we shall not be in so great want of that essential article for the future, as we have been: a bushel of salt some months ago was sold at Baltimore Town for £9. Necessity is said to be the mother of Invention, it surely is of industry among a civilized People. Many private persons on our Seacoasts & Bays are now making salt to supply themselves & neighbours; these private, and the public salt works together will in a few months, I hope, yield a tolerable supply to our People and at pretty reasonable rates compared with those, which have obtained for some time past: perhaps the private Saltmakers may afford to sell salt at 30s. per bushel; the undertakers of the public salt works in this State are under contract to sell what salt they make at 5s. We are casting salt pans: but they cost £100 per Ton, and are subject to cracks: when our plating mills get in full works, it will be better to make the pans of plate iron, altho’ they will come considerably higher: a large importation at this time from Europe of salt pans would be very service able: they would sell high. The necessaries of life, except wheat flour, are risen to an amazing nominal price, owing to an encreased demand, & great depreciation of our currencies: wheat sells at 6/6 in this part of the country; the market for flour is very dull at present; the price of live stock of all kinds is prodigiously advanced; a cow, for instance, which a year ago would have sold for £6 only, would now sell for £18, or 20: cloths, linnens & woollens are excessive high; I have a coat on, the cloth of which is not worth more than 10s. a yard & would not have cost more 18 months ago, which lately cost me £4.10.0 a yard. Rye


[Page 498]
468 August 12, 1777 1000 or 1200 Men just taken from the Mountain Air & Water sent in the latter end of October & November to lie in any Cove of brackish Water & near Salt Marshes would Sicken & die very fast. Even upon the fresh Rivers where such men were exposed to night dews huddled to gether & lived upon Salt food, the list of dead & non affectives would increase every day. It was vain to hope for Secrecy of an enterprize which had been often talked of in different States & long Suspected by the Enemy. Finally that vast expence of money & Men & further disgrace on our Arms would be the result of so mad an enterprize, into which it seemed Gentlemen had been hastening merely because they could not see their way. Your Excellency will not be displeased with the detail of this affair if you think the termination without a serious question, a fortunate event & that if the Expedition had been attempted & failed as most undoubtedly it would, that our Enemies would have been furnished with strong argu ments for moving the Creek & other Indians to act offensively against So Carolina & Georgia. From the above circumstance & Sorry I am to Say, more than a few others which I have been witness to in short three Weeks I can hardly forbear concluding that a great Assembly is in its dotage & that happily for us our Enemy is at the Same time very infirm. I came here with great reluctance diffident of my abilities to serve my Country effectualy—from the same apprehensions heightened by what I have already Seen I wish ten thousand times more I had never come as a delegate. Mr. Middleton tells me he is to leave us in October & Mr. Heyward expects soon to follow him. Your Excellency will perceive the necessity for pressing the House of Assembly to Send as able Men in their Stead & to fill up immediately the number of our delegacy. General Howe’s movements from New York, his parade in Sight of the Jersey Shore off the Capes of Delaware, pretences of coming within the Bay, then vanishing & now appearing again on the Coast of Maryland are all enigmatical & give rise to various guesses & conjectures. A few Men celebrated for penetration & Sound judgement persist in their opinions that this City will be his first object—granting so much as I will praise him for being even more indulgent than Sir Peter Parker, 6 had he come up the River immediately after his appearance off the Bay what was there to have withstood him. Billings Port was in no preparation for defence nor Fort Island & all the work which has been Since bestowed on the former is now to pass for nothing—General Washington having in person made a survey of the River & adjacent Lands & by advice of a Council of Engineers & able Navigators recommended to abandon the former for the present & to make Fort Island our Hope. 7 Our Fire Ships & wrafts are numerous but the effect of such engines always uncertain,


[Page 499]
August 12, 1777 469 in a word our Safety if we are even now safe rests in the weakness & distraction of the Enemy. General Washington after a most fatiguing Countermarch contrary to his own opinion encamped his Troops near German Town from whence two days ago he Marched them again to Shamony where he means to wait for intelligence of Sir William who will probably be heard of from some part of New England & we shall then know that their Ships have been Coasting a fortnight or 3 Weeks for amusement. My Son is now of the General’s family & has I presume acknowledged his obligation to your Excellency in the Letter which will accompany this. I wish he had made a choice for his outset in Life in a sphere in which he might have been more extensively useful to his Country, the mark of your Excellency’s good will to one so nearly connected with me nevertheless demands & will ever have my grateful thanks. General Burgoyne who made a most extraordinary form of a proclama tion 8 the Harbinger of his Entrance into the territories of the United States Seems to bear down all before him or more properly to be march ing on without opposition. A Letter the 4th Inst, from General Schuyler depicts our circumstances in that quarter in the most gloomy colours. The Public Voice is clamorous against that Officer & more so if possible against his Sub. General St. Clair. These are remanded to headquarters & orders given for an enquiry into their conduct. General Gates is gone to take the Command of the Northern department, now the immediate post of honour & ’tis generally expected that his popularity in New Eng land will recollect those of the Militia who had by thousands forsaken his precedessor as well as bring in thousands more & that he will soon be in a condition to give Mr. Burgoyne a Check & many hope, to cut off his retreat. From the tenor of a Proclamation issued by Sir Wm. Howe at New York restricting & regulating Imports & exports & the whole commercial department, & of another Proclamation issued by Major General Jones Commandt. of that City arranging the police & threatning Military ex ecution upon offenders, one would think the power & authority of Mr. Tryon very slender emanations from our late King’s despotic Representa tives & that the Tory inhabitants lead the Comfortable Life of Camp followers. A late determination in Congress relative to the rank of a good old Servant General Arnold will probably deprive us of that Officer & may be attended by further ill effects in the Army. 9 The reasoning upon this occasion was disgusting. He was refused not because he was deficient in merit or that his demand was not well founded but because he asked for it & that granting at such instance would be derogatory to the honour of Congress. It would be tedious to relate all the particulars but a curious anecdote will arise from them. Our proceedings have also been injudicious toward many of the French & other foreign Officers too


[Page 501]
August 12, 1777 471 fore of the Farmer & labourer must be in frugality. Nothing but great frugality can save the Suspended Merchant & Money lender from ruin, & your poor distressed Delegates must fly to economy or be conducted to Gaol. These advanced prices do not arise I say from combination but are genuinely the offspring of necessity. I will prove this by an observa tion founded in fact & which I think will contain an answer to all that ever has been & all that ever can be said to the contrary. I had occasion lately to purchase a Gold Watch for a young friend. The article had cost in London 25 Guineas. The Merchant here demanded 300 Dollars not a farthing less. I asked how many golden Guineas will you take— answer 19. In the first case near 3 times the original price was de manded, in the latter the Commodity was offered at 25 per Cent less than prime Cost. Square Dollars would have borne only their nominal value in the purchase of domestic articles. Guineas will slide to a post where Advertisements of Just imported fill Columns of the News paper & purchase articles there which may be returned here & establish the price of the Watch at 500 Dollars. For a pipe of Madeira Wine was demanded of Mr. Heyward & Self £320—£180 Stig ordinary per—yet my Bill upon London for £54 will pay for the Wine. The power only that can stop Delaware may attempt to stop the Channels of Exchange & Commerce among a free people, but these are at this time serious & alarming considerations & cry aloud for our utmost exertions to open a foreign Trade which is not so impossible as the next alternative the Sup pression of Idleness & Luxury. Tis true our advices from our public Agents in France & at Martinique are very flattering but ’tis equally true that nothing they have Said in consequence of French promises can be depended upon & we ought to be & continue jealous of the French & Spaniard until they recognize the Independance of the States & enter into a formal Treaty. Every thing short of that point awakens my apprehensions that the original plan of partition & mutual guarantee may be revived. 11 The very loan which is made to us is insidious. The French under all their pretensions to kindness have the best Security in the World. They may receive their Capital with large Interest at the Bank of England when they please, or may compel us to pay it upon worse terms than their pitiful offer of a Livre per Acre for 300 Miles Square or 57,600,000 Acres. I have not the least doubt of the good wishes of all the Trading & other people in the middle Life that our Independence may be estab lished, tis probable they hold themselves Interested in the event & that many thousands already anticipate happiness in a Land of Liberty. The more this Spirit appears or is even suspected, the more artfully will the movements respecting us be conducted at Versailles. One of our Agents, 12 I mean no offence, has not discovered competency to the immense work in hand. The other 13 is on the verge of Life & judging from the ordinary course of nature must soon drop. I have urged Congress to appoint a


[Page 502]
472 August 12, 1777 proper person to repair to France in order to act as a Co-adjutator to Doctor Franklin while he lives, & in his Stead, in case of Sudden death. A precaution like this, a wise Man would take where the Interest of a Distant Rice & Indigo Plantation was concerned and by Heavens Sir we wont feel for the Salvation of thirteen plantations 1700 Miles long at a distance of a thousand Leagues. With submission I think our Treaties have been prematurely offered. Proposals should have commenced on the other side or if on ours not plumply by a schedule of all we would yield. The subtle French of whom we should ever be jealous have now an amazing advantage over us, nor can it be doubted but that our terms will be made a proper use of & held up for higher bidding. Already the British Ministry waving all resentment for the innumerable insults which have been offered to their Flag & their Trade have proposed a largess in the Newfoundland Fishery to the French Court & we are now a hostage. 14 LB (ScHi). Laurens’ letterbook also contains a partial draft of this letter dated August 11 that includes significant variations, which are cited in the notes below. 1 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 24 and 25, 1777. 2 In place of the last three words, Laurens wrote “at Fort Pitt” in the August 11 draft. 3 In the August 11 draft, the remainder of this sentence reads: “in order to Second the efforts on the Land side of Pensacola where vast Magazines of Merchandize, Warlike Stores & other valuables were to be Seized, the Town & fortifications to be destroyed or reserved according to circumstances.” 4 The equivalent of this line in the August 11 draft reads: “an acquisition of necessary articles for our Troops & Indian Trade & of other effects.” 5 In place of this paragraph, Laurens wrote in the August 11 draft: “I listened with patience to the reasonings on these points till I found the House hastening into the measure not because they saw the way but rather because they did not & had relied implicitly upon papers sent in by the out of door projectors who ought to have been examined pointedly at the Bar of the House. My objections were partly to the utility in our present circumstances but principally against the practicability.” 6 The British naval commander at the battle of Sullivan’s Island in June 1776. 7 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:45-53. 8 See Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, August 17, 1777, note 5. 9 See JCC, 8:623-24; and James Lovell to William Whipple, August 8, 1777. 10 See JCC, 8:591-92, 633—34. On August 14 former Gov. John Penn and former Chief Justice Benjamin Chew informed Congress that they were now willing to take a parole, whereupon Congress ordered the Board of War to administer one to them and reversed the order for their removal to Virginia. With the approach of the British toward Philadelphia, however, Congress changed its mind again and on August 28 instructed the board to remove Penn and Chew from Pennsylvania. See JCC, 8:641-42, 695; and PCC, item 41, 2:27, item 78, 18:147. 11 On this point, see Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry, April 20, 1776, note 3. 12 Silas Deane. 13 Benjamin Franklin. 14 For the continuation of this letter, see Laurens.to Rutledge, August 15, 1777.


[Page 505]
August 13, 1777 475 Henry Laurens to Christopher Zahn Dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 13th August 1777. My journey to this place was in general very pleasant & after I had left the Moravian Settlement where I found it necessary to halt two days for a Waggon we travelled very fast often 40 & sometimes 44 Miles a day. I found the air so Cool in the Mountains from the 2d July as to require a buttoned Coat & Wastcoat till the Sun had mounted an hour high. I took what is called the upper Road near 300 Miles from the Sea & to my astonishment found it upon the back of Virginia & Maryland particularly more fully inhabited than the Road between your House & Charles Town. The Farms are delightful & almost without exception abundant Crops of grain. Every Man has his patch of Flax & hemp & almost everyone a few Sheep, the Spinning Wheel & Loom to be Seen in every House & Scarce one with less than 8 Children. Thus circumstanced these people complain of want in no other article but that of Salt. They make a good Spirit from Peaches & from Barley & other grain, & Substi tute honey for Sugar. The Water & Air two grand proofs of the human frame are excellent, bread the Staff of Life abundant, fine pasture, good Horses, black Cattle, Sheep, Hogs & Fowl of all kinds, & I am in hopes their complaints were rather from a fear of wanting than from absolute want of Salt although It was very scarce & every Man had his stock. In time, conquer the Country who may, that Land will become the seat of health, wealth, Arts & Science & in a very few Ages of peace be covered by Inhabitants a thousand Miles back, the prospect is unbounded. The weather in this City has been the last fortnight day & night very hot, Some days & nights more disagreeable so than ever I found it in Charlestown. This may be from the Same cause to which we ascribe the intolerable Cold Sometimes felt in that warmer Climate, the Sudden & extreme change of the Air. My health is as good as ever. Mr. Ball & the two Negro Boys have passed Safely & with very little inconvenience through the Small Pox. Mr. White is at home in this City & has not yet put on his War hat. My Son John is in the family of General Washington who is now en camped about 35 Miles from hence waiting to learn the destination of Sir William Howe who has been amusing us with inexplicable move ments for near a Month past. About the middle of July he embarked Horses & Troops in the Bay of New York & in a few days a pompous fleet of 250 Sail in two divisions passed Sandy Hook to Sea, in a few days more one half of them were so near in the Jersey Shoar as to be Seen distinctly, next apparently the whole fleet paraded near the Capes of Delaware & 228 Sail counted by our Look out & the shew of coming in was so much in earnest that the Officer at the look out advised that about 40 or 60 Sail were at Anchor within the Bay & the rest of the fleet moving in fast. Next Morning they were at Sea again & about the


[Page 507]
August 13, 1777 477 World for this Money which they may receive with large Interest when they please at the Bakk of England, or may compel us to pay four fold in Land which they Seem to aim at but touch the Subject cautiously. The British Ministry in order to tempt them to abandon us have already made one concession by an offer to enlarge their bounds of Fishery on the banks of New Foundland, probably they wait to hear what further offer those abandoned wretches will make, & at length when both Britain & the United States are nearly exhausted to carve for themselves. Our Cause is good, I am Satisfied we shall under all disadvantages support it. Our Harbours in these middle States having been long locked up by British Cruizers every Specie of foreign Goods is become Scarce & the prices greatly enhanced. The Farmers & Labourers have enhanced their demands nearly but not altogether in proportion—consequently those who have no Trade, or farm are greatly oppressed. I am one in that Class & you will judge of the vast expence I [am] at to live even Spar ingly from the following Specimen: Butter 5/to a Dollar per pound. Beef & other Butchery 1/6 to 2/. Fire Wood 13 to 14 Dollars a Chord. Brown Sugar one, & Loaf Sugar three dollars a pound. A pair coarse thread stockings 4 1/2 Dollar to 6 Dollars. Shoes 4 to 5 Dollars a pair. Rum 7 1/2 dollars & Wine 9 Dollars a Gallon. A Fish not sufficient for one Man’s meal a Dollar & upward. Coarse brown Linen 3 to 4 Dollars a Yard. A Beaver Hat 20 to 24 Dollars. Eggs a Doz 1/2 of a Dollar & upward. These extravagancies hurt a few but do not tend to ruin the Country as many people er roneously assert. We are overrun with French Men, Marquis’s, Counts, Barons & Chevaliers in Search of Commissions & the honour of fighting in the cause of Liberty are living here at a very dear rate & we have no em ployment equal to their expectations. I say nothing of my affairs at Sante under your protection. I have nothing to say because I am confident you will do all for me that is necessary. I beg you will assure Mr McCullogh of my desire to be his friend & also to Burnet & Martin. I expect you will favour me with a Line of intelligence when occasions require & I beg you will beleive that I continue with great regard LB (ScHi). 1 Christopher Zahn, South Carolina assemblyman and planter, was one of several South Carolinians keeping watch over Laurens’ manifold business affairs during his service in Congress. Raymond Starr, ed., “Letters from John Lewis Gervais to Henry Laurens, 1777-1778,” South Carolina Historical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 26.


[Page 509]
August 14, 1777 479 Thermometer, against a Post which had been heated by the Sun, and the Spirit arose to an 100, but removing it to another Place, and sus pending it at a distance from any warm Object and the Spirit subsided and settled at 94. How we shall live through these Heats I dont know. If Howes Army is at Sea, his Men between Decks will suffer, beyond Expression. Persons, here, who have been at Sea, upon this Coast, at this Season of the Year, say, the Heat is more intollerable, on Shipboard than on Land. There is no Comfort to be had any where, and the Re flection of the Sun Rays from the Deck, are insufferable. I wish this Wiseacre may continue to coast about untill an equinoctial Storm shall overtake him. Such a Thing would make fine Sport for his Fleet. The Summer is consuming, and there is not Time enough left, for accomplishing many Things. If he should land tomorrow, it would take him three Weeks to reach Philadelphia. On the Jersey Side of the Dela ware, is an ugly Road for him—many Rivers, Bridges, Causeys, Morasses, by breaking up of which, a Measure which is intended, and for which Preparations are made, his Army might be obstructed, puzzled and con founded in their March. His Army cannot proceed without many Horses, Waggons, and Cannon with their Carriages, for the Passage of which he must make new Bridges and Causeys, which would consume much Time, besides that he would be exposed, to the Militia and to the regular Army. On the other side the River there are several Streams and one large River to cross—the Schuylkill. And We have many fine Fire ships to annoy his Fleet. It would be happy for Us if he should aim at this Place, Because it would give Us an Opportunity of exerting the whole Force of the. Continent against him. The Militia of the Jerseys, Pensilvania, Delaware and Maryland, would cooperate with Washington here—those of N.Y. and N. England with Gates. Writing this Letter, at Six o Clock in the Morning in my cool Cham ber has thrown me into a profuse and universal sweat. 1 RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:315-16. 1 In his next letter to Abigail the following day, Adams resumed discussing the consequences of the heat in Philadelphia but in a postscript ecstatically reported the arrival of thundershowers giving relief. Ibid., pp. 316-17. John Hancock to Horatio Gates Sir Philada August 14th 1777 The enclosed Resolve, which I have the Pleasure of transmitting, I hope, will find you safely arrived, at the Head of the Army, in the De partment committed to your Care. From the Want of Discipline, and other Disorders, too apt to prevail


[Page 512]
482 August 14, 1777 & retails his own opinion. Some who pretend to be deepest say Phyladel- phia is certainly the object in view. I reply, if it is, Sir Willm. Howe is more indulgent than ever Sir Peter Parker. In order to be quite right in my guess I declare I know not where they are gone nor whither bound. A few days probably hours will inform us. The evacuation of Ticon deroga has raised universal complaints against Generals Schuyler & St Clair who are both remanded in order to answer an Enquiry which will be made into their conduct respectively. General Gates is gone to relieve Mr Schuyler & to assume the Command of the Northern department which is now the very post of Honour. Tis said the Eastern people who detested his successor 2 adore him & will join him with alacrity. In this view me thinks he is in a delicate Situation. I wish him Success; upon that I may Say almost depends the Cause of America. If he gives Bur goyne an effectual Check the British Campaign will be over & Gates will Stand next to Washington; this will ever have the lead in America & an illustrious character in future history. General Burgoyne announced his Entry upon the territory of the United States by a pompous proclamation in which in very affected language he is lavish of friendly promises to Tories & property men & not less profuse in denunciations against those who dare treat him as Junius did set him at Defiance. 3 Unhappily already for many who had confided in his promises of protection, they have fallen a Sacrifice to the ferocity of his gentle Allies the barbarian Indians. These even in presence of the British Savages have murdered & scalped some men & many women & Children who in obedience to the proclamation had remained quietly at home & removed none of their effects. Innocent young girls whose parents thought them in perfect safety & indeed under the pro tection of the British Commander have been taken as they were amusing themselves in the fields & inhumanely Butchered. I hope General Gates will stop their progress. Gentlemen who are better acquainted with the Country than I am, say if the New England Militia are in earnest Mr. Burgoyne may not only be checked but his retreat cut off. In the meantime the number of auxiliaries which he may have collected from among Tories is altogether uncertain. We have lately received very flattering intelligence from our Agents at Paris & in the West Indies. The French Court have lent us a round Sum of Money at an easy Interest, have reiterated assurances of keeping their ports open to our Ships, Commercial & Warlike, but are extremely shy with respect to recognizing our Independence & entering into a formal Treaty. Until they do both I will have no confidence in them. Every thing else is consistent with their own Interest & may be calculated & made use of hereafter to our further distress. For the Money lent they have the best security in the World & may raise the amount with large Interest at the Bank of England whenever.they please, or may compel us to pay four fold in Land, which by one of their movements though cau-


[Page 516]
486 August 15, 1777 to our great Surprize we learned that the Same fleet was seen off Sinnepuxent on the Coast of Maryland. This advice has been con firmed by different Expresses, the last added that they had been seen steering Southerly with a Wind about South East. General Washington has marched his Army & is encamped about 21 Miles hence on the North Road where I suppose he will wait for further intelligence. ’Tis true Soldiers march quicker on Ships than we can on Shoar, but those various movements clearly demonstrate the difficulties which the British Generals have to encounter in their present dispute. The loss of Ticonderoga has occasioned an universal clamour. Gen eral Schuyler & St. Clair are remanded in order to answer at a Court of Enquiry & General Gates sent by Congress to the Command of that department. He is said to be a favorite with the people of New England & that thousands who had abandoned Mr. Schuyler will immediately join him. General Burgoyne who sent a very pompous proclamation as his forerunner towards Albany had met with very little opposition & had advanced within 25 or 30 Miles of that City the 4th Inst. He had marked his progress with the blood of many Innocent people chiefly Women who had been butchered & scalped by his Indians in Sight of British Troops, these unhappy people had remained quietly on their Lands in obediance to Mr. Burgoyne’s proclamation. Every body hopes his cruel progress will be Stopped by General Gates & those who are well acquainted with the Country say his retreat will be cut off. He is a bold enterprizing Officer inclined rather to be rash, if he is as foolish in his Marching as he is in his writing I have no doubt but he will soon meet with a Check. Time must show the event. This Month will be marked with blood. Our Accounts from France are all very flattering but methinks I perceive great artifice in the whole behaviour of that Court. We have in my opinion been much too forward in our offers of Treaty. The British Court on the other hand has made a proposition to them of some concession in the New Foundland Fishery. They are waiting to see who will bid most or possibly where they can make most, in the meantime benefiting by our trade & insulting the Flag & Commerce of poor old England in a degree which must gall that high Spirited nation. Tis very true France has lent us a large Sum of Money but I do not pass that to the Credit of friendship. She has the best Security in the World for principal & Interest & may raise both at the Bank of England whenever she pleases, or may compel us to repay upon her own terms. The midle rank of people & many of higher degree are panting for our Success in full prospect of participating Liberty. Nothing more


[Page 517]
August 15, 1777 487 natural than this, but how the King & his Court enjoy the prospect of losing thousands of their Subjects is a question which time must Solve. Upon the whole I have no confidence in France that she will take one Step for us but such as lead to her own Interest & Security. This would lead me into an hours conversation. The Consequence of having all our ports blocked up is scarcity of such articles as were wont to be imported from abroad & advanced prices. These are met by advances nearly equal on the part of the Farmer & Labourer-—a schedule of which I will inclose. People there fore who are not concerned in Merchandize or Farming & hold no profitable Office under Government bear the weight of this extra ordinary charge. I find myself in this Class, if I live half as well as I have been accustomed to at home fifteen hundred pounds Sterling will not pay one years expences exclusive of Clothing. My Son John is now one of General Washington’s family. I have no doubt of his being very happy there & am persuaded he will be very useful to the General. Our Seperation at the hour of parting weighed down my Spirits more than I had suspected it would. I felt it as the greatest disappointment I had ever Suffered nor could I forbear the intimation to himself. I wish he had made a choice for his outset in Life where he might have been more extensively useful to his Country where he might have been the long expected Support to mine & the builder of his own family. If I had suspected the contrary I should have—what should I have done—whatever is best, because nothing is but by the direction of Supreme wisdom & goodness. ’Tis the Duty of Man to bear Seeming misfortune & reason himself into con viction that there is no real misfortune & ever to be Thankful for the good which he has enjoyed. Adieu My dear sir. My good wishes are ever with you & yours. I beg ypU to present my respectful Compliments to Mrs. Mannigault, Mr Joseph & the young Ladies & to accept the repeated assurance of being, your much obliged humble Servant LB (ScHi). 1 Gabriel Manigault (1704—81), wealthy South Carolina merchant and planter and occasional business associate of Laurens, was noted for the fact that he lent more money to the revolutionary government of his state than any other South Carolinian. Walter B. Edgar et al., eds., Biographical Directory of the South Carolina House of Representatives (Columbia: University of South Caro lina Press, 1974—), 2:428-31. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge [August 15, 1777] 15th. Mr. Penn & Mr. Chew have been introduced by motion in


[Page 520]
490 August 16, 1777 able purpose. I wish however my three Daughters & grand Daughter were here or at the Town which I lately left. I would endeavour to make them all happy. The presence of one of them however might tend to lead that Gentleman into a way in which he might be more ex tensively useful to his Country, be the promised Support of mine & the builder of his own family. I am to presume he consulted you no more than he had Studied my inclinations. He was determined & there fore ’tis to be Supposed he would not hazard a question. Indeed I thought it incumbent upon me to intimate my Sentiments, he heard them & persued the dictates of his own mind. Let us hope, my Dear Sir, that the measure which he is pursuing will have happy effects. He is in Gen. W’s family, I am persuaded he will be very useful to that good & great Man & that he will be as happy as circum stances in that course of Life will Admit of. Believe me we are happier here than you can conceive. If Some great Men had known this Country, this vast beautiful populous Country as well as I did, my advice in the Years 1773 & 1774 3 would have Saved a Nation which I dearly Love & therefore am Sorry to fight against immense Sums of Money & Streams of Blood the Loss of which they carefully conceal from you, would have Saved her from disgrace perhaps from ruin. Nothing was wanting on their part but knowledge. They abandoned themselves to lying imposters who de ceived them & they their Master. If they had been capable of receiving the truth we should have been in union a happy people for Ages to come. The time is past for union. Treaty may yet make us happy friends. God grant Wisdom to some on your Side to propose terms which we on this, dare accept. As terms hitherto, depend upon it, have been offered truth on this important point has likewise been concealed from you. 4 LB (ScHi). Endorsed: “Per Mr. Morris to be forwarded from Sinepuxent, had not time to proceed as I had intended nor even to sign the Letter.” 1 William Manning, a London merchant who often served as Laurens’ banker, was also the father-in-law of Laurens’ son John. David D. Wallace, The Life of Henry Laurens (New York: G.P. Putnam’s Sons, 1915), pp. 464-67. 2 John Laurens. 3 Laurens had lived in England during these years. 4 This day Laurens also wrote a letter to Philip Minis of Savannah, Ga., the only part of which that has been found is the postscript Laurens entered in his letter book: “Your Petition is before the Board of Treasury. I hope to get your prayer granted & your demand paid out of Money voted to be sent to Mr. Clay now Deputy Pay Master General in that district.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. Congress finally resolved on October 28, 1778, to pay $6,919 to Minis, “it being so much advanced by him to the late Mr. Kennon, deceased, acting pay master and commissary to the Virginia and North Carolina troops in the State of Georgia.” JCC, 8:630, 12:1071-72.


[Page 523]
August 17, 1777 493 The Plan you have adopted and recommended for the Defence of the River Delaware, is ordered to be carried into Execution. 3 As soon as Congress shall come into any Resolve on the Subjects of your several Letters, the Result shall be immediately transmitted. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Esteem, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt, John Hancock Presid t 4 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. i See JCC, 8:649. 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 4:485-88, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 9:72-75. For a list of the enclosures, see ibid., p. 75. 3 Washington set forth this “Plan” in his August 10 letter to President Han cock, and on the following day Congress ordered the Board of War to put it into effect “with all possible despatch.” JCC, 8:630; PCC, item 152, 4:469—75; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:45-53. 4 On August 16 Hancock had written a letter to Gen. William Heath in Boston, asking him to forward the baggage belonging to Philippe Du Coudray “& his officers.” Heath Papers, MHi. Henry Laurens to Elias Ball Dear Sir 1 17th August 1777 The News paper which I shall Send with this will give you a pretty distinct Account of the State of the War in this quarter. I may add that we have begun to give General Burgoyne’s Savage Allies a Check. An attack was made on Fort Schuyler by a detachment from Burgoyne’s main body aided by Tories & Indians. Colonel Gansevor Commander of the Fort made a Sally from within & took 4 pieces of Cannon & 2 Royals. General Harkimer of New York Militia had an engagement with them, in which he suffered considerably but kept the field & counted after the Action 50 Indians lying dead. This will give that Tribe some kind of check & we hope a more effectual one will Soon to be given to the head Savage Burgoyne himself. Who can forbear calling him Savage when he boasts of Sending them to Murder In nocent Women & Children, which they have done to a shocking extent & even to many who had taken Shelter under his proclamation. The last Account we heard of the Grand New York Fleet was their Steering southerly from the Coast of Maryland. The Season of the year would seem to forbid it but I am not without apprehensions of a sudden attack on the land side upon Sullivants Island—where else but there or Georgia can that fleet be destined. I am not free from deep feelings for you all. Your Brother John lodges at Doctor Bond’s for the benefit he says of taking advice & Medicine for a pain in his Side, he went happily through the Small Pox & left on about the 11th Inst, in a manner not Satisfactory to me, I had taken as much care of him as if he had been


[Page 525]
August 17, 1777 495 of Delaware the 28th to the 1st August, then vanished, appeared again upon the Coast of Maryland the 7 & 8th Inst. & was last day seen Standing Sotherly. If we do not hear to morrow of their arrival in Cheasapeek Bay many people notwithstanding the forbidding Season of the year will be anxious for Carolina & Georgia. General Burgoyne according to the menace in his extraordinary proclamation has given Stretch to his Savage friends. 5 We received advices yesterday from Colo. Morgan of many murders committed by Indians on the western frontiers of Virginia & Pensylvania, with these Butchers a few Canadians & British are joined. Where they murder they leave Proclamations from the General & say all the Savages on the frontiers of the United Colonies are to attack in that Side while 100000 British Troops are to enter Pensylvania, Virginia, Charles Town & Georgia from the Sea Side. General Hand who Commands at Fort Pitt & Colo. Morgan seem to be under no apprehension of being routed. They intimate that Britain will have the Glory of Murdering many helpless Innocent Men, Women & Children & bring on the destruction of their friends. In preparation for this purpose they recommend to carry the War directly into their own Country & the most Speedy measures are adopted for that purpose. 6 If any thing above mentioned will be acceptable to Mr. Wells please to give it him or to Mr. Timothy if his Gazette is to come first out. I need not Say I dont wish to appear as a News Correspondent. I never write News without good grounds apparently & I believe now every word I have written to be true but to morrow may contradict or vary all that does not proceed from authority. I beleive that nothing less than the mode of a parliamentary enquiry into the Conduct of the Officers in the Northern department will con tent the people. For the purpose of answering Gen Schuyler will be in or near this City in a few days. We hear not a word from Genl. St. Clair nor do we know where he is—probably with the advanced Army. My Compliments to Mrs Gervais & all friends & believe me with great affection & regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens’ August 16 letter to Gervais has not been found. 2 Doubtless the committee to consider a method for investigating the evacua tion of Ticonderoga, which submitted a report to Congress on August 19. ]CC, 8:596, 653, 659. 3 This letter is in PCC, item 153, 3:242-43. 4 See JCC, 8:649. 5 In a proclamation dated June 20, General Burgoyne had called upon Americans to submit to royal authority and warned them not to take any com fort in being remote from his army because “I have but to give stretch to the Indian forces under my direction (and they amount to thousands) to overtake the hardened enemies of Great Britain and America.” Paul Lewis, The Man


[Page 527]
August 17,1777 497 Seperate fleet transported to Rhode Island or even as far as Boston we must have heard of it before this day. &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens objected to a proposal to raise this money by drawing bills of ex change on the American commissioners at Paris. See also William Duer to Robert R. Livingston, May 28, 1777, note 3. Henry Laurens to William Thomson Dear Colonel 1 17th August 1777. I made my journey pleasant enough by taking the Mountain Road which furnished Cool Air, fine Water & plenty of provision for Man & Horse. I reached this place the 21st July. Your application for leave to arm half your Regiment with Smooth bores & bayonets lies before the board of War—where a multiplicity of business may keep back a report many days. In the mean time I am well assured Congress will have no objection to your arming agree able to your desire provided His Excellency the president shall judge the variation to be for the good of the Service. Make your application here or possibly with propriety to the General Commanding in the Southern department. From thence also you must expect to be supplied with Arms. There has been I am informed great waste made in this quarter & there is now an universal Cry for Muskets for the Militia. 2 I have employed a proper person to enquire for a Bolting Cloth for you—the article is become very scarce & the price at least four times doubled of the former rate. I mean such as I have yet discovered, if I can find none cheaper I must Send you one by next opportunity. Tis an article which I suppose you cannot dispence with. News as in Mr. Gervais’s last Letter dated 17th Inst. 3 The time is teeming with some grand event. The British Forces in this quarter Seem to be Struggling their last. If they do not conquer tis probable they will withdraw but tis hardly possible they should do so without one more attempt upon Sullivants Island if they make it sud denly by Land. I think more than is necessary to be Said to you on that Subject; you know what must follow. This River is blocked up by four Men of War, every article of Life is amazingly dear. My Compliments to Mrs Thomson & the young Ladies & be assured I am with great regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 William Thomson (1727-96), a South Carolina planter, military officer, and political leader, was currently serving as colonel of the Third South Carolina Regiment. Walter B. Edgar et al., eds., Biographical Directory of the South


[Page 533]
August 18, 1777 503 Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke Honored Sir, Philadelphia Augt. 17th [i.e. 18th] 1777 1 I have done myself the Honor of writing frequently to the Govr. and Company of the State I have the Honor to represent in Congress; The Contents of some of those Letters I apprehend were of Conse quence; yet I have not been so happy as to receive an Answer to any one of Them. Nor have I had a Line from the Come, appointed to correspond with Their Delegates. Congress this Day received the Resolutions of the Committee of the Eastern States, transmitted to Them by the Honb Stephen Hopkins Esqr. President of that Com mittee; those Resolutions have been read, but not yet considered. 2 I now Sir enclose you a Resolve of Congress of the 15th Instant re questing you to transmit to Congress Accounts of all Monies advanced and Expences incured by Prisoners of War &c. The Resolve points out to you the Necessity of an immediate Attention thereto. 3 An Expecta tion of a general Exchange of Prisoners soon to take Place occasioned that Resolve, As without those Accounts an Exchange cannot well be made. We have no certain account of the Fleet since they were seen off Maryland. It is strongly suspected They are gone either to Virginia or So. Carolina.' The latter is rather in my Judgment the Place of Their Destination. Now then is the Time for New-England to exert Them selves, by sending forth a formidable Body of Militia to the Northward; and by making a Desent upon Rhode Island. Our State in sundry In stances have of late done much Honor to Themselves. I hope they will continue on, and with the assistance of Their neighbour Sisters will fix their Character for Fortitude and Bravery to be transmitted as unequaled to the latest Posterity. I have the Honor to be Honored Sir, Yours and the States, most obedient and humble Servant, Hy. Marchant RC (R-Ar). 1 Congress read the “Resolutions . . . transmitted . . . by . . . Stephen Hopkins,” which Marchant mentions below, on August 18 and did not meet on the 17th, a Sunday. 2 In response to a proposal by Massachusetts, representatives from that state, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, Connecticut, and New York met at Springfield to discuss measures to deal with the problems of currency depreciation, price inflation, and military supplies. At this meeting, which lasted from August 1 to 6, the conferees agreed to urge all state legislatures to redeem most of the paper money in circulation and pay for the war by taxation instead, to curb inflation by regulating prices, to prevent engrossing and provide military supplies to soldiers at reasonable prices, and to remove most restrictions on interstate com merce. In order to add force to their appeal, they also decided to ask Congress to express its approval of these recommendations to the states. PCC, item 78, 11:207-22. Congress read the proceedings of this meeting, together with Stephen Hop kins’ August 6 covering letter, on August 18 and referred the issue to a com-


[Page 534]
504 August 18, 1777 mittee consisting of Joseph Jones, Henry Laurens, and John Witherspoon. On September 10 Congress added five more members to this committee—Eliphalet Dy er > James Duane, Elbridge Gerry, Henry Marchant, and Robert Morris—and instructed it “to prepare an earnest recommendation to the several states to proceed to taxation.” The committee submitted a report written by Gerry on October 27, which urged the states to levy taxes, curb emissions of paper money, subscribe to loan office certificates, regulate prices, procure military supplies, and confiscate the property of Loyalists. Congress then approved the report in stages on November 22, 26, and 27, 1777. ]CC, 8:650, 731, 9:841, 953-58, 968-71. 3 See JCC, 8:643. John Adams to Abigail Adams My best Friend Aug. 19, 1777 Tuesday Your obliging Favour of the 5th came by Yesterdays Post, and I in tended to have answered it by this Mornings Post, but was delayed by many Matters, untill he gave me the slip. I am sorry that you and the People of Boston were put to so much Trouble, but glad to hear that such Numbers determined to fly. The Prices for Carting which were demanded, were detestable. I wish your Fatigue and Anxiety may not have injured your Health. Dont be anxious, for my Safety. If Howe comes here I shall run away, I suppose with the rest. We are too brittle ware you know to stand the Dashing of Balls and Bombs. I wonder upon what Principle the Roman Senators refused to fly from the Gauls and determind to sit, with their Ivory Staves and hoary Beards in the Porticoes of their Houses untill the Enemy entered the City, and altho they confessed they resembled the Gods, put them to the Sword. I should not choose to indulge this sort of Dignity, but I confess I feel myself so much injured by these barbarean Britains, that I have a strong Inclination to meet them in the Field. This is not Revenge I believe, but there is something sweet and delicious in the Contempla tion of it. There is in our Hearts, an Indignation against Wrong, that is righteous and benevolent, and he who is destitute of it, is defective in the Ballance of his Affections and in his moral Character. As long as there is a Conscience in our Breasts, a moral Sense which distinguishes between Right and Wrong, approving, esteeming, loving the former, and condemning and detesting the other, We must feel a Pleasure in the Punishment, of so eminent a Contemner of all that is Right and good and just, as Howe is. They are virtuous and pious Pas sions that prompt Us to desire his Destruction, and to lament and de plore his success and Prosperity. The Desire of assisting towards his Disgrace, is an honest Wish. It is too late in Life, my Constitution is too much debilitated by


[Page 535]
August 19, 1777 505 Speculation, and indeed it is too late a Period in the War, for me to think of girding on a sword: But if I had the last four Years to run over again, I certainly would. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:318-19. John Adams to Abigail Adams My best Friend Philadelphia August 19. 1777 Tuesday The Weather still continues cloudy and cool and the Wind Easterly. Howe’s Fleet and Army is still incognito. The Gentlemen from South Carolina, begin to tremble for Charlestown. If Howe is under a judicial Blindness, he may be gone there. But what will be the Fate of a scorbutic Army cooped up in a Fleet for Six, Seven or Eight Weeks in such intemperate Weather, as We have had. What will be their Condition landing, on a burning shore abound ing with Agues and Musquetos, in the most unwholesome Season of the whole Year? If he should get Charlestown, or indeed the whole State, what Prog ress will this make towards the Conquest of America? He will stop the Trade of Rice and Indigo, but what then? Besides he will get some ugly Knocks. They are honest, sincere and brave and will make his Life uncomfortable. I feel a strong Affection for S. Carolina, for several Reasons. 1. I think them as stanch Patriots as any in America. 2. I think them as brave. 3. They are the only People in America, who have maintained a Post and defended a Fort. 4. They have sent Us a new Delegate, whom I greatly admire, Mr. Lawrence, their Lt. Governor, a Gentleman of great Fortune, great Abilities, Modesty and Integrity—and great Ex perience too. If all the States would send Us such Men, it would be a Pleasure to be here. In the Northern Department they begin to fight. The Family of Johnson, the black part of it as well as the white, are pretty well thinned. Rascals! they deserve Extermination. I presume Gates will be so supported that Burgoingne will be obliged to retreat. He will stop at Ticonderoga I suppose for they can maintain Posts, altho We can not. I think We shall never defend a Post, untill We shoot a General. After that We shall defend Posts, and this Event in my Opinion is not far off. No other Fort will ever be evacuated without an Enquiry, nor any Officer come off without a Court Martial. We must trifle no more. We have suffered too many Disgraces to pass unexpiated. Every Dis grace must be wiped off. We have been several Days, hammering upon Money. We are con-


[Page 541]
August 19, 1777 511 Stark, who had resigned from the Continental Army when Enoch Poor was promoted to brigadier general, told him that “by his Instructions from that State, it is at his option to act in conjunction with the Continental Army or not” and that he did not intend to join the Continental Army unless he was restored to his position of seniority in the army. As a result, Congress resolved on the next day to transmit a copy of Lincoln’s letter to the New Hampshire government with the admonition that “the instruc tions which General Stark says he has received from them, are destructive of military subordination, and highly prejudicial to the common cause at this crisis; and therefore that they be desired to instruct General Stark to conform himself to the same rules which other general officers of the militia are subject to, whenever they are called out at the expence of the United States.” The New Hampshire delegates sent a copy to Meshech Weare with their August 22 letter. Frost, however, sent Bartlett a separate copy with these com ments: “The foregoing letter was sent by Genl. Lincoln to Genl. Schuyler and by P. Schuyler to Congress which is very alarming to Congress. Genl. Starkes should take occasion to Resent any supposed affrunt by Congress to him when his Country lays at stake. At the same time woud take notis that we shall loos the benifet of our troops being put in the Continental! pay Except the measures are alterd, and woud also observe he dont refuse to put him self under Genl. Schuyler who is Recarled from that Command and Congress has given the Command of that Armey to Genl. Gates, wch I suppose Gl. Starke knew not of at that time, as to the promotion of officers in the armey the Congress went on a new plan agreed on in Baltimore (at the Raising the as it called standing armey) that Every state should in some measure have their propotion of Genl, officers according to the Troops they Raised by which Reason som officers was superseeded or as they call afronted.” Bartlett Papers, NhD. But before any of these actions could take effect, General Stark had already led the New Hampshire, Massachusetts, and Vermont militia forces to victory at Bennington on August 16. When news of Stark’s victory arrived on August 21 criticism of him all but disappeared, and on October 4, 1777, Congress voted its thanks to Stark and the New Hampshire militia and appointed him a brigadier general in the Continental Army. See JCC, 8:649, 656—57, 9:770—71; N.H. State Papers, 8:662-64; New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare, August 22; and John Hancock to the New Hampshire Assembly, August 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, 19th August 1777. I had the honor of writing to your Excellency besides the enclosed of the 12th, the 17th Inst, by Colo. Sumpter with News papers & I now add one of this date. Congress has on the Table a plan for negotiating a Loan for Ten Millions of Dollars, if they go no further it may not quite ruin us. I am as averse from this measure as I was from that of the Western expedition 1 but have no hopes of Succeeding against a confirmed Majority. The mischief will be done but not without a modest dissent on my part. General Howes appearance in this quarter & the sotherly Course


[Page 542]
512 August 19, 1777 steered by the Fleet the 8th Inst, has raised an uncommon anxiety in my mind for the Safety of my Country & my friends if an attack is made there, the interposition of Heaven may save them & give your Excellency Glory & happiness. I sincerely wish it being with great esteem & regard &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 See Charles Thomson’s Notes of Debates, July 24 and 25, 1777. Henry Laurens to John Wells Dear SW 19th August 1777 The day before yesterday I wrote to you by Colo. Sumpter. 2 Tis probable you will know more of the Coasting Fleet than I shall when this reaches you. I begin to be confirmed in my opinion founded upon their leaving Synnepaxent that a Coup was intended at Sullivants & James Island & I know if successful what must follow if this conjecture be right we are indebted to the abjuration Act & to Major General Grant who knows better than to be discouraged from a great Stroke by common opinions of the Season of the year. In this prospect I feel an anxiety for my Country & my friends which never finds a place in my mind from appearances or small circumstances. The News papers which I shall Send to Colo. Gervais or you will shew you how affairs generally stand in the Northern department. Than followed English News & Concluded as follows Nothing of this may be News to you as I see (not by advice from you) a Brigt from London has been taken about 20 July by Capt Seymour & carried into George Town. Be that as it may you will accept the Labour & endeavour of &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 John Wells, the publisher of the South-Carolina and American Gazette. During the British occupation of Charleston Wells became a loyalist and was forced to flee to the Bahamas when the British left the city in 1782. Arthur M.,— I 05. 1 "® 01 ’ P re l u de to Independence: The Newspaper War on Britain 1764- 1776 (New York: Alfred A. Knopf, 1958), pp. 238, 290. 2 In his letter book, Laurens simply noted that on August 17 he had written a “Letter Containing Sundry News &ca” to Wells. Laurens Papers, ScHi. The letter has not been found. Richard Henry Lee to Landon Carter? My dear Sir, 1 Philadelphia 19th Augt. 1777 As it is always with pleasure that I obey your commands, so it is per-


[Page 546]
516 August 19, 1777 Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson Sir Philada. August 19th. 1777 Yours of the 16th is with me and I will deliver the list of Cordage &c to the Navy Board here, but whether they can supply you or not I really do not know. I believe this Brigt must be put under their di rection untill compleated. I have not heard any thing of the mobs you mention at the Head of Elk & having lately had some Goods up from thence I hope you have been misinformed. It is well you will be so clear & distinct in your Accounts, we have therefore nothing to do but make money fast as we can & wishing your honest endeavours may be crowned with success I am sir, Your Obedt hble servt, Robt Morris RC (PHi). William Paca to Thomas Johnson Dr. Sir, Phila. 19 Aug. 1777 I enclose you Genl. Washingtons Letter and doubt not you will make a proper Enquiry into the Arrest he complains of. 1 I wish the Artillery Corp & the 16 Regts, had been apportioned on the States that each State might have known what was it’s Quota and the present difficulties in filling up those Corps prevented. We have no Intelligence of Howe’s Fleet. The Army we know for a Certainty is embarked. We begin to be apprehensive they have gone to South Carolina. The Militia of Tryon County have had a very smart Engagement with Johnson & his Indians & a Body of British Troops. It is said the Militia consisted of 700. We lost about 100 men some of which are the most active leading Whigs in that County. The Enemy were de feated & lost fifty or sixty Indians and some of their best Officers. There was another Brush by a Party under Capt. Willet who drove another Party of the Enemy and took a considerable Booty. Genl. Schuyler writes that the van of Burgoyne’s Army he is informed has moved forward to Saratoga. I wish our affairs in that Quarter bore a more pleasing Aspect. The New England States disgusted with Schuyler & his officers have been very slow in giving him Assistance. Gates perhaps will please them & get them to exert themselves. S.C. 2 says he has wrote you fully and therefore I need not be more particular in my Intelligence. Pray what Success have we with our Salt Works? Wishing you every Success and Happiness, I am, dear sir, yrs aftly. W Paca


[Page 547]
August 20, 1777 517 RG (MdAA). 1 See Maryland Delegates to Washington, this date, note. 2 That is, Samuel Chase. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 20th. 1777 My best Friend Wednesday This Day compleats three Years since I stepped into the Coach, at Mr. Cushings Door, in Boston, to go to Philadelphia in Quest of Ad ventures. And Adventures I have found. I feel an Inclination sometimes, to write the History of the last Three Years, in Imitation of Thucidides. There is a striking Resem blance, in several Particulars, between the Peloponnesian and the American War. The real Motive to the former was a Jealousy of the growing Power of Athens, by Sea and Land. . . - 1 The genuine Motive to the latter, was a similar Jealously of the growing Power of America. The true Causes which incite to War, are seldom professed, or Ac knowledged. We are now afloat upon a full Sea: When We shall arrive at a safe Harbour, no Mariner has Skill and experience enough to foretell. But, by the Favour of Heaven, We shall make a prosperous Voyage, after all the Storms, and Shoals are passed. 5. o Clock afternoon It is now fair sunshine again and very warm. Not a Word, yet, from Hows Fleet. The most general Suspicion, now, is that it is gone to Charlestown S.C. But it is a wild Supposition. It may be right how ever: for Howe is a wild General. We have been hammering to day, upon a Mode of Tryal for the General Officers at Ti. Whether an Enquiry will preceed the Court Martial, and whether the Enquiry shall be made by a Committee of Congress or by a Council of General Officers, is not determined, but Enquiry and Tryal both I conjecture there will be. If How is gone to Charlestown, you will have a little Quiet, and en joy your Corn and Rye and Flax and Hay, and other good Things, untill another Summer. But What shall We do for Sugar, and Wine and Rum? Why truly I believe We must leave them off. Loaf Sugar is only four Dollars a Pound here, and Brown only a Dollar, for the meanest sort, and Ten shillings for that a little better. Every Body here is leaving off loaf Sugar, and most are laying aside brown. As to Rum arid Wine—give me Cyder and I would compound. N.E. Rum is but 40s. a Gallon. But, if


[Page 548]
518 August 20, 1777 Wine was Ten Dollars a Bottle, I would have one Glass a Day, in Water, while the hot weather continues, unless I could get Cyder. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:320-21. 1 Suspension points in MS. Benjamin Harrison to George Washington Dear General Philad. Augst. 20 1777 I remember well a Conversation’s passing betwixt you and I on the subject of the Marquis de la Fyattes Commission, & that I told you it was merely Honorary, in this light I look’d on it, and so did every other member of Congress. He had made an agreement with Mr Deane, but this he gave up by Letter to Congress, not wishing as he said to em barrass their affairs. Mr Duer who presented this Letter assur’d us he did not wish or desire Command, but gave us to understand his chief motive for going into our Service was to be near you, to see Ser vice, and to give him an Eclat at home, where he expected he would soon return. These you may depend on it were the Reasons that in duced Congress to Comply with his request, and that he could not have obtain’d the Commission on any other terms; The other Day he sur prised every body by a letter of his, requesting Commissions for his officers, and Insinuating at the same time that he should expect a Command as soon as you should think him fit for one. Depend on it Congress never meant that he should have one, nor will not countenance him in his applications, I had it not in my power yesterday to get their opinions on the subject, but will do it soon. 1 Where can Howe be gone. We begin to be under great Apprehensions for South Carolina, and think he must have been heard off if he had taken any other course, can not a blow be given Burgoyne in his ab sence? If something can not be done in that quarter soon, N York will certainly be lost. Our eastern Friends have behaved most shamefully. Where the Devil is Gates, why dos he loiter so on the Road. The weather has been hot it is true, and so is the Service he is going to. I am my Dear Sir, your affect Hble Servt, Benj Harrison RC (DLC). 1 In his August 19 letter to Harrison, Washington had requested clarification of the conditions under which Lafayette had been granted a commission as major general on July 31. See JCC, 8:592-93; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:95-96. For Lafayette’s August 13 letter, which had been re ferred to the Board of War, see Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:103.


[Page 549]
August 20, 1777 519 Henry Laurens to Joseph Clay 20th August 1777 I had determined to have done my self the pleasure of giving you 1 a general State of our public affairs in this Central part of the United Colonies but have been so much & so often interrupted I have not time by the present opportunity. I must therefore beg you will be referred to the News papers which I shall put under cover with this. Since my arrival here I have done every thing in my power to impress upon the mind of Congress the value & importance of Georgia & to recommend it to their particular protection which your Delegate will do me the justice to confirm. I apply in politics St. Paul’s remark, if one member Suffers all the Members Suffer. The loss of Georgia or South Carolina or even their distress will be Sensibly felt by all the northern States. I think this important truth has not hitherto been properly considered. I moved for a Committee to take the State of Georgia into con sideration. 2 This produced certain determinations of which you will be advised fully by Colo. Walton to whom I also took the liberty of mentioning your name for Dep pay Master General & you will find you are accordingly appointed. 3 You must not refuse to Act. Tis an Office honourable & genteel, an Office requiring the knowledge, diligence & integrity of a Clay, therefore for your Country’s Sake & for the honour of human nature I intreat you to act. The Office of paymaster has too generally been an Office of plunder. Your Accounts will shew that there are Men who can act with accuracy & Strict justice even for the public. This will induce an endeavour upon every occasion to Seek for such Men to serve the public & counteract the assertion of designing Men who when they mean to thrust a favorite or dependent into place Say that all Men when in Office are alike, & too often find it easy to refer to proofs in Support of so dangerous a doctrine. If Security Should be required I beg you will permit me to be one. Indeed I have already in order to Shew my Sentiments of your valuable Character made an offer to that purpose. Had you been near I would first have consulted you, in our present circumstances I trust you will not censure me for being too forward. If I can render you any Service during my Stay in Philadelphia I beg you will give me Some opportunity; & believe me to be with great regard &ca. 4 LB (ScHi). 1 Joseph Clay (1741-1804), a Savannah, Ga., merchant, was chosen as a delegate to Congress in 1778 but did not attend. DAB; and Bio. Dir. Cong. 2 For the August 1 resolves Congress adopted on the basis of the report of this committee, of which Laurens was a member, see ]CC, 8:579, 590, 596-98. 3 Congress made this appointment on August 6 and Clay informed Laurens


[Page 550]
520 August 20, 1777 of his acceptance of it in an October 16 letter. See JCC, 8:616; and Collec- tions of the Georgia Historical Society 8 (1913) :46—51. 4 This day Laurens also wrote a brief letter to William Hunter of Norfolk, instructing him “when tis convenient & agreeable to you to remit the Money for return of the Sum received from me in Charles Town, please to direct at Mr. Aries in Market Street not the post office.” Laurens Papers, ScHi. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 21. 1777. My best Friend Thursday This Morning, We have heard again from the Fleet. At 9 o Clock at Night, on the 14 Inst, upwards of an hundred Sail were seen, stand ing in between the Capes of Cheasapeak Bay. They had been seen from the Eastern shore of Virginia, standing off, and on, for two days before. This Method of coasting along the shore, and standing off, and on, is very curious. First seen off Egg Harbour, then several Times off the Capes of Delaware, standing in and out, then off Sinepuxent, then off the Eastern shore of Virginia, then standing in to Cheasapeak Bay. How many Men, and Horses, will he loose in this Sea Ramble, in the Heat of Dog days. Whether he is going to Virginia to steal Tobacco, to N. Carolina to pilfer Pitch and Tar, or to South to plunder Rice and Indigo, who can tell? He will seduce a few Negroes from their Masters let him go to which he will. But is this conquering America? From the Northward We learn that Arnold has marched with about 2000 Men to the Relief of Fort Schuyler. Our People have given Sir John Johnson and his Regulars, Tories and Indians, a very fine Drubbing. The Indians scarcely ever had such a Mauling. The Devils are so frightened that they are all run away to howl and mourn. The Papers, inclosed with this, will give you, more particular In formation. Can nothing be done at Rhode Island at this critical Time. Opprobrium Novangliae! What is become of all the Massachusetts continental Troops. Every Regiment and every Man of them is at the Northward, under Gates— and yet We are told they have not 4000 Men fit for Duty Officers in cluded. And there are 3 Regiments there from N. Hampshire too. 10 o Clock at Night Just come in from Congress. We have within this Hour, received Letters of G[enerals] Schuyler and Lincoln, giving an Account of the Battle of Bennington, wherein Gen. Starks has acquired great Glory, and so has his Militia. The Particulars are to be out in an Hand Bill, tomorrow Morning. I will inclose you one. 1


[Page 555]
August 22, 1777 525 we pass a precious opportunity. One of the schemes is built upon cer tainty; the other upon chance with the highest probability of ill conse quences. The principal of the Tickets is to be paid here upon our plighted faith. If they do not obtain currency in Europe we shall be disgraced immediately; for, the face of the Paper shows our views & expectations. If they do pass freely, we shall have a sad after-reconing. If fresh en couragement to lenders, by bills of Exchange for their interest as it be comes due, does not give an immediate spring to our Loan business, we must emit directly, till a tax can supply. We should consider that we have only gone two years into our annual income; we can bear much more; and our circulation is most amazingly extended, so as not to leave the depreciation a charge against the quantity of Bills, by any means so strong as the prevalent opinion. Other causes have a more powerful in fluence. If Silas 2 and his York connexions could have a good opening to transfer their whole property to the other side of the water it is not im possible that they would gladly do it. Sir 22d Augst Since scratching an attendant half Sheet we have had several sorts of intelligence that may produce changes very considerable in our domestic plans. In the first place there has been a proper council of war and de termination as things then stood. We have in the next place information that on the 15th the Enemy’s fleet was at the Capes of Virginia. The Genl. & Council had thought Sth. Carolina or the eastern States the Object of Howe’s pursuit. 3 I still believe that Virginia is visited thro meer necessity, if the present appearance of the ships is any thing more than an allarm. On the 5th of July the Troops went on board; they sail’d from Sandy Hook the 23d, appeared at the mouth of the Delaware the 31st, at Sinepuxent the 8th of Augst. and within the Capes of Virginia the 15th. It was said they had 40 days forrage on board, which must now be expended. Suppose Virginia is to be ravaged in part, some negroes and tobacco stolen, and a few stragling houses burnt; this is not forrage, or that conquest of America which is desired by Britain. It will furnish the Soldiery with plunder and revive their spirits a little. In the mean time, . But, I leave that matter to futurity. Starks & his militia have made even Genl. Chase willing to overlook a foolish rashness about rank. The Bennington affair may spur up to general vigour in the northern Department. Schyler has been petitioned by the Genl. Officers to tarry & influence the militia, and he has con sented to do it. If he is not a valliant man, he certainly knows how to use the world; he is far from a foolish man. He advises to send other indian Commissioners because Mr. Woolcot &c. are so far off. I will give you the extract. This also is not foolish. 4. Clock P.M. Yesterday & this day we adjourned to dine. We were particularly


[Page 556]
526 August 22, 1777 induced to it, now, by an Express declaring the fleet high in the Bay of Chesepeak. 4 It appears we must, at length fight it between Head of Elk and Philadelphia. 5 RC (CtHi). 1 See George Frost to Josiah Bartlett, August 19, 1777, note 2. 2 Silas Deane. 3 Congress received a report of the council of war in Washington’s August 21 letter to President Hancock and immediately endorsed Washington’s plan to march toward the Hudson River. See Hancock’s first letter to Washington of August 22, 1777, note 1. 4 See JCC, 8:665. 5 For the continuation of this letter, see Lovell to Wolcott, August 25, 1777. John Hancock to Richard Caswell Sir, Philada. August 22d. 1777. The Congress having received Intelligence from Virginia that the Fleet of the Enemy were seen near the Capes of Chesapeak, on the 15th inst and not knowing what may be their Views upon the Southern Coast, have come to the enclosed Resolve, earnestly recommending to you to have all the naval and military Stores removed, with the utmost Expedition, to Places of greater Security. 1 I have the Pleasure to congratulate you on the Success of Genl. Stark, who commanded a Party of two thousand mostly Militia, in the Northern Department. For the Particulars I beg Leave to refer you to the enclosed printed Account. 2 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (OCIWHi). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 8:660. 2 See John Adams to Abigail Adams, August 21, 1777, note. John Hancock to James Nicholson Sir, Philada. Augt. 22d. 1777. As the Enemy’s Fleet are in Chesapeak Bay and may possibly turn their Views agt. Baltimore, or at least make an Attempt to seize the Shipping in that Harbour, I have it in Charge from Congress to in form you, that it is their Desire, in Case your Vessel cannot be saved from falling into the Hands of the Enemy otherwise than by destroying her that in this Case you should destroy her, and at the same Time save as much of her Tackle, Apparel, & Stores as you possibly can. 1


[Page 559]
August 22, 1777 529 such officers. That the Preservation of the lives of the inhabetints on ouer frunteers and the cause in which we weire all engaged mad Such orders at that critical time absolutely necessary. That we ware not abought to justify general Stark for making a demand of Rank in the army at that Critical time but we well know that he hase a great deal to Say for him salf on that head, and that he had been in allmost all of the engagements to the northward and distinguished him Self while others ware advanced [over?] his head. Yesterday a motion wase made by Maryland and seconded that a Resolve of Congress might be Paste to Censure his Conduct in Refuseing to submit to the Rules & Regula tions of the armay on which a large debate insued in which we ware Suported by all the Newengland Delegates and some of the Ver- ginians. On motion being made it was agreed it Should lie on the table and carried by a grate majority. 2 We informd Congress that a motion of that Sort came with a Very bad grace from Maryland who only of the thirteen United States had Seen fit to make laws Diracktly in oppersion to Congress, by Refuseing that thaire militia Should be Subjacted to the Rules and Ragulation of the army when Joynd. And we informd Congress that we had not the lest Doubt but the first batle thay heard of from the north would be faught by Stark and the troops he Comanded, notwithstanding that Some gentleman in thaire warmthe had Said Some things Disrespectfull of them and that I Should not be affraid to Risk my honer nor my Life thay wood do as much towards the defence of that Part of the Cuntrey and the Coman Cause as the Same number of any of the troops in that department. I will leve you Sr. to Judge of ouer feelings when the Very naxt day we had a Con formation of what we had asserted by an Express from general Schuyler Giveing an account of the Victory obtained by general Stark and the troops under his Command. We beleive this Curcumstance only will make those Easy who have been trying to Rase a dust in Congress. We have this day an account by express from Maryland of the arivel of a hundred Saile of Hows fleet in Chesepeek bay and a hundd. moore tumeing into Said bay. It is the opinion of Congress thaire design is to attack this City as it is but abought fifty miles a Cross from whare thair Ships are at anchor to this Place. General Washing ton is incampt abought thirty miles to the northward of this Place with abought half of his army the Rest Chefly on Hudsons River. The above information no Doubt will turne his attenshon this way. As the enemy are within two Days march of this Place orders are given to the In- habetents to drive back thaire Stock that they may not fall in to the enemys hands. General Gates Reacht Albany the 17th Instant in order to take the Command in that department. The Congress are not in the lest discoraged and have not the lest doubt but ouer effairs will bare a more favourable aspect in the north and had rather How should


[Page 561]
August 22, 1777 531 ***< v 'W4T v • ! ' WIIbADELPHIA, A^ujl 22, 1777. ■ '- ** By an Exprefs arrived laft Evening from General Schuyler co Congress, we have the following imporcanc Intelligence. Van Schtick's {fland, in tbi mouth of the Motawk River, Auguft i Ktb, i777. S I R, I have tbe tonof to congratulate Congreft on a JignalVitfcry obtained by General Stark-, an account whereof is contained it tbe followin' Letter from General Lincoln, wbicb I have this moment had the batyinefr to receive, together with General BuRaorNa'a in- fruitions to Dtutenant-Colond Bxrm ; Copy whereof is inclofed. Bennington, Augujl i^tb, tyjy, “ Dear General, I( fT*' H £ l»'e lienal fuccefs of a body of abont a000 troop*, moftly Militia, under the command I of Brigadier-General Stark,io thia part of the country, on the i6ch inft. over a party of 8 about 1500 of the enemy, who came out with a manifeft defign to poffe’a themfelrei of this town, at will appear by the endufed, it an event happy and important—Our troops behaved in a very brarwand heroic manner ; they polhcd the enemy from one work to another thrown op 00 advantageous gtound and from diffarent poh». with fptrit and fottitode until they gained a compleat victory over them. » The following b the belt lift 1 have been able to obtain of the prifoners, their killed and wounded, viz. One Lieut. C<’lut>el, 1 Major, 5 Captain*, 12 Lieutenants, 4 Enfigns, 2 Comets, 1 Judge Advocate, 1 Baron, 2 Canadian Officcu, and 3 Surgeons, 37 Britifh Soldiers, 398 Hcfluns, 38 Canadians, and 151 Tories taken—The number of wounded fallen into our hands, exdu&ve of the above, are about 80.— The number of their flain has not yet been af- certained, as they fought on the retreat for fcveral miles tn a wood, but fuppofed to be about x ^q, Thtir artillery which conliftcJ of 4 braG field pieces, with a confidcrablc quantity of baggage Lkewife fell into our hands. We have heard nothing of Burgoyne or his army for thefc two davs paft. The prifoners are Cent into the State of MalDchuictu-Ba^ except the Tories ■, fhall wait your directions refpcdling them, as moft of them belong to the State of New-York. 1 am, dear General, with regard and eilecm, your very humble Servant, B. LINCOLN. N. B. We had about 20 or 30 killed in the aflion, and perhap 50 wounded." Cofy °f Orders from Lieut. General 3V R G O Y N E, to Lieut. Colonel BERN. Dated near Saratoga, Auguji 14, 1777. S I R, The accounts you have given me are very fatisfaAory, and I doubt not every proceeding under your direction will be the fame. 1 beg the favour of you to report whether the route you have marched would be pra<Bicable for a large corps with cannon, without repair, or with what fort of repair. Toe deferable circumftance at prefent for your corps is to poflefs Bennington, but fhould you find the enemy too Rrongly potted, and maintaining fuch a countenance as would make a coup- dc-main too hazardous, 1 with you to take fuch a poft as you can maintain till you hear further from me, and upon your report, and other circutnttastces, 1 will either fuppoi t you in force, or withdrawyou. Will you pleafe to fend to my camp, as foon as you can, waggons and draft cattle, and likewife fuch other cattle as ate not neccffary for your fubfittance ; let the waggons and carta bring off what flour and wheat they can, that you do not retain for the fame purpofe. 1 will write to you in full to-morrow, in regard to purchafing horfes out of the hands of rhe favages > in the mean time let them be allured that whatever you fclcft from them fit to mount the dia- goom, ihall be paid for at a proper price. 1 have the honor to be, with great efteem, Your's, he. Lieut. Col. B E R N. J. BURGOYNE, Lieut. General. 1 tn in hopes that Coogrefs will very foon have ike fatiifa&ioa to learn that General Arnold ba* ratfed the fiege of Fort Schuyler: If chat takes place, I believe it will be pollrble to engage two or three hundred lodians to join this arny, tad Congrcf* nay reft stored that my heft endeavors (hall not be wanting tn accomplish it. I am informed tbit General Gates arrived at Albany yefterday. Major Livingftoo. one of my Aids, will have the honor to deliver you this dcTpaich. 1 aa, Sir, with every feotimeoc of refpeA, your mutt obedient humble femnt, PHILIP SCHUYLER. ^be Hmcrabbe John Hancock, Efquire. Publifbtd by Order of Cor.^refi, JOHN HANCOCK, Prefidenn. Printed by JOHN DUNLAP. Bennington Broadside, August 18—22, 1777


[Page 564]
534 August 23, 1777 2. Because it would employ nearly the whole of his Force to keep Possession of this Town, and the rest of the Continent would be more at Liberty. 3. We could counteract him here better than in many other Places. 4. He would leave N. England and N.Y. at Leisure to kill or catch Burgoine. In all Events I think you may rejoice and sing, for the season is so far gone, that he cannot remove to you. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:326-27. Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson My Dear Sir Philada. Augst. 23rd. 1777. I received your Letter of the 17 th by Thursdays Post. Yesterday Noon I received an Express from Mr. W. Bordley, informing that the fleet were off Rock Hall. The Intelligence was immediately communi cated to his Excellency Gen. Washington, by whose Answer, received last Night, we are informed that he has ordered the Division under Gen. Nash, about 1500 & 300 artillery at Trenton, to march directly to Chester; that Sullivanes Division, now at Morris Town are also ordered down & the Army under his Command, at Nashameny, about 20 Miles from this, are to march this Morning. You will receive, by Express, a Requisition to call out 1250 of the western, and 750 of the Eastern Shore Militia. They are desired to collect at Baltimore & Harford & George Town on Sassafras. Virginia is desired to march from her back Counties about 2000 to Frederick Town. The Intention is to cover our Country from the Incursions & Depredations of the Enemy, & to hang on the Rear of the Enemy. Gen. Washington never intends to join our or any Militia with his Regulars, but in Case of an absolute Necessity. Orders are sent to remove the prisoners and Stores from Lancaster, to prevent their Loss by a Coup de Main of Gen. Howe. This City is certainly the great object of Gen. Howe, & I believe he will not only be disappointed in that Design, but totally ruined, if the Militia turn out. I greatly lament your Want of Arms. I hope you will be able in a little Time to render those lately arrived, fit for Use. Genl. Smallwood & Colo. Gist are directed to repair to our State to arrange, march & command our Militia. 1 The places of Rendezvous were named, that provisions might be conveyed to some certain Place. I sent you by Express going to Virginia the Intelligence of a victory gained over a Body of Genl. Burgoynes army. I beg you to give Notice to my Family if any Circumstances should


[Page 565]
August 23, 1777 535 render their Removal necessary. My Compliments to the Gentlemen of the Council. Your affectionate Friend, S Chase RC (DNDAR). 1 See JCC, 8:667-68. James Duane to Philip Schuyler My dear General Philad 23d Augt 1777 I am now to thank you for your kind and confidential favour of the Instt. 1 With the papers transmitted me by Mr Jay they have and shall be seen by those whose good opinion deserve your Solicitude. Your Conduct in my Judgement wants no Apology. Instead of Censure it merits thanks. Your Friends in Congress echo this Senti ment freely. Your Enemies relentless and bent on your Destruction woud willingly involve you in the Odium of loosing Ticonderoga. The Change of Command was not however founded on this principle but merely on the Representation of the Eastern States that their militia suspicious of your military Character woud not turn out in Defence of New York while you presided in the Northern Department. So Con fident were they in these Assertions and such from your Own repre sentations was the gloomy Aspect of our Affairs there, that the Southern members were alarmed, and we thought it prudent not to attempt to Stem the Torrent. It was however agreed and declard, as I hinted before, that the Eastern prejudices against you were the only motive to your recall, and it was understood that you might take your time in coming down. Indeed to have ordered otherwise, at so critical a Time, wou’d have been inhuman considering your family, fortune and Influence in that Country. Your Resolution to stay & exert yourself while she remains in such imminent danger is worthy of a Virtuous, brave and patriotic Citizen. All your Friends wish that fortune may put it in your power to give some signal Proof of the only military Talent which you have not Evidenced in the Course of your Command for want of an Opportunity. They all pronounce that this woud put your Enemies to Silence and to Shame and elevate you to the highest Rank among the American Commanders. The Application from the Eastern Generals for your Continuance in the Department, and the respectable Reinforcement from New Hampshire which so palpably contradict the Assertions which were the Basis of your Removal are no small Occasion of Triumph to such of us as predicted that you woud be supported, and will not readily be


[Page 576]
546 August 25, 1777 tions. Could Genl. Conway be spared to go there? I believe Baltimore might be defended. 1 RC (DLC). 1 For Washington’s August 27 response to this letter, see Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:137—38. Connecticut Delegates to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Sir Philadelphia August the 25th. 1777 Since ours of last Monday when it was apprehended Genii. How was gone for South Carolina he has appeard with his whole fleet as it is supposed entering Cheesepeek Bay & by the last Accounts was up as far as where the river Elk enters the Bay. It is Conjectured he In tends landing at a place called Charlestown, from whence it is probable his first design may be upon Lancaster where we have large Stores & some hundreds of Prisoners. On Notice of the fleet coming up the Bay Immediate Orders were sent to Lancaster to remove the Stores & Prisoners from thence to some place of Safety but Philadelphia may yet be his principal Object as he will have but about fifty miles March to this place. If this is his design the only reason of his Changing Delaware for Cheesepeek must be the Concern he had of the Fire ships & rafts of which we had large Numbers in this river. Genii Washington with his Army had lain about 20 miles from this City towards the Jerseys untill Thursay last when Supposing Genii Howe to have gone far Southward beyond his reach had determined to push up the North River & Indeavour A total rout of the Enemy Northward if possible, at the same time to have attempted dislodging the Enemy from New York & have drove them in their detached parts from all their posts in the Northern & Eastern Department. Providence seemed to point out this season when How was at so great a distance, to Accomplish all this before his return but having that day received Intelligence of the Fleet pushing up Chesepeek altered his rout & is now on his March to Meet the Enemy wherever he may find them on this side Cheesepeek. He marched thro this City yesterday morning about 8 oClock with his whole Army which made a very respectable appearance. The Militia from this State, Delaware, Maryland & the nearest Countys in Virginia are ordered to join him. It is rather thought that Genii Washingtons forwardness to meet him in this quarter & especially if the Militia join him as is expected will again discourage Hows attempts this way but if not have the greatest hopes with the blessing of Heaven that here he may receive his final Overthrow. And we are yet in hopes Notwith standing Genii Washingtons being Diverted from the Northward And Eastward Yet if New England (on the present divided State of How


[Page 577]
August 25, 1777 547 & Burgoins Army) will properly exert themselves And rightly Improve the Advantages put into their hands they may by the blessing of Heaven Effect a most happy close to the present warr before this Year expires. We hope Burgoins Success (however blame worthy the Genii officers in that quarter may have been) will by the disposals of Providence prove his ruin & destruction. Congress have done what lay in their power to remove the Complaints of the People, recalled the Officers concemd, ordered the Strictest Scrutiny & are making every prepara tion for a full, fair & Impartial Tryal. They have sent such Officers to Command in their room in that Department as they thot most Accept able to the people & in whom they might confide both for skill & fidelity, that we shall have no excuse for ourselves or the people whom we represent if they should now fail to offer themselves readily & Chearfully in the Cause of their bleeding Country. We hope, we trust, they will no longer drouse or Sleep untill the Tommohawk awake them in their own dwellings & habitations. The Notable Affair of Genii Stark with his party, seems to open a happy prospect of future success in that quarter if properly followd & pursued which God grant. This, with the Success of Coll Herkemer & Willet near Fort Stanwix & the distruction of so large a Number of the Savages at their first onset are most season able Interpositions of Providence in our behalf when every thing looked gloomy in that quarter. The great & weighty affair of our Confederacy, the Supplies of our Treasury giving Credit & Stability to our depreciat ing Currency are Objects which we trust will very soon be attended to, tho we have been unhappily diverted therefrom by other matters tho not so Important yet Necessary to be done. We have the honour to be with the greatest Esteem & regard, your Honors most Obedt Hble Servts. Eliphalet Dyer Richd. Law Wm. Williams [P.5.] By the best Computation we can make Genii Washington Army of Continental Troops amount to between Ten & Eleven thousand fit for Duty, expects to be joined by about 7 or 8 thousand Militia. RC (Ct). Written by Dyer and signed by Dyer, Law, and Williams. James Duane to George Clinton Sir Philad 25t August 1777 We have the Honour of your favour of the 10th Instant and shall on all Occasions worthy of your attention, or of Importance to the publick, communicate to you our Sentiments with the utmost Freedom


[Page 580]
550 August 25, 1777 I have the Honour to be, Gentlemen, your most obed & very hble Sert. J H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 This issue is discussed in George Frost to Josiah Bartlett, August 19, 1777, note 2. Richard Henry Lee to Thomas Jefferson Dear Sir Phila. August 25. 1777 It will not perhaps be disagreeable to you in your retirement, some times to hear the events of war, and how in other respects we proceed in the arduous business we are engaged in. Since the loss of Ticonderoga (into the cause of which, and the conduct of the commanding Officers, Congress have ordered inquiry to be made) and Gen. Burgoynes speedy march to Fort Edward, our affairs in that quarter begin to wear a favor able appearance. In addition to Burgoynes force, another Body of Men came down the Mohock river, by way of Oswego, and laid seige to Fort Stanwix, or Schuyler, as it is now called. At this place a battle ensued with the Tryon County Militia, in which the enemy were driven from the ground with the loss of more than 200 Indians and several regulars. Colo. Willet making a Sally from the Fort did great injury to the enemy and took from them a great quantity of baggage with 2 or 3 field pieces. However, the Militia having lost many Men in this Action and their best officers having been killed or wounded, they retired and left the enemy to return and lay Seige to Fort Schuyler, which the Gar rison was bravely defending, when Gen. Arnold was detatched with a body of men to relieve the place. We expect every day to hear of his success. To the northward of this, in the N. Hampshire grants, Gen. Stark with 2000 Militia attacked Colo. Baum and 1500 Regular Troops behind works, and with Cannon. The consequence you will find in the inclosed Hand bill. 1 This was an important victory, well timed, and will probably occasion Mr. Burgoyne to retire very quickly. If he does not, I can venture to Augur his destruction. He is at Saratoga and Fort Ed ward, with our main Army a few miles in his Front at the mouth of Mohock river. I expect Generals Lincoln and Arnold will presently be in his rear, after which, his chance of returning will be very small. Gen. Gates has joined the Northern Army and now commands in that quarter. Putnam with 5000 men commands on the heights of Hudsons river above N. York, in which place Gen. Clinton is left with about 3000 men. After Gen. Howe had long raised the curiosity of this part of the world, to know what could be his view in embarking his Army and coasting it for 5 weeks in a most oppressively hot season; at length,


[Page 582]
552 August 25, 1777 support of our right? I am with great regard & esteem, dear Sir Your most affectionate and obedient [Servt.], Richard Henry Lee RC (DLC). Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 2:29-31. 1 See John Adams to Abigail Adams, August 21, 1777, note. 2 Another recent development concerned with land claims that would have interested Jefferson was related to the protracted controversy between Virginia and Pennsylvania over their disputed western boundary. In a July 5 letter, George Bryan, vice president of the Pennsylvania Council, had notified the Virginia delegates of the Pennsylvania Assembly’s June 17 counterproposals to Virginia’s proposals of December 17, 1776. RG27, PHarH. Jefferson had been chairman of the committee appointed on November 5, 1776, to draft proposals for a permanent boundary between the two states, and it was the resulting resolutions, approved by the Virginia Assembly on December 17, 1776, to which the Pennsylvania Assembly’s resolutions were responding. Pennsylvania also stated “that if the foregoing proposal be not accepted” Pennsylvania would consent that Congress “(excluding the Delegates of Virginia and Pennsylvania,) having heard both parties by their Council, shall finally determine the boundary in dispute....” Journals of the Pennsylvania Assembly, June 17, 1777, pp. 80-81. DLC(ESR). Late in the next session of the Virginia Assembly the Pennsylvania proposals were read but consideration was postponed and no further action was taken until December 19, 1778, when the Virginia Assembly proposed that a mixed commission representing both states meet to work out a permanent agreement. The commissioners who met in Baltimore in August 1779 reached an agreement that was ratified by Pennsylvania in November 1779 and by Virginia in June 1780. A summary of the Virginia Assembly’s actions on this issue from June 1776 to December 1779 is in PCC, item 71, 1:323—32. See also Jefferson, Papers (Boyd), 1:594-97; 3:77, 200, 489. For further back ground on the Virginia-Pennsylvania dispute, see Virginia Delegates to the Speaker of the Pennsylvania Convention, July 15, and to a Committee of the Pennsylvania Convention, September 12, 1776. James Lovell to William Whipple Dear Sir, 25th August 1777 I have only time to say I rec’d your favor of the 12th. I shall soon acquaint you who are on the Committee for obtaining authentic facts relative to the evacuation of Ty. 1 St. Clair is in the City urging for a speedy decision. Schuyler has yielded to the petition of the General Officers, so far as to act in a militia Line. Gates intends to seek the enemy. I wished to fill the Banks of North River with the names of places which Duer promised to insert, but he has not returned my original, therefore I will not longer detain the enclosed. 2 I will send you the ground which Howe shall occupy if he lands. At present he is at the mouth of the Elk. He will land at Turky Point, formed by Elk and North East rivers. Adieu.


[Page 583]
August 25, 1777 553 [P.5.] We hear of a pretty little invoice from Bilboa at Portsmouth-— naval stores &c. Tr (DLC). 1 John Adams, Henry Laurens, and Richard Henry Lee were named to this committee on August 28. ]CC, 8:688. 2 Although Lovell’s enclosed map has not been found, for a similar map, which he sent to Abigail Adams a few days later, see Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:262, illustration 9. James Lovell to Oliver Wolcott [August] 25th [1777]. I have not got the Extract 1 hinted at but it is not matereal. The Enemy’s fleet continues at the mouth of Elk, and is known now to have troops on board, which was doubted yesterday. We have army enough to swallow Howe and all his troops including his Horses as well as their Riders. The militia turn out with alacrity, better armed than those of any other State, I dare say. I desire to be known with Affection and Respect, Sir, Your humb Serv, James Lovell [RS 1.] I hear regularly from Coll. Whipple, who is well. A Quantity of Cordage, some anchors, Broad Cloth, Sail Cloth and Shirting has arrived at Portsmouth by the Friendship of Spain. RC (CtHi). A continuation of Lovell to Wolcott, August 21-22, 1777. 1 A reference to passages in an August 15 letter written by Philip Schuyler to Congress, from which, in his August 21-22 letter to Wolcott, Lovell promised to send an extract. Marine Committee to John Stevens Sir August 25th 1777 Your Letter of the 18th June advising your arrival at Charles Town with 500 stand of Arms has come to hand, and we are pleased with your success. The Commercial Committee has now given Orders to the Agents to load your Vessel with a convenient Cargo which you must receive and proceed therewith to the Island of Martinico where you are to deliver the same as the said Agents shall direct. 1 When this is done you must again return to Charles Town where the Agents will employ your Schooner agreeable to orders now given them, therefore you must follow such directions as they give you in future ad vising us when you arrive. We doubt not you will be extreamly cautious to prevent your Vessel from falling into the hands of the enemy and that


[Page 584]
554 August 25, 1777 you will be diligent for dispatch in Port and at Sea. Wishing you success, We are Sir, Your hble servants LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). Ad dressed: “Lieutenant John Stevens Commanding the Schooner Lewis.” 1 For information regarding a previous voyage by Stevens to Martinique, see Secret Committee to William Bingham, November 22, 1776. The Commercial Committee’s orders to the South Carolina agents have not been found. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 26th. 1777 My best Friend Tuesday Howes Army, at least about 5000 of them besides his Light Horse, are landed, upon the Banks of the Elke River, and the Disposition he has made of his Forces, indicate a Design to rest and refresh both Men and Horses. General Washington was at Wilmington last Night, and his Army is there to day. The Militia are turning out with great Alacrity both in Maryland and Pensilvania. They are distressed for Want of Arms. Many have none—others have only little fowling Pieces. However, We shall rake and scrape enough to do Howes Business, by the favour of Heaven. Howe must have intended that Washington should have sent his Army up to fight Burgoine. But He is disappointed. The Kindness of Heaven, towards Us, has in nothing appeared more conspicuous, than in this Motion of Howe. If the Infatuation is not so universal as to seize Americans, as well as him, it will prove the certain Destruction of Burgoines Army. The New England Troops and N. York Troops are every Man of them at Peeks Kill and with Gates. The Massachusetts Regiments are all with Gates. Gen. Washington has none but Southern Troops with him, and he has much the largest Army to encounter. If My Countrymen do not now turn out and do something, I shall be disappointed indeed. One fifth Part of Burgoines Force has been totally destroyed by Starks and Herkermer. The Remainder must be shocked and terrified at the Stroke. Now is the Time to strike. New Englandmen! strike home. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:329-30. Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell D r sj r Philadelphia Aug. 26th 1777 I have been in daily expectations of setting off for the Southward for


[Page 587]
August 26, 1777 557 any thing to the Commercial Committee on that Head, but shall men tion it this morning & doubt not that they will be fully Satisfie. P.S. I think it will be best to order the Goods from Portsmouth by Land as the Distance is not great & Roads good. FC (MB). . 1 Warren’s August 9 letter to Gerry has not been found, but his August 13 letter to Gerry asked for orders regarding a shipment of supplies that had just arrived in Portsmouth, N.H. C. Harvey Gardiner, ed., A Study in Dissent. The Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776—1/92 (Carbondale: Southern Illinois Uni versity Press, 1968), pp. 76—77. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson D r sir Philadelphia Augt. 26. 1777 I am really surprised that you will not give me one line. I fear some terrible Accident has happened in my family I have not had a line from Mrs. Harnett since I left Cape Fear. For Gods sake write me by every Post. This is the last you may expect to receive from me unless you Comply with your promise of writing to me Often. I am anxious to hear from My family as well as my friends. I refer you to the N. Papers in closed, for News. I am. Dr Sir, Your sincere friend &c, Coml. Harnett [P.S.] The Post just Setting off. RC (ICHi). Endorsed: “Reed, the 19th of Sepr. 1777.” Robert Morris to Jonathan Hudson Si r Philada. Augt. 26th. 1777 Having reed, yours of the 19th Inst 1 & growing a good deal anxious for the fate of the Bacon, Pork &ca. you had at the Head of Elk, I determined to accept an offer made me by the Commissary & sold him the same. Pork for £12 per barrell & the Hams &c 18d per lb. This Price was not so high as I might have got had the Circumstances of these Goods been more favorable. I have since reed, a letter from Mr. Irwin mentioning his having sent these articles forward but fancy he will be Stopped therein by the Commissary who now must take charge thereof & these will ease you of all trouble & risque on this Score. I am, Sir, Your Obedt. hble Servt. Robt Morris P.S. As the Enemy are landed near Elk its plain they mean this way which will give you time to sell your other Goods.


[Page 589]
August 27, 1777 559 vent any succours to the Northward, & so leave in Burgoynes power to accomplish his Rage, which Howe might have ravaged & desolated our Country & reduced Us to amazing distress & effected more than the conquest of this city. But We know not what certainty what is before Us, & may be sanguine. But this is certain N England has vast Occasion to bless & praise the Lord, for his wonderous Mercy in our Deliverance from the dreadful Scourge. The distress had been beyond all discription had our Enemy invaded them in so critical a Moment. O that there was an heart in our Countrymen. May God in infinite Mercy pour out his Spirit upon Us, I hope & trust is the earnest Cry of all that Love his Name. I am glad to See a Day of Fasting is appointed in Contt & Massa. May We no longer mock the Almighty with deceitfull Words from feigned Lips. The Time is elapsed & the Post on the point of Setting out. With Compliments to the Gent, of your Councill & tender remember- ance to my dear Friend I am & shall ever be with great respect & highest Esteem Your most dutiful & Obed Son & Servt. W Williams [P.5.] I hope you reed mine by Sa. Hunt. 2 RC (Ct). 1 Not found. 2 Williams’ letters to Trumbull of August 2. James Duane to Robert Livingston My dear and honourd Sir Philadelphia 27h Augt. 1777 Mr Thorne deliverd me your favour of the 15t Instant. I participate in the Distress & Anxiety you must have felt at the prospect of Genl Burgoine’s Approach attended by murdrous Savages and no less cruel European Troops. That gracious Being who has hitherto protected us will I trust disappoint the destructive Projects of our Enemies. To him let us look up for Protection; and our Efforts for our own self preserva tion will be blessed with Success. The signal Victory gained at Benning ton; the severe blow given to the Indians by our Tryon militia, and the Courage and Perseverance of the Garrison at Fort Schuyler, join’d to General Burgoine’s Temerity, and Genl Howes great Distance which must effectually prevent his giving 1 any Succour in Season; Above all the present Security which the Eastern States derive from the remote Situation of General Howe—which leaves them at full Liberty to em ploy their whole Strength to the Northward—All these Circumstances united will probably give a happy turn to our affairs, and oblige Mr Burgoine to retreat with more Rapidity than he advanced. We have Reason to hope that General Arnold will raise the Siege of Fort Schuyler as he writes that the militia of Tryon support him with the


[Page 596]
566 August 27, 1777 Army & contend with Mr. Howe’s at much less risque than we could have done if the two had united in any part of the Jerseys or on the Pennsylvania Shore any where within the Capes of Delaware. Mr. Burgoyne’s ill success will damp Mr. Howe & I hope in a few Weeks you will learn that these blustering Heroes have ended the Campaign by escaping with fragments of their pretended omnipotency. The present hour is teeming with the fate of our Union. Thank God, notwithstanding some things in the Cabinet as in the field, look unto ward, I feel confident of a happy event. You must expect in Carolina a brush from the tail of this Comet & should be upon guard. Dear Sir, I repeat my good wishes to yourself & Daughters & am with great regard &ca? LB (ScHi). Addressed: “Solomon Legare Charles Town.” 1 Laurens’ letter books also contain copies of two routine letters he drafted on August 25 and 26. The former, directed to his brother James, consisted simply of instructions to draw on his account for £150 to the order of William Steppie; the latter, to South Carolina merchant and planter John McQueen, explains the expenses he had incurred in looking after “Your Man Martin” during Martin’s recent brief stay in Philadelphia. Laurens Papers, ScHi. Marine Committee to James Maxwell and Paul Loyall Gentlemen August 27th. 1777 The Honorable the Marine Committee has ordered me to com municate their apprehensions for the safety of the Frigates now building by you for the Continental service, 1 should the enemy attempt to destroy them on their return or during their continuance in Chesapeake Bay. They request that you will give your opinion on this head, and should you think it Necessary to form any plan for the preservation of those Vessels wherein their interposition or assistance will be required please to inform them thereof. I am Gentlemen, Your obedient Servant, By order of the Committee, John Brown Secy LB (DNA: PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book). 1 Maxwell and Loyall had been appointed in January to superintend the con struction of two Continental frigates at Gosport, Va. Morgan, Naval Documents, 7:1065-66. Robert Morris to George Washington Dear Sir Philada. August 27th. 1777 I cannot withstand the solicitations of Monsr. Epiniers the nephew


[Page 597]
August 29, 1777 567 of Monsr. Beaumarchais (whose Services to America I fancy you are not unacquainted with), but take the liberty to introduce this Young Gentn. to your Excellencys patronage & protection. He has just ob tained from Congress a Captains Commission, and seems to possess an Active Mind with a large fund of Good Nature that will not fail to recommend him to those who have an opportunity of observing his Conduct. 1 I shou’d be very unwilling to trouble you on any occasion but the present is indispensible. I have the honor to remain, Your Excellencys Most obedt. & very hble servt. Robt Morris RC (DLC). 1 For the August 21 resolve granting a captain’s commission to Augustin F. Des Epiniers, see JCC, 8:663. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 29. 1777 My dearest Friend Fryday The Newspapers enclosed, will give you, all the Intelligence, of any Consequence. General Washington with a very numerous Army, is between Wil mington and the Head of Elke. How will make but a pitifull Figure. The Militia of four States, are turning out, with much Alacrity, and chearfull Spirits. The Continental Army, under Washington, Sullivan and Nash, besides is in my Opinion more numerous, by several Thou sands, than Howes whole Force. I am afraid that He will be frightened and run on board his ships and go away, plundering, to some other Place. I almost wish he had Philadelphia, for then he could not get away. I really think it would be the best Policy to retreat before him, and let him into this Snare, where his Army must be ruined. However this Policy will not be adopted. In a Letter from good Authority, Mr. Paca, we are informed that many dead Horses have been driven on the Eastern shore of Maryland. —Horses thrown overboard, from the Fleet, no doubt. Price current. £4 a Week for Board, besides finding your own Washing, shaving, Candles, Liquors, Pipes, Tobacco, Wood &c. Thirty shillings a Week for a servant. It ought to be 30s. for the Gentleman and £4 for the servant, because he generally eats twice as much and makes twice as much trouble. Shoes five Dollars a Pair. Salt, 27 dollars a Bushell. Butter 10s. a Pound. Punch twenty shillings a Bowl. All the old Women and young Children are gone down to the Jersey shore to make Salt. Salt Water is boiling all around the Coast, and I


[Page 598]
568 August 29, 1777 hope it will increase. For it is nothing but heedlessness, and shift lessness that prevents Us from making Salt enough for a Supply. But Necessity will bring Us to it. As to sugar, Molasses, Rum &c. We must leave them off. Whisky is used here instead of Rum, and I dont see but it is just as good. Of this, the Wheat and Rye Countries can easily distill enough, for the Use of the Country. If I could get Cyder, I would be content. The Business of the Continent has been in so critical and dangerous a situation for the last 12 Months, that it was necessary the Massachu setts should have a full Representation, but the Expences of living are grown so enormous, that I believe it will be necessary to reduce the Number of Delegates to three after this Campaign is over. RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:332—33. Samuel Adams to Samuel P. Savage My dear sir Philade. Augt 29 1777 I have stepped aside to write you this Letter. It will be deliverd to you by Daniel Clymer Esq, who is warmly attached to our great Cause. He is besides Nephew to General Roberdeau whose Character is well known to the Publick. Your friendly Notice of Mr Clymer & Introduc ing him into the Circle of your Acquaintance will much oblige me. He tells me he has some Effects in Boston which he wishes to transport out of the State of M.B. If you can assist him consistently with the Law you will add to the favor. 1 I am with Respect to our Friends very affectionately yours, S Adams RC (MHi). 1 Daniel Clymer (1748-1810), was a lieutenant colonel in the Philadelphia Associators, 1775-76, and in 1778 was appointed deputy commissary general of prisoners. “Clymer Family Genealogy,” PMHB 9 (July 1885): 353-55; and “Letters and Documents from the ‘Clymer Papers’,” PMHB 31 (January 1907) : 43—47. This day James Lovell also wrote a letter of introduction for Clymer to the Massachusetts Board of War, of which Savage was chairman. Board of War, vol. 152, M-Ar. Eliphalet Dyer to Samuel Gray Dear Kinsman Philadelphia August 29th 1777 I have wrote you two or 3 times since my Arrival here. 1 I have In formed you of your Appointment as a Deputy Commissy Genl of


[Page 599]
August 29, 1777 569 Issues (supposed for the Eastern department) . 2 I sent you a printed Copy of the New Regulations in the Commisy Department tho the sad Wages are since raised, yours to 100 doll per month, your Deputy I think 75. You have the sole Appointment of all who are to Act under you in the Various posts Eastward of Hudsons River. There will be one or two wanted at Providence & near there. Mr. Phillips who used to Act under Mr Trumbull suppose will not Act. Mr. Stelle of Providence (who Married Huldah Crawford) is now here. Came to see the Commissy Genii Trumbull but missed of him in his way. He tells me he has Acted Under Mr Phillips is used to the business. I know him to be a Gentn of Carracter & fidelity. I can heartily recom mend him for your appointment as one of your Deputys if he Inclines which suppose he will as it will be About his Home. I should like to have Oliver that way if there wants another, that is if he Chooses it unless there is some post in Connecticut you can place him at. I hope John White will be provided for at some proper place for him. I wish you would write to me, I think you have been a little Negligent in not writing me. I begin to fear you have not received mine. The post comes from your quarter every week. I sent you one to the care of Majr Gray. I wish you would let me hear from Oliver. From your loving Kinsman, Elipht Dyer [P.5.] Mr Stelle can acquaint you with News this way, have not time to add. RC (NhD). 1 Not found. 2 Dyer’s brother-in-law Samuel Gray (d. 1787) served as Windham, Conn., town clerk and treasurer, 1755-86, and had been performing commissary func tions in Connecticut for some time before he was elected deputy commissary general of issues for the eastern department on August 6. Ellen D. Larned, History of Windham County, Connecticut, 2 vols. (Worcester, Mass: C. Hamil ton, 1874-80) 2:47, 186, 213, 227; A Historical Collection, from Official Rec ords, Piles, &c., of the Part Sustained by Connecticut, during the War of the Revolution, comp. Royal R. Hinman (Hartford: E. Gleason, 1842), pp. 410, 413, 432, 439; and JCC, 8:617. James Lovell to Abigail Adams Dear Madam Philada: Augst. 29th. 1777 It is probable that Genl. Howe will waste the fall of this year be tween Chesapeak Bay and Delaware River. I send you a copied sketch of part of the country to which the Gazettes will frequently refer; 1 as I know You give singular attention to the interesting concerns of America in the present struggle.


[Page 600]
570 August 29, 1777 This knowledge is only part of the foundation of my affectionate esteem of you. Nor will I mention the whole. I shall rather apologize for what there is already of Gallantry in my manner of conveying this little Present to your hand. I could, it is true, have delivered it to your Husband. But, I could not with delicacy have told him, to his face, that your having given your heart to such a man is what, most of all, makes me yours, in the manner I have above sincerely professed myself to be. James Lovell RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:333. 1 For this manuscript map in Lovell’s hand, see ibid., illustration 9, following p. 262. Robert Morris to Matthew Irwin Sir Philada. August 29th. 1777 Mr. Lawrison informs me that you are like to disapoint him of the money he came after notwithstanding the long time he has waited & the heavy expence of his journey. I apprehend you have no doubt of Mr Watson being in advance & if so I think you shou’d certainly send him some money to relieve his present wants & I am confident if you apply at the Treasury Board & represent that an advance is necessary to support the Public Credit they will not let you want. Mr Watson is strongly recommended to me by Colo Hooe in whom I place the most unlimited Confidence & you may shew this note at the Treasury if you think fit. 1 I am sir, Your Obedt Servt. Robt Morris RC (PHi). 1 Congress advanced $50,000 to Commissary of Purchases Matthew Irwin on September 1, “to discharge contracts he is engaged in for provisions,” but it is not known whether that advance pertained to the recommendation Morris made to Irwin in this letter. See JCC, 8:702. John Adams to Abigail Adams Philadelphia August 30th: 1777 My Friend Saturday A Letter from General Washington, was received last Night by the President, which I read. It is dated the 29th Yesterday. 1 The Enemy are in Possession of the Head of Elke, a little Town, at the Head of the River Elke, in which they found a Quantity of Corn and Oats, belonging to the States. Waggons were so universally


[Page 606]
576 August 30, 1777 that the majority never mean to hurt themselves, labour by good ex amples & seasonable advice to lead them into a better way. We ought to look with the most watchful attention in order to dis cover if there be any, our most rooted Enemies blazing in the guise of enthusiastic patriotism. Such, when found out, are easily removed with out blows. The prescription by one of the early Christians for marking out a vain Religionist, will apply extremely well in detecting a Sinister patriot, but we must not be too hasty in our conclusions. All Men are liable to Err, & often we see the best become dupes of their own policy. Our freind General McIntosh will remember my Sentiments upon his very favorite Constitution & acknowledge that the best Rules may not only lose their efficacy but even become pernicious perhaps destructive by misapplication. ’Tis more essential to know how to apply with ad vantage, than merely to know, I foresaw that a Stark-naked democracy which might have been in times of tranquility a happy form of Govern ment in Pennsylvania, would be a rueful project for the conservation of a handful of Men of dissiminated affections & attachments within, en gaged at the same time in a public & violent War which demanded the purest wisdom to contrive & the utmost vigour to execute means even for Self defence, & now with great grief & concern I learn of the bad effects. But for all this we must not dispair, we must not turn our backs & conclude that all is lost. Every honest Man, indeed every discreet Man who means to promote his own, as well as the welfare of the Community, when he discovers that neither Men nor measures have a tendency to that point will exercise all his powers to effect a happy Resolution. Perhaps after a little time even your present form of Govern ment may be made happy. God forbid you should Sink under the present convulsions. Of all the Mad Schemes you have been pestered with that of uniting the opposite Shores of Savanna within one State appears to be most frantic & no doubt has been the provocative to that frenzy for indiscriminately mixing the best friends & most bitter Enemies of Georgia & attempting to rob the former of their unalienable property. Severe & unjust as the attack is upon me in that Incident I will not abate of my Zeal for the Interest & happiness of that branch of the thirteen United Independent States of America. I am of opinion that when the Ruling powers & people of Georgia in general have reflected on the evil consequences which must follow the execution of the “Act for opening a Land Office & for the better Settling & Strengthening the State” in its full extent they will hasten to make Such alterations & exemptions as justice & Sound policy shall dictate. 2 I can hardly indulge my Self in thinking it necessary to prompt them on this occasion, never theless that I may not be charged with remissness of Duty to my Country & to my Children I shall make a proper representation & every Suitable effort to deprecate greater evils. I beleive Congress will interpose a recommendation if I ask for it. If


[Page 608]
578 August 30, 1777 heart, a Heart which never deliberately consented to an uncharitable or Cruel Act, but which had ever fortitude enough to blame a criminal friend, without fearing consequences of resentment, & I have detained you so long on this painful topic because from that Source I am per suaded much of the Evil complained of in Georgia has Sprung. All may be rectified & made Smooth again by prudent & wise exertions on the part of those who have given offence to the public & furnished such Characters as you have depicted in the Sequal of your Letter with op portunities of figuring in the Language of public Spirit. For the Sake of a bleeding Country I hope the General will reflect on these circum stances in an hour of composure. If he does I am sure his good sense will prompt him to do what he must know will be right. I will take the liberty of inclosing with this a few News papers. You will learn from them many particulars relative to the Belligerent powers in this Neighborhood. In general I may say & with much Satisfaction we are Stronger & the Enemy much weaker than the parties respectively were nine or even two Months ago. Our Army is better than ever it was, theirs is worse. Our finances are streched, theirs are broken to pieces. The present hour is big with the fate of America, the proximity of Armies within 50 Miles so. west & two hundred & fifty North East of this Center shew me that our grand dispute is drawn to an important Crisis. I feel confident it must be from an assurance which has never failed me that our Cause is good. I remain with great truth, Dear Sir &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 John Wereat (1730—99), Savannah, Ga., merchant and conservative patriot leader, was a Continental prize agent in Georgia. George R. Lamplugh, “ ‘To Check and Discourage the Wicked and Designing’: John Wereat and the Revo lution in Georgia,” Georgia Historical Quarterly 61 (Winter 1977): 295-307. 2 Laurens owned extensive tracts of land in Georgia, and consequently he objected to this act because it contained a clause designed to deprive absentee landowners of their property in the state. On October 16, 1777, however, Joseph Clay, another of Laurens’ Georgia correspondents, wrote and informed him that the Georgia legislature had recently repealed this offending clause. Collections of the Georgia Historical Society 8 (1913): 47-48. 3 The case of George McIntosh, who was accused of illegally trading with the British in East Florida, is discussed in John Hancock to Archibald Bulloch, January 8, 1777, note. 4 George McIntosh’s brother, Gen. Lachlan McIntosh. John Adams to William Gordon Phil. Augt. 31, 1777. 1 The loss of Ty is in a train of serious enquiry. Altho’ this disaster for the present is grievous, yet I think it has put Burgoyne into our power,


[Page 609]
September 1, 1777 579 and I hope he will not be suffered to slip out of it. Mr. Howe has planned his operations in such a manner, as to give us a vast advantage, both of him and Burgoyne. He is at the head of Elke about 55 miles from this city. Genl. Washington is at Wilmington, about 15 miles on this side of him, with a noble army of continental troops, and a large body of militia, which is constantly and rapidly increasing. Whether the General will be compelled to depart from his Fabian System or not time will discover. A general action, successful to us is destructive to them, and even if they should be successful and keep the field, they will loose so many men, as to be crippled after it. Whereas I think we should be able speedily to reinforce our army, notwithstanding the panic and con sternation which would follow a defeat. MS not found; reprinted from “Letters of the Reverend William Gordon, His torian of the American Revolution 1770-1799,” Proceedings of the Massachu setts Historical Society 63 (June 1930) : 364—65. 1 William Gordon included this extract, which he identified as a letter from John Adams, in a letter to an unknown recipient. Ibid., pp. 360-65. John Adams to Abigail Adams My dear Philadelphia September 1. 1777. Monday We have now run through the Summer, and altho the Weather is still warm, the fiercest of the Heats is over. And altho the extream Intemperance of the late Season has weakened and exhausted me, much, yet I think upon the whole I have got thro it, as well as upon any former Occasion. A Letter from General Washington, dated Saturday, informs that our light Parties have brought in four and twenty Prisoners, more. 1 So that the Prisoners and Deserters, since Mr. Howe landed is near an hundred. The Question now is, whether there will be a general Engagement? In the first Place I think, after all that has past it is not good Policy for Us to attack them unless We can get a favourable Advantage of them, in the Situation of the Ground, or an Opportunity to attack a Detach ment of their Army, with superiour Numbers. It would be imprudent, perhaps for Us, with our whole Force to attack them with all theirs. But another Question arises, whether Mr. Howe will not be able to compell Us to a General Engagement? Perhaps he may: but I make a Question of it: Washington will maneuvre it with him, a good deal to avoid it. A General Engagement, in which Howe should be defeated, would be ruin to him. If We should be defeated, his Army would be crippled, and perhaps, We might suddenly reinforce our Army which he could not. However all that he could gain by a Victory would be the Possession of this Town which would be the worst Situation he could be


[Page 614]
584 September 1, 1777 & has the Command there, that I fear Mr Burgoyne will be on the Retreat, before he can be brot to Action. In Consequence of the Movement of General Howe to Cheesepeak Bay, I shall be glad if You will order one of the Salt Vessels (which I desired You to load for my Account), to Boston or any Port between that & Portsmouth, & the other to North Carolina consigned to Messr. Hughes & Smith of Edenton. I remain Gentlemen with much Esteem, Your very hum Sert. E G. N.B. In the publication of the Extract I have somewhat deviated from the Letter, but have endeavourd to retain the Speech of the Original. Tr (British Museum, Additional Manuscripts 24322). 1 Not found. 2 On Gerry’s complex business relations with Joseph Gardoqui & Sons, in both his private and public capacities, see George A. Billias, Elbridge Gerry, Founding Father and Republican Statesman (New York: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 1976), pp. 125-29. 3 For complications arising from this shipment of “Russian Duck,” see Gerry to James Warren, June 30, 1777. 4 For Gen. John Burgoyne’s June 20 proclamation, see Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais, August 17, 1777, note 5. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Septr. 1st. 1777. Your several Favours to the 30th ulto. (inclusive) I have had the Honour of receiving in the Order of their Dates. From the enclosed Resolves you will perceive, the Congress have appointed a Committee to collect and arrange the Evidence relative to the Evacuation of Ticonderoga, which will be afterwards transmitted to you, that a Court Martial may be thereupon instituted for the Trial of the general Officers who were in the Northern. Department when the Evacuation took Place. 1 The great Demand for Arms to equip the Militia who are called into Service, has induced the Congress to pass the enclosed Resolve, directing that a Number of Workmen (conversant in the Business of repairing Firelocks) should be immediately detached from the Militia to be em ployed in repairing the Arms in this City there being between two and three Thousand that in a short Time may be rendered fit for Use. 2 I have the Pleasure to congratulate you on our farther Success in the Northern Department in raising the Seige of Fort Schuyler. The Enemy, on the Approach of Genl. Arnold, fled with the utmost Precipi tation, leaving behind them their Tents, Ammunition, Provision, &c. As I forward herewith several Letters for you from that Quarter which


[Page 615]
September 1, 1777 585 I make no Doubt contain an Account of the Matter, I beg Leave to refer you to them for further Particulars. 3 I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Serv. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 8:684-86; and Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5 ,1777. 2 See JCC, 8:698. 3 Gen. Horatio Gates’ letters to Washington of August 25 and 28, 1777, as well as Gen. Benedict Arnold’s August 24 letter to Gates, are in Washington Papers, DLC. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:154-55. Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh Dear sir. 1st Septem 1777. Since my last of the 11th Ulto. by Capt. Hornby our affairs in the Feild have acquired a more pleasing aspect. General Howe who we apprehended had been gone Eastward in order to form a junction with the foppish Burgoyne, has been floating round to Chesepeak Bay in a fleet of thirty Men of War & 280 Transport Vessels. The tediousness of his Voyage, hurt his Cavalry very much & ’tis not to be doubted that his Troops must also have suffered by sickness. About a Week ago he effected a Landing on the Banks of Elk River some 50 to 60 Miles distance from this spot upon which his Eye is fixed. The Horse were turned into Com fields where many of them finished their Campaign by improper food. The Troops were stretching their Legs. Some of these also, perhaps upwards of ninety, have finished their Campaign, by Cap ture or voluntary desertion—among the latter about 15 seamen who unanimously report that the fleet is very sickly, not above half Manned, the Men exceedingly discontented & only waiting favorable opportuni ties to get off. General Washington at the head of a large well appointed Army 10 to 12 Thousand regulars, a fine train of Artillery & an un certain but very numerous collection of Militia lie stretched along from Head Quarters at Wilmington to an encampment near the Enemy’s Van watching & waiting for their motions. Our light Horse are em ployed in galling their flanks & seizing straglers in which they have been very successful. It appears to me this circuitous fetch by Mr. Howe must have been made in consequence of Burgoyne’s rapid En trance through the Country on this side Tyconderoga & in confidence of the “Stretch of his Arms” which he so much boasts of. 1 You will read in the News Papers our successes against that Brute who pays ten Dollars for the Scalp of an Infant. The Check which he has received will undoubtedly leave Mr. Howe to play all the future game in this Quarter without his Partner. This places us in a situation much less to


[Page 624]
594 September 2, 1777 Perhaps it may be worthy of consideration too that I am now upon Duty in the Service of the thirteen United States, unable to quit my Post without permission. In these Circumstances I request your friendly interposition to shield me against a damage which would on one hand be intolerable & on the other would Subject the State of Georgia to the charge of injustice & ingratitude. Perhaps the rigour of that Law in the particular Instance of my property might be eluded by Sending an overseer & a few Negroes to dig a Spade full of Earth & build a hut alternately on each Tract—but this is not what I aim at nor what I wish for; I have never in any part of my life practiced Jockeyship nor do I owe to dishonest artifice one farthing of my Estate. I mean to claim the protection of the State in which my property lies, where, while I held it, my con stant practice was to make it as far as possible Subservient to the good of the State, & which I did not abandon until it was impracticable for the State to afford me a defence against the threatned attacks of a contiguous Enemy. I intreat you to take proper Counsel & to make proper Addresses by Remonstrance, Memorial or petition to the Governor & his Council & to the House of Assembly & obtain a reasonable Suspension of the impending Escheat or an explanatory Act of Assembly establishing such exceptions as shall to the House seem consistent with Justice & good policy, I may say consistent with the happiness & well being of the State. From your friendly Offers of Service & from your attach ment to the Interest of your Country as well as from your known love of justice, I flatter my Self in a dependence upon your exertions in the premises & therefore I will not take upon another moment of your time upon this head, but to say that for the honour of Georgia I trust there will be a discrimination between its wannest friends & most in veterate Enemies. Our Arms in the Northern department have lately been Successful. Mr. Burgoyne has failed in every attempt except in too many acts of infamous Butchery upon Women & Children by his Indian Allies, since he made the halt at Fort Edward by a moderate computation he has lost Two Thousand Men killed & taken prisoner. The loss of Indians proved too heavy for them to bear—in order to prompt them to action they were made Drunk & Mad—the Survivors therefore when they soberred returned mourning & murmurring to their re spective Countries. This Circumstance added to the great loss before Fort Schuyler & the total defeat of Colonel Baum has obliged the fop who boasted of extending his Arms far to contract his remaining forces within the compass of a strong-post, where he has hedged himself between a River & a Woody Mountain, on the defensive he will soon from necessity be obliged to remove in three or four Weeks. The


[Page 625]
September 2, 1777 595 Season & the want of provision & necessaries will compel him. Our Troops will in the mean time make his Situation extremely incom- modius, & will hang on his Skirts in a retreat. The evacuation of Tyconderoga will probably prove a profitable event. No thanks by the bye are due to those who should have defended it. The Check which the puffing Burgoyne has received will probably operate as a Check upon Mr. Howe who no doubt had been taught to expect that his Coadjutor would before this day have been Marching through Jerseys towards Philadelphia & have facilitated his own from Elk River. The Road is now Thorny—many a bruised head & wounded heel will there be if he Should make the attempt. I hold it impossible that he Should finesse & embark without a tryal, but there are wiser Men of a different opinion. His force is computed at 10,000. General Washington’s regulars exceed that number & the Militia are innumera- able. They are very many daily increasing & very willing to come to action. We are drawing to a Crisis, probably while I am writing the Fate of 13 United States is in decision. Delay will be pernicious to both, but most to the Enemy, however they have many resources & advantages. Our trust is in the Righteousness of our Cause which is intitled to the favour of providence. I will enclose with this 2 or 3 latest News papers. Believe me to be &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 This issue is discussed in Laurens to John Wereat, August 30, 1777. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 2d. 1777 Genl. & Admirel Howe with their fleet arrived in Elk River on the 22d Ulto. and was wel Informed by two Intelligent salors (one be longing to Boston, 1 deserter from the Admirels Ship) that their fleet Consist of 280 Sail five of which is 64 guns 1 of 50. 1 of 40. Three frigets and a Number of tenders such as Brigs, Sloops & Schooners, that the Salors are Very Sickley with the scurvey, Spotted and yealo feavours, and that they lost many of their horses on the passage, that many of them has died Since they landed them, by turning them into Cornfeilds. The 25th they begun to land their Troops, it is uncertain what numbers they have, is Suposed to be about 10,000, that many of them has deserted and those deserters Says that all the Hessians will desert if they have an Oppetunity. The place were they now are is in the midst of their Countrimen and it is Said good Wiggs. The Congress has chosen a Committee to Collect what Evidence they can for the triel of Officers at Ticondaraga, as you’l see more at large by the news papers, and how fer the State of New Hampshire is concerned in that


[Page 629]
September 3, 1777 599 numbers will not be wanting. People appear here to be in perfect security—not a family has movd. The Conjecture is that General Howe will not risk a Battle. His situation, whatever may have been his Hopes, is certainly much worse than when he was at Somerset Court house, & ours infinitely better on every Account. He has issued another Pro clamation to try the Affections, or, as Ld North expressed it, to sound the Country. 6 It has no Effect. Nothing but a superiority in Arms will now serve his purpose. John Dickinson is once more in the feild & with George Reade accompanies Caesar Rodney the General of the Delaware Militia. The want of Horses & Desire of securing a Retreat by Lines or Forts are supposed to detain General Howe which gives General Washington immense advantages; as he has not yet all his regular Troops assembled. Present my affectionate Regards to Mrs Livingston and all our Friends at both Mannors & believe me with the utmost Respect, Dear Sir, Your affectionate & most obed huml Servant, Jas Duane P.S. Col. Wilson, Mr Morris, Mr Duer, the President &c &c present their Respects to you. RC (NHi). 1 Duane probably wrote this letter on September 3, the day Congress ordered the Board of War to consider suitable rewards for the American officers dis cussed in the second paragraph. It is virtually certain that Duane did not write it after the third, the day the Pennsylvania Journal carried the news of the death of one of these officers, Nicholas Herkimer, whose death Duane was obviously unaware of as he wrote. 2 Duane meant of course to write “ought not.” 3 On October 4, 1777, Congress resolved to ask the governor and council of New York to erect at Continental expense a monument to Nicholas Herkimer, a brigadier general in the state’s militia who had been mortally wounded at the battle of Oriskany. JCC, 9:770. 4 In recognition of the officers’ role in the defense of Fort Schuyler, Congress resolved on October 4, 1777, to make Col. Peter Gansevoort “colonel com mandant” of that post and to give “an elegant sword” to Lt. Col. Marinus Willet. JCC, 9:771-72. 5 On October 4, 1777, Congress resolved to thank Gen. John Stark for his part in the battle of Bennington and to make him a Continental brigadier general. JCC, 9:770-71. See also George Frost to Josiah Bartlett, August 19, 1777, note 2. 6 See Henry Laurens to Lachlan McIntosh, September 1, 1777, note 2. John Hancock to Israel Putnam Sir, Philada. Sepr. 3d. 1777. Your Favour of the 27th ulto. 1 I have been duely honored with, and immediately laid it before Congress.


[Page 630]
600 September 3, 1777 From the enclosed Resolves you will percieve that Provision has been made for Major Generals while they act in a seperate Department— and as Congress consider you as acting in that Line for the present, the same Pay is to be extended to you from the Time you took the Command at Peeks-Kill, until it shall cease. 2 The Congress have been induced from your Recommendation of Rose & Ackerly to consent that you should pardon them both. The Manner in which you propose to employ them appears to be ex tremely proper. 3 Every Resolve of Congress relative to the Department under your Command shall be forwarded with all necessary Dispatch. I beg Leave to refer your Attention to those transmitted herewith. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Serv. J.H. Presid. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “The Honble Major Genl. Putnam. Peeks-kill.” 1 This letter is in PCC, item 159, fols. 75-76. 2 See JCC, 8:704. Putnam, who had been placed in command at Peekskill by Washington in May 1777, needed the extra pay allowed the commander of a separate department in order to meet his expenses. PCC, item 159, fols. 75—76; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 8:50-51. 3 See JCC, 8:704. In his August 27 letter to President Hancock, Putnam ex plained his request for clemency for Amos Rose and Lemuel Ackerly—both of whom had been sentenced to death by a court-martial, the former for having fired his musket at a superior officer and the latter for having been a British spy—and stated that he wished to have them “Secured & employed on board the Ships in the north river where they are wanted.” The records of their courts-martial are in PCC, item 159, fols. 79—84. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. September 3d. 1777. I have Nothing in Charge from Congress at this Time, but to trans mit the enclosed Resolves, to which I must refer your Attention. General Sullivan’s Expedition on Staten Island having ended in the Loss and Defeat of a considerable Number of the Troops under his Command; 1 the Congress have directed a Court of Inquiry to be in stituted relative to the Expedition. 2 You will please to order Colonel Richardson’s Battalion on such Duty as you may judge most proper. 3 Your two Favours of the 1st inst. 4 I have been duely honoured with. I forward herewith a Number of blank Commissions for the Use of the Army in two Bundles and have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir, your most obed & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt


[Page 632]
602 September 4, 1777 of August, whereby we are appointed and authorized to correspond with public Bodies, or private Persons in order to collect the clearest and fullest Evidence of the State of the Army in the Northern depart ment, and also of the State of the Troops, military Stores and Pro visions at those Posts, before and at the Time when the Evacuation was determined on. 1 As this Event is of much Importance to the united states and has So greatly, and So justly excited the public Attention, it is necessary that the most effectual Measures Should be Speedily taken, in order to obtain an impartial State of the Facts. To which End, We have the Honour to request of you, sir, to lay this Letter with the enclosed Copy, before your Assembly, if Sitting, if not, before the Council, for their Aid in procuring Evidence from Records and Witnesses, relative to the Several Objects of Inquiry, enumerated in the Resolution. The Testimonies of Witnesses, Should be in Writing Subscribed by themselves, and authenticated in Such manner, as you shall think proper: their Places of abode also should be pointed out. Justice to the Public, as well as to the officers whose Conduct is to be inquired into, requires, that all the Dispatch, which is consistent with the Nature of the Business, Should be made. When your Inquiries shall be finished, We have to request that you would transmit the Result of them to the Chairman of this Committee by Express, or at least by a quick and safe Conveyance. We have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obedient and most humble, Servants, 2 Henry Laurens Richard Henry Lee RC (NjMoHP). Addressed: “The Honourable the President of Council of the State of New Hampshire.” Written by John Adams and signed by Laurens and Lee. The committee sent identical letters to Connecticut governor Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., on this day and to New York governor George Clinton on Sep tember 8, copies of which are in the Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers, Ct, and Sparks MSS, MH-H, respectively. 1 See JCC, 8:684-86, 688; John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, note; and Henry Laurens’ Heads of Inquiry, August 27, 1777. 2 On September 5 the committee sent the August 27 resolve to Joseph Trumbull with this brief note: “We request you to transmit to us by the earliest good opportunity the fullest intelligence in your late department of Commissary General & you will further oblige us by adding any further infor mation properly authenticated relative to the enquiries which we are ordered to make.” Joseph Trumbull Papers, Ct. Extracts from the committee’s Sep tember 5 letter to Richard Varick, deputy muster master for the northern department, and his October 10 response are in Autograph Letters and Docu ments Relating to the History of America from the Private Collection of Mr. & Mrs. Philip D. Sang (Iowa City: State University of Iowa, 1956), pp. 18-19.


[Page 636]
606 September 5, 1777 3,000 New Jersey militiamen to reinforce “the army under General Washington, the said militia to rendezvous at Bristol, with as much despatch as possible” JCC, 8:712. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais Dear Sir, 5th September. 1777. I sit down this Morning with a design to trouble you with a very long Letter, God knows whether I shall be permitted to accomplish. The Main body of the Enemy were within thirty Miles of us yesterday morning & about four or five from our Army. We expect every moment to hear of an important clashing, but what I think most prob able, admitting General Howe to be so Strong as he is reported to be 18000 men or even 15 thousand, is, that he will keep General Washing ton at Bay with one part & March the other by a different route to this City. These & a thousand as Idle conjectures employ the con versation of Men at this distance. The time is big with fates, Some what very important will be brought forth before we are three days older. Congress has not yet determined to adjourn from this City but I am taking time by the forelock. James is gone to get the Horses Shod, will have our little All packed up to day & be ready for a March in case of need. Before the meeting of the House I will endeavour to say the needfull in reply to your very kind Letters of the 26th & 29th July- 1 All that you had done or had intended to do respecting my Brother’s affairs, appears to be extremely proper. The House in which Mr. McKay lives ought to be repaired. Mr. Motte should be at one half the expence & pay that half in Cash, but I doubt whether he will do so. He does not use my Brother well, he refuses to pay the Interest on his Bond under a pretence that my Brother receives the whole Rent of that House, although he knows the latter has not been for a con siderable time past equal to the former & I have reason to beleive it never has been quite equal after deducting Repairs & Taxes. I wrote to my Brother on this head Some time ago; ’tis probable we shall hear from him. In the mean time Mr. Motte Should advance money for his part of the expence to be incurred by Repairs. Betty is very troublesome & it appears by a memorandum of her Masters she has been always so. To hire her in a family will certainly be best. If she does not behave well in that Station & Ishmael still absent I think it will be best to send her in the Country. I believe while Ishmael was at home he maintained her & paid the principal part of her Wages. She is very Idle. In a Letter which I wrote to you Somewhere on the Road to this place or perhaps since my arrival, I requested you not to part with


[Page 637]
September 5, 1777 607 the Gold, but to keep it as on my Accott. which I now repeat & I will improve it for my Brother agreeable to his desire by assigning him a proper Sum to be received in London. I shall be obliged by your opinion what the Exchange ought to be. The circumstance of March at Wright’s Savanna shocks & effects me exceedingly, nor is it less amazing because he was ever a man of placid & obliging disposition & always as far as I knew a good & faithful servant until he unhappily became connected with Mary. He has since that Union been guilty of Robbery. It was for such a Crime he was really shipped by Morgan. I am really grieved for the poor fellow. It appears to me best to send Mary to Georgia & order her to be Sold there, she has very great abilities & when she is cut off from her old acquaintance she may find it her Interest to exert them. If you will take the trouble to correspond with Mr Clay on this matter & he gives hopes of obtaining £200 Georgia Money for her, order her to be sent to him. As to March I think the mode of punishment which you propose is due to the public, otherwise from the reluctance I feel, I believe he would escape. When his wound is healed he must be kept at such work as he is capable of performing & from the necessity of the Case great rigour Should be exercised upon him until he gives proof of humility which will soon be, after he is Seperated from that wicked Devil. Casper seems to be held in contempt by the Negroes & I am afraid of Some fatal accident. I shall write to him by this conveyance & submit my opinion to yours. My Dear Sir, it makes me very unhappy to give you so much trouble as I am in my present circumstances obliged to do. It is extremely unreasonable in my Country Men to compel me to this useless Service, if they had only considered how much of my time had been devoted to theirs & how very little to my own affairs I think common gratitude would have induced them to give me a moments respite. Did they know how their delegates are now mis spending time I am sure they would recall them or give them very Special orders. Congress is not the respectable body which I expected to have found. To be particular on this point would be improper, but I mention so much from that feeling which is irresistible. I see my own private affairs going to Wreck, I am helping forward the heavy loss by most amazing expences here. I am adding to the load of trouble which my friends must have from attending to their own concerns & am render ing my Country no intrinsic Services. This latter consideration grieves me most. I think I have been instrumental in averting two pernicious schemes & except these my time 5 or 11 hours every day has been Squandred. The most necessary work we have to do at present is that of Confederating—& that of making a State of past Expences, to be


[Page 638]
608 Septembers, 1777 fully informed of the application of those Millions already Issued to govern our future proceedings by wiser measures & to fill our ex hausted Treasury by means least likely to involve us in difficulties. My attempts to accomplish these great purposes have hitherto proved fruit less & I have too much reason to fear, from a discovery of the cause, will ever prove so—unless very particular Instructions from some of the States should be charged upon their Delegates to demand of Congress an adjustment of Accounts. I wish we were half an hour together. I - would say many things to you, as an Assembly Man, in favour of our little honest State. What I have Said you may think of in that Char acter but as being said to your Self only. I have wandered into this digression of hints from a reflection which Suddenly took place in my mind, of the vast trouble which an atten tion to my business has already occasioned to you while I my Self am detained in a State of worse than Idleness. I shall write to the president requesting His Excellency to obtain leave for me to return to Charles Town if my health Should fail me as I fear it will when the Cold weather comes on. In such case even attempts to Serve must fail & therefore I request your aid if a question should be made in your House. Mr. Middleton will leave us in October. You should really send us two or three Men of business & Spirit, if I am to stay here, Maugre all the disadvantages that your absence from Carolina will work to my Estate I wish you may be one—but come who will the Assembly Should in common justice allow them to live at least half as well as they had been accustomed to at home & pay their bare expences. Pray what is the present allowance? I have lived in a very humble style compared with the humble style of Ansonburgh yet including travelling expences (not Carriage & Horses) have already nearly exhausted 2300 Dollars. Mr. Middleton tells me he lives upon public money & offered me a supply but I will have none, I never touched any in my life. Admitting Gen eral Howe is so complaisant as to allow us to remain here the Winter expences will be Still more enormous. Judge from this one item, James tells me I must pay four Dollars for a pair of Strong coarse Shoes for George, & this, paid a Taylor for making a Single coat. I found the Cloth 24 Dollars—every article in proportion but to return to your Letters from which I have strangely wandered, my mind is rended with Ideas which March out with all the regularity of Militia Soldiers. It is scarcely possible to make an exact arrangement when one expects every moment an alarm. James is now packing up in order to be in readiness for a move. I must go to the House of Idleness, Shall prob ably not see this table again till 4 or 5 oClock P.M. after having been witness to the transaction of business which would require no more than half an hour judiciously applied. I know where the defect lies & may tell you by & by. At 5 oClock I returned from Six hours Session


[Page 640]
610 September 5, 1777 I owe Mr. Nephew something but dont know how much. Himself only is to blame that I remain in his debt. I had Money with me in March 1775 for cancelling his Account, he appointed a day to meet me at Boston Island, I waited for him one or I beleive two days extra ordinary for no other purpose, but he did not come. There were some questions to be asked which would not have been pleasing to him—at my return to Charles Town I was ordered into the Chair of the General Committee, soon after into those of Genl Congress & Council of Safety. You know the burthen which the people laid on me how diligently I applied my whole time to public & how totally I neglected my private concerns, my Books & papers were in so disorderly a State when I left Mepkin I was ashamed to show them even to you. I have therefore no regular Idea of the State of Mr. Nepher’s Account but there is among my papers the ground work for building a just & fair reckoning between us. I should be sorry to keep from him one farthing that is due & as I hope he will not demand more I shall have no ob jection to Mr. Clay’s paying him on my Account Seventy Pounds Georgia Currency taking from him a proper Stipulation promising to account with me. I Say Georgia Currency because I beleive our agree ment was so, if he Shews the contrary, then I would pay him £400 Carolina Money, I mean to do him complete Justice but I remember there are one or more large charges againt him & he will acknowledge the delay which has happened was owing to the disappointment above mentioned. I now recollect he was to have called on me on a Tuesday. I had intended to have left the Island on Wednesday or Thursday according to the arrival of an expected boat from Sunbury, but I did not leave it ’till Saturday. Payment of Mr. McCulloghs order to Byers, of Parkinson’s Note & Balance I believe are very right & so may be the £5 to Mamma Narvo. I dont exactly remember the Old Womans last version but judge your payment will fully cancel it to the midle of September, from whence her Stipend may recommence at 40/ per month. In the mean time I beg you will give her as from me £4 & shall I request you also to give to Mr. Joseph Roper Fifty Pounds & Twenty five pounds to Sam’s Wife or if he has behaved well I would wish to add some in- dulgencies to bare necessaries for himself. The prize which you mention to have been made by Seymour was an excellent favor of fortune, the more valuable by the Capture of so inveterate an Enemy as Lofthouse. As a rooted Enemy to our State & by no means from any resentment for his imprudence to me I hope you will not part with him before you obtain an adequate Exchange. Pray what is become of Bishop. If he is at large in Augustine ’tis high time he Should fulfill his promise of remitting by Gold or Bill the money I advanced for him of which he has the Account.


[Page 641]
September 5, 1777 611 If Mr. Arthur comes here he will probably have cause to regret a fruitless journey. Your Letter to Fosdick is very good, but since Jimmy Debatt’s marriage into the Noble family he is turned a Sad Rascal, if I had been at home I would have sold him & so I would Doctr. Cuffee & Montezuma, & I earnestly request you to do so by all or any of those Villains, ungrateful villains if they give farther cause for complaint. The two last mentioned, if they are not carefully watched & kept low will Slip further off than Wright’s Savanna when ever an opportunity presents. If they know as much of my intentions towards them as I do, my Negroes would esteem a change of Masters to be the heaviest punishment that could be inflicted upon them. I hope Mr. Clay will very Soon inform me the State of my affairs under his protection, therefore I do not trouble him on that Subject, nevertheless his long delay induces me to request you will acquaint me with all you can learn from Bailey or to procure from him a Letter. I propose to leave all the Letters under your Cover open for your perusal. You will be so good as seal & cause them to be delivered as Soon as possible. One to Mr. Legare will shew you some thing of my poor James Air’s Account. From those to Mr. Wereat & General McIntosh you will learn my Sentiments on the Georgia Land Act in addition to what I have Said to Mr Clay as well as on Colo G. M’s Case. 7 The general has been very pathetic in a late Letter on this Subject, but concerning my Land he touches so Slightly I should not have understood his meaning without the aid of the other Gentleman who has taken a very friendly part. The little which my old friend has said seems to have been postulated more to impress upon my mind a harsh opinion of the prevailing party in Georgia than for my Service. In each of these Letters you will gather some fragments of intelligence, more you will collect from the News papers which will accompany them & upon Monday Morning when I intend to dispatch this Mes senger you Shall be informed of every material branch of intelligence which shall in the mean time come to my knowledge relative to our Armies on Delaware, the middle & Northern departments. I feel a Strong disinclination to plague you with minute directions on any parts of my Estate. I am confident you will give in general & in Special proper orders together with such attention as your health & leisure will admit of & I will prefer great losses to the cruelty of pressing an overload upon you, but what a load do you think I have been contriving & were you here, if it should from Love of the Cause we are engaged in even cost me two thousand Guineas, you should bear it, I am sure you would be requested' to undertake it. It is necessary to recal Mr. Deane from the Court of Versailles, his conduct has not given Satisfaction. I do not know a man in America nor have we yet employed one according to my opinion so equal to the Task in all


[Page 646]
616 September 5, 1777 “Our Treaty of Commerce is not yet proceeded upon. Their plan is not to have any transactions with us which shall acknowledge Ameri can Independency but to make us more easy they tell us we enjoy all the advantages which we propose by such a Treaty.” Strange. “Capt Cunningham is imprisoned at Dunkirk & the prizes which he took will be restored, this will serve to lull the British Ministry & then Cunningham & his Vessel will be released through favour, but we must put up with the loss of his prizes. This is a matter of Triumph to our Enemies which we Suffer them to enjoy for the present while we have the most Substantial proofs of the friendship of this Court & of Spain which will Soon be manifested to the World.” Substantial proofs indeed! “Feeling our Selves assisted in other respects we are induced to let them take their own time.” Aye! & their own time they will take! “Mr received the same professions of good Will at Madrid but was refused the Character of Ambassador or to be received or acknowledged openly.” Manifested to the World! “We applied for the naval aid you require & received a possitive refusal. 3 ’ “Also for the two Millions Sterling on Loan & was told it was impossible to lend so large a Sum.”—“but are promised certain quarterly payments to make good the payment for Interest on 10 Mil lions of Dollars if you should borrow so many.” (I beleive it is ex tended even to the Interest of 20 Millions at 4 to 6 per Cent.) This may be in the whole about two hundred & seventy thousand pounds per Annum if we should borrow so much as 20 Millions Dollars per Annum. This of 20 Millions is grounded only upon "we hope” how long any part of it is to last we have no assurance. The change of a minister would put an immediate Brake [. . .] 13 other demands which will absorb the greatest part if not the whole of the first intended grants for paying the Interest of the hoped for 20 million Dollars & farther that tis expected we shall enable the Court to collect by Duties in Tobacco which we have engaged to Send to the Farmers General, great part of the proposed Loan.” Immense friendship!. Enable me, & I will lend you a Sum of Money. Will you believe it, upon this Slender Basis a bold attempt has been made to draw plumply & immediately for ten Million of Dollars, next for five Million; the former equals £2,250,000 Sterling, the latter £1,125,000. Did I say Slight basis? Are we not told in the Strongest language it is impossible to lend us any such Sum? Is this going hand over head? Is it governing 13 United States by random Strokes of policy? or did it spring from sinister mo tives? I cannot suspect the latter. Yet Such projects were the megrims of Men who hold themselves of the first rank & first importance in our political system. I told you I had been Instrumental in averting two pernicious schemes. This is one of the Instances. The other was a proposed mad expedition, 14 but I have not succeeded to my wish. Far


[Page 648]
618 September 5, 1777 France for no more Money than is absolutely necessary to purchase & pay for articles essential to our defensive War. That we should contract our expences public & private, recommend Taxation in each Colony, borrow at home upon the best terms, clear the States of Enemies, Sell vacant & forfeited Tracts & other Estates, encourage manufactures, strive more ardently to improve our marine force & do a Thousand other things which we know to be necessary which we ought immediately to engage in & which we would do, if Luxury & Avarice were discounten anced & banished. If we have not virtue enough to save our selves, easy access to the Treasury of France will only hasten our ruin. These Sir are very serious considerations. I have suffered much distress of mind on the occasion, I have been told that my arguments were very pretty for theoretic writers but I appeal to experience, it is from experience I draw my reasoning. I do not contend for a further Emission of paper Money, I wish to avoid it. I am sure we may avoid it if we please. I contend against the most dangerous of all Emissions drawing Bills on a foreign Court, but if we must emit for domestic purchases & Services, of two Evils I would choose the least. Many other arguments I have at different Stages introduced, too many to trouble you with, I hope my endeavors will be acceptable to my Constituents, I am void of under standing if my reasoning will not bear the test of experience & sound judgment. The subject is as familiar to me & as clear as that Indigo in such circumstances as we have been reduced to for the three years past is a preferable Commodity for exportation to Rice & Lumber (uncom mon Cases excepted). Had we been so wanton as to have drawn for 10 or 5 M[illion] Dollars, the purposes of those whom we have no reason to befriend might have been Served; Tories would have thrown back your paper money if they had any faith in your Bills of Exchange & taken leave of you, a few Merchants would have attempted to in troduce a flood of French articles which we may & ought to do without. In fine we should have incurred a solid ponderous debt without the benefit of one Solid article in return. 18 LB (ScHi). 1 An extract of Gervais’ July 29 letter to Laurens is in South Carolina His torical Magazine 66 (January 1965): 17-19. 2 Perhaps a reference to the committee investigating the evacuation of Ticon deroga. See John Hancock to Arthur St. Clair and Philip Schuyler, August 5, 1777, note. 3 In the July 29 letter to Laurens cited above, Gervais explained that the government of Georgia had recently offered a reward of £100 for the appre hension of Chief Justice William Henry Drayton of South Carolina because of Drayton’s efforts to bring about the annexation of Georgia to South Carolina. There are a number of contemporary sources relating to this episode in Robert W. Gibbes, ed., Documentary History of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (New York: D. Appleton & Co., 1855-57), 2:75-87. 4 See Laurens to John Wereat, August 30, 1777, note 2.


[Page 651]
September 6, 1777 621 are allowed by the Establishment, which appears to be attended with many Difficulties, & have therefore confined our Views to the Removal of the Inconveniences complained of, 1 being with much Esteem sir your very huml. Servts. Richard Henry Lee Nathel. Folsom E. Gerry RC (DLC). Written by Gerry and signed by Gerry, Folsom, and Lee. 1 On August 11 Washington’s August 9 letter to President Hancock and the enclosed report of a board of general officers concerning rations had been referred to a committee composed of James Wilson, Jonathan B. Smith, and William Smith, but there is no indication in the journals that this committee ever reported. On September 4 Folsom, Gerry, and Lee were appointed to consider under what regulations and restrictions regimental officers shall, for the future, receive their rations,” and almost simultaneously a Board of War report recommending that Washington “be empowered, if he thinks proper to order regimental officers to receive their rations in messes was tabled. The second committee’s report recommending that regimental officers “be empowered to divide themselves, as often as they shall think proper, into messes was submitted to Congress on September 11. See ]CC, 8:629, 710-11, 732—33; and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:38-39. John Hancock to George Washington Si r> Philada. Septr. 6th. 1777. You will perceive from the enclosed Resolves, that Congress, desirous of reinforcing the Army at this critical Period, have recommended to the States of Pennsylvania and New Jersey to order out immediately a considerable Part of their Militia; and I have no Doubt of their Com pliance. 1 I have wrote to Govr. Livingston on the Subject, 2 and informed him that should he think proper to appoint Genl. Dickinson to the Com mand of the three Thousand requested from that State, it will be extremely agreeable to Congress. That Gentleman has, I understand, signified his Readiness to act whenever called upon; and as he possesses the Confidence of the Militia, and has Talents equal to the Task, I am persuaded the Appointment will give general Satisfaction. Your Favour of the 3d Inst, and likewise of yesterday by the Hands of Genl. St. Clair I have been duely honoured with. 3 The latter I shall lay before Congress this Morning. I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See ]CC, 8:711-12. Hancock also enclosed resolves of September 4 on the


[Page 652]
622 September 6, 1777 resignations of Capt. Jacob Bower and Adjt. Charles Seitz and of September 6 on clothing for the army. ]CC, 8:710, 715-18. 2 See Hancock to William Livingston, September 5, 1777. 3 These letters are in PCC, item 152, 5:25-27, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:172-73, 186-87. Marine Committee to John Paul Jones Sir In Marine Committee Philadelphia Septemr. 6th 1777 As soon as these Instructions get to Hand, you are to make im mediate Application to the proper Persons to get your Vessel Victualled and fitted for Sea with all Expedition. When this is done you are to proceed on a Voyage to some Convenient Port in France, on your arrival there, apply to the Agent if any, in or near said Port, for such supplies as you may stand in need of. 1 You are at the same Time, to give immediate notice by Letter to the Honorable Benjamin Franklin, Silas Deane & Arthur Lee Esqr or any of them at Paris, of your arrival, requesting their Instructions as to your future Destination; which In structions you are to obey as far as it shall be in your Power. 2 If, however, in the Course of your Voyage a favourable opportunity should offer, of doing Service to the States by taking or destroying any of the Enemys Ships, you are not to omit taking advantage of it, but may go out of your Course to effect so good a Purpose. In this we trust to your Zeal & Discretion. You are to take particular Notice that whilst on the Coast of France, or in a French Port, you are, as much as you conveniently can to keep your Guns covered & concealed, and to make as little war like appearance as possible. Wishing you A Successful and happy Voyage, We are sir, Your Friends. In behalf of the Marine Committee John Hancock Presidt P.S. On your arrival in France send one of your officers with the Letter you are to write to the Commissioners at Paris, to prevent its falling into improper hands. John Hancock Pt. RG (DNA: PCC, item 168). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. Ad dressed: “John Paul Jones Esquire, commander of the Continental Ship Ranger, Portsmouth, New Hampshire.” This day identical letters were sent to Elisha Hinman and to Thomas Thompson, copies of which are in C.O. 101, PRO; and PCC Miscellaneous Papers, Marine Committee Letter Book, DNA. 1 Due to difficulties in outfitting the Ranger, Jones did not put to sea until November 1. Thompson, commanding the frigate Raleigh, accompanied by Hin man in the Alfred, had already sailed for France and arrived there in early October. See Gardner W. Allen, A Naval History of the American Revolution, 2 vols. (Boston: Houghton, Mifflin Co., 1913), 1:223-30, 249, 278; and Wil liam J. Morgan, Captains to the Northward: The New England Captains in the


[Page 655]
September 7, 1777 625 I can excuse you, upon your first meeting with your lovely Amelia, for that descriptive Sketch which you have given me of your Happiness. But I charge you in future to avoid even Hints about dear domestic Joys. Consider that my Duty has fixed me in unsocial Philadelphia; and do not heedlessly make me the Victim of Envy which is its own severe Tormentor. As to Journals—be persuaded that no Expence or Industry has been wanting on the Part of Congress to get them up to the present Time. The Flight of Printers & the Want of paper has impeded the Work till now, when we have a good prospect. We are up to Octr. 25th. and shall very shortly have the Year —76 in a Volume. 1 When the main Army is at our Elbow, and while we are situated in the Capital of such a State as Pensylvania we shall never want ten thousand Interruptions to the Settlement of the Articles of Confedera tion & the Establishment of our Currency. As to losing the Confidence of the people, I shall be sorry for their own Sakes; But, by Way of Scare Crow to an honest Heart, I value it as little as any other natural Phenomenon of Nature. There is a majority in every State of the Union, and in every great Assembly, which can be depended upon, at this Day; But there are also heavy Clogs in each. The Cause of the people is safe. But their Patience must have full Exercise. Virtuous themselves they cannot be ruined by their present Assailants. Had there been due Vigour in this Government, Congress would not have been obliged to have pointed out Individuals of this State for Arrest. But the Safety of the Union called for it. And you may depend upon it every step we have taken can be handsomly defended. Freely did old Israel and the Tribe in general turn out armed when scandalous Oppression had stirred up the Paxton Boys. Read the hypocritical Cant of these Days. Hear the Appeal to the Freemen of Pensylvania, and Quotations from the Bill of Rights of this Independent State, from Wretches who will not affirm themselves faithful Subjects of it; and who since the Declaration of Independency complain, in the Registries of their meetings of Sufferings, that they are forced to aid in a War against Government. I will suppose Coll. Dyer has written on the Subject of giving a Spring to the Loan Offices, therefore I shall omit that Topic at this Time. Before this reaches you, a Number of New England Shippers will be about you, who have left their Vessels at the Head of Elk. There has been a most horrid Delay in the Management of the Persons to whom they were consigned. I have written to Coll. Aylett 2 to desire he would confide the Settlement of his private Accounts as well as public to you so far as concerns the 6 Captains particularly Taylor my old Fellow prisoner & Perkins my half LandLord. You can empower Tracy or


[Page 659]
September 8, 1777 629 receives the feild pieces, at least not to proceed near the enemy. Gen. Washington I am sure will not hazard a general battle. We this day had a full view from stony point of the Enemy’s fleet lying from the mouth of Elk to Sasafras, but chiefly about the mouth of Sasafras. If Mr. Smith should be desirous to return home, as it appears he is by a letter of his I this day saw written to Col. B. Rumsey, I shall proceed to Congress, & not return to join Smallwood’s brigade of militia. 2 Indeed I already find this kind of sauntring life extremely disagreeable & fatiguing & hard lodging & irregular hours of eating begins to disagree with my puny constitution & habit of body; but perhaps I shall soon be. more inured to & better able to support the fatigue of a campaign. I heartily wish you well & am yr. affectionate friend, Ch. Carroll of Carrollton 1 Carroll’s September 8 letter to his father is in the Carroll Papers, MaHi. 2 Carroll was still with Gen. William Smallwood (at “Nottingham”) on Sep tember 14, at which time he appended the following brief note to Johnson at the bottom of Smallwood’s letter of that date to the governor. “I shall proceed with General Smallwood till he joins the main army and shall then on this go to Congress or return home. I am well and desire you will inform my father thereof by the first opportunity.” Brown Books, MdAA. George Frost to Josiah Bartlett Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept. 8th. 1777 I Reed, your favr. wrote in Kingstown Augst Wherein you say you were just returned from Springfield and the result of the Commis sioners from the several states laid before Congress which we have Reed, but have not as yet acted on it. 1 The. Avarice, Venality and disipation prevaling among all Ranks here in this quater and Increasing more & more in the Eastern states I fear it will be impractable to addop the Measures Recomended by your Committee, altho I think with you that it is Very Alerming and fear it will be Attended with Very ill consequences. As to the support of the Credit of our Money I can conceive of but two ways. First our Commisrs. in France & Spain has procured for us a loan to pay the Interest of all the Money we shall borrow by our loan office certificates at the rate of five livers France for every Dollar Interest which we sopose will give great en- courragement to the Monied Men to lend the United States. The Other is that all the States go Immediately into large Taxation by which Means we shall be able to pay our Armey &c but if those two Measures should fail and we are obliged to Emit more Money (which I hope that wont be the case), it will sink it Very low indeed. As to the Northern affairs they have been Very Alerming but at present through


[Page 660]
630 Septembers, 1777 the Goodness of God I trust they are at present Very favourable. You’l see more perticuler by the News papers and that Congress has adopted measures for Inquirry in that Affair. We Could have wished Borgoyne had pushed his armey lower down then he has that we might have marched an Armey in his Rear as well to Attack him in the front, we hope however that our brave Starke will be able to perform the former wile Genl. Gates attacks their front. Genl. Howes armey is some weare nigh Caskeen bridge, and Genl. Washingtons head quarters at Wil mington whose Advance parties has had several scermishes (as they are Called) according to fortain of war some times they gitt the better and sometime we have the better of them, we dayle Expect to here of a General Battle. I have not seen the Map you mention but am Informed by Good Judges its a pore one. 1’1 make further Inqy. and see it. If I think it will answer your Expectation will send it you by first good oppetunity. (We have been greatly perplex’d with a number of French officers. Some came over under Extradany Contracts by Mr. Deane and others to seek Rank & service in our Armey no les then five or six Majr. Generals, Briga. Genls, Cols. &c &c. To have plas’d them all we must have superseeded nigh half of our Officers, trust we shall send’m for the greater part Back to France. I should be glad to be informed wether our Troops has Reed, their Clowes as we are Informed Clothing at the Northen Armey is scarce. You’l see by the papers Inclosd. what Situation we are in With regard to some principel quakers &c. I fear we shall meet with a great Deale of trouble with them. Am, sr, With great Esteam, your most Obt., Humble Sevt. Geo. Frost RC (MiU-C). 1 See Henry Marchant to Nicholas Cooke, August 18, 1777, note 2. Henry Laurens to John Lewis Gervais [Septembers, 1777] It is now Monday Morning the 8th. We have nothing yet from the Camp except that both Armies seemed to be preparing for Serious Action. General Washington had approached the Enemy within three or four miles of Contact, had issued a very sensible animating public order a Copy of which I have seen & will endeavor to send you, 1 by this it would seem as if he meant to attack. General Howe on the other hand has sent on board the fleet all his Sick & wounded & ordered as [o/] the 6th Inst four days provision to be Issued. This comes by a deserter who came in to General Washington yesterday morning, if this be true Mr. Howe expects to dine here on Wednesday, I hope we shall disappoint Sir William here as we did Sir Peter at Charles Town. The wounded arrived from the Skirmish the other day in which some of the


[Page 663]
Septembers, 1777 633 open to your Ships. In a little time such virtuous Resolution will render you Independent both of France & England. I must have tired you good Sir & yet I have not minuted here one half that I thought myself obliged to say & repeat upon this important business in the Course of 5 or 6 days debate & adjournment. Many good men see into the danger of contracting a debt with France but they do not see clearly. They say “what shall we do, the Treasury is Empty.” This shews our Error in having neglected so long a business which is one of the main pillars of our Independence. It shews our folly too in the wanton terms pro posed for Treaty last year—there the Court of Versailles has again made puppets of us & treated us with the Contempt we deserved. God Grant Mr. Washington, that brave & virtuous, that disinterested, Pa triotic Hero, success in a Conflict which is probably now in agitation & we shall have further time to retrospect our proceedings & to mend what shall appear to have been amiss. If he fails a New Scene will open. Nothing but virtue then can Save us. We never shall call in her aid until we feel Severe distress. Tis time to attend Congress, maybe when I return I may tell you more of the Quaker affair & trouble you with another Sheet, but before I go let me suggest a danger which we seem to be drawn into. A whole week is passed & nothing is said or done further for replenishing our Treasury, if the proper means are neglected until that is nearly or more nearly exhausted, we may be frighted into a measure big with ruin, that of drawing for five or ten Million Dollars for doing which we have neither permission nor en couragement. If this shall happen remember I have foretold it to you & other my Constituents who are concerned in the event. I am happy in having Mr. Middleton exactly coincide in Sentiments with me altho he has not . spoke to the point. Mr. Hfeyward] differs but I would not have it taken notice of for whatever his opinions may be, he is a Man of Candour & Integrity & I wish not to name any Body. 9th September. I did not return from business yesterday till the Sun had Set, eat a Scanty dinner & was obliged to go out again upon business. When I came home I felt a much stronger propensity for the Bed than the writing Table. It was mortifying to sit from 11 oClock to 1/2 past 6 without respite, spend four hours of that time wrangling a point which I think had employed us five days before—receive & pocket a well timed & spirltted reprimand from the Council & end the business relative to the Quakers & other self disaffected, where it might have been ended & in the manner in which it ought to have been ended in five minutes from the very outset, by recommending to confine at an appointed place Stanton in Virginia, all the mischeivous & active ones who shall refuse to take the Oath or affirmation of Allegiance to the State. I will not say the business is quite ended, for


[Page 666]
636 September 8, 1777 Mr. John Adams, Mr. Duane, Mr. Middleton, Mr. Laurens. A very thin house for deciding the fate of America—time will Shew who are in the right. 8 £ 27000 Sterling per Annum. I Should have added be sides the disadvantage of Remittances & besides vast other debt, but we have now temporary access to Money we shall continue to squander until we receive some very severe Check. This may possibly be within 48 hours for we this moment learn by express that Genl Howe has Stolen a march upon our great General. He must be stopped this night or tomorrow morning he will be on our Skirts. We are all now talking of adjourning to the Country. The question is, where? I take up another sheet chiefly with a design to ask your pardon for this long detaining you & to conclude. If any thing momentous or any thing worth your notice comes to pass before I seal it shall be added in a Postscript. This had been intended by an Express Messenger, my Colleagues judge it proper to detain him a few days. It will therefore go by the hands of Doctor Houston of Savanna. Adieu. My Compliments to Mrs. Gervais & best wishes to the Little folks & all of you. I am with great regard & affection &ca 9 LB (ScHi). A continuation of Laurens to Gervais, September 5, 1777. 1 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:188-89. 2 See Laurens to Gervais, September 5, 1777, note 16. 3 The quotations in the last two paragraphs are taken from the letters of the American commissioners in Paris dated March 12 and May 25, 1777. Wharton, Diplomatic Correspondence, 2:284-85, 324. 4 On this issue, see John Hancock to William Livingston, August 30, 1777, note. 5 Germain was referring to the extensive grant of powers Congress made to Washington on December 27, 1776. JCC, 6:1045-46. 6 There is no mention of this issue in the journals but the question may have been “submitted” to Washington via Col. David Forman, who this day delivered a verbal communication to Congress from the general. On September 8, how ever, Congress did order Gen. Israel Putnam, the American commander at Peekskill, to hold 1,500 men in readiness for Washington. See JCC, 8:720, 726. 7 The actions referred to here by Laurens have not been otherwise identified. 8 See JCC, 8:724-25. 9 At this point in his LB, Laurens added the following note to himself: “In a P.S. informed him that the Letters for Georgia as they go by Mr. Houston will be carried on by him but enclosed him Copy of a Letter to Mr Clay. The letter to Mr Legare being too large for this Packet goes separate but he will see it— send double-sets of News Papers & desired him to give some to J. Wells.” Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry Dear Sir, Philadelphia 8th Septr. 1777 Nothing new hath happened that we know of since my last. But it seems extremely probable that a general engagement will take place


[Page 671]
September 10, 1777 641 Elbridge Gerry to Unknown My dear sir Philadelphia Sepr 10 1777 I have only Time to inform You, that my next will probably hand You an Account of an important Event, which is hourly expected to take place between the Armies of Generals Washington & Howe. The particulars of their present Situation, with a Newspaper containing the proceedings of Congress on the Tory quakers & a manly Address of General Washington to his Soldiers, I have sent to our Friend Doctor Cooper who will undoubtedly communicate the same if requested. I am sir in great Haste yours sincerely, E Gerry [P.5.] The Enemy are about 27 Miles from this City; The Army & in habitants in high Spirits. The Measure relative to paying the Interest of Loan office Certificates that shall hereafter be issued in Bills of Ex change is adopted by Congress. Whether those already issued will be on the same Footing, I cannot yet determine. 1 RC (ViU). 1 See Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull, September 7, 1777, note. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Septr. 10th. 1777 The great Desire of Congress to be informed of the Movements and Positions of the two Armies as early as possible, at this critical and important Period, has induced them to pass the enclosed Resolve, to which I shall only refer your Attention. 1 Your Favour of yesterday I was honoured with last Night. 2 With warmest Wishes, that Victory and Success may attend you, and that the Campaign may terminate in such a Manner as to encrease your Fame and Glory, I have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed Servt. 3 John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 This September 9 resolve requested Washington “to appoint a proper person at head-quarters to write to the president twice a day, or oftener if necessary, advising the position and movements of the armies,” and directed the Board of War to appoint “proper persons for conveying the said letters.” JCC, 8:726—27. In keeping with the latter directive, the board’s secretary Richard Peters had sent Washington the following note on the ninth. “The Board have it not in their Power to provide suitable Persons for the Purpose or they would not lessen the Number of Combatants in the Army, but are obliged to request your Excellency to appoint a sufficient Number of Expresses out of either Blands or Sheldon’s Regts of Horse & to carry into Execution the Resolve of Congress with all convenient Speed.” Washington Papers, DLC.


[Page 672]
642 September 10, 1777 2 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:33, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 9:197-98. 3 This day Hancock also wrote a brief letter to Gov. Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., of Connecticut, acknowledging receipt of his September 1 letter and informing him that it had been “laid before Congress, and is now under the consideration of a Committee—as soon as a determination is had, the result shall be com municated to you.” Jonathan Trumbull, Sr., Papers, Ct. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir, 10th September 1777. I had the honour of writing to Your Excellency the 12 & 15 August by Colo. Sumpter. A very important question varied in different branches of borrowing Money from the Court of France has been Since agitated in Congress, I have been uniformly against the measure & think it my duty by the earliest opportunity to inform Your Excellency the grounds of my dissent. The first question was for drawing Bills on our Commissioners for Ten Millions Dollars—which passed in the Negative. A proposition was then made & a question put for drawing for five Millions of Dollars—passed also in the negative. Yesterday by the most extraordinary motion & irregular proceeding that I have ever been Witness to in any other Assembly a Question was carried for drawing Bills of Exchange on our Commissioners at the rate of 5 Livres of France for a Spanish Dollar for payment of Interest at 6 per Cent per Annum of all Money already brought into the Loan office & that shall be brought in before the 1st March next. 1 It is expected that upon this encouragement Money holders will bring Supplies to the Loan Office & that we may without another Emission of paper raise before the 1st March 20 million Dollars, the Annual Interest of which will be about £270000 Sterling besides the risques of loss & delay by Remittances. ’Tis true the Commissioners have given Congress assurance of Money received & promised Sufficient to pay the Interest of five Million Dollars annually & added “we hope” also to find Sufficient by subsidies to pay the Interest of 20 Million if we should be obliged to borrow that Sum. At the Same time they inform us, that upon application to the Court of France to borrow two Million Sterling they were told it was “impossi ble” to Spare Such a Sum. That they had been Strongly pressed & that the Minister was “anxious” to contract for the delivery of 20,000 Hogsheads of Tobacco as a ground for raising Money by Taxes. That they had actually engaged to deliver 4000 Hogsheads & had received a very considerable advance on the Stipulation & “earnestly intreat” Congress to enable them to comply with their part of the agreement, which while our ports are Stopped will be impossible. 2


[Page 679]
September 12,1777 649 Samuel Chase to Thomas Johnson Dear Sir, Sept. 12th. 1777. Fryday Morning. 11 oClock I am this Morning favoured with your Letter of the 6th. I im mediately applied to Congress & now enclose You an order on Mr. Harwood for 30,000 Dollars & I have a Draft on the Treasury here for 20,000 more, which I will receive and send to you by the first safe Conveyance. 1 The enclosed Letters from Genl. Washington will give You all the authentic Account of a Battle fought yesterday. A thousand various Accounts are circulating. We just hear the Enemy moved this Morning, by Day light, leaving their Dead unburied, & with Design as supposed, to gain the Swedes ford on Schullkill, about 16 Miles from this City. The above is confirmed. We have heard Nothing of Genl. Smallwood or Gist since they left this City. Our Resolve to pay the Interest in Bills will bring Us Money, if any thing will do it. I write this by an Express which goes to Genl. Smallwood to know where he is, & what force he has with him, & to Colo. Gibson at Alexandria to march his Regimt. to Head Quarters. I shall write You constantly. Farewell. Your Friend, Sami. Chase 5 oClock. A.M. Mr. Wm. Smith, who was in the action within a little Time after it began informs no officer of our Troops is missing. Maryd. forces gained no Honor. They were Commanded by Gen. Debore [who was?] ignorant of his Duty. The Conduct of our Troops is imputed to their being led agt. the Enemy without being formed. Sullivane Com manded the three Divisions, Sterlings, Stephens & his own, in which our Troops were. Our army is now within a few Miles of this City. I will give You every Occurrence worthy of notice. RC (MdFreHi). 1 See JCC, 8:737. Eliphalet Dyer to Joseph Trumbull Dear Sir Philadelphia, Septr 12th 1777 The last Accounts I gave you of the two great Contending Armies this way was that Genii How had left the head of Elk & had Marched for this City sending his Ships down Cheesepeak Bay supposed with a


[Page 682]
652 September 12, 1777 John Hancock to George Gibson Si rj i Philada. Septr. 12th. 1777 I am directed by Congress to forward the inclosed Copy of a Re solve requiring you to hasten up the Battalion under your Command to join Genl. Washington, unless you should have received Orders from the State of Virginia to the Contrary; in which Case it is their desire you immediately dispatch an Express to Williamsburgh to in form the Govr. & Council that it is the earnest Wish of Congress you should be sent forward to execute the orders you shall receive from the Governor for the Purpose afsd. 2 I have the Honour to be, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Sert. J-H. Presid LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). 1 Col. George Gibson (d. 1791) was in command of the First Virginia Regi ment at Alexandria. F. B. Heitman, Historical Register of Officers of the Con tinental Army during the War of the Revolution (Washington, D.C., 1892), p. 189. 2 See JCC, 8:736-37. Hancock also wrote letters this day to Gen. William Smallwood and Col. Mordecai Gist, asking them to send the Maryland troops under their command to reinforce Washington. PCC, item 12A, fols. 271—72; and JCC, 8:736. Congress requested all these reinforcements because of the American defeat at Brandywine on the 11th. John Hancock to William Livingston Sir, Philada. Septr. 12th. 1777. It is the earnest Desire of Congress, and I have it in Charge to inform you of it, that you will immediately order out four Thousand of the Jersey Militia to reinforce the Army under Genl. Washington with all possible Expedition. If you should not be able to call out that Number, it is the Request of Congress, that you will call out as many as possible in this critical State of our Affairs. 1 I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, 2 your most obed. serv’t, John Hancock, Presid’t RC (Nj). In the hand of Jacob Rush; signature clipped. Selections from the Correspondence of the Executive of New Jersey, from 1776 to 1786 (Newark, N.J.: Published by Order of the Legislature, 1848), pp. 99-100. RC damaged; missing words supplied from Tr. 1 This day Hancock also wrote to Gen. Philemon Dickinson and urged him “to bring forward the Jersey Militia with all possible Expedition to reinforce the Army under Genl. Washington at this critical Juncture.” PCC, item 12A, fol. 271; and JCC, 8:736. 2 Remainder supplied from Tr.


[Page 684]
654 September 13, 1777 Troops are in high Spirits. We have Intelligence that Genl. Howe has sent for to N York & Rhode Island for an immediate Reinforcement of 4000. We have ordered 1500 from Peaks Kiln. The Jersey assembly have voted & preparing & will send in three Days 4000 of their Militia. They give a Bounty of £4 a Man. In a Captains Pockett was found a Copy of Mr. Howes orderly Book & Gen. Washington says he collects from thence, that Howe’s force is between 8 & 10,000 Men. Mr Howe has no Tents, none but officers. We had before the Battle 14,000 Regulars including officers & 5,000 Militia, We are encreasing. Yesterday Noon Mr. Howe was not removed from the Place of Battle. Congress have given Brevet Commissions to the officers who came with Mr DuCoudray. Two of them Monsieur Auguste Le Brun, an able Engineer, and Monsieur Pierre a skilful artillerist will be sent to You to give You their advice & assistance in Defending our Towns and teaching our Artillery. 1 They are both Gentlemen & experienced offi cers. I doubt not You will give them a Polite Reception. Would it be amiss to get some Person Master of their Language to be generally with them & attentive to their wants & to prevent their being imposed on? They complain of Disrespect & Imposition here. Would it not be proper for some of our young Gentlemen to endeavor to learn their art? Would it not be proper to have an accurate Survey & Plot of the Harbours & Grounds near Balt. & Annapolis? Adieu. Your Friend, S. Chase [P-S.] Where is Smallwood & Gist ? Where Nat Gist with his Indians ? RC (NjP). 1 There is no mention in the journals of commissions for Captain Pierre and Captain Augustin Le Brun, but for Chase’s previous efforts to secure an engi neer and artillery officer for assistance in preparing the defenses of Baltimore, see Chase to Johnson, August 30, 1777, note. The two were among the several officers who received money from Congress in November for their expenses to return to France. See JCC, 9:875-77. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Sepr. 13th. 1777 In consequence of some information Congress have received respect ing the Conduct of brigadier general Borre, they have come to the inclosed resolve, which I do myself the honour to transmit you, & am to request you’l be pleased to pay immediate attention to it. 1 I have the honour to be, with the greatest respect, Sir, your most obedt. & very hble Servt. 2 John Hancock Prest. RC (DLC). In a clerical hand and signed by Hancock. 1 On this day Congress ordered Washington to investigate the conduct of Brig.


[Page 685]
September 13, 1777 655 Gen. Philippe Preudhomme de Borre, whose brigade had collapsed under the weight of the British flank attack at the battle of Brandywine. De Borre offered his resignation to Hancock this day and Congress accepted it on the 14th. Shortly afterward, however, de Borre complained to Congress that he had been unfairly condemned before he could be heard in his own defense and asked to be promoted to the rank of major general. Congress turned down his request on October 4 and informed him that it had no further need for his services. JCC, 8:740, 760; and PCC, item 78, 2:265, 279. 2 This day Hancock also wrote a brief note to Washington, transmitting a resolution calling upon him to complete “the defences of Delaware river.” Wash ington Papers, DLC; and JCC, 8:739. Cornelius Harnett to William Wilkinson Dear Sir Philadelphia Sepr. 13th 1777 I received your favour of the 26th August, that of the 15th is not yet come to hand. The arrival of Cap Merredith with his Prize gives me pleasure. I am in hopes this will be a saving Voyage perhaps a Profit able one. This is the 5th letter I have wrote you since my Arrival and you have not acknowledged the receipt of one of them. I every time Inclosed you the Last papers. You have them again now, by which you will find we have had a Battle at Shad’s ford upon the Brandywine, and Our brave troops Obliged to leave the field entirely owing to a mistake in the intelligence received. Our Army however are in high Spirits & very desirous of having another Brush with the Enemy who by the last Accounts still remain on the field. By the best Accounts as yet received of the Loss sustained by us is about 400 killed & wounded, and a gentleman who was lately near the field of Battle was informed by the inhabitants of that part of the Country who had viewed the Dead that there were at least three to one killd of the Enemy. It is supposed Genl. Howe will, as soon As he recovers from the late fatigue, proceed to the Sweeds ford upon Schoolkiln about 16 Miles from this City, where they will meet with (as I hope) their Deserts. I have Often requested that you would send me every Intelligence you can meet with relative to the Southern Colonies, surely you may now & then meet with a So. Carolina paper. I must beg you will let Mrs. Harnett know when the Post sets off that I may have the pleasure of one Letter from her which I beg you will Inclose to me. Let me know if you have received any intelligence of our Other Brig. It is amazing to what a price every Necessary & Convenience of life is arisen to. Such a Still as we last purchased would now sell for £2000 this Currency—Common rum 32/6 per Gall, Jamca. Spirits 60/ & every other Article in proportion, a Common riding horse £150. Altho’ the Enemy’s Army are so very near this City, Congress have


[Page 686]
656 September 13, 1777 not determined to remove neither will they, unless they are forced. In hast, I am, D Sir, Your most Obed Servt. Cornl. Harnett RC (NcU). Richard Henry Lee to Patrick Henry My dear Sir, Phila. Septr. 13. 1777 On the 11th instant at Chads ford on the Brandywine about 10 miles above Wilmington we had a most bloody battle with Gen. Howes whole Army which ended after 4 hours engagement in the enemies keeping the field and our Army retiring. But Gen. Howe may say with Pyrrhus, such another victory will ruin me. Every account of Officers and Country people who have been in the field since the Action say the enemies loss in killed & wounded must be between 2 & 3000. Nothing proves this more strongly than their remaining yet upon the field of battle, when every interest called upon them to push. Our loss in killed & wounded scarcely comes up to 500. The Militia were never engaged, nor was a strong division of our Army much in battle. The Virginia Troops have gained immortal honor. No capital Officers are lost and none wounded except the Marquis Fayette in the Leg & Gen. Woodford in the hand, but neither badly. Our Army is now the greatest part between Darby & Schuilkill—Two Brigades on this side—All in high spirits and wishing for another trial with the enemy. We are col lecting reenforcements with all diligence and hope yet to give a good account of Gen. Howe. Gen. Smallwood with 1500 Maryland Militia is coming fast upon the enemies rear. Farewell dear Sir, Richard Henry Lee RC (MdHi, Middendorf deposit). Robert Morris to John Ross Dear Sir Philada. Septr. 13th. 1777 Genl. Howe is now aiming to possess this City and as my worthy partner Mr. Willing is determined to remain here at all events, it is probable he may be in Want of money. I have therefore desired him to draw on Messrs, Geo. Clifford & Teysett of Amstm. the amount of Five hundred pounds Sterlg & have wrote them to pay such drafts, but shou’d you have taken the Funds out of their hands I beg you will confirm this Credit and provide them with the means of paying his bills which will only be drawn as his occasions may require. 1 I depend


[Page 691]
September 14, 1777 661 ing the Flank of Mr. Howes Army. How much longer Congress will stay here is uncertain. I hope We shall not move untill the last Neces sity, that is untill it shall be rendered certain, that Mr. How will get the City. If We should move it will be to Reading, Lancaster, York, Easton or Bethlehem, some Town in this state. It is the Determination not to leave this state. 1 Dont be anxious about me—nor about our great and sacred Cause—it is the Cause of Truth and will prevail. If How gets the City, it will cost him all his Force to keep it, and so he can get nothing else. My Love to all Friends. Yours, John Adams RC (MHi). Adams, Family Correspondence (Butterfield), 2:342. 1 Congress convened in an unusual Sunday session this day and resolved to meet at Lancaster if it were obliged to leave Philadelphia, and after adjourning for the day on the 18th intelligence arrived “which intimated the necessity of Congress removing immediately from Philadelphia; Whereupon, the members left the city, and, agreeable to the resolve of the 14, repaired to Lancaster.” JCC, 8:742, 754. John Hancock to Nicholas Cooke Sir, Philada. Septr. 14th. 1777 Should the Information Congress have received of the British Troops having left Rhode-Island be true, it is the Request of Congress that you will immediately order a Battalion of your State to march to Peeks Kill, armed and equipped in the best Manner you are able; And in Order that they may march with the greater Expedition, you will disencumber them of all Baggage, such as Tents &c which may be sent after them. 1 I beg Leave to request your Attention to the Resolve and have the Honour to be. Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (R-Ar). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 This intelligence about the British evacuation was false. The journals do not mention its source. ]CC, 8:742. John Hancock to Philemon Dickinson Sir 1 Philada. Septr. 14. 1777. Sunday In Congress I was this morning honour’d with your two Letters of yesterday’s Date, which I laid before Congress. 2 I inclose you a Letter from the General, & one from him to Genl Putnam, one to General McDougall & one to Major Murray, 3 which when you have perused you will please to Seal & forward with all dispatch by Major Putnam, but


[Page 692]
662 September 14, 1777 should the Major have left you, please to Send them as early as pos sible by a safe Express. I have the honour to be, Sir, Your very huml set, J H Pt. LB (DNA: PCC, item 12A). Addressed: “Honl Majr Genl Dickinson, Trenton.” 1 Philemon Dickinson (1739—1809), the younger brother of John Dickinson, was the commander of the New Jersey militia. DAB. 2 General Dickinson’s September 13 letters to President Hancock, the second of which reported British advances into New Jersey, are in PCC, item 78, 7:119, 123. Worthington C. Ford erroneously states that the second letter was dated September 14. JCC, 8:740n.3. 3 Washington’s letters of this date to all four officers are in Washington, Writ ings (Fitzpatrick), 9:218-19, 221, 223-24. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philadelphia 14 Septr. 1777 Sunday Morng I have just Rec’d by Express a Letter from General Dickinson at Trenton, the Subject is of such importance that I Judged proper to Transmit you a Copy by Express, which is Inclos’d & to which I beg leave to Refer you. 1 Your favr. by the Return Express I Rec’d & shall lay before Con gress this morng. 2 I have the honour to be, Sir, Your most Obedt Servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). 1 Hancock enclosed a September 13 letter from Gen. Philemon Dickinson re porting British advances at Elizabethtown and Second River, N.J. PCC, item 78, 7:123. 2 Washington’s September 13 letter to Hancock is in PCC, item 152, 5:55-56, and Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:215-16. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, In Congress Philada 14 September 1777 I have just Rec’d your Letter of this Day’s Date, & have forwarded on the Dispatches you inclos’d. 1 The Resolution inclos’d has this moment pass’d Congress respecting Major General Sullivan, to which I must beg leave to Refer you. 2 I Transmit you a Letter I just Rec’d for you, and also Coppies of several Letters Rec’d this day from General Gates. 3 I am with much respect, Sir, Your most Obedt Set. John Hancock Prest RC (DLC). 1 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:59, and Washington, Writings (Fitz-


[Page 696]
666 September 15, 1777 James Duane to George Clinton Sir Philad. 15th Septr. 1777 You have undoubtedly before this heard of the late Battle between the grand armies under General Washington & General Howe. General Washington’s Account is enclosd. 1 I was in hopes to have had it in my power to collect a more particular Account of this sharp & bloody con flict founded upon satisfactory Evidence. But as the Enemy were last masters of the field of Battle my Expectations have hitherto been dis appointed. Several Countrymen have viewd the Field, before the dead were buried, who, according to their Report, amounted to 1500 at least, more than two thirds of them British & Hessian. There can be no doubt but the Loss was very great as the Enemy have not Attempted to im prove their Advantage. Their main Army now lies between Namun’s Creek and Wilmington about 24 miles from this City. General Wash ington has repassed the Schuylkil & gone towards them. A large Body of Militia, the Light Infantry Corps, & Light Horse are hanging about them. If I may be indulged a conjecture I presume that General Howe will strongly fortify the Camp he now occupies & wait the arrival of the Fleet which is expected up the Delaware: if not of the Reinforcement which it is said he has orderd from New York and Rhode Island. I am sorry to inform your Excellency that my only Colleague here, Mr. Duer, is sick & has been incapable of attending Congress for about 10 days during which time the state has had no Vote. Mr. Duer is better this morning & probably will go to Bristol for a few days To reestablish his Health. I beg your Excellency to pardon this hasty scrawl. I have several Letters to write and detain a private Express. I am with the greatest Regard, Sir, your Excellency’s most Obedient, humble Servant, Jas Duane RC (NN). 1 This enclosure was a John Dunlap broadside containing September 11 letters on the battle of Brandywine by Washington and Col. Robert H. Harrison. Evans, Am. Bibliography, no. 15636. Richard Henry Lee to Mann Page Phila. Sept. 15, 1777. Reports on the battle of Brandywine. “Gen. Washington marched his army here after the battle and having re freshed his men with a little rest &c he yesterday recrossed the Schuylkil and was this morning about 16 miles from hence and about 12 from the enemy. Our army is in very high spirits and eagerly wish to attack the enemy 1 ... we every day expect another battle ... We have sent


[Page 697]
September 15, 1777 667 for a reenforcement of 2000 men from Peeks Kill 2 ... we shall be ready quickly to give Mr. Howe a third battle, if the second shoud not content him. We have strengthened our Army ... by the addition of two able foreign Officers, Baron Kalb & Count Polesky. The former a Brigadr. General of great experience . . . the latter, a Nobleman of Poland who has commanded 18000 men in his own Country ... he is arrived here to fight the battles of liberty over again. He is at the head of our Cavalry. 3 Gates writes us that he is strong & has got up to Stillwater very near to Burgoyne, and that a few days, perhaps hours, will shew whether the British General chooses to fight or fly 4 ... I hope by next Post to congratulate you on a glorious victory over Howes whole force, & perhaps Burgoynes fate may come about the same time . . . Gen. Washington was this morning within 6 miles of Howe, and ... we should have had a battle e’er this if the heavy rain now falling had not prevented it . . . We just now hear that the enemy having collected their force from Rhode Island, N. York &c &c were pushing thru the Jersies with 4000 men under Gen. Clinton. The Jersey Militia are collecting under Gen. Dickinson to oppose them, and 2000 men are ordered from Peeks Kill to cross the North River and come on their rear . . .” MS not found; abstracted from extract in Charles Hamilton Autographs Catalog, no. 6 (1955), item 73. 1 Ellipses here and below in Tr. 2 On September 12 Congress had ordered 1,500 Continental troops from Peekskill, N.Y., to reinforce Washington’s army. JCC, 8:736. 3 This day Johann de Kalb was appointed major general and Casimir Pulaski, brigadier general in the Continental Army. JCC, 8:745—46. 4 Horatio Gates’ September 10 letter was read in Congress on the 14th and is in PCC, item 154, 1:256. New Hampshire Delegates to Meshech Weare Worthey Sir, Philadelphia Sepr. 15th. 1777 No Doubt but that you’l here of the battle of the 11th Instant (before this Reaches you) which begun at Chads ford on Brandiwine River. Vearious and Uncertain are the Accounts of the loss on both sides. Several Members of Congress was present at the battle who Reports as their oppinion that our loss did not Exceed 400 and by Information this day by a man who lived nigh the field of battel who says he was called on with some others by Genl. Howe to bury the dead that they buried of the Enemy on that part where our Right wing was Ingaged 1274 and that in said place we lost but 200. What numbers was Slain on our left wing were the battle first begun is not as yet Asertained. They have lost a great many officers, and a very great many wounded, one hundred waggen loaded with sd. wounded went off the field togeather, on the


[Page 698]
668 September 15, 1777 whole they ware so sore that they have continued in their Camp ever since the battle haveing full Imployment to take care of their wounded and to bury their Dead. Altho we lost the field with Six peices of Can non another such Victory would ruin Howes Armey. General Washing ton has Collected his Armey and (in high Spirits) taken an advantages post about five Miles from the Enemy and as soon as the reinfostment from Pekskill of 2500 Joynes him to Attack the Enemy. We have Obtained an order from Congress for one hundred thousand Dollars one half on the loan Office in Boston, the other half on the loan Office in our State. Mr. Frost being in a pore State of Helth Desires leave to Return home and proposes to Set off from this place next week and bring the Orders on Sd. Office’s with him. 1 We are with great Respect, Sr., Your Most Obt. and Most Humble Servts. Nathel. Folsom Geo. Frost RC (Nh-Ar). Written by Frost and signed by Frost and Folsom. 1 Frost was granted leave of absence by Congress on September 17. JCC, 8:753. John Adams’ Diary 1777. Sept. 16. Tuesday. No Newspaper this Morning. Mr. Dunlap has moved or packed up his Types. A Note from G. Dickinson that the Enemy in N. Jersey are 4000'strong. How is about 15 miles from Us, the other Way. The City seems to be asleep, or dead, and the whole State scarce alive. Maryland and Delaware the same. The Prospect is chilling, on every Side. Gloomy, dark, melancholly, and dispiriting. When and where will the light spring up ? Shall We have good News from Europe? Shall We hear of a Blow struck by Gates? Is there a Possibility that Washington should beat How? Is there a Prospect that McDougal and Dickinson should de stroy the Detachment in the Jersies ? From whence is our Deliverance to come? Or is it not to come? Is Philadelphia to be lost? If lost, is the Cause lost? No—the Cause is not lost—but it may be hurt. I seldom regard Reports, but it is said that How has marked his Course, from Elke, with Depredation. His Troops have plunderd Henroosts, dairy Rooms, the furniture of Houses and all the Cattle of the Country. The Inhabitants, most of whom are Quakers, are angry and disappointed, because they were promised the Security of their Property. It is reported too that Mr. How lost great Numbers in the Battle of the Brandywine. 1


[Page 700]
670 September 16, 1777 am informed by a Letter from Mr. Wells from Albany, that Gates has above 7000, and Lincoln 5,000. Mr Smith sends to Dr Boyd an [account?] received from Gen. Dickenson of Howe’s force which he got from N York. Mr. McHenry waits. Adieu. Your Friend, S Chase P.S. Would it not be proper to publish the Substance of what Intelli gence I send you ? Send to Paca—no Conveyance to him from thence— his Son is well, & all his Relatives here. Genl. Deborre was recalled & resigned. Genl. Sullivane was recalled but G.W. is unwilling to part with him. RC (MdFreHi). James Duane to George Clinton Sir Philad. 16th Septr. 1777 I had the Honour to write to your Excellency Yesterday. Every moment is now become interesting and the Prospect of a general En gagement on which much depends cannot be contemplated without the utmost Anxiety. The British Army since the late bloody Engagement moves with the utmost Caution. They are now at Dilworth Town not far from the late field of Battle. Our main army about 12 miles distant from them stretches between the Enemy and the Sweeds ford on the Schuyl-kill. The Light Infantry under General Maxwell & 2000 Pen- sylvania militia are gone on some Enterprize I imagine in the rear of the Enemy. Col. Gest with about 700 Maryland militia lies at Christiana about Twelve miles above the Town of Wilmington, Genl Smallwood with about 1100 at Oxford 9 miles South of the field of Battle. There are other parties at different places. I suppose General Washington will soon bring on an Action to deprive General Howe of the Advantage of cooperating with his shipping for which he is very probably waiting; tho’ the bloody battle of the Brandywine undoubtedly demanded for the Survivors some Repose. A few days will decide the Fortune of the two Generals, & probably the Fate of this City; so far as respects its being either consigned to Plunder, or delivered from that dreadfull Calamity: for that General Howe shoud be able to hold it with an Army of not 10,000 men when they left New York woud be too extra ordinary to admit of serious Apprehension unless we can first be per- swaded that the Patriotism and the promises of the Southern states were meer Puffs and Delusions. I look, Sir, to the North with the ut most solicitude. Pleasing as are the Prospects I await the important Event with the utmost Impatience. Good news from thence woud


[Page 702]
672 September 16, 1777 beg you will give orders for his Commission to be made out; and de livered to him. As he is at Head Quarters, it may be done with Exact ness by consulting him as to his Name and Titles. 2 Your Favour of yesterday I was duely honoured with & shall lay it before Congress this Morning. 3 I have the Honour to be, with the utmost Respect, Sir, your most hble Serv. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 These resolves concerned actions taken by Congress with respect to certain foreign officers. JCC, 8:744-46. 2 Count Casimir Pulaski came to America equipped with letters of introduc tion from Silas Deane, Benjamin Franklin, and Madame de Lafayette. With the support of the marquis de Lafayette, who recommended him to James Lovell as “one of the first member of the confederation of Polland, the most distin guished officer, and the most dangerous enemy of the tyrants of his country,” Pulaski asked Congress on August 24 to give him the command of a volunteer cavalry company, subject only to the authority of Washington and Lafayette. Congress rejected this request on the 25th as “highly impolitic,” but on Sep tember 15, after having received letters from Washington in Pulaski’s behalf, it did agree to give the count an appointment as “commander of the horse . . . with the rank of brigadier.” JCC, 8:631, 673, 687, 698, 711, 745; PCC, item 41, 7:21, 25; Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:112, 143-44, 244; and Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:97-98, 106-7. 3 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:61—63, and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 9:227-30. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. September 16. 1777. I have this moment Rec’d a Note from Genl. Dickinson desiring the Inclos’d Letter from him might be Sent to you by Express; he Judges the Enemy’s Force in Jersey to be 4000 strong. 1 I will not Detain the Express longer than just to Inclose you the Resolution of Congress submitting to you the Execution of the Resolve respect. General Sullivan. 2 Your favr. of this Day I have just Rec’d; 3 I am with the utmost Respect, Sir, Your most Obed servt. John Hancock Presidt RC (DLC). 1 Gen. Philemon Dickinson’s September 15 letter to President Hancock is in PCC, item 78, 7:131. The enclosed letter of the 14th from Dickinson to Brig. Gen. John Cadwalader is in Washington Papers, DLC. 2 On this day Congress acceded to Washington’s request to defer the recall of Gen. John Sullivan until a more favorable moment. JCC, 8:749—50; Wash ington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:227-29; and Hancock to Washington, Sep tember 14, 1777, note 2. 3 This letter is in PCC, item 152, 5:65; and Washington, Writings (Fitz patrick), 9:230.


[Page 704]
674 September 16, 1777 disadvantages. Ten days more will bring forth the most momentous events. Congress in the present Situation of affairs think it necessary to prepare for adjourning to Lancaster about 66 Miles West. Perhaps before Sun rise to morrow I shall be on my journey. Some of us are already gone. I will continue here as long as most of the Company, but as I have ever loved free air & exercise & hate to be confined to a Small room, I will not stay the very last Man. When we are restored to tranquility wheather here or elsewhere you shall hear again from &ca. LB (ScHi). 1 George Galphin, a South Carolina Indian trader, was serving as a Con tinental Indian commissioner for the southern department. James H. O’Donnell, III, Southern Indians in the American Revolution (Knoxville: University of Tennessee Press, 1973), pp. 20-24. 2 On April 4, 1777, Congress had approved Galphin’s plan to meet with the Creek Indians in order to discuss a peace treaty and instructed him to send some Creek leaders to Philadelphia at Continental expense. Galphin met with the Creeks in Georgia in June, and although the Indians signed no treaty and sent no representatives to Philadelphia, they did indicate their intent to main tain peaceful relations with the United States. Ibid., pp. 59-61; and ICC, 7:223-24. Henry Laurens to John Rutledge Dear Sir 16th September [1777] Since my arrival at this place I have had the honour of twice ad dressing Your Excellency, the 12th Ulto. by Capt. Hornback & the 10th Inst, by Doctor Houston. 1 The present is intended by the Revd. Mr. Holmes who calls late in the evening to acquaint me of his intention to begin his journey to Carolina early to Morrow Morning, tis probably the last trouble I shall give your Excellency from this Station, it may be the last I shall ever give. As my Colleagues have been Some days absent, gone with their families to a place of Supposed Safety & as I may find it necessary to leave Town this very night I think it my duty to devote a few minutes to transmit a brief State of our affairs at the present Instant. Colonel Horry who went away yesterday & who will probably be with you before this, will inform Your Excellency in general & in many particulars the rise & progress of last Thursday’s battle. I will there fore only add on that head, that by accounts which Congress has re ceived this day we are confirmed in beleif that the loss of the Enemy was very great, not less than one Thousand killed & probably as many or more wounded, had it been otherwise tis not to be doubted that


[Page 705]
September 16, 1777 675 General Howe would have improved the advantage which one unlucky mistake on our Side had afforded him & have been in possession of Philadelphia upon Friday. I Speak from appearances & accounts which deserve Credit. General Washington as Speedily as circumstances would admit of recollected his forces, recrossed the Schuylkil Sunday the 14th. This morning he informed Congress of his being within a few Miles of the Enemy, that as his Troops had been hard Marched he had halted & given them an opportunity of refreshing themselves, that the British Commander had discovered a “violent inclination” to get again on his right & intimated the Signs of an approaching Second battle. He strongly recommends the immediate removal of all public Stores from hence & the most Speedy efforts to Supply his Troops with Blankets & Clothing. The recommendation to remove Stores is construed by many Mem bers of Congress to imply their own removal, which they Suppose & Some have Said he wishes for, although he may not think plainer terms becoming from this circumstances. If we do not learn Some event very favourable to us, the Representatives of the 13 United States will be Scattered to morrow & proceed in hopes of reuniting at Lancaster or York Town. General Washington commenced his last March determined against waiting to be attacked. The nearness of the two Armies therefore puts it beyond a doubt that a Second general battle, provided the Enemy is not averse, will happen to morrow if the Weather Shall not forbid. At this moment it rains tremendously & the air does not promise to favour Gunpowder in a few hours. For my own part I feel under all dis couraging appearances confident of Success. I have learned from Offi cers who were in the heat & the hottest of that heat of the 11th Inst, that our Men are firm, that they showed no fear of Superior power of Cannon nor of fixed Bayonets. They are gone out now determined to recover the honour lost on that day by the Shameful misconduct of Some of the Officers. These I flatter my Self will behave better & be doubly anxious to bury in oblivion the remembrance of their Crimes. ’Tis much to be lamented as a part of those Crimes we cannot obtain returns of our late loss nor of the present State of the Army. The latter from the best guess accounts I compute to be nine to ten Thousand Continental & five to Six Thousand good Militia if any Militia besides those under General Starks can be called good. From an orderly Book found in the pocket of a Slain Captain of the 49th British, General Washington had computed General Howe’s whole force embarked at New York to have been under 9000, & from an authentic Account which we have obtained from New York of the whole forces under his Command, a Copy of which I shall here inclose, Your Excellency will beleive it could not have been greater.


[Page 706]
676 September 16, 1777 Yesterday Congress was informed of the landing of 2000 Troops from Staten Island & New York at Elizabeth Town & this day General Dickinson has advised that the number landed there was 4000, in con sequence of which he was that minute going to Assemble all the Militia who had been otherwise intended as auxiliaries to General Washington. We have also advise of nine Ships of War being as high up the River as Reedy Island, of a very dangerous plot concerted in this State & part a Neighbouring Colony extending from Fort Pitt to the Enemy’s Army & that some of the chief conspirators were apprehended & Com mitted to Gaol. 2 If Townes Evening post comes abroad this Evening Your Excellency will find also inclosed an extraordinary history of Correspondence be tween the invincible Burgoyne & General Gates from whence it ap pears that our affairs are in a pleasing State in the Northern depart ment. 3 All the Stores, Sick & wounded which had been removed hence to Trenton are now ordered to be carried to Bethlehem. The New Frigates & some other Navigation are as high at Burlington if the Enemy should penetrate so high these will form funeral pyres. Other Frigates, Fire Ships & Wrafts, Gallies, Gondolois & Gun Boats are below. What defence or destruction these will make is very uncer tain but as Billings port is abandoned & Fort Island not in a full posture of defence, I am apprehensive the Enemy’s fleet will meet with no great resistance from them. The land battle will decide their fate. General Caudre unfortunately drowned this morning in Schuylkill. Baron duKalb yesterday appointed a Major General his Commission if he accepts to be dated one day anterior to that of Marquis delafayette who lies wounded in his Leg at Bristol where If I am obliged to run I mean to call for him. 4 We are drawn to an 'important Crisis. If we are blessed with Success, my native Country will probably enjoy another Winter unmolested; on the contrary, she must expect a Severe attack before Christmas. It will be her wisdom to prepare immediately without hesitation or waiting for events to increase her honour & military fame. I must now go through the weather to learn if any thing momentous has happened Since I came home & if necessary at my return a post script shall be added, mean time I beg leave to Salute your Excellency with repeated assurances of being with respect Esteem &c. LB (ScHi). 1 Laurens had also written to President Rutledge of South Carolina on August 17 and 19. 2 Laurens may be referring to the episode described in John Hancock to Wil liam Livingston, August 30, 1777, note, but see also JCC, 8:745-46. 3 These letters are listed in JCC, 8:741. 4 See JCC, 8:745—46. At de Kalb’s request, Congress later erased from the journals its resolve antedating his commission to Lafayette’s and decided on


[Page 707]
September 17, 1777 677 October 4 that both men should hold commissons as major general from the same date. JCC, 9:769; Lafayette, Papers (Idzerda), 1:145-46. Samuel Adams to Elizabeth Adams My dear Betsy Philada. Sept 17. 1777 Your kind Letter of the 29th of August is now before me. You therein take a very proper Notice of the signal Success of our Affairs at the Northward. I hope my Countrymen are duly sensible of the obligation they are under to Him from whose Hand, as you justly observe, our Victory came. We had a Letter from General Gates yesterday, from which we every hour expect another great Event from that Quarter. The two Armies this Way had an obstinate Engagement last Thursday. The Enemy have gaind a Patch of Ground but from all Accounts they have purchasd it as dearly as Bunkers Hill. Two or three more such Victories would totally ruin their Army. Matters seem to be drawing to a Crisis. The Enemy have had enough to do to dress their wounded and bury their dead. Howe still remains near the Field of Battle. Genl. Washington retreated with his Army over the River Schuylkill through this City as far as 1 [Germantown]. There he recollected his Forces and [recrossed] the River again & posted himself [. . .] the Enemy. Our Soldiers [. . .] eager for Action and we are every day expecting another Battle. May Heaven favor our righteous Cause and grant us compleat Victory. Both the Armies are about 26 Miles from this City. I am pleasd to hear that Col Crafts invited Mr Thacher to preach a Sermon to his Regiment. He discovered the true Spirit of a New England Officer. I dare say it was an animating Discourse. Religion has been & I hope will continue to be the ornament of N England. While they place their Confidence in God they will not fail to be an happy People. I am exceedingly rejoycd to hear that Miss Hatch is in hopes of recovering her Health. Remember me, my dear, to my Family and Friends. I am in good Health & Spirits and remain with the warmest Affection, your SA RC (NN). 1 MS tom; approximately ten words from four lines missing. Samuel Adams to James Warren My dear Sir Philade Sept. 17 1777 I receivd your favor of the 1st Instant. I have not Time at present


[Page 708]
678 September 17, 1777 to give you a particular Account of our Military Movements in this Quarter. I suppose you will have it from our Friend Mr J A. There was an obstinate Engagement last Thursday. The Enemy were left Masters of the Field, but by all Accounts the Advantage was on our side. Howe & his Army remain near the Field of Battle. They have had much to do in dressing their wounded & burying their dead. Gen eral Washington retreated over the Schuilkil to Germantown a few Miles above this City, where he recruited his Soldiers. He has since recrossed the River and is posted on the Lancaster Road about 12 Miles distant from the Enemy. His Troops are in high Spirits & eager for Action. We soon expect another Battle. May Heaven favor our righteous Cause & grant us compleat Victory! Both the Armies are about 26 Miles from this Place. A Wish for the New England Militia would be fruitless. I hope we shall do the Business without them. I have a favor to ask of you in behalf of my very worthy Friend R. H. Lee. He supposes that Mr Gardoque of Bilboa has sent him some Jesuits Bark. I wish you would inquire of the Captains from Bilboa & forward it to him, if any is arrivd, by the first safe oppor tunity. I have requested the same thing of Capt John Bradford, not knowing but the Multiplicity of publick Affairs might render it im possible for you to attend to it, although I am sure you will oblige so good a Patriot as Mr Lee if it may be in your Power. We are told that the Enemy have landed in the Jerseys, 4000 strong. You can tell whether they have left Rhode Island. I have Reason to hope that an equal Number of spirited Jersey Militia are musterd under the Command of General Dickinson, Brother of the late Patriot. These were designd for a Reinforcement to the Army here. If the Re port be true, these Militia joynd with 1500 Troops from Peeks Kill (un doubtedly now in Jersey) under the Command of Brigd General McDougal, will be sufficient to give a good Account of them. I think our Affairs were never in a better Scituation. Our troops are victorious in the North. The Enemies Troops are divided & scatterd over a Country several Hundred Miles. Our Country is populous & fertile. If we do not beat them this Fall will not the faithful Historian record it as our own Fault. But let us depend, not upon the Arm of Flesh, but on the God of Armies. We shall be free if we deserve it. We must succeed in a Cause so manifestly just, if we are virtuous. Adieu my Friend. S A RC (MHi). Thomas Burke to Richard Caswell Dr Sir Philadelphia Sept 17th 1777 I wrote you a few Lines from Head Quarters on Brandywine near


[Page 713]
September 17, 1777 683 mentioned in your Letter. 2 The Circumstances of Capt Harris’s Con duct have also been mentioned to Congress, & no objection was made to the proposal of his continuing in the Command of his Vessel, which will probably be ordered to Carolina for a Load of rice. Duplicate Receipts being taken for all the Articles delivered, one of each may be forwarded to the Committee. Inclosed are printed Copies of two Letters from General Washington & his Secretary of the 11th Instant wch. may serve to give You some Idea of the Battle of the Brandywine, wch happened on that Day. 3 This Creek empties into the Delaware about 26 Miles below the City, & runs a considerable Way into the Country. At the Mouth on the other Side is Wilmington, & it is there crossed by a fine Bridge. About twelve Miles from the Bridge into the Country is Chads Ford, & 5 or 6 Miles from thence higher up is Jones’s Ford, at & near which was fought the Battle. General Washington was a few Days before posted on the Heights of Chrystine Creek, about 8 or 10 Miles on the other Side the Brandywine, but General Howe declined giving him Battle on that Ground & passed him on the Right, which left the Delaware in his Rear, the Brandywine on his Right Wing & White Clay creek on his left, with the Enemy to the Westward & in Front. This occasioned the Removal of our Army to the N E Side of the Brandywine, on the Banks of which opposite Chads Ford they posted themselves. The Enemy approached this Ford on the Morning of the 11th, abt 3/4 after 8, & began a Cannonade, which We distinctly heard at this place & wch was returned by our Army untill 11, when it ceased for the most part. Here General Maxwell twice crossed with about 1000 of the con tinental Troops, which were picked from the several Brigades & formed into a Corps of light Infantry. The first Time he advanced about a Mile or two, & as the Enemy came on retreated to a pass or Defile, where he formed a Kind of an Ambuscade & poured on them a very heavy Fire. This did considerable Execution, as is agreed on all Sides, & their Loss is by the General’s Computation which by far is the most modest, above three hundred killed & wounded. The second attack of Maxwells, by the Secretary’s Letter left 30 of the Enemy dead on the Spot, & of Course the wounded were double the Number. Mean while General Sullivan, who was posted on the Right to guard Jones Ford, was informed by some Scouts that the Enemy were marching up the Country, but discredited it from the Information of a Farmer not having seen them, could not confirm the first Account. Lord Stirling & Stevens with their Divisions, who in the Afternoon were posted near to Sullivan, on hearing the Account that the Enemy had crossed the Creek marched towards them, & soon meeting them formed for Battle. Sullivan also marched, but by the best Information to be had, was attacked before he could form. Whether it was owing to Chance or Misconduct, I must leave You to judge. A very warm engagement


[Page 715]
September 17, 1777 685 Our Affairs at the Northward, by late Advices looked very favour able, & e’er this reaches You I think something important may happen in that Quarter. With respect to foreign News, We have none, save a Continuance of the friendly Disposition of the Courts of France & Spain, so far as it respects their assisting us by Supplies; I think their Conduct in not im mediately recognizing our Independence, to wch the former early pro fessed to be a Friend, shews that they so far regard their own Interest as to run as little Risque as possible. Indeed if the Credit of our Cur rency is established, wch We are in a fairer Way of accomplishing than We have yet been in, I think We can oppose Great Britain without their declaring War; but this will not justify their Conduct in the Matter, when they well know that the power of G Britain was suffi cient to overcome their united Exertions during the last War. We have however the strongest assurances from some of our Commissioners that War will be declared before the next Campaign, if the present is at tended with tolerable Success. The Confederation will I hope be finished before the Winter comes on, but this also depends in some Measure on the Success of our Arms. I can only add that with much Esteem I remain sir yours sincerely, E Gerry P.S. As I have not Time to write to my Freinds at M[arble]head, I shall be much obliged to You if a Copy of the Letter relative to the Action of the 11th can be taken by your Clerk & sent to Mr Gerry. RC (ICarbS: Elsie O. and Philip D. Sang deposit, 1971). 1 James Warren’s August 31 letter to Gerry is in C. Harvey Gardiner, ed., A Study in Dissent: The Warren-Gerry Correspondence, 1776-1792 (Carbondale: Southern Illinois University Press, 1968), pp. 78-80. For further information on the disposition of the Spanish cargoes of these ships, see Gerry to Joseph Gardoqui & Sons, September 1; Warren to Gerry, September 15 and October 5, 1777, ibid., pp. 81-85; and JCC, 8:748. 2 JCC, 8:749. 3 See John Hancock to Washington, September 12, 1777, note. John Hancock to Dorothy Hancock My Dear Philada. 17 September 1777 Nothing could have happened more fortunate, than your leaving this City at the time you did, for in a very few days we were much Alarm’d, & proceeded to Pack up all our publick Papers, to be ready in case we were under the necessity of Removing, & indeed most of the publick papers are remov’d, mine still Remain here, tho’ I Expect Congress wil this Day Adjourn to Lancaster, unless we should hear of General Wash ington’s gaining a Victory. The Enemy are within 26 or 30 miles of us,


[Page 716]
686 September 17, 1777 & an Action Expected as soon as the weather clears up. It is said 4000 of the Enemy from New York have landed in the Jerseys, with what design is not known. I hope we shall Rout Genl Howe’s Army, & that will put a fine face on our affairs. I was much pleas’d to hear that you got safe over the North River, I wish this may find you all well. I have but a moment to spare. Mr Bant will inform you all the news. Remember me to all Friends. I will write you as often as I can. Take care of yourself. Poor Monsr Du Coudra was yesterday Drown’d in the Schulkill, he Rode on his horse into the Ferry Boat, & the Horse jump’d out with him. Let me hear from you as often as you can. The Inclos’d Letter is for Mr Rees the Waggoner. 1 Send back the Waggons as quick as you can. Take care of the Box of plate & all the things. I am greatly hurried. I am, your affecte Husband, John Hancock [P.S.] Give Mr Rees the waggoner the Inclos’d pass. RG (DLC). 1 Not found. John Hancock to George Washington Sir, Philada. Septr. 17th. 1777. I have the Honour to transmit the enclosed Resolves, conveying the most extensive Powers to you, in Order that the Army under your Command may be more effectually supplied with Provisions and other Necessaries; & that the same may be prevented from falling into the Hands of the Enemy. The Congress have likewise empowred you to suspend all Officers for Misbehaviour, and to fill up all Vacancies in the Army, under the Rank of Brigadier General, until their Pleasure shall be known. 1 In Consequence of your Letter advising that the Provisions in this City should be removed to some Place of Safety, & requesting a Supply of Blankets, the Congress came to the enclosed Resolves, which were immediately communicated to the Executive Council of this State. In obedience to the Order of Congress, I enclose you a Copy of their Answer on the Subject, 2 and have the Honour to be, with the greatest Respect, Sir, your most obed. & very hble Servt. John Hancock Presidt. P.S. In Consequence of the Resolution of Congress transmitted some Time ago, two Thousand of the Virginia Militia have rendevouzed at Fredericksburg, where they wait only for your Orders, to march as you shall think proper to direct. 3


[Page 717]
September 17, 1777 687 This Morning, Genl. De Coudray, in attempting to cross the Schuyl kill, was unfortunately drowned; and was this Afternoon interred at the public Expence. 4 RC (DLC). In the hand of Jacob Rush and signed by Hancock. 1 See JCC, 8:751-52. 2 See JCC, 8:747-48; and Pa. Archives, 1st ser. 5:630-31. 3 See Hancock to George Gibson, September 12, 1777. 4 This day Hancock also wrote a brief note to Washington enclosing letters of the 16th and 17th by Gov. William Livingston and Gen. Philemon Dickinson on New Jersey affairs. Washington Papers, DLC. See also Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:236. James Lovell to William Whipple My Dear Sir, Philadelphia Sept 17. 1777. Your favor of double date the 25th and 30th is before me. That same “military check” will justly rank for its consequences with the most capital blows given to the enemy this war, while in circumstances of bravery it not only exceeds them but the actions of any modern cam paign. It has been proposed as a stimulus in General Orders to the Continental Army in this quarter. As to the affair at Brandywine last Thursday I doubt whether you will even accurately know whether fortune alone is to be blamed, or whether Sullivan and the Chief should not share with her in the slanderous murmurs. Knowledge of the enemy’s intentions on the right wing of our army was certainly wanting. General Washington and some good military men especially the highest officers do not charge the want to Sullivan. But as he was under the order of Congress for a Court of Enquiry as to Staten Island the Maryland officers in his division, the delegates of that State, the great Burck, the friend of St Clair and the connexions of Schuyler accomplished to cast such reflections upon his want of capacity to direct a wing of our army in this critical day, that a majority, after first demolishing old De Borre affected the Resolve to recall Sullivan till his conduct should be enquired into as per former order. You are to take with you that an attempt to send St Clair to join the Army had been baffled. Agreeable to the prophecy of the Minority the Commander in Chief has written in the most pressing manner for a suspension of the Order of recall which being carried Ch e moved that a direction might go to put the Maryland troops under some other M. G[enera]l which would have been in effect throw ing out S n, for the soldiers of other divisions would be unwilling to serve under a man discarded by the Marylanders if the Generals would consent to exchange. R d joined and had the Delaware inserted with Maryland. 1 But these States were the only yeas which agreeable


[Page 720]
690 September 17, 1777 had left Rhode Island, but I doubt it. Congress have requested, if the Fact be true that One of your State Battallions may be forwarded to Peekskill, that we may be able to draw the Continental Force from thence as Circumstances may Require. 3 A Requisition of the like kind is gone to Connecticut, 4 And will I presume to Massts. I hope some Expedient will be found for getting Our Vessells out of Providence River, And that One or two State owned Vessells will be employed to go to France for Arms, Blankets and other Cloathing ballasted with Salt. They may very probably clear the whole Adventure by Prizes. I have offerd this Hint before; I hope my Zeal for the Good of my Country will plead an Excuse for those or any other Observa tions I have made and am with great Truth, Your most obedient and humble Servant, Hy. Marchant RC (R—Ar). Addressed: “The Honorable The Govr. & Company, State of Rhode Island.” 1 See JCC, 8:730-31. 2 See Washington, Writings (Fitzpatrick), 9:230. 3 See John Hancock to Nicholas Cooke, September 14, 1777. 4 This action is not recorded in the journals. Robert Morris to Abraham Whipple Sir Philada. Septr. 17th. 1777 The Attempt Genl. Howe is now making to get possession of this City has caused me to remove my Family, Books, Papers &ca. to a place of Safety. Consequently I can not attend closely to my Corre spondents till something decisive is done & this is all I have to offer in extenuation for my not answering by this post your favr. reed, by yesterday’s, Time not permitting me to add any thing more than just to assure you that indeed I am, Sir, Your Obedt. hble Servt. For Robt. Morris, 1 John Swanwick RC (Capt. J. G. M. Stone, Annapolis, Md., 1973). In the hand of John Swan wick. 1 Swanwick also wrote a similar letter this day for Morris to John Langdon. See PMHB 23 (October 1899): 401. North Carolina Delegates to Richard Caswell Sir Philada. Septr. 17th. 1777 On the 11th Instant there was a very severe Ingagement between the Armies of General Washington and Howe, on the Brandywine twelve Miles above Wilmington. The enemy made the attack at 8 oclock; it


[Page 721]
September 17, 1777 691 lasted with little intermission untill dark. The officers say the fire from the Cannon and small arms was the hottest they ever heard of, they kept the ground but paid dearly for it having from the best accounts we have had, lost upwards of 2000 men, one General & several Field officers killed & wounded supposed to be their best men. Our loss is said to be 700 killed & wounded tho’ the greatest part of the latter were brought off. Only one field officer was killed a Major Bush. The enemy got seven pieces of Cannon from us. General Washington retreated over the Schuylkill but the next day marched towards the enemy, taking an upper road. He soon got near the place where the late action was, the enemy having been the whole time busily imployed in burying their dead & taking care of their wounded. The armies have been manuvring for two days, we expect there will soon be another action. It is with pleasure we can inform you that our officers & soldiers are in good spirits anxious for an oppor tunity of obtaining revenge. You will observe from General Washington’s letter to Congress 1 that our loosing the ground was owing to some mistake as to Intelligence relating to the movement of the enemy. Our affairs to the Northward are in a promising situation. General Burgoyne has met with such a check as will make him more attentive to effect a retreat to Ticonderoga, than any thing else, as Genl. Gates has nearly the double of his force & a large body are getting into his rear. General Howe is making his last effort. If he meets with a defeat, he is undone, as he is a considerable distance from his ships, his situa tion is truly critical. We hope soon to be able to give your Excellency the agreeable news of the success of the American arms. The North Carolina Troops were not ingaged in the late action. Inclosed are some papers for your amusement and are with due respect, Sir, Your most obt. Servts. Thos Burke J. Penn Gomi. Harnett RC (PHC). Written by Penn and signed by Penn, Burke, and Harnett. 1 See John Hancock to Washington, September 12, 1777, note. William Williams to Jonathan Trumbull, Sr. Hond. Sir Philadel the 17 Sepr. 1777 Wed. Morn I have nothing material to add, since my last by Morris, no impor tant movements of the Armys have taken place since the late action of BrandyWine. Genl Washington is encamped, I cant describe where as


[Page 722]
692 September 17, 1777 Places have no names here. I take it about 15 Miles westerly, or south westerly from this, at the crossing of sundry Roads, & the way is open for Howe to Us. I take Washingn intends to attack them on the rear, on his attempt to get here. Howes main army the last we heard lay near the place of Action, being doubtless much galled & probably to wait reinforcements, which they have sent for before the action, from R Island, N Y &c & their Ships, We have no certainty about any being in the River, tis said they are & that they have per York or S. Island invaded Jersey agn with 4000 men & they destitute of Amunition, & were supplied from hence yesterday. Probably they hope to penetrate thro to Us or however it will effectually answer their great End of stoping their Militia from Washns assistance, otherwise their Genl Dickinson says he shod have brot 4 or 5000. Tis Confidently said, but we have not sufficient Evidence, that the Enemy buried 1070 at the upper ford, beside what were killed at Chads. Report this morning is that a Skirmish happened yesterday between advance or picquet Gards of the two Armies, but that the rain parted them. The last was an ex ceeding rainy night. Somthing very important will soon take Place. May every Heart & every Soul be lift up to God for Mercy & De liverance. Tis most ardently to be wished but alass, alass, how little to be expected, by appearances here, I pray God it may be otherwise in Connecticut! Congress remain here, but begin to talk & have indeed voted to move to Lancaster if They are obliged to remove. It is about 60 miles west of this. Tis sorely against my Will to move that Way, & as the Time is very nearly expired that I intended to Stay I have some thoughts of returning home but less Ill Nature shod call it Timidity, beleive I shall not. The two last Posts brot me no Letters, which was very greivous. If my Freinds have all forgot me, I must bear it. Intended to have wrote largely about Mr Erkelens, with whom I have had much Conversation, I am fully convinced he is a firm, solid, principled friend to America, & his Stay & manufactures in our Colony wod be a most valuable Acquisition. He is determind if he cant go on there to move to this, the Center & cherisher of all Manufactures, to their immense advantage, (the Wethersfd Peace Maker carries on a great stroke here). The Crops are very large here & thro the Country there is no possible Danger of the arrays suffering for want of Bread & I shod think the Spirit for them wod be of very great Importance. They want it exceedingly in this Army. I hope we shall be too wise to loose so valuable a Business, but He wishes most heartily & he mut be rid of the Tory Shaler if it shod be discouraged, for a Time, to make Shaler sell out to him, possibly it wod promote it. But also what is all this, if God is pleased to give us up to Slavery & Destruction, but I hope in his Mercy, let us not faint nor be discouraged,


[Page 723]
September 18, 1777 1 693 but wait patiently for the Lord, & he will not fail them that trust in him. They begin to be alarmed here so as to run out with Effects &c but not so much to fight as I cod wish. With tender Rembrance to yr dear Daughter &c &c I am most respectfully yours &c, W. Williams [RS.] This minute I hear in Congress that the Enemy certainly carried 100 waggon load of Wounded to Wilmington. One Genl officer killd &c. They say our army is intirely cut to pieces. Brandy Wine emties into Delawar, between Wilmington & New Castle, not below, as I believe I have wrote, some time since. RC (NN). John Adams’ Diary 1777. Septr. 18. Thursday. The violent N.E. Storm which began the Day before Yesterday con tinues. We are yet in Philadelphia, that Mass of Cowardice and Tory ism. Yesterday was buryed Monsr. Du Coudray, a French Officer of Artillery, who was lately made an Inspector General of Artillery and military Manufactures with the Rank of Major General. He was drowned in the Schuylkill, in a strange manner. He rode into the Ferry Boat, and road out at the other End, into the River, and was drowned. His Horse took fright. He was reputed the most learned and promising Officer in France. He was carried into the Romish Chappell, and buried in the Yard of that Church. This Dispensation will save Us much Altercation. MS (MHi). Adams, Diary (Butterfield), 2:263. John Hancock to John Armstrong Sir, Philada. Septr. 18th. 1777. 10 O’Clock P.M. I have the Honour to enclose you a Resolution of Congress for the Removal of the printing Presses in this City (except one) which you will please to carry into Execution in the Manner you may think most proper. 1 1 beg Leave to refer your Attention to it. Should you receive any Intelligence of the Movements of the Enemy, I must request you will immediately forward it to Congress, that they may have all possible Information of their Views and Intentions. I have the Honour to be, with great Respect, Sir, Your most obed. & very hble Servt. J- H. Presid.


[Page 727]
Index In this index descriptive subentries are arranged chronologically and in ascending order of the initial page reference. They may be preceded, however, by the subentry “identified and by document subentries arranged alphabetically—diary entries, letters, notes, resolu tions, and speeches. An ornament (■&) separates the subentry “identi fied” and document subentries from descriptive subentries. Inclusive page references are supplied for descriptive subentries; for a docu ment, only the page on which it begins is given. Eighteenth-century printed works are indexed both by author and by short title. Other printed works are indexed when they have been cited to document a substantive point discussed in the notes, but not when cited merely as the location of a document mentioned. Delegates who attended Con gress during the period covered by this volume appear in boldface type- Accounts: marine committee, 11, 57, 128, 206, 646—47; secret committee, 19, 43, 65, 91, 142-43, 161, 170, 180, 187, 194, 603, 645, 647; teamster, 32, 93; delegate, 34, 304, 664-65; Gen. Schuyler’s, 41, 51; John Langdon’s, 65, 166; printers, 117; Montgomery, 172-73; prisoner, 195, 503; board of war, 221, state, 503, 596 Ackerly, Lemuel, pardoned, 600 Adams, Abigail Smith (Mrs. John): letters to, 12, 25, 28, 43, 57, 81, 83, 88, 98 103, 113, 119, 137, 161, 167, 175, 194, 195, 207, 240, 262, 278, 292, 293, 317 329 334 339, 347, 350, 354, 356, 375, 386, 394, 400, 403, 411, 432, 439’ 449, 450, 473, 478, 491, 504, 505, 517, 520, 531, 533, 538, 542, 554, 567, 569,’ 570,’ 579, 588, 626, 660; husbandry extolled, 83-84 Adams, Abigail (1765-1813), 263 Adams, Elizabeth Wells (Mrs. Samuel): letters to, 200, 404, 440, 506, 677; mentioned, 241 Adams, Jenifer, 465 Adams, John: diary, 664, 668, 693; letters from, 12, 13, 21, 25, 28, 29, 30, 43, 48 57 59 81, 83, 88, 98, 99, 103, 113, 119, 120, 137, 161, 162, 166, 167, 175 176, 181, 194, 195, 207, 208, 220, 240, 249, 262, 278, 293, 305, 307, 317, 329* 334’ 339, 347, 375, 384, 386, 394, 400, 403, 405, 411, 432, 439, 460, 473, 478’ 491’ 501’ 504, 505, 517, 520, 532, 533, 538, 542, 554, 567, 570, 574, 578, 579,’ 588, 601, 626, 660, 669; -ft elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; recommends Nathan Brownson, 13; on foreign affairs, 21, 221; on inflation, 21; on British barbarity, 25; on Danbury raid, 28; on filling Continental quota, 28-29; on fiscal policy, 29, 121, 176, 501, 506, 628, 636, 644; proposes eastern navy board, 30; on trade, 43, 627; on heroism, 48-49; on military discipline, 48, 163, 176, 439, 505; describes Henry Strachey, 49; on Gen. Arnold, 49; 697


[Page 728]
698 Index Adams, John {continued) describes Philadelphia waxworks, 57-58; on Continental strategy, 59, 339-40, 533-34; on mercenaries, 60; on cost of living, 81, 221, 432, 439, 517, 567-68, 588; on rigors of delegate attendance, 83; on Charlestown, Mass., petition, 89; conjectures British strategy, 98, 113, 175, 181-82, 194-95, 262, 288-89, 334, 351, 375, 397, 400, 403, 432, 450, 479, 505, 517, 571, 579, 626-27, 668; health, 99, 161, 176; criticizes Continental officers, 103; on Sulla’s generalship, 113—15; on troop morale, 115; on husbandry, 119, 394; on Philadelphia de fense, 119, 554; on drafting militia, 120; on manufacturing, 137; on Massa chusetts politics, 161, 182, 220, 308; condemns Philadelphia passivity, 162; on oaths, 162-63; on revenge and Christian morality, 162; on plural officeholding, 163; on foreign officers, 163-64, 305-7; on compensating Continental officers for losses, 166; on Pennsylvania constitution, 167-68; recommends John Thaxter, Jr., 167-68; committee on Delaware River defense, 175; on Delaware River expedition, 175; recommends Joseph Hewes, 181, 334; on Pennsylvania unity, 194; instructs children, 263; cipher correspondence, 292; celebrates in dependence anniversary, 293-94; on civil versus military authority, 305-7; on antislavery bill, 308; committee on publishing Bible, 311—12; on loss of family life, 318, 329-30; favors test act, 347-48; on military prospects, 354; on the study of history, 356-57, 384-86, 451-52; debates northern command, 382-83, 388; daughter’s death, 386; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 402, 411—12, 417, 517, 553, 578, 601-2; urges Gen. Gates’ appointment, 405; on women, 450-51; on northern defense, 473, 491; describes delegates, 492; on evacuation of Philadelphia, 504, 661, 664, 668; lauds South Carolina, 505; on New York defense, 505, 542, 554; on writing history, 517; on Chesapeake geography, 532; on Continental Army, 538—39; committee on Quaker disaffection, 573, 627-28; on Fabian strategy, 579, 589; lauds Gen. Washington, 580; lodgings, 664; accounts, 664-65; on Continental regulation of state troops, 669; men tioned, 26, 208, 282, 363, 387, 678 Adams, John, Thoughts on Government, 168 Adams, John Quincy: letters to, 384, 451; mentioned, 263, 347 Adams, Peter Boylston, 168 Adams, Samuel: letters from, 70, 99, 115, 200, 208, 240, 263, 271, 288, 309, 310, 343, 359, 362, 386, 396, 401, 404, 405, 413, 435, 440, 452, 461, 506, 568, 589, 677; yjf elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi; criticizes American strategy, 70-71, 208, 241, 250; on Massachusetts politics, 208;'conjectures British strategy, 208, 309-10, 344, 395, 404, 435, 506, 677-78; on military education, 264; on Articles of Confederation, 271-72; on postal service, 271; on New Hampshire Grants, 316; criticizes Gen. Schuyler, 343-44, 359-62, 452, 461; on seniority of state officers, 387; on congressional politics, 396-97; on Ticonderoga inquiry, 401, 473; urges Gen. Gates’ appointment, 405; recom mends Daniel Clymer, 568 Adams, Thomas Boylston, 28 Adjournment; see Congress Adjutant general: post vacant, 62; Gen. Gates’ appointment desired, 116; for northern department, 168; mentioned, 132 Adventure (ship), 43 Agents, Continental: instructions, 53, 87, 340; see also Bingham, William; Dorsius, John; Langdon, John; Lee, William; Morris, Thomas; Purviance, Robert; Purviance, Samuel; Tillinghast, Daniel Air, James: death, 563-64; mentioned, 611 Aisquith, William, 61, 62 Aitken, Robert: letter to, 311; prints Bible, 312 Albany, N.Y.: as northern department headquarters, 214-16; mentioned, 41, 105, 106, 389


[Page 733]
Index 703 Bruce, Mr., 401, 404 Brunswick, N.J.: British army at, 15, 117, 165, 191; British evacuate, 198-99, 201-2, 211, 234, 240, 246, 248, 252, 256-58, 287 Bryan, George, 552 Buchanan, William: appointed deputy commissary, 322-23; appointed com missary of purchases, 323, 412—13; mentioned, 335, 665 Budd, Charles, 418 Bull, John, 175, 176 Bulloch, Archibald, 12 Bunkers, Capt., 647 Burgoyne, John: strategy, 10, 26, 197, 242, 288, 339, 354; captures Ticonderoga, 338, 340; invades New York, 392, 409, 423, 434-35, 441, 446-47; Saratoga campaign, 444, 449-50, 457, 476, 482, 486, 513, 516, 550, 554, 558-60, 565- 66, 583, 667, 669, 681, 691; troop strength, 465, 542; use of Indians, 469, 493-96, 500, 585, 594-95, 597-98; mentioned, 199, 200, 212, 245, 260, 304, 310, 395, 414, 418, 420, 432, 437, 439, 440, 443, 453, 460, 473, 478, 491, 501, 505, 508, 518, 524, 530, 533, 534, 547, 548, 555, 578, 582, 589, 592, 601, 603, 613, 630, 673, 676, 682 Burke, Thomas: draft address, 144; letters from, 6, 13, 69, 86, 108, 203, 205, 208, 256, 295, 310, 326, 336, 362, 395, 414, 488, 554, 590, 640, 678, 691; & elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii, 262; marine committee, 6, 86-87, 203-6; on state authority over Continental officers, 13-14; on North Carolina officers, 69; proposes bicameral Congress, 70; medical committee, 109, on Articles of Confederation, 109; drafts address to inhabitants of U.S., 144- 52; on British tyranny, 144—52; committee on military supply, 153; tempers congressional censure of Gunning Bedford, 184; on Gen. Gates, 229; on mili tary prospects, 257; celebrates independence anniversary, 295; obtains money for North Carolina, 295, 304, 327, 336, 339, 414-15, 430; debates West Florida expedition, 371, 374—75; debates northern command, 382—83, con jectures British strategy, 395, 415, 691; desires leave, 454; criticized by North Carolina officers, 488—89; on fiscal policy, 590; visits army, 640; criticizes Gen. Sullivan, 663, 679-81, 687; describes battle of Brandywine, 678-80 Burnet, Mr. (South Carolina), 477 Burnett, Edmund C., “Ciphers in the Revolutionary Period”, 292 Burnett, Edmund C., Continental Congress, 164 Burns, Joseph, 694 Burr, Hudson, 345 Burr, Thaddeus, 82 Bush, Martin H., Revolutionary Enigma . . . Philip Schuyler, 418 Butler, Mr., 513 Butler, Thomas, Continental armorer, 409 Butter, price, 365, 424, 432, 449, 470, 477, 567 Byers, Mr., 610 Byram River, 141, 142 Cabot (Continental brig), 334 Cadwalader, John, 116, 190, 545 Cadwalader, Lambert, 3 Caldwell, James: letter to, 209; mentioned, 130 Cameron, Alan, breaks parole, 259 Campbell, Lt., 544 Campbell, Archibald, 154 Campbell, Richard, 84 Cannon: imported, 32, 259; manufacturing, 499; Philadelphia defense, 521; mentioned, 508, 668, 691


[Page 743]
Index 713 Dumas, Charles William Frederic: letter to, 440; corresponds with Congress, 441; mentioned, 437 Duncan, Robert, 81, 174, 538, 664 Dunham, Azariah, 321 Dunlap, John: letter to, 311; ☆ leaves Philadelphia, 668; mentioned, xxv, 22, 236, 521, 653, 666 Dunlap’s Pennsylvania Packet, 178, 179, 343, 367, 638 Dunn, Benjamin: letter to, 18; marine committee instructions, 18 Du Plessis, Thomas-Antoine, chevalier de Mauduit, Continental commission, 9 Duportail, Louis Le Begue de Presle, Continental commission, 264, 367-68, 380 Dupre, Mr., 345 Dupuy, John, 18 Duvall, Gabriel, 465 Dyer, Benjamin, 624 Dyer, Eliphalet: letters from, 276, 312, 321, 346, 405, 508, 546, 568, 580, 581, 623 649- elected to Congress, xiv; attends Congress, xiv, 276, 278; advises Joseph Trumbull, 276-77; lodgings, 276, 365; on Joseph Trumbull’s com missary appointment, 277, 321; on civil versus military authority, 312-14; on Silas Deane, 313; on commissary reform, 321-22, 346; on generals’ resignation threat, 322; debates northern command, 382; committee on Ticonderoga, in quiry, 402; urges Gen. Gates’ appointment, 405; committee on New England Convention, 504; conjectures British strategy, 546-47; cost of living, on fiscal policy, 581, 623-24; on confederation, 623; on evacuating Phila delphia, 623; on battle of Brandywine, 649-51; mentioned, 625 Dyer, Huldah Bowen (Mrs. Eliphalet), 581, 624 Dyer, Jabez, 624 Dyer, Oliver, 277, 569 Dyer, Thomas, 276, 278, 317, 322, 324, 580, 623, 624 Dyson, Jeremiah, identified, 231 Eagle (Massachusetts privateer schooner), 331 East Florida, illegal trade with Georgia, 577—78 East Indies, oppressed by Britain, 149 , . . Eastern military department: paymaster general, 353; deputy commissary s juris diction, 569; auditors, 596-97 , ci Eastern navy board: letters to, 253, 332, 335, 549; ☆ established 30 50 67 220; marine committee instructions, 253-54, 332-33, 335-36; Rhode Island expedition, 541; mentioned, 204, 205, 217, 258, 556, 682 Easton, Pa.: Indian conference, 108; mentioned, 661 Edenton, N.C., 73, 74 Edler, Friedrich, Dutch Republic and American Independence, 425 Egg Harbor, N.J., 85 Eggs, price, 477 Elbert, Samuel, 12 Elisha, 58 Elizabeth I, queen of England, 385 Elizabethtown, N.J., 676 Elkton, Md.; see Head of Elk, Md. Ellery, William: letters from, 6, 46, 50, 198, 199; ft elected to Congress, xix, 48; attends Congress, xix, 47; marine committee, 6; urges Rhode Island attack, 46-47, 50; on British subversion, 47; on loyalists, 47, 199; on dueling, 199; conjectures British strategy, 200; leaves Congress, 200, 297; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 417; mentioned, 80, 82, 428 Ellice, James, 227 Ellis, Richard, 295


[Page 744]
714 Index Elmer, Ebenezer, letter to, 257 Elmer, Jonathan: letters from, 3, 78, 257, 283; elected to Congress, xvii; attends Congress, xvii, 262; urges prisoner exchange, 3, 283; medical com ¬ mittee, 78; on Continental surgeons, 257; on New Hampshire Grants, 316 Embargo: exemption granted, 74; New Hampshire, 218 Engineers: Continental, 264, 281, 358-59, 367-70; for Baltimore, 545-46, 572, 654; mentioned, 105 Engrossing: salt, 203, 249; denounced, 626 Enlistments; see Bounties, military; Continental Army, recruitment; Militia Epaminondas, 23 Erkelens, Gosuinus, 302, 304, 692 Erskine, Robert, appointed Continental geographer, 379 Erskine, Sir William, 12, 28 Espionage; see Spies Etherington, George, 44 Evans, Emory G., Thomas Nelson of Yorktown, 34 Eveleigh, Nicholas, appointed deputy adjutant, 446, 448 Ewing, George, commissary of hides, 521-22 Ewing, James, 527 Ewing, John: petitions Congress, 311; mentioned, 478 Ewing, Patrick, 545 Executive committee at Philadelphia, transmits specie, 491 Exportation; see Embargo; Trade Eyries & Le Coureur, 56 Fabius, 70 Failly, Philippe-Louis, chevalier de, Continental commission, 421, 425 Fairfield, Conn., 82 Falmouth, England, 85, 91 Falmouth (Cumberland County), Mass., petitions Congress, 89, 166 Farmers General, French tobacco purchases, 616 Farnese, Alesandro, Prince of Parma, 385 Fast day, proclaimed in New England, 559 Fauntleroy, George, 177 Fautrel, Nicholas, proposed Franco-American prize voyage, 53, 56-57, 193 Fay, Jonas, New Hampshire Grants petition, 327 Fermoy, Mathieu Alexis; see Rochefermoy, Mathieu Alexis de Fimbria, Gaius Flavius, 113, 114, 115 Finance; see Accounts; Board of treasury; Continental loan office; Continental treasury; Income; Loans, foreign; Lottery; Paper currency; Taxation Fish, 74 Fisher, Ann Wentworth, 99 Fisher, James, 108 Fishkill, N.Y., 37, 42 Fitch, John, 277 Fitzgerald, John: quoted, 234; mentioned, 242 Flax, 61 Fleury, Fran$ois-Louis Teissedre de, 136, 158, 438 Flints, 545 Flora (H.M.S.), 470 Florida; see East Florida; West Florida Flour: imported, 18; exported, 187; mentioned, 7, 25, 322, 354 Flower, Benjamin: arms returns, 408-9; mentioned, 161, 222 Floyd, William, elected to Congress, xvii Folsom, Nathaniel: letters from, 371, 405, 416, 465, 528, 595, 620, 668;


[Page 745]
Index 715 Folsom, Nathaniel (continued) . elected to Congress, xvi, 92; attends Congress xvi, 3o7-58, 376, on foreign officers 376; conjectures British strategy, 377, 466; debates northern comm an , 382; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 402; urges Gen. Gates appointment, 405; on Ticonderoga inquiry, 465; committee on Continental rations, 620-2 Foreign affairs: Anglo-French relations, 21, 26, 31, 33, 82, 156, 179.,186 , 198-99 202, 212, 258, 337, 403, 407, 411, 416, 422-23, 428, 466, 477, 483, 486 498-500, 514, 551, 685; U.S. commissioners in Europe appointed, 59, 159’ 282-83, 316; Spanish-Portuguese relations, 85, 91-92, 199, 258; Ang_o- Spanish relations, 174, 178, 186-87, 199, 337; Anglo-Dutch re ations, 179, 199 212 252 315, 350, 391, 422, 441, 631; Russo-Turkish relations, 258, U.S.-Spanish relations, 278, 315; British recruitment of German mercenaries, 260; British insult to American commissioners, 412-13; mentioned, 476 77, 482, 486; see also Commissioners at Paris; Committee for foreign airs, Loans, foreign; individual countries Foreign officers; see Continental army, foreign officers Forman, David: requests artillery, 154; mentioned, 636 Forrest, Uriah, 23 Forster, John, 355, 356, 454 Forster & Brice, 355 Fort Cumberland, Nova Scotia, 419 Fort Detroit, 492 Fort Edward, N.Y., 594 Fort George, N.Y., 38 Fort Independence, N.Y., 16, 25, 27 Fort Island, Pa.: fortification, 175, 468; mentioned, 676 Fort Lee, N.J., 339, 347 Fort Massac, 371, 372 Fort Niagara, N.Y., 492 Fort Nicholson, N.Y., 171 Fort Pitt, Pa., 495, 496 Q. Fort Schuyler (formerly Fort Stanwix), N.Y.■ American - 4 q4 ^qn ’ 513, 583; relieved, 520, 584; mentioned, 41, 60, 215, 550, 559, 594, 598 Fort Washington, N.Y., 3, 94, 339 347 Fortifications, Delaware River, 175, 185, 192, 325, 521 Fox (H.M.S.), 436, 445, 457, 483, 500, 515 France: news from, 14, 85, 88, 91, 407-8, 410, 412, 425, 461, 465-66, 476, 482, 486 514, 551; U.S. trade with, 14-15, 32, 43, 45, 56, 79, 85, 102, 193, 218-19 236-38, 270, 333, 403, 407, 422, 471; privateering from, 15; rela tions with Britain, 21, 156, 179, 198-99, 202 258 337 403 407 422 428, 466 477 483, 486, 498-500, 616; U.S. loans, 24, 31, 142, 156, 407, 409, 416, 464 510 524, 581, 586, 615-16, 623, 629, 631-32, 635-36 642-44, 689; aids US’ navy, 52-54; interest in American natural history, 58; Americans educated in, 63; naval strength, 72; tobacco market, 76; protects U.S. trade, 82- aids U.S. privateering, 85; poorly qualified officers from criticized , privateers aid U.S., 126; U.S. seeks alliance with, 159; Promotes U.S. trade, 186-87; engineer ordinance, 358; mentioned, 282, 431, 685, 690 to, 9, 290, 292, 329, 461; ☆ elected to Congress xix; recommends Henry Lutterloh, 127; Thomas Morris misconduct 266-67, recommends foreign officers, 275, 292, 329, 358, 367, 369, 380, 421, 672; cipher correspondence, 291-92; obtains French loan, 407, 409; on prisoner exchange, 412-13 419- age and health discussed, 471-72; instructs naval officers, 622, mentioned, 26, 53, 58, 171, 282, 300, 356, 357, 442, 443; see also Commis sioners at Paris


[Page 753]
Index 723 Lansing, John, Jr.: salary raised, 226—27; mentioned, 41, 91, 133 La Radiere, Louis-Guillaume-Servais des Hayes de, Continental commission, 264, 367 La Roche, Capt.: letter to, 218; mentioned, 266, 268, 269, 270 La Rochelle, France, 56 La Rouerie, marquis de; see Armand-Tuffin, Charles, chevalier de la Rouerie Laumoy, Jean-Baptiste-Joseph, chevalier de, Continental commission, 264 Laurence, John, 235 Laurens, Eleanor Ball (Mrs. Henry), 494 Laurens, Henry: letters from, 372, 418, 443, 446, 448, 456, 466, 475, 480, 485, 487, 489, 490, 493, 494, 496, 497, 511, 512, 519, 520, 522, 563, 566, 575, 585, 593, 601, 630, 642, 673, 674, 694; notes, 561; -ft elected to Congress, xix; attends Congress, xix, 373, 456, 466; conjectures British strategy, 372, 419, 457, 476, 481-82, 486, 493, 496-97, 512, 523, 565-66, 595, 673, 675; debates West Florida expedition, 372, 374, 456, 466—68, 472, 616; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 402, 417—18, 494—95, 553, 561—63, 565, 601—2, 609, 618; on foreign officers, 421, 469—70; cost of living, 423—24, 449, 477, 608; slaves of, 445, 606-7, 611; plantation management, 448, 606-7, 609-11; recom mends Lachlan McIntosh, 457; requests additional delegates, 468, 608; on Gen. Arnold, 469; on foreign affairs, 471—72, 476—77, 482—83, 486; describes journey to Philadelphia, 475, 480-81, 485; on parole of proprietary officers, 487-88; denounces Britain, 490, 634; described, 492, 505; on British use of Indians, 495; on fiscal policy, 496—97, 511, 586, 616—18, 635—36, 642—45; committee on New England Convention, 504; committee on Georgia defense, 519; committee on southern defense, 524; on Georgia absentee property law, 576-77, 588, 593-94, 609, 611; on association violations, 577, 587; on evacua tion of Philadelphia, 606, 674, 695; criticizes Congress, 607-9, 612-13, 634-35, 695; on Silas Deane, 611; on Quaker sedition, 612-15, 633; on congressional factionalism, 615; criticizes France, 631-32 Laurens, James: letter to, 566; mentioned, 606 Laurens, John: appointed aide to Gen. Washington, 444, 469; mentioned, 373, 475, 481, 487, 489, 490, 635 Law, Richard: letters from, 425, 508, 546; elected to Congress, xiv; attends Congress, xiv, 278, 304; lodgings, 276; 365; on Joseph Trumbull’s commissary appointment, 277, 321; on foreign officers, 425; conjectures British strategy, 546—47; mentioned, 317, 393, 624 Lawrence, John, 296 Lawrison, Mr. 570 Leatherbury, Mr., 545 Lebanon, Pa., 619 Le Brun, Augustin: Continental commission, 654; mentioned, 175 Ledlie, Capt., 174 Lee, Ensign, 544 Lee, Capt., 682 Lee, Andrew, 360 Lee, Arthur: letters to, 158, 288, 441; on British strategy, 10, 26, 46; charges Robert Morris with fraud, 11; mission to Spain, 26, 85, 159, 273—74, 315, 423, 442, 498, 500, 551; on Spanish-Portuguese relations, 91; quoted, 315, 337-38; news from, 407; mission to Prussia, 423, 498, 500, 551; instructs naval officers, 622; mentioned, 63, 64, 278, 282, 304, 437; 500, 501; see also Commissioners at Paris Lee, Charles: on reconciliation talks, 45-46; prison treatment, 154; prisoner ex change, 358—59, 377; mentioned, 72, 169, 419, 498 Lee, Francis Lightfoot: letters from, 22, 97, 176, 180, 202, 478, 603, 664; elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx, 262; on military discipline, 23;


[Page 754]
724 Index Lee, Francis Lightfoot {continued) conjectures British strategy, 177, 202, 478; protests Richard Henry Lee’s dis placement, 180-81; mentioned, 363 Lee, John, apprehended as loyalist plotter, 84-85 Lee, Ludwell, letter to, 63 Lee, Richard Henry: letters from, 6, 20, 32, 52, 53, 55, 63, 75, 76, 79, 86 94 97, 104, 105, 121, 125, 158, 498, 499, 512, 550, 593, 601, 620, 636, 656, 664’ 666; letters to, 202, 249, 263, 343, 359, 363; notes, 111; ft elected to Con gress, xx, 34, 125, 262, 316, 327; attends Congress, xx, 362; secret committee 19—20, 43, 52—57, 65, 79, 91, 123, 142—43, 193—94; marine committee, 6, 86-87; requests additional delegate, 32-33; educates sons, 63-64; on recruit ment, 75; on fiscal policy, 76, 551; commercial transactions, 76; on British propaganda to inhibit Continental recruitment, 94-95; on foreign officers, 104-5; recommends Mr. Demmere (of Georgia), 105; committee on com missary regulations, 111; accused of depreciating paper currency, 121-26; on sectional discord in Congress, 123-24; leaves Congress, 125, 127; superseded as delegate, 125, 139—40, 180—81; on promotion of useful knowledge, 126; opposes Gen. Schuyler’s reappointment to northern command, 139-40; com mittee for foreign affairs, 282—83; quoted, 282—83, 361; urges frequent report ing to commissioners at Paris, 282; committee on Ticonderoga inquiry, 417, 553, 601-2; on Anglo-French relations, 498-500; conjectures British strategy’ 513, 551; lauds Lafayette, 514; committee on Quaker disaffection, 573; com mittee of intelligence, 592; committee on Continental rations, 620-21; on Quaker sedition, 637; mentioned, 281, 328, 358, 478, 678 Lee, Thomas, letter to, 63 Lee, Thomas Ludwell, 126 Lee, William: appointed commissioner to Austria and Prussia, 59, 282-83, 316 362, 364; mentioned, 54, 63, 159, 300, 436 Legare, Solomon: letter to, 563; mentioned, 611, 636 Le Maire, James, employed by secret committee, 185-87 Leonard, Abiel, 48, 131 Leonard ,David, 360 Leonard, Lucy, 179 Le Pelletier & Du Doyer, 56 Lewellen, Mr. (son of John Lewellin), 134 Lewis, Mr. (Maryland), 164 Lewis, Francis: letters from, 172, 173; ft elected to Congress, xvii; attends Con gress, xvii; and James Nicholson dispute with Maryland, 118; secret committee, 142-43; and Montgomery prize shares, 160; visits Baltimore, 172; procures salt, 173; secret committee contract, 270; mentioned, 194, 255, 325 Lewis (schooner), 554 Liberty (ship), 142 Limozin, Andrew, 237, 238, 604 Lincoln, Benjamin, 211, 411, 510, 511, 520, 521, 528, 549, 550, 598 Linen, price, 470 Livery, cost, 26, 424, 449, 455, 470, 581 Livingston, Henry Brockhoist, 44, 560 Livingston, James, 132, 530, 548 Livingston, John, 130 Livingston, Philip: letters from, 6, 20, 50, 52, 53, 55, 65, 86, 111, 159 203 205 232, 253, 254, 256, 284, 325, 329, 393; elected to Congress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; marine committee, 6, 86-87, 203-6, 253-56; secret committee, 20, 43, 52-57, 65, 142-43, 161, 170, 179-80, 193-94; defends Gen. Schuyler, 41; on Hudson River defense, 160, 326; on New York politics, 225-26; on Gates-Schuyler conflict, 232; secret committee contract, 270; committee of


[Page 757]
Index 727 Manufacturing (continued) . „ 485; in Virginia, 499, 515; salt, 511, 515, 567-68; leather, 522; in Connecticut, £09 Marchant, Henry: letters from, 199, 203, 205, 253, 254, 256, 275, 297, 340, 405, 427, 503, 540, 601, 645, 646, 689; ☆ elected to Congress, xix; attends Con gress, xix, 262; portrait, xxiii, 298; conjectures British strategy, 200 427 503 ; marine committee, 203-6, 253-56; requests intelligence from Rhode Island, 276 428, 503; obtains money for Rhode Island, 297-99, 340; debates northern command, 383; urges Gen. Gates’ appointment, 405; on delegates credentials, 428-29- requests roll call vote, 459; committee on New England Convention, 504; urges Rhode Island expedition, 540-41; instructs daughter, 646; lodgings, 664; on fiscal policy, 689; urges Rhode Island naval adventure, 690 Marchant, Sarah: letter to, 646 Marine committee: letters from, 5, 6, 18, 55, 77, 86, 87, 127 203, 204, 2 , , 217 253 254 256, 300, 332, 335, 553, 566, 622, 646, 647; instructs Aquilla Johns,’5; on impressment, 7-8; accounts, 11, 206, 646-47; instructs Benjamin Dunn, 18; instructs Isaiah Robinson, 18-19; instructs John Paul Tones 55 216-18, 622; remittances, 67; instructs John Young, 77-78, 3UU 301; ’instructs Hoysted Hacker, 86-87; and James Nicholson’s dispute with Maryland, 117; censured by Congress, 117; instructs Samuel Chew, 203 , instructs John Deshon, 204-5; instructs Nathaniel Shaw, Jr 205-6; on pur chasing Continental vessels, 205-6; instructs John Langdon and William Whipple, 217-18; instructs eastern navy board, 253-54, 332-33, 335 36, an Continental naval appointments, 255; instructs Thomas Grenell an Jo n Hodges, 254-55; celebrates independence anniversary, 294; on prize distribu tion 340; naval officer protest, 373; endorses Rhode Island expedition, 541; instructs John Stevens, 553-54; instructs James Maxwell and Paul Loyall, 566; mentioned, 57, 166, 181, 316, 364, 459, 603; see also Eastern navy board; Middle department navy board Marines, 5, 6 Marius, Gaius the younger, 113, 114, 115 Marlborough, 1st duke of (John Churchill), 371 Marshall, Col. (Fauquier County, Va.), 122 Marshall, John, 3 Marshall, William, petitions Congress, 311 Martin, Mr. (South Carolina), 477 Martin, Alexander: explains North Carolina recruitment delays, 95; mentioned, 631 Martinique, W.I.: U.S. trade with, 26, 45, 66, 71, 82, 161, 236-39, 553; men tioned, 11, 155, 178, 179, 350 Mary (ship), 161 Mary and Elizabeth (ship), 193 Maryland: conflict with James Nicholson, 6-8, 76, 117; loyalists, 8-9, 46, 545, 628; Continental troops, 10, 17, 22, 136, 294, 544, 648, 650, 652; Continental officers 23-24, 687; medical supplies requested from, 78; militia, 110, 465, 502 532 534 543-44, 546, 551, 556, 558, 592, 598, 628-29, 656, 659, 665, 669, 670, 684; legal tender law, 134, 164, 197-98, 242, 250-51, 265; low troop morale reported, 136; proprietary land confiscation discussed, 251; described, 475, 480-81; seeks cannon, 508; arrests Continental recruiter, 515- 16; on Continental regulation of state troops, 529, 669; sent money, 649, 653, 669; see also Baltimore, Md. Maryland Admiralty Court, and Minerva, 172 Maryland Assembly, letters to, 110, 399, 536 Maryland Council: letters to, 117, 136, 153; authority over Continental


[Page 758]
728 Index Maryland Council (continued) officers, 13-14; appoints currency printers, 61-62; consulted on James Nichol son dispute, 118; mentioned, 9 Maryland delegates: letters from, 6, 515; commission Maryland officers, 78; support Gen. Schuyler, 140; attendance, 290, 620, 629; criticize Gen. Stark, 529; urge Gen. Sullivan’s reassignment, 687-88 Mason, Capt., 220 Mason, Rev., 131 Mason, George: elected to Congress, xx; declines election to Congress, 34, 125 Massachusetts: militia, 28, 341, 416, 433, 511; Nova Scotia expedition proposed, 74; loyalists, 139; prisoner of war treatment criticized, 154; Continental troops, 169, 220, 308, 405, 460, 474, 520, 554, 677; constitution, 182, 220, 272, 308-9; politics, 308; and New Hampshire Grants, 316; investigates illegal seizure, 331; artillery regiment, 386-87; and New England Convention, 503; fast day, 559; and Ticonderoga inquiry, 563; price regulation criticized, 628 Massachusetts Board of War: letters to, 474, 568; trade with Spain, 274 Massachusetts Council: letter to, 74; yjf opposes John Roche’s appointment to command Ranger, 102 Massachusetts delegates: letter from, 99; support Charlestown compensation claim, 89, 99-101; oppose Gen. Schuyler, 140; on Gen. Arnold’s seniority, 443, 459; reduction proposed, 568 Massachusetts General Court: letters to, 331, 341, 433; election, 137; sends troops to Gen. Gates, 461; pays John Adams’ accounts, 665; mentioned 28 220 Massachusetts House of Representatives: letter to, 99; election, 161, 208; antislavery bill, 309; mentioned, 30 Mathew, Edward, 155 Mathias, Archduke of Austria, 385 Mauduit du Plessis; see Du Plessis, Thomas Antoine, chevalier de Mauduit Mauroy, Charles Louis, vicomte de: identified, 638; letter to, 638; applica tion for commission denied, 392-93 Maxwell, James: letter to, 566; marine committee instructions, 566 Maxwell, William, 260, 263, 670, 683, 684 “Meanwell” (pseudonym), 251 Measam, George, 562 Mease, James: sent blankets, 79; mentioned, 66, 562 Meat, 604 Medals, military, 48-49 Medical committee: letter from, 78; -fa requests supplies, 78; devises troop health regulations, 109 Medical department: inquiry, 36—39; supply request, 78; physician general appointed, 297; procures medicine, 474; mentioned, 682 Medicine: imported, 236, 682; for apothecary general, 474 Meigs, Return Jonathan: letter to, 378; Sag Harbor raid, 167, 354-55, 378- 79, 436 Mellish (prize ship), 216 Memoirs (Alexander Graydon), 94 Mercenaries: cruelty, 25; U.S. use of considered, 60, 463; British recruiting difficulties, 85; use of Russians and Wiirtembergers rumored, 98-99; captured by American privateers, 235; recruited in Germany, 260, 315, 411; mentioned, 26 Mercer, Archibald, secret committee account, 43 Mercury (French ship), 15, 55, 56, 57, 65 Meredith, Joseph, 655 Meridith, Samuel, 189


[Page 759]
Index 729 Middle department navy board, 516 Middle Temple, xxii Middlebrook, N.J.; see Bound Brook, N.J. Middleton, Arthur: letter from, 153; -ft elected to Congress, xix; attends Con gress, xix, 262; and James Nicholson’s dispute with Maryland, 118; marine committee, 118; committee on military supplies, 153; committee on Delaware River defense, 175; on Gen. Gates’ speech, 229; debates West Florida expedi tion, 371, 374; desires leave, 468; mentioned, 358, 608, 609, 633, 634, 636, 644 Mifflin, Samuel, petitions Congress, 425-26 Mifflin, Thomas: letter to, 378; reassigned, 169; organizes Philadelphia de fense, 190, 194, 211, 230; College of New Jersey petition, 379; mentioned, 78, 90, 118, 127, 168, 170, 196, 213, 400, 432 Mifflin (ship), 65 Miquelon Island: governor aids U.S. trade, 71; mentioned, 218 Miles, Samuel, paroled, 340 Militia: Massachusetts, 28, 341, 416, 433, 511; called by Congress, 62, HO, 184-85, 341—42, 398, 416, 433, 605, 621, 652; Delaware, 62, 68, 111, 248-49, 398-99, 532, 546, 551, 558, 592, 599, 631, 665; Pennsylvania, 62, 68, 110-11, 190, 200, 252, 398-99, 416, 433, 530, 532, 546, 551, 558, 592, 621, 659, 670, 684; drafting into Continental Army, 75, 120; Connecticut, 81, 341, 416, 433; Maryland, 110, 465, 502, 532, 534, 543-44, 546, 551, 556, 558, 592, 598, 628-29, 656, 659, 665, 669-70, 684; New Jersey, 176, 182, 184-85, 190, 195, 198 200-202, 209, 212, 223, 230, 233, 240-41, 252, 287, 301, 391, 398-99, 416,’ 433, 522, 530, 605-6, 621, 639, 651-52, 654, 659, 667, 678, 684, 688-89; Philadelphia, 194, 230, 416; New England, 242, 414, 438, 511; New York, 242, 341-42, 416, 433, 493, 498, 500, 513, 516, 522, 530, 536, 550, 555, 559; for northern department, 338, 341—42; New Hampshire, 341, 416, 433, 511, 520, 525-26, 528-29, 537, 548, 555; Rhode Island, 341, 353; arms for, 497; Continental regulation of, 511, 528-29, 549; Virginia, 532, 534, 546, 551, 558, 598, 686; mentioned, 196, 245, 457, 479, 571, 581, 589, 595, 604, 675—76 Millegan, Mr. (Maryland), 545 Miller, Daniel A., Sir Joseph Yorke, 179 Miller, Henry, letter to, 311 Miller, James, 102 Minerva (brigantine), 172, 173 Minis, Philip, letter to, 490 Mobile, W. Fla., 372, 374, 375 Molasses, 568 Mole-Saint-Nicolas, Hispaniola, U.S. trade with, 18 Molesworth, James, executed, 134 Money; see Paper currency; Specie Monmouth, Henry Carey, 2d earl of, 356 Monroe, James, recruiting activities, 455-56 Montgomery (Continental frigate), 255 Montgomery (New York Navy sloop) : accounts, 172—73; mentioned, 160 Moore, James, death, 69 Moore, Philip, secret committee account, 43 Moral laxness, of Americans feared, 48—49, 303, 365, 660 Morgan, Daniel: ordered to northern department, 501; mentioned, 264, 507, 513, 530, 548 Morgan, David T., “Cornelius Harnett,” 356 Morgan, George: West Florida expedition, 372; on frontier defense, 495-96 Morgan, William J., Captains to the Northward, 87, 204, 424, 622, 647 Morison, Samuel E., John Paul Jones, 55, 217 Morris, Mr. (Connecticut), 624


[Page 763]
Index 733 Nova Scotia: expedition proposed, 74; mentioned, 84 Nutting, J., 43 Oaks, Robert F., “Philadelphians in Exile,” 573 Oaths: Virginia test act recommended, 75; John Adams on, 162-63; Pennsyl vania test act, 347—48 Officers; see Continental Army, foreign officers; Continental officers Ogden, Matthias: Staten Island raid, 544; mentioned, 560 Olive Branch (ship), 193 Olney, Joseph, 645, 646 Oneida Indians, 42 Ord, George, 238 Ordnance; see Artillery; Cannon Oriskany, N.Y.: American victory at, 492-94, 498-500, 513, 555, 599 Ome, Azor, 30, 73 Orpheus (H.M.S.), 91 Ottoman Empire, relations with Russia, 258 Paca, John, 545 Paca, William: letters from, 78, 117, 136, 153, 515, 516; # elected to Congress, xvi; attends Congress, xvi, 262; and James Nicholson’s dispute with Maryland, 117; reports low Maryland troop morale, 136; opposes Gen. Gates’ audience with Congress, 228-29; leaves Congress, 290; mentioned, 10, 24, 528, 545, 556, 567, 620, 670 Page, John: letters to, 33, 125, 128, 498; ft on promotion of useful knowledge, 126 Page, Mann: letters from, 33, 97, 128, 180; letters to, 499, 666; ft elected to Congress, xx; attends Congress, xx, 181, 262; requests additional delegate, 33; on delegates’ conflict of interest, 128-29; superseded as delegate, 129, 181; protests Richard Henry Lee’s displacement, 180—81; leaves Congress, 358; mentioned, 125 Paine, Robert Treat: elected to Congress, xvi; mentioned, 208 Paine, Thomas, 282 Palmer, Joseph, letter to, 29 Paper currency: depreciation, 21, 24, 141—42, 164, 172, 445, 462, 503—4; counter feiting, 45—47; printers appointed, 61—62; printers’ accounts, 117; Richard Henry Lee accused of depreciating, 121-26; Continental emission, 134; Mary land legal tender law, 134, 164, 197—98, 250—51; protested, 179; exchange, 339, 471; shortage, 428; plates, 639; mentioned, 265, 377, 617 Pardons, for Continental soldiers, 600 Parker, Sir Peter, 468, 482, 630 Parker, Richard, 122, 515 Parliament: treason act, 10, 33, 47, 75, 82; tyranny denounced, 144-52 Parma, Margaret, duchess of, 385 Parsons, Samuel H., 82, 167, 168, 432, 561, 571 Patten, John, 488, 489 Patterson, Col. (Delaware), 545 Patterson, Mr. (South Carolina), 484 Patterson, John, recalled, 401-2 Patterson, William, letter to, 350 Patty (brigantine), 143 Paullin, Charles O., Navy of the American Revolution, 254 Pay; see Income Paymaster general’s department; regulations, 27, 93—94, 132; increase of de-


[Page 767]
Index 737 Quakers (continued) 190; arrested, 572-74, 586; appeal imprisonment, 574; sedition charged, 596; appeal debated, 612-14; petition Congress, 620; criticized, 625-28; confined, 633, 635, 637; mentioned, 240, 345, 533, 630, 641, 668 Quartermaster general’s department: regulations, 80; tent requisitions, 90; pay, 196; mentioned, 84, 116, 127, 201, 345, 353, 562 Quebec, 389 Quibbletown, N.J., 259, 263 Quince, Richard, 355 Rainbow (H.M.S.), 424, 470, 484 Rakove, Jack N., Beginnings of National Politics, 70 Raleigh (Continental frigate), 218, 622 Ramsey, Nathaniel, 23 Randolph, Robin, 522 Randolph (Continental frigate), 18, 19 Ranger (Continental ship), 622 Ranger (Continental sloop), 67, 68, 102, 216, 217, 218 Rattlesnake, 238 Read, George: elected to Congress, xv; attends Congress, xv; urges Gen. Sulli van’s reassignment, 687-88; mentioned, 244, 599 Reading, Pa., 661 Reconciliation: sought by Gen. Schuyler, 42; talks proposed, 45-46 Recruitment; see Bounties; Continental Army, recruitment; Militia Red Bank, N.J., 521 Red Point, N.J., fortification, 175 Reed, Joseph: elected to Congress, xix; promoted, 80, 82; mentioned, 194 Rees, Mr., 686 Reprisal (Continental brig), 76, 77, 91, 238 Requesens, Luis de, 385 Resistance (Continental brigantine), 203, 204, 206 Revere, Paul: letter to, 386; artillery commission, 386-87 Rhode Island: Massachusetts militia assist, 28; expedition against British at urged, 46, 50, 540-42, 549, 601; unrepresented in Congress, 47, 80, 82, 133, 140; appoints foreign officers, 72; sent money, 297-98, 340; militia, 341, 353; British occupation, 420; infrequent communication with delegates, 428; ac counts, 503; and New England Convention, 503; Continental frigate con struction, 646—47; British evacuation rumored, 666-67, 690; state naval action urged, 690 Rhode Island Assembly: letters to, 199, 297, 341, 689; regular communica tion with delegates urged, 276; urged to amend delegates’ credentials, 428-29 Rhode Island Council of War, letter to, 549 Rhode Island delegates: letter from, 199; attendance, 47—48, 198; authority extended, 428-29; on Gen. Arnold’s seniority, 443, 459; lack state news, 503 Rhode Island Frigate Committee: letter to, 127; accounts, 128 Rice: price, 19; exported, 53, 56, 193, 219, 337; mentioned, 96, 523, 618 Richardson, William, 10, 17, 556, 592, 600, 665 Ridgefield, Conn., 7 Ridout, John, 116, 242 Rittenhouse, David: paper currency plates, 639; mentioned, 58, 175 Roberdeau, Daniel: letters from, 9, 129; elected to Congress, xix; attends Con gress, xix, 262; recommends Du Plessis, 9; on morality of Continental troops, 129—30; recommends appointment of chaplains, 129—31; committee on publish ing Bible, 311-12; debates northern command, 382, 388; committee on Ti conderoga inquiry, 402; on Gen. Arnold’s seniority, 459; mentioned, 568


[Page 769]
Index 739 Sally (brig), 426 Sally (ship), 19 Salt: imported, 73, 172-73, 353, 584, 682; manufacture, 112, 284, 463, 499, 515, 516, 567-68; price, 172, 206, 325, 364, 422, 463, 470, 567; engrossed, 203, 249; mentioned^ 43, 200, 201, 207, 223, 224, 226, 227, 232, 239, 245, 296, 304, 322, 323, 325, 329, 475, 485, 508, 604 Sanderson, John, Biography of the Signers, xxiii Saratoga campaign, 516, 554, 565, 667, 669, 681, 691; see also Burgoyne, John; Gates, Horatio Sassafras River, Md., 533, 534 Savage, Samuel P., letter to, 568 Savannah, Ga., 604 Savins, Thomas, 556 Sawbridge, John, 58 Sawyer, James J., xxvi Sayre, Stephen, mission to Prussia, 442 Schlesinger, Arthur M., Prelude to Independence, 512 Schomacker, Daniel, 440 Schuyler, Philip: letters from, 42, 44, 65, 84, 89, 90, 107, 131, 213; letters to, 108, 224, 228, 341, 352, 389, 416, 535, 681; memorial, 34; -ft elected to Con gress, xviii; attends Congress, xviii; portrait, xxi, 35; northern command, 4-5, 90; Philadelphia command, 26, 42, 89-90, 93, 107, 132; detained in Phila delphia, 32; protests censure, 34-42, 50-51; dispute with Joseph Trumbull, 36, 39-40; accounts, 41, 51; vindication, 51; investigates loyalist plot, 84-85; requisitions blankets from Philadelphia Quakers, 89—90, 107; on Quakers, 90; conflict with Gen. Gates, 105—6, 115, 177—78, 223—32, 434, 462; reappointed to northern command, 105, 112, 132-33, 136, 138, 140, 174, 215-16, 244, 398; and Indian affairs, 108, 132; confers with New York Council, 112; leaves Congress, 116, 132, 155; suspected of insulting treasury board, 131; recom mends cavalry for northern department, 132; plural officeholding condemned, 163; reinforced, 242, 341-42; loss of Ticonderoga, 343-44, 352-54, 357-62, 389, 418, 452, 454; removal debated, 382-83, 388-89, 393-94, 396-97; re called, 401-2, 407, 409, 411-13, 416-17, 426-27, 430, 433, 435-36, 446-47, 465, 469 476, 482, 486, 495, 498, 500, 502, 508, 513, 548; Ticonderoga in quiry, 417, 562-63; assesses northern department strength, 460-61, 473-74; criticizes New England troops, 509-10; conduct assessed, 535-36; mentioned, 10, 60, 61, 118, 139, 141, 142, 169, 227, 247, 281, 288, 345, 366, 405, 438, 440, 442, 444, 457, 458, 491, 494, 496, 516, 520, 521, 522, 525, 528, 540, 552, 598, 687 Schuylkill River, 666, 669, 676, 677, 678, 684, 689, 691, 695 Schweighauser, John, 64, 237, 238 Scipio, 114, 370, 371 Scott, John Morin, New York politics, 224-27, 231 Screven, James, 12 Scull, Nicholas, xxi Secret committee: letters from, 20, 52, 53, 55, 65, 66, 79, 180, 185, 239, 647; minutes, 10, 19, 43, 91, 142, 161, 170, 179, 193; ft provisions prisoners, 3, 20; commercial transactions, 11—12, 19, 43, 142—43, 161, 170, 180, 185—88, 193, 270; accounts, 19, 43, 65, 91, 142-43, 161, 170, 180, 187, 194, 603, 645, 647; salvages arms, 20; instructs commissioners at Paris, 52, 54; in structs John Paul Jones, 52-55; instructs John Langdon, 55-57; remittances, 67; imports blankets, 79; charters Polly, 91; secrecy of proceedings opposed, 123; appoints Oliver Pollock commercial agent at New Orleans, 185, 188; instructs Oliver Pollock, 185-88; superseded by committee of commerce, 194, 317; instructs Thomas Mumford, 239; orders salt for New York, 232, 239,


[Page 776]
746 Index Washington, George (continued) 662, 663, 665; provisions prisoners, 3, 20; reinforced, 17, 31, 62-63, 198, 223, 245, 341—42, 346, 639—40, 652—53, 667, 684; relocates military stores, 44, 528; on Continental officer inquiry, 63; and militia reinforcements, 68, 110—11, 223, 249, 433; praised, 69, 580, 628; Fabian strategy criticized, 70, 208; troop strength, 78, 124, 233; opposes enlisting servants and convicts, 85; unable to reinforce Connecticut, 88; requests recruiting regulations, 92; on foreign officers, 104-5, 158; conjectures British strategy, 136, 165, 171, 198, 402, 426; on state recruiting activities, 137, 410-11; supply needs, 153,’ 201; on artillery, 154-55; urges rewarding British deserters, 169; and negotiating prisoner exchange, 170, 377; Conway Cabal, 178; moves headquarters, 191; orders spears, 196; New Jersey defense, 198, 202, 211, 230, 241, 258, 260-63, 265, 280-82, 287-89, 301, 304, 309, 320; reinforces Gen. Schuyler, 242; strategy assessed, 250; on Hudson River defense, 254-56; appointment of Continental officers, 277; sent money, 297, 491; arms need, 302, 304, 319-20, 408-9; recommends Gen. Arnold, 338; and commissary inquiry, 348-50; Philadelphia defense, 372, 395, 397-400, 415-16, 418, 425, 431, 434-37, 444,’ 447, 464, 466, 468-69, 476, 482, 485, 499; requests intelligence, 399; ordered to name northern commander, 401, 405, 409, 412; on recruitment of British deserters, 406; on Ticonderoga inquiry, 417; declines naming northern com mander, 430; on Gen. McIntosh, 432; orders march to New York, 453, 469, 476, 482, 526-27; plans Delaware River defense, 492-93; protests Continental recruiter’s arrest, 515-16; prepares public tanneries, 522; return to Philadelphia urged, 528—29; returns to Philadelphia, 530, 532; Philadelphia campaign, 532-34, 537, 541, 543, 545-46, 548, 554-55, 560, 564-65, 567, 570, 579-83, 585, 592, 598, 630, 636-37, 660, 664, 666, 668-70, 673, 675-78, 682, 689, 691-92; on engineer shortage, 572; on regimental rations, 621; ordered to write Congress twice daily, 641; battle of Brandywine, 649-51, 654-59, 666, 679-81, 683-84, 690-91; defends Gen. Sullivan, 663, 670, 672, 681; lends carriage, 664; orders removal of Philadelphia provisions, 671; granted emer gency powers, 686; on evacuation of Philadelphia, 686; criticized for Brandy wine defeat, 687; mentioned, 7, 8, 9, 26, 33, 36, 48, 71, 97, 115, 116, 119 133, 168, 179, 189, 197, 207, 214, 215, 219, 220, 234, 247, 248 251’ 268’ 270, 272, 305, 317, 335, 353, 362, 390, 454, 460, 462, 507, 513,’ 538’ 558’ 595, 604, 606, 612, 633, 635, 694 Watson, Mr., 570 Wayne, Anthony: Fort Independence command, 27; mentioned, 679, 684, 694 Weare, Meshech: letters to, 376, 528, 595, 601, 667; mentioned, 511 Webb, George, 236 Webster, Mr., 624 Welderen, comte de, 391, 441 Wells, Mr., 670 Wells, David, 360 Wells, John: identified, 512; letter to, 512; mentioned, 423, 425, 495, 636, 694 Wells, Rachel Lovell, 57 Wendell, John, letter to, 257 Wentworth, John, letter intercepted, 98-99 Wereat, John: identified, 578; letter to, 575; mentioned, 333, 604, 611 West Florida, expedition debated, 371-75, 456, 466-68, 616 West Indies: French privateering activity, 126; attack on British proposed, 156; see also Guadeloupe, W.I.; Havana, Cuba; Hispaniola, W.I.; Martinique, W.I.; St. Eustatius, W.I.; St. Vincents, W.I. Westchester County, N.Y., 32, 92, 93 Westcoat, Joel, 3 Wharton, Mr., 425
